@@16211

ADRIAN TRIPOD SPEAKS I am Adrian Tripod , the director of this place , the House of Skin . In a sense , my present incarnation was generated by the mad dermatologist Antoine Rouge . The House of Skin began its existence as a residential clinic for wealthy patients who were treated for severely pathological skin conditions induced by contemporary cosmetics . Antoine Rouge , who at the time was considered little more than a gifted technician , seized control of the House many years ago , and guided it toward a more fantastic species of research . There was much opposition to the Rougean ascendancy in certain high places . The House is undeniably in decline . Somehow , without my direct comprehension of it , it has fallen into the hands of my two sullen interns . Their purposes are entirely opaque to me , as are the purposes of so many others . Before the disappearance of Antoine Rouge , there were many strange creatures in residence here , but for some time now , there has only been one , and he . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , amorphous effluence oozing from his ears . I am not quite certain . My interns have also noted the deadly emergence of this secretion , which we call Rouge 's Foam . It has been mandatory to cremate all those who have died from Rouge 's Malady . Although during the period of secretion and hemorrhage the various pathological fluids are relatively harm- less , even sensually attractive , these fluids soon develop a viru- lence which can be devastating . There was a time when Rouge 's Malady appeared only in post-pubertal human females . It is perhaps natural that in my present confusion I should find my way to the Institute of Neo-Venereal Disease . In the exhilarating  --  2  --  days of Rougean administration , there was much collab- oration between the House and this institute . My former colleague has somehow withdrawn . He himself has contracted a species of venereal disease from one of his patients . He was once a fierce sensualist , but he has now become a pure metaphysician . His body has begun to create puzzling organs , each one very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function . As each is surgically removed , it is quickly replaced by another , equally mysterious . He has taken to breaking into the specimens room and stealing the jars containing these organs . His body , he insists , is a galaxy , and these creatures are solar systems . He becomes melancholy when they are far from him . His nurse says that his disease is possibly a form of creative cancer . I believe that this is what they have said . It is difficult to recall so many dialects when one has remained so long in isolation . I have found a position as a therapist with the Oceanic Podia- try Group . They support their theoretical structure in part by a grossly distorted interpretation of the later evolutionary writ- ings of Antoine Rouge . Still , the closeness of certain Rougean concepts is comforting . The technique I am to attempt is the invocation of the genetic history of the feet ; that is , tentacles , lobed fins , flippers , and so on . By these and other , more esoteric means , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common , which can occur under intense genetic pressure . I am thereby to encourage patients to bear the burden of a suddenly alien gravity , to walk , for exam- ple , when they would prefer to revert to more primitive oceanic forms . I have achieved a sort of equilibrium in my anonymity here at Metaphysical Import  --  Export . It has been simple to remain aloof from the internal workings of this corporation because , as a minor intramural courier , I am not required to communicate with the many candidates for executive positions with whom I deal . As a consequence , however , I am uncertain as to what  --  3  --  constitutes the significance of their incessant exercises and competitions . When Antoine Rouge disappeared soon after he himself had contracted the disease which bears his name , we believed that he had preferred to die alone , in an exile only partially self- willed . Still , he on one occasion remarked that Rouge 's Mal- ady could not possibly be fatal to Rouge , though it had already killed hundreds of thousands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confirmed only by certain authorities who had long wished for his death . Yet the Rouge , as my mentor , and I were preternaturally close . And I feel sure that he no longer exists . I have been studying the stereoscopic card delivered to me by the man with webbed toes . Though his manner was brutal , the card he left me was both inviting and peculiarly flattering . Yet it was perhaps because of the perverse sexual nature of the card 's images , so reminiscent of those which had gained an odd popularity at the House of Skin , which decided me against contacting these subtle colleagues , as they described them- selves . I fear , however , that if I remain here much longer , my hard-won equilibrium may become a morbid stasis . My former difficult patient now welcomes me with open arms . He no longer limps , and claims that as a result of my abortive attempt at Oceanic Therapy he feels he has come to terms with his mutant toes . He adds something elaborately philo- sophical about sea creatures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extremely obscure . As I had anticipated , I have been invited to join a gathering of conspirators . Their purposes are as yet opaque to me , as are the purposes of so many others . It is , however , quite clear that they are heterosexual pedophiles , a group specifically out- lawed , though increasingly pervasive nonetheless . We are now all disciples of a new master , it seems . He is called Tiomkin . He describes these provocative spheres as his aquaria , and directs me to engage psychically any aquarium for  --  4  --  which I feel empathy . I can not deny my attraction to certain of these perverse multidimensional images . Tiomkin suggests that there must evolve a novel sexuality for a new species of man , an emergent genetic biochemistry for a most innovatively reproductive form of life . He mentions Antoine Rouge , but I can not seem to see the connection between . . . Adrian Tripod has been accepted by the board of directors of the Gynecological Research Foundation . The liaison officer complains that his feet and legs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give out on him entirely some day , without warning , and so when he is alone , he does not walk . He notes the vastness of the Foundation 's quarters , and the difficulty in reaching aid for those suddenly rendered helpless . In this con- nection he mentions the Foundation 's hired gunman , who apparently has a tendency to misinterpret subtle social con- frontations . Adrian Tripod is to be directly introduced to the subject of his study . She is a research import , brought at great expense from a great distance across several most contentious borders . The corporation Metaphysical Import  --  Export has been involved in the venture . He stresses the complex nature of prematurely induced puberty , which leaves such a subject vulnerable to Rouge 's Malady , and is unable to guarantee that she is not already somewhat defective in this respect . At an obscure hotel for transients , the same one , some have said , that the faded mad dermatologist Antoine Rouge occu- pied during those last years in exile , Adrian Tripod secures temporary accommodations for himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ length about a root-like excrescence which has begun to grow from one of his nostrils . He believes it to be an extension of certain cerebral nerve cells , a modified antenna , perhaps , a delicate sensing organ attuned to . . . what ? I ask him about Antoine Rouge , but he does not answer .  --  5  --  Although , for safety 's sake , we shall be without Tiomkin 's guidance for some time , we have agreed among ourselves that there must be no delay in attempting to impregnate our strange , unfathomable captive . Adrian Tripod senses the presence of Antoine Rouge . &nbsp;                     