@@494777

Correspondence Surplus Books Sirs : Franconia College is a small innovative liberal arts school , nonprofit , without much money . We have a small library and are desperately in need of books . We thought the readers and contributors of The New Republic would help us out by sending to Franconia College , Franconia , New Hampshire , 03580 , their surplus books and review copies which they no longer need . The worst part of being an intellectual of any persuasion is the numbers of books one collects over a short period of time . Franconia College would appreciate it if your readers and contributors could use us as a place to send worthwhile books no longer needed . Of course , all contributions are tax deductible . Leon Botstein President , Franconia College Author Replies Sirs : In the October , 1971 , issue of College English , Professor Wallace G. Gober writes , I would like to recommend that the editors of College English establish a Most Inept Review Ever award ( MIRE ) and give it to Wayne A. O'Neil for his sophomoric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Valuable Essay ) ' 68 essay in CE , December ' 70 . One could forgive O'Neil 's tone of mocking condescension ? normal bad manners for an MIT smartass ? if his discussion of the essay in question were accurate and productive . And further on : " Slanted quoting , biased interpretation , and simple misrepresentation of fact are typical of O'Neil 's approach throughout this review .... Heavy , Professor Gober , very heavy ; how could one of our bright young scholars be guilty of such scholarly misbehavior ? You are being churlish . Unkind . Unreasonable . Ah , well , it 's just , after all , another tempest in the academic teacup . Easy it is to dismiss the conflicts of others ! Then , in The New Republic , November 20 , I ( through my book The Creative Classroom ) am O'Neil 's victim . And , by golly , there he is , precisely as Gober says , laying on the slanted quotes , the biased interpretation , the misrepresentation of fact . In short , playing the smartass . Indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the book that I wonder whether O'Neil really read it . ( We know how easy it is to " review " a book unread , a movie unseen , etc . ) At any rate , it is plain that ( for whatever reasons ) O'Neil preferred not to review my book but an invention of his own called The Creative Classroom . On the single concrete issue that he contrives his condemnation , namely , my brief treatment of the Initial Teaching Alphabet , I refer the reader to pp. 13031 of my book . Nowhere do I " close " a discussion of the ITA as a teaching device ( except by virtue of going to other educational matters ) . But , of course , it is convenient for O'Neil to pretend that I do , for that allows him to zing off a flashy attack against my presumed position . And there is nothing quite so much fun for the book reviewer as a flashy attack . ifs a lot more fun , to be sure , when the attack is warranted and not simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what in the book is but a very small point , incidentally , would lead the reader of the review to conclude that The Creative Classroom ( i.e. , my CC ) is a book about spelling . It is n't . It is a practical program for education . I find it hard to grasp how O'Neil managed to so thoroughly misconceive the book . It surely took an act of will ! Henry F. Beech hold Hunter College , New York Reconsidered Sirs : Having just completed a screenplay of the life of Emma Goldman , and admiring her deeply , I 'm unhappy about the subtle animus that I think pervades Kenneth S. Lynn 's " Reconsideration " of her autobiography , " Living My Life . " Lynn 's tendency - it 's no more than that ; clearly he feels considerable admiration for the woman - is to suggest that knowing the psychology of a radical is tantamount to knowing the causes for his or her social protest ( with " psychology " usually equated with the pathological elements in the individual 's experience ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goldman 's " political militancy was rooted in sexual resentment " - specifically , resentment against a volatile , sometimes brutal father . That aspect of her experience is indeed " unmistakably clear , " but the link between it and a life in radical politics makes for far too simplistic an equation . Not only does it ignore many other aspects of her experience , but also the historical context in which she lived , and the desperate social inequalities she found everywhere around her . The social ills she encountered warranted radical protest and must themselves be included in any " explanation " of Emma Gold-man 's activities . It may be that the question really begging for explanation , given the squalor of American life , is not why Emma Goldman spoke out , but why so few others did . Lynn sees her concern over the legal lynching of the Haymarket anarchists as " obsessive " ; it could be as easily argued that the indifference of most Americans was pathological . Lynn sees her complicity in the attempted assassination of Henry Clay Frick as proof positive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realities of American life " ; it could be as easily argued that she was so closely in touch with them and so frustrated by , their immutability , that violence , momentarily , seemed the only available path to change . Conservatives have long used psychology as a convenient weapon for devaluing the commitment of radicals to social causes : " look to their inner turmoil and you 'll find sufficient explanation for their public protests . " By that BOOK COLLECTORS ! Our worldwide contacts help build your collection All fields . A to laniard . Book Landman 1615 Montana . Santa Monica . California 90403 rationale , the social conditions against which the protest is directed need hardly be considered - though those conditions may be far more crucial to a radical 's " experience " than , say , " sexual resentment . " Martin Duberman Professor of History , Lehman College , CUNY Sirs : I know it is in vain that I write to an editor of a magazine with only three women on its masthead , none of which has an editorially responsible position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ review of a book written by and about an important woman , namely Emma Goldman , by a man , with all the traditional prejudices of a man about the sexuality of women . Kenneth 5 . Lynn makes it clear once again that it 's all right to fight for liberty if you 're a woman , but it will never be all right to live your private life as you see fit , to recognize the sexual needs of one 's own body and then go about satisfying them . Once again women are made to understand that there is only one respectable course open to them : chastity until marriage , and one marriage with complete fidelity to spouse until death . Will you and Mr. Lynn please reflect for an instant on how he would have described the sexual life of Emma Goldman , if she had been a man ; would a man have added other lovers to his " stable " ; would a man have " bedded-down " with a lover ; is a man ever promiscuous ? Judith Trenho/rne Montclair , New Jersey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Biography omits one striking event - her unhappy sojourn in Soviet Russia . While he emphasizes that she was deported from the United States he fails to mention that her destination was the Soviet Union . An even more grievous omission is the fact that she found life in the Soviet Union so intolerable that she escaped to Canada .... To attribute her magnificent impatience with persecution and oppression to repressed " sexuality " is a most questionable procedure . Is idealism nothing more than an affair of the instincts ? Theodore N. Lewis Brooklyn , New York TRB Sirs : I am sure others were as startled as I to find TRB nodding as he does ( Nov. 27 ) in lumping J. M. Keynes with Alfred Marshall and Adam Smith as one who thought " that the law of supply and demand would ultimately regulate prices and jobs in the market place . " In the same vein one might lump Freud with witch-doctors and Einstein with the president of the Flat Earth Society . Of course Keynes handsomely acknowledged his debt to the classical economists , and especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about " supply and demand " - not , at least , at the time of the General Theory . I sympathize with TRB . For now that President Nixon has declared himself a Keynesian , it might be inferred that the century 's greatest economist has become all things to all men . But not quite , TRB , not quite ! Edwin M. Yoder Jr . Greensboro , North Carolina Wage-Price freeze Sirs : Your note " Where the Shoe Pinches " ( Nov. 20 ) seems to be unduly critical of the President 's stabilization program . The point you stress is that the freeze in wages in Phase 1 and the permissible increase of 5 percent in Phase 2 are unjust to labor . You expected more reasonable guidelines of control and were disappointed . I suppose one could argue endlessly over the " fairness " of the wage and price guidelines . Workers who received their wage increases before the cutoff point - August 15 ? undoubtedly benefited from their good fortune as compared with those whose wages were frozen . But there had to be some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Suppose the cut-off date was September 15 or October 15 , would we not face the same unanswerable question ? Phase 2 does , in fact , allow some leeway in the approval of retroactive payments . But even if it did not , the argument that labor is being cheated falls apart . If prices are stable , a fixed wage is worth that much more to the laborer as consumer . And if the President's. economic plan works , employment will rise , since American goods will be more marketable at home and abroad . If Labor insists on all its contractual gains , the vicious cycle of rising costs and soaring prices will get under way once more . It is futile to try to persuade labor leaders that the interests of their members would be best served in the long run by the acceptance of restraints . Labor leaders themselves are not free agents , for they must be responsive to the wishes of the rank and file of their constituent membership , and they know their members would turn a deaf ear to counsels of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old and new addresses to ? SUBSCRIPTION DEPARTMENT THE NEW REPUBLIC 382 WEST CENTER STREET MARION , OHIO 433oz ? Allow three weeks for change to become effective The average worker understands the logic of more dollars in his pay envelope today more readily than he can grasp the niceties of economic theory . Under these circumstances , it seems probable that the stabilization plan is foredoomed to failure , not so much by George Meany 's hostility to Mr. Nixon as by a widespread lack of understanding of how our economic system works . Alfred T. Vogel New York , New York Shayon , from page 22 had ordered CBS , in this case , to provide free time , under the Fairness Doctrine , to the Republican National Committee to reply to a reply by the Democratic National Committee to a series of Vietnam speeches by President Nixon . The District Court has spanked the FCC for high-handed procedure in the past , but the slap this time was the toughest yet . Circuit Court Judges J. Skelly Wright , Edward A. Tamm and Spottswood W. Robinson III rebuked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the apple . " The FCC majority had changed its position four times , the judges said , and had dealt with the facts in " a notably shoddy fashion . " It had been " capricious , arbitrary and inconsistent . " Judge Tamm , in a separate concurring opinion , charged the FCC with taking " a political role of interference contrary to all of the teachings of administrative decision-making . " Johnson had gone along with the majority on this particular case only because his vote was needed on a package of cases involving other Fairness Doctrine issues . He had done so , he said , without enthusiasm and with extreme reluctance . He had stated his serious misgivings about the power of the President to command television time . The District Court echoed his warning . " If the words and views of the President become a monolithic force , " the Court wrote , " if they constitute not just the most powerful voice in the land but the only voice , then the delicate mechanism through which an enlightened public opinion is distilled , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Public opinion becomes not informed and enlightened , but instructed and dominated . " Concluding his concurring opinion in the CBS/ Democratic National Cornmittee majority opinion , Johnson made a characteristic comment that could hardly have endeared him to the White House , which appoints FCC Commissioners . He noted that press reports had suggested that " the White House staff in fact worked with Chairman Burch 's office in preparing his response to the press coverage of the FCC 's decision . " " For the White House staff to have participated in any way in this proceeding , " he added , " or in the encouragement of preparation of ' interpretative ' opinions , would make a mockery of the independence of an agency which is the creature and arm of Congress - even though there is no question of a violation of the letter of our ex parte contact rules in this instance .... And yet , one can not help but wonder where else one could so rapidly obtain such a thorough analysis of the nation 's newspaper coverage of the President-including accounts in the St. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , none of which appeared in the FCC 's internal newspaper reporting service , or are from papers prominently displayed on the Chairman 's coffee table . " It is an anomaly bordering on absurdity that so public-spirited an FCC Commissioner can not be reappointed : but 1973 is still a year and a half away . Before a less activist member of the commission replaces him , however , Johnson may be expected to perform in characteristic fashion on a number of important issues , including cable tv , children 's television , the Fairness Doctrine inquiry , media crossownership in specific markets , changes in renewal standards and proceedings , and in specific renewal and transfer cases . As to the question of the President 's overwhelming advantage in access to the airwaves , the District Court 's reversal of the FCC does n't get to the heart of the problem . Granted that the party in office can not have " the second bite of the apple " ( the right to reply to the loyal opposition 's reply ) , there remains still the impossibility of fairness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ networks for a simultaneous , live , uninterrupted address to the electorate . Time granted the opposition on a single network can not in any manner effectively balance a three network , highly publicized presentation . The Democrats understand this , but one wonders how long they will wait before they muster enough courage to demand a simultaneous , three network , live right of reply to the President . 