@@488036

Mr. Kanegis and Mrs. Richards conduct continuing research on weapons development for NARMIC ( National Action and Research on the Military-Industrial Complex ) , a project of the American Friends Service Committee . The United States Army is doubling its budget request for chemical and biological weapons procurement . The figure increases from $25.3 million in fiscal year 1971 to $50.8 million in fiscal year 1972 . This astonishing fact quietly ? emerges from the more than 4,000 pages of hearings re , leased by the Senate Armed Services Committee on . the current military budget requests . For almost two years now the public has been treated to periodic White House and Pentagon press releases that repeat the boast made by President Nixon in November of 1969 : the United States is renouncing first use of lethal ? chemical weapons and all use of biological warfare agents . One of the latest of these releases was a July 13th army ' announcement that it was beginning a projected yearlong ? destruction of stockpiled germ warfare agents . These Administration announcements , coupled with the widely publicized and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public the impression that the entire U.S. program of chemical and biological warfare ? ( CBW ) is being abandoned . Meanwhile , military contractors are being assured in private that CBW work will continue  --  even expand  --  and , that the cutbacks involve only a tiny part of the overall program . A prominent firm engaged in defense market analysis has reported that CBW research continues " at funding levels equal to or exceeding those prior to the ' public relations ' announcements of cessation of these efforts . " " Market Intelligence Report , " a bulletin of limited circulation published by DMS , a subsidiary of McGraw-Hill , states flatly : " Despite public announcements to the contrary , the military agencies are not discontinuing chemical and biological warfare research ! " ( Exclamation mark in DMS report . ) DMS , formerly known as Defense Marketing Survey , is ' -a private consulting . firm that serves the defense industry . By carefully analyzing nonclassified information , such firms can piece together descriptiOns of U.S. defense plans , some of which are considered highly secret . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who pay thousands of dollars a year for the complete service , DMS reports are thoroughly reliable . DMS 's April 1971 report on Chemical , Biological and Radiological Warfare ( CBR ) continues : Though ostensibly on the way " out " of the military weapons arsenal , CBR ( chemical , biological , radiological warfare ) is merely being conducted in a different environment and , wherever possible , with less public attention . It remains a technology in which there is considerable Interest and money . . . . The relatively small research contracts that come from this CBR research program can lead to follow-on production work that averages $12 to $15 million per year in most conser ' vative evaluations . The field is difficult to crack , but there are opportunities for the chemically competent technical organization , either in the industrial or academic communities . In an even more recent , August 1971 , ' CBR report to ordnance manufacturers , DMS provides this assessment : Even though the Nixon Administration has pledged to eliminate and reduce CBR procurement programs , FY72 's Procurement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CBR has actually more than doubled . . . . Most of the increase is to replace supplies used in Vietnam . The breakdown of this procurement budget shows a doubling of the purchase of white phosphorus incendiary rounds , euphemistically termed " smoke munitions . " However , Veterans of Vietnam report that " Willie Peter , " as they term it , is widely used as an anti-personnel munition . The budget includes a tripling in the procurement of " riot control agents . " These encompass such weapons as the XM 99 folding-fin CS , warhead and the Mighty Mite , a device used to pump massive and sometimes lethal doses of CS gas into Vietnamese tunnels and shelters . Increased prcicurement in this area may further postpone ' Senate ratification of the 1925 Geneva protocol , which is bottled up in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . The committee does not want to embarrass the United States by ratifying a- treatywe are currently violating . In December 1970 , the U.N . General Assembly de , dared , by a vote of 80 to 3 , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Administration 's position , supported by Portugal and Australia , is that 337 agents used by the United States in Vietnam are excluded from the accord . While scattered press reports have indicated that CBW facilities are being closed down , cut back or converted , a brief survey of the major sites shows that in fact activity is being disguised and expanded . The Army 's July 13th announcement of stockpile destruction included the reassertion that the biological warfare center at Pine Bluff , Ark. , will be converted into the Food and Drug Administration 's National Center , for Toxicological Research . The center , it said , will study the " toxic effects " of chemicals ( drugs , food additives , pesticides ) . This was first reported in The Washington Post on January 28 . However , DMS stated in February that Pine Bluff is spending $1.6 , million to purchase automated equipment for , packaging chemicals . The June 14th Commerce Business Daily carried advertisements for bids for five different items of ammunition and explosives needed at Pine Bluff , including components ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The M36E2 indeed has " toxic effects , " but not of the kind that the Food and Drug Administration would normally study . It is obvious that the FDA will not be the sole occupant of the base , and that work on chemical and incendiary munitions will continue . The February DMS report for Edgewood Arsenal , the Army 's chemical warfare command post , shows the same pattern of continued CBW work , despite official proclamations to the contrary : Although the President 's policy statements of November 1969 and February 1970 have reoriented chemical and biological warfare programs being conducted at Edgewood , a glance at R &D; budget elements shows that they have in no way curtailed them . The cut-backs in two major projects , the Chemical Warfare and Biological Research Programs , are anything but substantial , and are more than offset by increases in other new and continuing chemical and biological projects .. . The pick-up in Edgewood 's R &D; budget is an indication of the agency 's growing importance in the ' face of the President 's 1969 and 1970 policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edgewood to provide it not only with the retaliatory threat it feels it must have to deter enemy use of biological or chemical agents , but also with the needed strong defense against any toxic agents that might be used . . The ambiguity of " defensiVe " CBW work is illustrated by North American Rockwell 's contract for " Aircrew protective systems . " Is this equipment intended to protect those who happen to be in aircraft when the United States is attacked with CBW ? Or is it to protect military air crews who themselves drop CBW- ordnance ? The merger of Edgewood Arsenal with the Aberdeen ( Md , ) Proving Ground , announced on July 1 , may be another attempt to divert attention from the continuation of Edgewood 's research , development , testing and manufacture of anti-personnel chemicals . The September-October issue of Ordnance emphasized , when reporting the merger , that the " activities at - Edgewood Arsenal remain unchanged . " And on June 28 Aberdeen 's new CBR role became evident from its advertisement in Commerce Business Daily for contractors to " develop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propellants , pyrotechnics , chemical , biological and radiological materials . . . . " Several years ago , press photos showing drums of poison gas stored at Rocky Mountain Arsenal  --  just beyond the runway of the Denver , Colo. airport  --  stirred public fears and protests . Since then , reporters who challenged the necessity and the safety of maintaining deadly nerve gas at this arsenal have been kept at bay by assurances that safety-conscious disposal operations of obsolete gases would begin shortly . The projected yearlong disposal of a biological anti-crop agent that attacks wheat was finally begun at Rocky Mountain Arsenal on August 2 , twenty months after the President 's announcement that such stocks would be destroyed . Disposal of World War I mustard gas , scheduled to begin , in late August , has not yet started , although testing of ' disposal facilities began July 12 . Disposal of 21,107 nerve gas cluster bombs , containing an estimated 2 trillion lethal doses , is supposed to begin next summer . Such disposal operations may lull the public into thinking that the military is removing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so . " We are maintaining our lethal chemical deterrent , " stated Lt. Col , William E. Dismore , the newly appointed commander of Rocky Mountain Arsenal . In an interview obtained for this article on September 10 , Lieutenant Colonel Dismore acknowledged a report that even when the three-year disposal project is completed , a 250-acre " toxic yard " will be maintained at the arsenal . There , 1-ton containers of GB nerve gas from current stockpiles will be kept . When asked why some nerve gas weapons are being retained while others , such as the M34 cluster bombs , are being destroyed , Dismore answered that the M34s are " obsolete , " " not compatible with today 's high performance aircraft . " They are not being destroyed , he said , because of any government policy change or protest from Congress and the public . " We would be disposing of these in any event . They are of no value ; there 's no market for the product . " The Lieutenant Colonel was then asked about plans for future nerve gas production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solution , " he answered quickly , is the " binary weapons system . " A " binary weapon " consists of two nonlethal chemicals , each packaged in a plastic canister . " In a fail-safe binary ' system , " he said , " these components would be stored and shipped separately . " He continued : " When preparing to fire the weapon , the two canisters would be placed together in a shell . " In one configuration , the plastic canisters are separated by a " setback rupture system " which breaks them open when the shell is fired . Fins make the shell spin during flight , thoroughly mixing the two chemicals and forming the deadly nerve gas in less than ten seconds . " This offers safety in handling , storage , transportation and demilitarization . " As Dismore spoke thus of the many advantages of the new system , his enthusiasm was restrained only by his aides , who reminded the new commander of their " rigid restrictions " to talk only about the mustard gas and wheat spore destruction programs . Dismore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had testified about the same subject last year , when he was chief of Chemical Warfare and Biological Research , Army R &D.; At that time he told the House Appropriations Committee : Another value of the system is the fact that if , as we go down the road a few years from the , time we field this round , we find a better agent combination , all that needs to be done is to remove one of the polyethylene canisters and replace it with a different combination , and you have a new agent without having to build new hardware . There is another advantage to the new system which Dismore did not cite . These munitions enable the military to get around Congressional restrictions on buying new nerve gas delivery systems ( PL 91-121 ) , since the binary weapons do not need their own delivery system . Dismore spoke of binary shells for 105mm , 155mart and 8-inch rounds , all of which can be fired from howitzers of the type already in use in Vietnam . He also said that the Army thinks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He was not permitted to reveal the date by which the Army expects to have the binaries in the operational inventory , but acknowledged that a complete binary round had been tested in the open air at Dugway before PL 91-121 , which requires strict safety precautions before such tests can be resumed , was passed in 1969 . Such resumption , scheduled for 1972 , will , Dismore thinks , aid in speeding the binaries into production . Though Dismore would not say when binaries will be operational , there is evidence that their development is far advanced . Early this year , Edgewood Arsenal invited interested corporations to bid on a " study to production engineer the internal components of the XM #87 projectile 155mm , " another name for the binary weapon . And on April 9 , Commerce Business Daily announced that Aerojet Ordnance and Manufacturing Company had received from Edgewood a contract ( #DAAA 15-71-C0037 ) for " Research and Development Services for Binary Dissemination Studies . " Shortly after President Nixon 's " renunciation " of biological warfare there was widespread speculation that the Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closed . This expectation was so strong , in fact , that one year after Nixon 's address the Senate voted $15 million to transform the Detrick laboratory into a national center for health research . But the expected change never occurred . Funding for the transfer was knocked out in House-Senate conference and the Army " postponed " its announced cutback . As the March 1971 DMS report on Fort Detrick put it : Ft . Detrick was one of the bases targeted for the Army base closure and reduction program in FY71 , but the planned 295 man-year cut-back was postponed , pending the determination of future utilization of the installation by the Army or by other government agencies . ' Although Ft . Detrick could well be one of the bases affected by what the DOD indicated will be a realignment of responsibilities at various installations in FY72 , it is doubtful that this will come to pass . If this " realignment of responsibilities " did come to pass , it still would not be a true step toward curtailing the development and use of chemical and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had decided to consolidate its CBW activities and shift them to the remote deserts of Utah 's Dugway Proving Ground , the testing center for U.S. CBW activities . In a January 22nd statement , Sen. Frank Church spoke of a possible transferof 440 personnel to Dugway , presumably from Pine Bluff and Fort Detrick . The Army did acknowledge , in the fiscal 1972 appropriations hearings , that it was shifting the " Threat Assessment Group " from Fort Detrick to Dugway , there to conduct classified research on the vulnerability of targets . to biological agents  --  presumably for " defensive " purposes . It is also shifting fifty-two civilians , and an unspecified number of military personnel to Edgewood Arsenal to carry on classified research on " alarm and physical defense . " The staff working on the " technological base " for CBW will remain at Fort Detrick . There are no plans to phase out this work , even if some Detrick laboratory space is turned over to the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare . The Army made this clear in testimony from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Development . Asked to explain a drop in the Army 's " defensive " biological research budget ( it was $14.3 million in fiscal 1970 , $15.5 million in 1971 , and $13.2 million in 1972 ) , he said that it did not indicate a plan to shut down the Biological Warfare Laboratory , but was caused rather by " the turmoil in the program of relocating it and getting it re-established . " The only change , then , has been a shift of emphasis toward " defensive " research . But in the CBW area , research for " defense " turns out to be pretty much the same as research for offense . Today , the development of virulent antibiotic-resistant biological agents is justified as a prerequisite to inventing defenses against their possible use by other nations . Thus DMS was able to report last March : The President 's policy statements of November 1969 and February 1970 have altered the emphasis of some programs conducted at Ft . Detrick , but they have in no way resulted in a significant curtailment of activity . Indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analysis , warning and defense against the biological war , fare systems that might be used against this nation have led to a step-up in some of Ft . Detrick 's activities . Curtailment of CBW activities is not evident at the U.S. Army Chemical Center and School in Fort McClellan , Ala . There the GIs continue to train for chemical warfare in a mock Vietnamese village , and then return to their air-conditioned classrooms and laboratories for further in : struction via closed-circuit TV . They are joined by foreign officers from Thailand , South Vietnam , Australia , Korea , the Philippines , West Germany , Greece , England , Saudi Arabia and other countries . In all , 550 foreign officers from thirty-six countries have been trained at the school . Even after Nixon 's proclaimed renunciation of biological warfare , the GIs , military allies and selected public health officialS went on using a course outline called " Potential Biological Anti-Personnel Agents . " ( This document , #EA 108.1 , was made available by Prof. Richard Fineberg who attended the course in May 1970 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Documents Officer at Fort McClellan assured him that essentially the same course material was still in use . An account of his attendance and . other information on continuing U.S. CBW ac-tivities appear in his The Dragon Goes North : Chemical and Biological Warfare Testing in Alaska ; McNally &; Loftin . ) A reading of " Potential Biological Anti-Personnel Agents " leaves one feeling much less relaxed about even the " limited test quantities " of deadly germs being retained as the Army destroys its large , cumbersome stocks of older biological agents . " It is quite possible that biological agents are the weapons of the future , and that they will be used in conjunction with nuclear weapons , " the manual declares . It proceeds , despite its declared objective of training in CBW " defense , " to instruct the pupils in : a . The most opportune time for dissemination of a biological aerosol . Methods of using biological antipersonnel agents . Requirements for biological antipersonnel agents . Characteristics of several potential biological antipersonnel agents . The " defense " training guide speaks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " naming among others the incapacitating agent Venezuelan Equine Encephalomyelitis . This is the disease that swept through South America , Mexico and across the U.S. border recently , killing thousands of animals and hospitalizing hundreds of people . ( Actual studies of migratory birds as carriers of this rare disease have been conducted by the Army , so the 1972 Defense appropriations hearings reveal . ) Also named as potential agents are such toxins as the one found recently in Bon Vivant vichyssoise after a New York man had died from drinking it , and the ancient plague , which has turned up in war-ravaged parts of North Vietnam and in the portions of South Vietnam that have not been immunized by U.S. medics . It can be inferred from the CBW course outline that the military goal in the use of biological agents does not require huge stockpiles . It would seem that the necessary quantities could be produced from test samples through rapid multiplication techniques . The training document does not suggest using biological agents as lone weapons to blanket huge areas . Rather it recommends disseminating undetectable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ released via Insects at nighttime when " there is less chance of target personnel detecting the attack . " The manual goes on to state that " it would seem reasonable to combine agents , thereby complicating the disease picture . Use of agents with different incubation periods could prolong the period of required treatment . Use of agents requiring different treatment could also prolong hospitalization . Use of agents with the same incubation period could confuse diagnosis . - And it continues : There are a number of reasons why biological antipersonnel agents may be used to complement or supplement another weapon system such as chemical , nuclear , or high explosives : ( 1 ) Resistance can be lowered by bodily injury from another weapon . If an individual 's resistance is lowered , the pathogen may overcome body defenses with less effort . ( 2 ) In metropolitan areas , food and water supplies , as well as sanitation facilities may be destroyed by other weapons As sanitation declines and individual resistance drops , the opportunities for biological anti-personnel agents to invade and produce disease are increased many-fold. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional load on medical facilities used for diagnosis , treatment and evacuation . ( 4 ) Biological agents in aerosol form will probably be unnoticed if delivered during attack by other weapons . It is clear that biological agents would not be used openly and on a massive scale but rather covertly , on a limited scale , disseminated by existing delivery systems in conjunction with more conventional weapons . The military objective of this strategy would be to lower the target population 's morale and will to resist and its perseverance in rebellion . To gain this end , the military needs only a small quantity of each of the wide variety of agents that have been selected by earlier testing . Then , if a military opportunity occurs , the samples of the selected agent can be used to produce the quantity required . Development of rapid reproduCtion techniques for each agent has been the focus of the Pine Bluff Arsenal 's past work . The capability for germ warfare remains . To be sure we have the President 's assurance that it will not he used , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program at Fort McClellan gives its pupils a thorough understanding of techniques of offensive biological warfare . Although described as instruction in defense , the course in fact offers little information about effective civilian protection . It even suggests that such defense may be impossible : " remember that with massive doses of an agent we can probably break any immunity  --  no matter how it was acquired . " '                     