@@479440

WICKER , in a New York Times column dealing with the Nixon Administration 's attacks on the press , cited , along with the injunction against publication of the Pentagon Papers and the Supreme Court 's decision on subpoenas for reporters , the " full-scale investigation of a reporter ? Daniel Schorr of C.B.S. ? considered unfriendly by some of Mr. Nixon 's men . " The investigation of me in August 1971 appears to have won a place in the history of the war between the government and the press ? despite the Nixon Administration 's avowals that no intimidation was intended and that the investigation came about because I was briefly considered for a government position . Few in the press believe the government 's claims , and because the effect of intimidation is there as long as intimidation is perceived , it is the continuing suspicion that Counts . Seeking to discover whether the suspicion is warranted , I decided to make my own inquiry into the " Schorr-FBI affair . " T HE INVESTIGATION STARTED , with- 1 out warning , on August 20,1971 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later in a letter to a Senate subcommittee , it was a simple matter , a " routine " investigation for " possible Federal employment , " ordered by him the day after he had received a request from a White House staff member . " " Routine " for Mr. Hoover , but for me it was a day of disruption and puzclernent , the FBI at the door arid the telephone incessantly jingling with breathless bulletins from superiors , associates , family , and friends touched by the widening web of interviews . Each one told of being advised that the reason for the questioning was that I was in line for a government " position of trust and confidence . " To all I protested that I had not sought or in any manner been offered such a position . Most doubted me . The few who believed me proceeded to volunteer the darkest theories about possible mauves for an investigation ? harassment , intimidation , or a concealed effort to " get something " on me . This seemed improbable to me , if only because the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigations without jobs are not unprecedented . Lipman Bers , professor of mathematics at Columbia University , experienced a deja vu sensation when he read of my case . Only two months earlier , he wrote me , the FBI had visited him , his colleagues , and neighbors , saying that he was being considered for " an important position " in the executive branch . He told the FBI that it must all be a mistake , and the investigation ceased . " At that time , " wrote Dr. Bers , " I considered the whole thing the result of a clerical error somewhere . But now I 'm not so sure . " Jim D. Whittenburg , president of the National Council on Youth and " Drugs , incurred the hostility of the Secret Service in October 1970 when he publicly criticised the Nixon Administration 's policy on narcotics and marijuana . Several days later a Secret Service agent requested his medical file from his physician . The doctor was then asked to sign a Treasury Department release form referring to " a full field investigation being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secret Service . " Vincent Gillen , private investigator and former FBI agent , professed to be carrying out a preemployment check when he dug into the life of Ralph Nader on behalf of his client , General Motors . Testifying before the Senate Subcommittee on Executive Reorganization in March 1966 , Mr. Gillen displayed impatience when Senator Robert Kennedy pressed him about a preemployment investigation made on a pretext and without the subject 's consent . " Oh , Senator , come on , come on ! " chided Mr. Gillen . " For goodness sake , where did I learn this ? In the FBI I " Whether , in my case , the FBI was consciously using a technique or unwittingly acting as an instrument foe the White House , it did the job with almost flattering formality . The agent waiting at the Washington Bureau a CBS News when I arrived for wort on August 20 , 1971 , acted respect Daniel Schorr , Washington correspondent o CBS News , specializes in investigative re porting. ful , as one might toward a candidate for high office . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was being considered for , and was surprised that I did n't know either . When I cut short the interview , saying that I objected to being investigated on such baffling grounds , he promised to report my views to his superiors . Somewhat more heatedly , William Small , CBS News bureau chief , declined to show the agent my personnel file , but did offer to show him the door . Then my telephone started ringing . First , from New York , Richard S. Salant , president of CBS News . The FBI had called him at home early in the morning , saying it had little time to complete the investigation , with the implication that the announcement of my appointment was imminent . To me , Mr. Salant was chagrined . Why , after nineteen years , would I leave CBS so abruptly ? And what was my new job anyway ? I did n't know of any job ? Really not ? Then the calls came in a steadily accelerating pattern other CBS ex-ecutives , colleagues , friends , neighbors ( " The FBI @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house ! " ) , and former employers ( back to the first one , the Jewish Telegraphic Agency , where I worked three decades ago ) . Each caller eager to be the first to tell me , and each agog with questions . Is it all right to talk to the FBI ? Would n't want to delay your appointment , hah , hall ! Say , uh , what is the job anyway ? No job ? Probably ca n't talk about it or the President will change his mind , hah , hah ? No job , really ? Maybe the FBI jumped the gun on the offer ? Or what , do you think ? Each day thereafter , CBS executives called me to ask whether a job offer had surfaced , and , when none had a week later , a more serious concern than losing a correspondent evidenced itself . There are raw nerves in broadcasting about the Nixon Administration , abraded by the speeches of Vice-President Agnew , the controversies over " instant analysis , " the battle over The Selling of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suit over entertainment programs and the hint of possible antitrust action for news " monopoly . " Was this investigation , then , exem ) lary harassment , a new wrinkle in he war on the media ? If so , why me ? I was , after all , a relatively small reportorial planet in a galaxy of anchormen and commentators . Some in CBS theorized that some specific piece of reporting had created some specific antagonist . They suggested that investigative reporting , undermining studied public relations postures , could have raised more hidden hackles than critical commentary , which could be refuted or simply dismissed . T HE FBI INVESTIGATION had started at the moment of my latest brush with the Administration . Only the day before I had visited the White House , on request , to receive com-plaints from Presidential Assistant Patrick J. Buchanan and other offi-cials about my most recent report on the CBS Evening News . President Nixon addressing the Knights of Columbus in New York , had made an emotional promise to aid the foun-dering parochial schools . My report , coming directly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources as saying that plan to deliver on that The White House offi-that various plans were under consideration . And on the very day the FBI showed up I was working on a follow-up report analyzing the comments of the White House staff , One CBS executive felt sure that the investigation had been triggered by resentment because I had blunted the President 's message to the Catholics . That on top of all my previous trouble with the Nixon Administration . Not that I had been free of trouble with Democratic administrations . President Kennedy had taken umbrage at my reports from Germany about his quarrels with Chancellor Konrad Adenauer . Since returning to Washington in /966 , I had heard , second- and sometimes firsthand , of President Johnson 's explosions over my accounts of backroom compromises on welfare and taxes . But these had been brief eruptions , and the Republicans ' disaffection with me had been a steady , bitter growth . In June 1970 I reported that two West Point instructors , commissioned by President Nixon 's Urban Affairs Council to survey food distribution , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that an Administration that had promised to A CHILLING EXPERIENCE eliminate hunger was sitting on the report . Sen. Robert Dole , then chairman of the Republican National Committee , made a speech in the Senate , charging bias and saying that my first interest was " in discrediting the Nixon Administration ? while he promotes those who share his liberal views . " Senator Dole also complained to my boss , Mr. Salant , and was something lest than mollified by Sal-ant 's reply that " if Mr. Schorr has any bias , it is against hunger . " President Nixon himself became involved in a dispute with me in March 1971 . Dr. James C. Fletcher , a science adviser to the White House , had told me of expressing misgivings to the President about the Safeguard ABM system , and of hearing Mr. Nixon confess to doubts of his own . When Dr. Fletcher was named director of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration , I decided to broadcast the story . The day after my March 9 report , Press Secretary Ronald Ziegler devoted the better part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next day with women reporters , the President volunteered that he was not concerned about opinion or criticism , with one exception . " The only thing , however , where I have a very hard line about is inaccuracy , where something is inaccurate like Dan Schorr yesterday said , or made a statement , with regard to ABM that was totally without foundation and fact .... If they say that ' Nixon expressed doubts about ABM ' when no meeting ever took place , that has to be corrected . That is what I mean . You ca n't allow a little lie . Incidentally , " the President added , when I call it a lie , that is unfair because , after all , the man just probably had the wrong information . I am always very charitable towards my friends . " A sense of charity toward " friends " did not appear , however , to pervade the Presidential staff . White House aides have an insiders ' code for designating their pet hates . When referring to their names , they insert the initial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the White House T was thereafter " Daniel P. Schorr . " D ESPITE ALL THIS , I kept an open mind , at first , about the FBI investigation . Perhaps somewhere in the bowels of bureaucracy there was someone , not cued in politically , who had raised my name and accidentally triggered a premature FBI investigation . As days stretched into weeks with no sign of the chimerical job , I made discreet inquiries but turned up nothing . On October 8 , however , I got an unexpected opportunity for a direct inquiry when I found myself at a dinner party with Frederic V. Malek , the White House talent scout . Six weeks had now passed without a peep from the government . I asked Mr. Malek if he knew for what job the FBI had investigated me . He expressed complete surprise and ignorance , even to inquiring when the investigation had occurred . He promised to check on it first . thing next morning and call me . Mr. Malek never called . He might have if it had occurred to him that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public issue . It was , oddly enough , some friction within the President 's official family that apparently helped the story about me come to light . There are stories , and half-stories , lying all over Washington , launched only when some interested party assembles and circulates them . At CBS we had agreed to let this story languish . I had concluded that to broadcast it myself would only cast one in the role of an antagonist of the Administration ? the role it had conceived for me . Then the Administration 's feud with me erupted on another front . On November 4 , Charles Colson , Special Counsel to the President , telephoned Dr. Frank Stanton , vice-chairman of CBS , Inc. , with a bitter complaint about my reports on unpublicized conflicts in the Pay Board . My reporting , he said , threatened to incite a labor boycott and undermine the stabilization program . He also mentioned that I had previously been in such gross error that I had been obliged to broadcast a retraction . Mr. Colson was misinformed . The error he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Director George Shultz of a statement actually made by Dr. Herbert Stein , chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers ? had not been made publicly but in private conversation with labor officials . And I had clarified it in private at the request of Dr. Shultz . Dr. Shultz , learning of Mr. Colson 's distortion of what was supposed to be a courtesy to him , expressed irritation at the intervention , remarking , " Maybe . Chuck Colson should be straightened out . " A few days later a Washington Post reporter , Ken Clawson ( who ? purely coincidentally , he insists ? joined the White House staff a few months later ) , called inc to say that he had heard about the Colson complaint and was writing a story on it . He had also been told , as an added fillip , about the FBI investigation , which , though an older story , he considered a better one . So , on November 11 , on the front page of the Post , an unpublicized mystery became a public issue . I MUST @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sensation , with the inevitable train of news agency follow-ups , requests for interviews ( all of which I refused ) , and a barrage of questions to the White House . Ronald Ziegler , apparently hastily prepared , denied any motive of intimidation and said that I had , in fact , been considered for employment . The idea , Ziegler said , had arisen in the office of Frederic Malek , and Mr. Malek loyally supported that statement , although such an ' idea had astounded him six weeks earlier . Mr. Ziegler , questioned about the nature of the position , said that it was " in the environmental area " and would be disclosed " in due time . " That whetted the curiosity of many reporters , and requests for amplification produced a variety of off-the-record whispers . William Anderson of the Chicago Tribune wrote that he was told the job was " in the $40,000. a-year range " and that my sponsor was " a person of rank within the Administration . " John Osborne of the New Republic wrote that a White House official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that only a fool would have expected Dan Schorr to consider taking . " The suggestion that an incumbent faced replacement created some tension in " the environmental area . " A somewhat dissident member of the President 's Council on Environmental Quality told the White House that if they wanted his immediate resignation , they could have it . The head of the Environmental Protection Agency , William Ruckelshaus , told questioners at cocktail parties , smil ingly : " Maybe it 's my job they want Schorr for . " There were other contradictions . In the first hasty reaction , Mr. Malek told reporters that the investigation , accidentally escalating from an intended in-house " name check , " had been quickly canceled without any report ever being received from the FBI . But BI Director Hoover reported officially : " The incomplete investigation of Mr. Schorr was entirely favorable to him , and the results were furnished to the White House . " Senator Sam J. Ervin , guardian of the First Amendment , announced that his constitutional rights subcommittee would look into the matter on February @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approached , the White House suddenly shifted to a new position about the phantom job . A Presidential counselor wrote to Senator Ervin on January 27 stating , in line with the old position : " Mr. Schorr was being considered for a job that is presently filled . " ' That changed abruptly four days later , on the eve of the hearing . Now the White House told reporters that what was involved was a new position that has not been filled . " What was being sought , said the officials , was an assistant to Russell Train , chairman of the Council . on Environmental Quality ; the assistant would prepare television programs on environmental subjects . And , though no one had yet been chosen , " other well-known newsmen " had been interviewed for the position . I have since ascertained that several newsmen were , in fact , interviewed by Mr. Malek ? apparently to help make the new stance credible . One of them , Ron Nessen of NBC , said he found the offer " peculiar " because he had been previously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nessen told me : " I got the impression that Malek was not so much offering me a job as trying to get me to spread word that there was a Schorr job . " At the February 1 hearing , Senator Ervin read from the Presidential aide 's letter of January 27 about the post " that is presently filled " and from the Washington Post of that morning about the unfilled job . The Senator commented , " If I had been White House counsel , I would have told the witnesses to try to reconcile their testimony instead of making a contradictory statement of that kind . " N THE FOLLOWING months the -1 issue , and the questions , refused to die . When Richard Kleindienst came up before the Senate Judiciary Committee for confirmation as Attorney General , Senator John Tunney asked him about " the Dan Schorr case . " ( " 1 ant not familiar with the specifics of the situation . " ) When White House Communications Director Herbert Klein appeared on the CBS Face the Nation broadcast , David Schoumacher asked , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Dart Schorr ? " ( " No , I did n't , and I think that the handling of that was n't probably the best thing . " ) When Senator Henry Jackson announced . his candidacy for President , he said , " I think what was done in the case of Daniel Schorr is an outrage . " ( That did not result in a Jackson sweep of the primaries . ) Only the White House could solve the mystery , if it wanted to . The Administration had issued a spate of comments but had volunteered not the slightest explanation to me . At length , I wrote to Mr. Ziegler , asking if he could clarify the matter . Three months later , on August 1 ? , 1972-almost the anniversary of the beginning of the whole business-Mr . Ziegler replied : " I am told the job you were being considered for was Assistant to the Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality . As I understand it , the Council was considering reorganizing its public affairs division to launch a program of public awareness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were suggested to him for the position by one of several people he uses often for recruitment ideas , and remained under consideration for about ten days . Fred subsequently concluded that you and the job were not really matched , and your name was dropped from consideration . Other people were being considered at the time , and have since been considered ; but for a variety of personnel and planning reasons , a general hold has remained on the position . " I am further told that because your FBI investigation was terminated in the very early stages , no comprehensive report was ever prepared . The preliminary report , which was entirely favorable and which was forwarded to the White House , has subsequently been destroyed . "                     