@@488017

Mr. Brannigan , a correspondent for the American Broadcasting Company , returned earlier this year from a seven-month assignment in the Middle East , primarily in Israel . For a brief time this spring , diplomatic and journalistic channels were buzzing with speculation that the Soviet Union and Israel were considering the re-establishment of diplomatic relations , broken in the wake of the Six Day War of 1967 . One motive suggested for Moscow 's interest in the move was that it would give a vantage point , inside Israel , for keeping an eye on Israel 's military posture and popular mood . But the Russians already have channels of communications inside Israel , and the Kremlin leaders undoubtedly received much information about Israel at the Communist Party Congress of last March  --  from two Israelis themselves , delegates to the congress from Israel 's own Communist Party . Despite the frequent protests made against Russia 's official attitude toward its Jewish minority , and despite the constantly deepening Soviet influence in and support for the Arab world , the Communist Party functions in Israel , nominates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedom of action there than it does in many of the Arab states that oppose Israel and receive extensive Soviet , assistance . Moreover , and reflecting the persistently factional nature of Israeli politics , there is not just one Communist Party but two . In Israel 's current parliament ( the Knesset ) there are four " Communist " seats out of a total of , 120. 41 , The parent organization of today 's Communist Parties in Israel was recognized by the Comintern in Party . In the early years , Jews dominated the leadership , 1919 ; it was known- then as the Palestine Communist Lyi although Arabs were members as well . Jewish membership stayed with the party even during Stalin 's short-lived pact with Hitler . Communism was certainly not a political anomaly in pre-independence Israel . From the earliest days of Jewish resettlement , even before the Bolsheviks took power in Russia , radical-Socialist utopian ideology rivaled , and in some instances prevailed over , religious and historical sentiment as a motivation for returning to the mother country . The early Marxist-collectivist orientation persists in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the kibbutz , in ' the central political and entrepreneurial position occupied by the Histadrut , the labor federation , in the extensive role played by government in commerce , housing and welfare in general . Despite the ever growing proportion of sabras ( native born ) in the population , the " Eastern establishment " ( Eastern European establishment , that is ) whose youthful fervor for egalitarian communal society has diminished only slightly ' over the years , continues to dominate the politics of the country . And even the emerging sabra political leadership often a product of the communal or cooperative settle ( , meats ( both Defense Minister Moshe Dayan and Deputy Prime Minister Yigal Allon were born on kibbutz settleJnents ) . Over the years , the USSR has manifested a wildly T-fluctuating attitude toward Zionism , toward the Palestinian  --  now Israeli ? Communist Party , and toward the - 'state of Israel itself . The Bolsheviks , sounding calls for worldwide self-determination and anti-colonialism even as they were trying to consolidate their own rule in Russia , rsupported the idea of a Jewish , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World War II approached and Arab nationalism began to emerge as a potentially potent force in the Middle East . Some Soviet theoreticians began to see the creation of a 11 ' Jewish state in Palestine as a clever device to insure continued British mandatory presence in the area . Some Russians even went so far as to accuse Zionists of willful ) collaboration with the " British imperialists . " These suspicions contributed no doubt to the Comintern order to *-the Palestinian Communist Party in the early 1940s that it create a " Jewish Section " within the organization and replace Jews with Arabs in the majority of the party 's positions of leadership . The Palestinian Communist Party was already beginning to feel the strains of the main debate of the day : the disposition of postwar Palestine , 4 , f when , as it was assumed , the British should depart . Some Arabs , championing the idea of an Arab Palestine , left the Communist Party and formed the " League of National Liberation . " Many of the Jews remaining in the party favored a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end , the growing attacks mounted by Jewish underground forces against the British in Palestine , helped persuade Moscow that Zionism was a genuine r nationalist force , and should be supported , along with Arab nationalist movements , as a means of driving the capitalist " neo-colonialists " from the Middle East . This idea so captivated the Russian leadership that Moscow quickly became one of Israel 's loudest champions in the 0- postwar period , and the Soviet Union rushed to recognize the fledgling state of Israel , within hours of its proclamai'rA tion of independence in 1948. l41 This reconciliation , which disillusioned some Arab Communists , did not last long . Moscow viewed with dis ( * ' , approval the increasing alignment of Israel with the United States , and eventually the Soviet line reverted to its earlier position , the only change being that now the Zionists were the handmaidens of American rather than of British " imperialism . " Moscow had been shifting its support to the Arab side , primarily to Egypt 's President Nasser , well in advance of the Suez crisis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time returned to 4 the Communist Party in the expectation that Israel 's Communist Party would also adopt the pro-Arab position ' advocated in Moscow . " renaissance " of Marxism , even though , Maki admits , the immediate prospects for the cause are not promising . In an Israeli context , Maid views itself as " internationalist , " in that it is " supporting its own ' nation , without discounting the interests of others " ( i.e. , the Palestinians , and other Arab states ) . It regards the other " Communist Party , " named Rakah , as " unnatural , chauvinistic . . . a nationalist Arab party , " masquerading under a Red Communist cover . Recalling the events of 1965 , Moshe Sneh says , " The split was the result of Rakah submitting to Arab chauvinism and to orders from Moscow . . . . We are independent in our judgments and we oppose Soviet policy and the official policy of most Communist Parties . . . . They Rakah are predominantly Arab ; we are predominantly Jewish  --  that 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hurls many of the same charges back at Maki . It regards Sneh 's group as " anti-Communist " and a convenience to the Israeli Foreign Ministry which , Rakah claims , uses Maki as window dressing to curry favor among - leftists abroad . Rakah regards itself as being very patriotic , defending the existence and future of the state of Israel by seeking peace , not territory , and , by opposing what it labels " Zionist pro-imperialist " forces . The split in the old Communist Party in 1965 , in Rakah 's view , was quite simply a break between Zionism and communism , with Rakah rejecting Zionism . In its relationship with the Israeli Government , Rakah charges persecution  --  that some 600 of its members , most of them Arabs , are under some form of police detention : house arrest , restriction of movement , or surveillance . It also ' claims that during the last general elections in 1969 , about 150 key members were rounded , up and jailed over election day , thus damaging Rakah 's showing at the polls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charges . A number of Israelis with whom I discussed these charges do n't dispute them , but few interpret such detentions as a threat to civil liberties . The majority accept them as justifiable security measures in time of war . Meir Wilner holds one of three Rakah seats in parliament ( the other two are held by Arabs , one of whom accompanied Wilner to the 24th Soviet Communist Party Congress ) . Wilner , like Sneh a native of Poland , is 53 years old . He is a slight , wiry man , who appears cautious and apprehensive in the presence of strangers ( some years ago , Wilner was seriously injured by a knife-wielding attacker , an Israeli who had emigrated from Russia and took extreme exception to some of Wilner 's public remarks ) . This guarded manner disappears almost completely when Wilner is addressing a sympathetic audience ; at such times , he is a dynamic , confident and accomplished speaker . ' Wilner and his party see no contradictions in accepting Soviet policy iii the Middle East . " It is in full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Wilner told me , " because our Communist Party of Israel defends more than any other political factor the national interest of our people and our country . " From 1965 to 1968 , Rakah increased its popular vote by just under 50 per cent  --  from 27,000 to 39,000 . It estimates that of the 12,000 new votes , 40 per cent came from Jews , 60 per cent from Arabs . ( Maki disputes - , this claim , suggesting that the Arab-Jewish ratio of new votes is more like 10 to 1 . Government statistics show ' ' ' ' " that the Arab population within Israel proper increased , 41 by almost 50 per cent between 1965 and 1969 . ) " More people are listening now , " Wilner said ) recently , Al " than in the immediate post-1967 war days . . . . The USSR in 1948 was not against the Arabs , and is not 31 ' against the state of Israel today . . . . Not against its right , of existence . " 7 A few Israeli Communists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for them , even if formal diplomatic ties are re-established with the  --  ? USSR . The reason behind this has much more to do with Russian policy , at home and in the Middle East , than ' it has to do with ideological reservations among Israelis , A who have been immersed in a considerable stream of Socialist , even Marxist , ideology for years . ' -1 Soviet policy toward Russian Jews certainly does n't 4 help the Israeli Communists . At a hastily called , protest demonstration in Tel Aviv on Christmas Day 1970 , to .4. protest the conviction in Leningrad of a group of Jews charged with attempted airplane hijaCking , one placard read , " take Meir Wilner , give us the Russian Jews : : But Wilner and his party disregard such sentiments . The very next day , in ' Haifa , Wilner delivered a fiery speech to a meeting of the Israeli chapter of the World Federation of Democratic Youth , during which he dismissed the Leningrad trials as a purely Russian internal affair . The massed Red banners , flags @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of David , and posters extolling Ho Chi Minh and Cuban youth left little doubt as to the ideological cast of the chapter 's politics . The predominately young audience was A overwhelmingly Arab . A similar rally , also in Haifa a month later , drew some pickets protesting Moscow 's policy toward Jewish emigration . On a different level , Soviet support for the Arab states , and particularly its military aid to Egypt and Syria , have 1/4. , ptoduced , understandably , widespread " anti-Communist " ( really anti-Russian ) sentiment in Israel . One day , waiting in my car for a traffic light to change , I watched a shabbily dressed , unkempt , bearded middle-aged man shuffle past a gas station . I 'd seen the man before . He apparently is some sort of eccentric , whose physical appearance is more a matter of choice than circumstance . The garage attendant at the pumps apparently also knew the man ; he shouted , " Communist ! " at him , but with a broad smile on his face . The man smiled back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of greeting one might encounter anywhere ; but until very recently the term " Communist " has not been used as an epithet  --  even in jest  --  in Israel , except perhaps , by a tiny minority of right-wingers . While the political prospects for the Communists are n't likely to improve in the immediate future ( indeed they may be irreparably damaged among young voters and voters-to-be ) , Communist representation in Israel 's parliament is n't likely to suffer . Arab population growth tends to insure Rakah 's hold on its three seats , especially since some Israeli political observers believe that Arabs support the party less for ideological reasons than to exercise some legitimate ' electoral protest against the other Jewish-dominated parties . Moshe Sneh 's personal popularity , even outside his own party , is probably sufficient to guarantee his seat as long as he cares to hold it . He could very likely carry other party members into parliament on his " coattails " if only Maid changed its party label . Sneh claims he is oftenstopped on the street and asked , " How @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist ' ? " But the veteran philosopher-politician sees himself a leader of the Marxist renaissance , and therefore is not likely to change his affiliation . When the state of Israel was proclaimed in 1948 , the Soviet Union was considered a friend , and " Communist " a respectable political label . Both of these conditions have changed in the intervening twenty-three years  --  but then again , so have many things . Ask any Israeli .                     