@@494815

If it is true , as the radical women 's liberationists contend , that women are an oppressed class and men are their oppressors , then the fact that it is men who determine whether they are sick or well and how they ought to be treated has a sinister cast . It is men who shut women up in mental institutions , give them shock therapy and subject them to brainwashing via verbal therapy . It is men who cut up women 's bodies , administer drugs and give or withhold various means by which their reproductive functions may be controlled . Women doctors and nurses are merely trusted executors of the male-dominated medical profession , which is a tool of the patriarchal , capitalist society . These are the harrowing premises upon which Phyllis Chester 's Women and Madness and Ellen Frankfort 's Vaginal Politics have been constructed . The authors are aware that men are also liable to be incarcerated , drugged and cut up by the medical establishments , but they reason that if the men are not poor and black they are part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are very different from those of the oppressed . Now , both the medical and psychiatric establishments are in need of radical restructuring . Chesler 's and Frankfort 's attack on them from a feminist viewpoint in terms of their built-in abuses against women makes good sense . However , both authors are deep into sexpol and evidently are more interested in heightening the " political " conflict between the all-powerful male oppressor and helpless female victim than in serious battle to overhaul the theory and practice of both medical systems . Thus the chief value of their books lies in the insight they give into the current mood and mythology of the women 's movement . Chester raises the politics of sex to a cosmic level and creates a new psychomythology , fantasizing how women , who are now the wretched of the earth , can take over from the male oppressor ? " it is clear that women who are feminists must gradually and ultimately dominate her italics public institutions ? in order to insure that they are not used against women . " And how is this to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horde of Amazons , goddesses and matriarchs . She considers the Amazonian model and earnestly decides , " In general , hand-to-hand combat is anachronistic and militarily ineffective ? for women as well as men . " Despite such flights of fancy and her rap-group-style outrage at the sexism of everyday life ? " I can not continue either an important or casual conversation with a male colleague in the bathroom . . . I can with a female and it makes a. difference " ? Chester offers good insights into how psychiatry manipulates the feminine psyche to enforce social norms and the way in which the unhappiness of women is structured into the culture . It is Chesler 's contention that women , brought up to be passive , dependent and self-sacrificing , are mentally ill by definition . If they rebel against sex role stereotyping and become aggressive , self-assertive , adventurous , creative , they are discouraged and may well wind up in a mental institution . Most women find an easier form of protest ? they become depressed , helpless and frigid . Viewing themselves as " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for help and frequently wind up having " psychiatric careers , " that is they are in and out of therapy and institutions most of their lives . Throughout their " treatment " they are subjected to a male authority figure or his female surrogate trying to make them conform to a female norm as it is conceived in a patriarchal culture . The therapist , having a vested interest financially and psychologically in the supremacy of the nuclear family , tries to bring the patient into line so that she can function adequately in marriage . Chester concludes that " the institutions of therapy and marriage not only mirror each other , they support each other . " Who can ai - gue with that ? Beneath women 's helplessness and servility , in Chester 's view , lies a deep longing for images of power and grandeur with which to identify . In " madness " women gravitate toward the images of Joan of Arc and the Virgin Mary . These figures , as Chester sees them , are the Christian mythological equivalents of Demeter and Persephone . The Demeter-Persephone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she examines the despair of modern women . In the Judeo-Christian culture , she complains , all women are motherless because women do not like the female body or value other women . " They are phobic about lesbianism . " Young girls hungry for affection turn to their fathers ; this leads them into the trap of marrying a man , and all men are father figures . Thus marriage , romance , prostitution all involve incestuous rape . Psychiatry repeats the pattern . Chesler says she writes as a psychological researcher , clinician , theoretician and lover of poetry and myths , and indeed her book is a veritable Dada collage of literary and scientific materials ; statistical charts from the National Institutes of Mental Health showing that proportionally more women than men are in mental hospitals and out-patient therapy ; a personal neo-Jungian interpretation of classic myths ; accounts of four gifted women who were institutionalized ( among them Sylvia Plath and Zelda Fitzgerald ) ; interviews with various categories of mental patients ? women who had done time in institutions , women who have had sex with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third world " women and feminists in therapy ; a report on how Freud and other major clinicians revealed rigid , patriarchal notions of feminine behavior , plus the ideas produced by myriad consciousness-raising groups since the start of the movement . The total effect of this accumulation is to create a kind of science fiction vision with women cast as members of a great lost captive civilization awaiting restoration to its ancient splendor . Chester has a doctorate in psychology and throws in statistical charts for a veneer of professionalism . However , she builds her central argument on subjective , unsubstantiated statements coming directly out of her feminine ideology . Thus , she suggests off-handedly that old women are more despised than old men in our society and the behavior of mothers toward their daughters follows a universal harsh pattern . In addition to her dubious anthropology and sociology , she deals with data in a slapdash manner . For example : she finds that women are going to psychotherapists in overwhelmingly increasing numbers . To , this she adds a conscientious footnote : 1 ) More men are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept , 3 ) there are more hospitals and doctors than ever before . Then she continues to write as though she has just established a revealing fact . It is unfortunate that Chesler has not taken herself seriously enough to focus her attack on the psychiatric industry instead of on a large amorphous patriarchal oppressor . That industry has had a damaging effect on the lives of two American generations by imposing an unrealistic set of sexual and behavioral norms . It is at least half possible that women have gotten the worst of it . The women 's movement is playing a heroic role in breaking through the old psychiatrically imposed sexual stereotypes , and if at times feminist writers seem to flail too wildly , it may be that a good part of their bafflement arises from the fact that they have internalized those norms and must fight an enemy which is within themselves as well as on the outside . Just as Chesler politicizes the female psyche , Frankfort politicizes the vagina itself . The jacket of her book features a feminine hand holding aloft , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examinations . The book opens with a glowing account of a demonstration at a feminist Self-Help Clinic in Los Angeles . Taking turns lying on tables in a church basement , the women are examining one another 's cervixes for cancer and infections . Pow ! " In about five minutes you 've just about destroyed the mystique of the doctor , " rejoices Frankfort . She notes the " revolutionary " effect of the experience . " So deep is the feeling ? the ' uterus reaction ' ? that women are systematically denied any control over their bodies by the medical profession that any alternative to it is embraced with joy . " Some 200 pages later , at the end of the book , Frankfort casually mentions that a plastic speculum tends to get porous and scratched with age , and it can not be sterilized by boiling because it will melt . She has no further comment , no advice for the woman with the scratched dirty speculum . But there is a suggestion that infections may sometimes be confused with cancer by the do-it-yourselfer . Worse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an annual Pap test anyway because a good deal of the cervix is not on the outside surface . Frankfort , a health columnist for the Village Voice , is angry about male doctors ' indifference to the integrity of women 's bodies and feelings , but is tolerant of experimentation by the self-help sisters with a device for extraction of the menstrual flow all at once , eliminating the discomfort of the customary few days . She brightly announces that the fact that " a group of women started doing it , indicates the revolutionary potential behind the women 's health movement . . . . " A few pages earlier she has quoted " a medical student " as referring to it as " terribly dangerous . " As a matter of fact , says Frankfort , she is rather conservative . She worries about the risks . And after all , even self-help clinics are no answer . She really believes the country has the doctors and technology to offer sophisticated services ? if the medical system were nationalized . There are some interesting reports in her book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ customers are fleeced , how drugs that may well prove dangerous remain on the market , how popular writers on sex promulgate silly ideas , how doctors lie , make mistakes , withhold information , cover up for one another , how paraprofessionals function as an effective medical force in China . These accounts seem sensible . But then when Frankfort discusses the controversy about the need to perform radical mastectomies versus simple breast removal for cancer , she goes offinto the dark realm of surrealist feminist nightmare . She knows that in the first anatomy class at medical school , students with the misfortune to get a female cadaver have a hard job cutting away the breasts . It sets them behind the others . She puts two and two together . " What would it be like if breasts were not introduced to future doctors as greasy masses to be cut off as quickly as possible in order to make way for the study of the axila ? Could it be that doctors would subsequently show greater hesitation in slicing through them when they became diseased ? " Well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radical movements have gone out with a whimper as a result of rhetorical overkill plus unreal analysis of where the enemy lies and what is to be done . Women 's liberation has replaced those movements in the media spotlight . It is a temptation for feminists to reduce real injustices and grievances to the material for mere nasty gamesmanship in the old-fashioned war between the sexes . Male oppressors , Amazonian societies , the anarchist militance of getting acquainted with your own vagina will first entertain , then quickly bore both men and women so that soon everyone will tire of women 's liberation and things will be left exactly where they were before it all began .                     