@@487973

esourceful and tenacious as he was , Spiro Agnew failed to save his skin , and , as The Nation was going to press , he resigned from the office of the Vice Presidency . It is not insignificant , I think , that the charge to which he pleaded nolo contendere in federal court in Baltimore was tax evasion , not related in a direct way with the bribery and kickbacks for which he was reportedly being investigated . The tax evasion charge means that the Nixon Administration outflanked him . It suggests strongly that Agnew was not haphazardly caught up in an inquiry involving relations between the Maryland State government and the building contractors . It looks very much as if someone was specifically out to get him . This conclusion seems supported by , a story in The New York Times of October 7 which said the Internal Revenue Service was undertaking an exhaustive investigation into Agnew 's affairs . The IRS , by the very nature of its investigative system , is unlikely to have done that  --  unless somebody up there wanted him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But we are hardly exaggerating if we say that , at the very least , Richard Nixon did ' not support his choke for the Vice Presidency 1,000 per cent . The reasons for this are suggested in the following analysis of Machiavellian strategies , only some of which must now be put in the past tense . ' Milton Viorst . Among Washington politicians , " Machiavellian " is usually rendered as a term of grudging tribute . It does n't apply to Senators and Congressmen because , however prestigious ; they lack the attributes . Within a certain range , the more self-seeking , among the legislators are acknowledged to be " shrewd " ; outside that range , they 're called " venal . " But Machiavellian implies the power to , control events , and in Washington such power is in the possession of one man alone . In fact , according to my dictionary , Machiavellian describes the employment of cunning " to maintain the authority and carry out the policies of a ruler . " We have long known how eminently capable Richard Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to rule . Since acquiring it , he has become  --  as his . marvelous maneuvers over Watergate have shown  --  the outstanding Machiavellian of American history . Indeed , if we keep in mind that the first tenet of Machiavellianisrh is the maintenance of authority , many of the events surrounding Watergate which would otherwise seem implausible suddenly begin to make sense . I mean , a ruler normally aspires to keep his good name intact . He may even want to be loved . He might be quite conscientious about enacting a political program . He probably thinks about being remembered favorably by generations to come . But all these things  --  good name , Milton Viorst is the syndicated columnist for the Washington Star-News . His latest book is Fall from Grace : The Republican Party and the Puritan Ethic ( Simon &; Schuster ) . affection of the public , a political program , history  --  are secondary . Unless the ruler retains power , none of the other considerations matter . Accordingly , as long as Richard Nixon is faced with impeachment , they remain expendable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office  --  and all the powers it possesses must go into holding on to it . Consider in this context the matter of the celebrated tapes . Nixon obviously knows how unseemly he looks , locked in , litigation with the Ervin committee and his own special prosecutor . He has only to read the Gallup polls to see that the public is convinced he 's hiding something that could incriminate him . One wonders , in fact , how an organization that prided itself on a zero tolerance for mistakes could have committed a blunder of such magnitude as the revelation that these hitherto secret Presidential records existed . , Ostensibly , it was plain bad luck that the Ervin committee staff , during the random questioning of a White House supernumerary named ' Alexander Butterfield , stumbled onto this red-hot cache . But was the luck really so bad ? After all , since the Butterfield interrogation , both the committee and the prosecutor have given an overwhelming proportion of their energy to getting the tapes , which have come to seem more important for themselves than for what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can contemplate perjury prosecutions , for example , as long as the matter of the tapes is unresolved . Certainly the attendant litigation will consume at least six , months and , if you accept the contention that public interest in Watergate will fade as events drag on , six months is a very long time . But more important , as long as the tapes remain in Nixon 's private possession , , they will serve as a shield for H.R. Haldeman and John Ehrlichman , who have emerged as the only persons who can incriminate Nixon himself in Watergate activities . Their lawyers have indicated , as have John Mitchell 's , that they will argue that the tapes are necessary for their clients ' defense . Since the Supreme Court has ruled that a defendant is entitled to any exculpatory evidence in the government 's possession , it may prove impossible to convict these two . Is that a coincidence ? Is it inconceivable that the existence of the tapes was , in effect , deliberately leaked to the world  --  as the price of Haldeman 's and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have scoffed at such a Machiavellian suggestion , but I was naive then . As a matter of fact , I doubt if there 's anyone in America who now believes that , even if the tapes are ultimately sprung , they will reveal anything of substance . Does anyone imagine that , in a White House in which Donald Nixon was bugged , Judge Byrne was approached With a bribe , John F. Kennedy 's cables were rewritten and the Brookings Institution became a possible target for bombs , ' a sudden fastidiousness would protect the integrity of the tapes ? We now see Nixon as capable of almost anything , and we take it for granted . All that seems in question is whether our own minds can keep pace with his Machiavellian audacity . For myself , my mind absorbed with only a little incredulity the disclosures that Nixon 's people sent the letter which falsely attributed to Senator Muskie statements that helped defeat him in the New Hampshire primary , and hired the bearded and unwashed youths who demonstrated as McGovernites at the Republican National ConVention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These are small enough " dirty tricks , " and I 'll never again doubt that they can happen in Presidential elections . Lacking evidence , however , my mind is still skeptical of the assertions made by McGovern 's veterans that it ' was the White House which first leaked to the press the information about Tom Eagleton 's history of mental illness . Even more , my mind remains unprepared to accept the hypothesis promoted in some quarters that the White House , in furtherance of Nixon 's Southern strategy , saw to the elimination from the Presidential race of Alabama 's Gov . George Wallace . In spite of everything it has recently learned , my mind says ( as it did more than once before on the road to where we are in Watergate ) that " this has got to stop somewhere , " and that America is not ( not yet ? ) the political land of Costa-Gavras ' Z. But my mind is still stretching , and now it 's wide enough to regard as not merely possible but probable that the current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a fabrication of the White House Machiavellis . . One may start by noting that the investigation in Maryland in which Agnew became embroiled began in the federal proecutor 's office in Baltimore well over a year ago . We have no evidence that its initial target was Agnew , the former Republican Governor . In fact , his successor , present Gov . Marvin Mandel , has told friends he 's convinced it was he and his Democratic administration whom the Justice Department was out to get . But Maryland , as we have learned in the course of this affair , is much like Mayor Daley 's Cook County in that the payoff has long been an intrinsic part of the public contract system , and any hostile prosecutor can at almost any , time find indictments to , bring . That 's why Mayor Daley has always been more concerned about who was elected Cook County State 's ' Attorney than who was elected governor . What Chicago 's politics suggest , if the parallel is apt , is that Agnew was always known to be vulnerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a button in Washington to start an investigation . But let 's assume that the initiative was not Nixon 's and that Agnew fell only accidentally into the investigators ' net . Nixon certainly learned of Agnew 's implication in this complex affair long before U.S. Attorney George Beall of Baltimore delivered the now famous letter advising the Vice President that he was under official scrutiny . Nixon might even have known before the Republican National Convention of 1972 . But does n't the fact that he chose Agnew to run with him again indicate that he did not know of the troubles ? Not necessarily . Agnew was very popular a year ago , especially with the conservatives who are disaffected by Nixon 's trips to Moscow and Peking . Nixon was de , termined not to lose those conservatives to abstention or to the American Independent Party 's candidate , John Schmitz , who at one point threatened to run ' fairly well , especially in California , which for a moment looked like a marginal state . Besides Nixon did n't just want to win ; he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Throughout the campaign season of 1972 , Agnew 's legal troubles could scarcely have seemed like a deterrent to Nixon , whatever they might have said about Agnew 's fitness for office . At most , they were a potential embarrassment far off in the future . The first signs of , disaffection appeared only after Nixon 's reinauguration when , one by one , the duties Agnew had performed in the first term were taken away from him . The most important blow was the dissolution of the Office of Intergovernmental Relations , of which Agnew was then chairman , and the transfer of its author- , ity to John Ehrlichman 's Domestic Council . Ostensibly , this was a minor bureaucratic shuffle which the press did - not bother even to report . The office , however , was important to Agnew . It was a freewheeling operation which enabled him to intercede on behalf of governors and mayors by breaking through the red tape and other organizational obstacles in the federal agencies . In doing the job conscientiously , Agnew had built up a reservoir of political debts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be redeemable in delegate support at a national convention . If Nixon needed an index of Agnew 's success , it lay in the succession of complaints he received about Ehrlichman and the pleas , which he ignored , to restore Agnew . to the post . At the time , it was believed that Nixon had probably decided not to give Agnew a free ride to the 1976 nomination , presumably to maintain his own strength within the party and , perhaps , to dominate the nomination process himself . In retro- , spect , however , it seems probable that this was more than a commonplace political game , and that the total freeze on Agnew meant that trouble for Nixon was in the wind . In his fighting speech in Los Angeles on September 29 , Agnew said that , within " the cocktail circuit and rumor mills " of Washington , he had begun hearing of efforts to get him as early as last April . The timing is significant . On March 30 , Judge John J. Sirica read in court James McCord 's letter charging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect , been fixed by pressure from within the White House . Thus the dam , which had hitherto contained the surging waters of Watergate , suddenly collapsed . A few days later , after repeated testimony at the Senate hearings pointed to irregularities within the White House staff , Nixon withdrew Patrick Gray 's ' nomination as FBI director . On April 15 , Atty . Gen. Richard Kleindienst learned , he has said , of the magnitude of the degree to which the men closest to Nixon were involved in Watergate , and took this information to the White House . Two weeks later , Kleindienst , Ehrlichman and H.R. , Haldeman resigned from the government . What Agnew seemed to be implying at Los Angeles was that , when the sweat began pouring from Nixon 's brow , the President and his faithful retainers looked around  --  and saw the Vice President there , untainted and looking as , satisfied as a well-fed pussycat . Whether or not Agnew was untainted remains to be established in , the course of the unprecedentedly circuitous judicial proceedings on which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , in his statement at Los Angeles that " I have not used my office , nor abused my public trust , as county executive , as governor , or as Vice President to enrich myself at the expense of my fellow Americans . " Is that meant to suggest that he might have enriched himself at the expense of others  --  for example , the community of building contractors of Maryland ? In fact , a succession of rumors from sources around Agnew maintain that he believes he did absolutely nothing that was not well within the mores of Maryland politics and that he is genuinely shocked that , anyone should want to call him to account for his conduct . Legally , what Agnew is trying , of course , is to divert attention ' from the possible charges against him to the sources of the publicity that has been given these charges . Insofar as the Nixon , Administration , and particularly the Justice Department , are responsible for trying to indict Agnew in the press , he is justified in complaining that procedural fairness is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Los Angeles speech when he stated that The Wall Street Journal had possession of the Justice Department 's letter of notification to him hours before he received it . The Journal has not only denied the assertion but points out that it did not break the story of the Agnew investigation until August 7 , five days after the letter was handed to Judah Best , one of his lawyers . What is significant about'this facet of Agnew 's strategy is that it does not address itself to the charges at all but counterattacks , striking directly at the Nixon establishment . It scarcely matters that the ostensible target of Agnew 's wrath is Henry Petersen , the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Criminal Division . Agnew asserted that , because Petersen had bungled the Watergate investigation , " he needs me to reinstate his , reputation as a tough and courageous and hard-nosed prosecutor . . . . They are trying to recoup their reputation at my expense . I 'm a big trophy . But I 'm not going to fall down and be a victim . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sensitive matter of Watergate , AgneNV understood very well that he was not dealing with an autonomous official , but was looking to bigger game . Petersen reports directly to the Attorney General and the Attorney General , though he has some independent ( if poorly defined ) powers to prosecute , clearly does not make decisions carrying profound political implications without checking with the President . In fact , the Justice Department makes no effort to hide the fact that not only Richardson but Kleindienst before him kept Nixon up to date on the Agnew investigation . Whatever Agnew 's attack on Petersen may have meant to the Republican ladies in Los Angeles , or to the nationwide audience that heard the speech on television , to the White House it meant that Agnew had proclaimed his break with the President himself . Mr. Nixon responded to the challenge very skill-. fully . Since he knew he had Agnew on the run , he could be lofty , even condescending . Since he knew that Agnew could not retaliate in any significant way , he made himself look good by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publicly sustained Agnew 's avowal not to resign if indicted . But on the matter of Petersen , which was the terrain on which Agnew had chosen to wage his offensive , Nixon said , " If I did not support Mr. Petersen 's handling of the investigation , he would have been removed by this time . " Nixon said he had taken Agnew 's charges up with the Attorney General and " the Attorney General assures me that his investigation  --  his , the Attorney General 's investigation  --  indicates that Mr. Petersen has handled this Agnew 's investigation without prejudice in advance , and without , of course , engaging in what in my view is the totally inexcusable and inappropriate conduct of leaking information . . . . " Though the John Dean affair may give us reason to pause over the investigations which Nixon says he has ordered , we have no reason to doubt the message that this statement conveys . It was Nixon 's salute to an old comrade whose days of usefulness were drawing to a close . But why would a , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own creation and a loyal retainer besides , to fall into such deep trouble ? I 've heard it said that Nixon would n't , that no administration  --  especially one already so severely wounded  --  would want to add to its woes the indictment of its Vice President . But such scoffing overlooks the Machiavellian admonition that a ruler 's first priority is to stay in power . To be sure , it is embarrassing for an administration to have its Vice President indicted  --  but Nixon has already survived ' the indictment or threatened indictment of Haldeman , Ehrlichman , Mitchell , Dean , Stans , Magruder and who knows , how many others . The embarrassment of adding one more can , at most , be marginal  --  and , besides , what 's a little embarrassment to a President faced with possible impeachment ? ' It 's saving the office that counts . Already the maneuvering ( assuming that 's what 's involved ) has begun to pay dividends . The subtle charges against Nixon -- involving only the abuse of , the Constitution and the ravaging of . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and more substantive allegations of bribery , kickbacks and graft directed against Agnew . The Ervin committee hearings reopened to disdainful notices and dismal audience ratings . The newspapers have become transfixed ' by the Agnew affair , and almost forgotten Nixon 's Watergate dilemma . At the White House news conference of October 4 , the Presidential press corps asked six , of fourteen questions about Agnew , all of which Nixon answered with obvious zest . Only a single question touched on Watergate , specifically on the status of the tapes , and Nixon disposed of it with his customary cliches . Even if it , was not his calculated strategy to divert national attention from Watergate to Agnew , that is precisely what has happened . ' But Agnew 's agonies have served to safeguard the Nixon rule . even more directly . Since The Wall Street Journal broke the news of the investigation on August 7 , all effective talk of impeachment has stopped dead on Capitol Hill . Congress  --  even if it had the guts to impeach ? would surely not risk a trial to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turning it over to another . To be sure , there had been some idle talk of joint impeachment , or joint resignation . Some random fantasies have been conjured up along the lines of ' sweeping out the old , to replace it with a heady new era of good feelings . But , from the beginning , ' Nixon had made clear that he has no intention of bowing out gracefully , and Agnew had shown that neither did he . If Agnew 's ' discomfort , then , put Nixon at ease , why did the White House last month try to prOsure him into resigning ? Nixon , of course , has denied that he asked Agnew to go , but Gerald Warren , his press secretary , acknowledged the other day that Fred Buzhardt , , the Presidential counsel , had participated in unsuccessful negotiations to have Agnew resign , presumably in return for an agreement from the Justice Department to bring reduced charges against him . Why Nixon contemplated , even briefly , the prospect of getting rid of Agnew is not completely evident as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is possible that Nixon , feeling , that the worst of Watergate is over , has begun looking forward to the rest of his term , and would like to put a clean face on his Administration . Having learned that he can live quite nicely without John Mitchell and the Germans , he reasons that he can give up Agnew , on whom he was much less dependent , and start out looking fresh . But what 's crucial to remember is that , with Agnew gone , Nixon will control who succeeds him . The 25th Amendment provides that Congress must ' confirm his choice , but Nixon is probably taking the measure of Congress correctly if he calculates that , with its mushy Democratic leadership in both Houses , it is more likely to retreat to the tired principle that the President has the right to choose his own men and confirm almost any nominee , rather than try to exact major concessions or clear decks for a fight . Current indications point to his selecting John Connally but , whether it be he or some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic majority would have to be not only gutsy but insane to consider an impeachment which would set up an incumbent President as its opposition in 1976.                     