@@487984

" There 's nothing wrong in Colombia , " they say , in this twelfth year of a " progressive and equitable " agrarian re-form . ' All the talk , of discontent on the fartas is really Communist propaganda , and any peasant arrested by the police obviously has to be a ComMunist agitator because Colombia 's humble , obedient , illiterate and undernourished campesinos would never invade an hacienda or contest the rights of a " patron " if some outsider had not put crazy ideas into his head . Besides , the World Bank says Colombia 's agrarian reform is a model program . No doubt , as models go , Colombia 's agrarian reform program is good  --  the army does not butcher large numbers of peasants , as has been the practice in El Salvador . But in most other respects , Colombia 's program is an example of the economic underdevelopment , political narrowness and rural poverty that pass for agrarian reform in Latin America . With few exceptions , and these are questionable , the agrarian reform programs undertaken by fifteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the rural poor . Even the Agency for InternatiOnal Development ( AID ) , that famous purveyor of unrealistic , made-in-the-U.S. reforms , has had to admit , finally , that it has been- singularly unsuccessful in persuading Latin American governments to redistribute land . Today , twelve years after the Alliance for Progress was founded to " encourage ' programs of comprehensive agrarian reform , " 3 to 8 per cent of the farms in Latin America occupy 60 to 70 per cent of the productive land , while 75 to 80 per cent of the farms , each smaller than 12 acres , cover only 5 to 10 per cent . The disparity is even greater in some other countries . In Ecuador , for example , 100,000 farms , each smaller than 2.5 acres , cover only 1 per cent of the total agricultural land , while 700 farms , each larger than 2,500 acres , control one-third . Meanwhile , agricultural production can barely keep pace with the 2.5 per cent annual increase in Latin America 's burgeoning population ; indeed , the United Nations Economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actually declined from its pre-World War II low . Although half of Latin America 's labor force is engaged in agriculture , millions are migrating to the cities , with the result that the urban population is growing by 4.7 per cent a year compared to an already high 1.6 per cent in ' rural areas . Crime , violence and social upheaval have kept pace with the statistics , yet the rich , the politically powerful and even the U.S.-trained technocrats seem hardly to ' comprehend what is in the newspapers every day . Chile 's Marxist revolution ( now overthrown ) , Fidel Castro 's Cuba and the long-ago Mexican and Bolivian revolutions belong to another world , another time . But in fact there is no magic wand that can whisk away underdevelopment without land redistribution be-cause , as Arnold Toynbee pointed out , agrarian reform is the starting point for everything else in Latin America . Of all the stereotyped arguments against agrarian reform , the most popular is food scarcity . According to the large landowners , agrarian reform causes panic in the countryside , forcing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it chops up large , economically viable holdings into small unprofitable family plots . Agricultural production plummets , rood prices soar , inflation spirals , the balance of payments trembles , and social unrest in the cities becomes a serious political problem . So many government planners and politicians have swallowed this argument that the mere , mention of food scarcities is sufficient to cause panic at the local agrarian reform institute . Farmers have complained ' about bad weather , poor prices and uncertain crops ' ever since man planted his first corn patch , but " to say that climatic conditions , rain in some periods , drought in others , which can cause scarcity in certain aspects of agricultural production , are the fault of agrarian reform is not true because production actually has been increasing , " says Colombia 's ex-President Carlos Lleras Restrepo , one of the few administrators in Colombian history to show any concern for the peasant , if not the lone exception to the rule . Nor does agrarian reform have to multiply small holdings ; indeed , its goal is quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 400 acres ) or cooperatives composed of privately owned plots which productively employ the peasant , provide his family with a decent living and allow him to compete with the large landowner in price and productivity . The " large , economically viable holdings " so frequently Mentioned by their wealthy owners are , in fact , uneconomical from the state 's point of view because they are underfarmed . Studies in Latin America and Asia . show output ' per unit of land in developing nations is inversely related to farm size , or in other words the smaller the plot , the higher the yield . In India , for example , the largest farm produces only 70 per cent of the smallest farm 's yield ; in Brazil , large estates account for only 42 per ' cent of the production of a farm ' of less than 25 acres , while in Colombia the disparity is even greater with haciendas yielding only 34 per cent of the produce of a 2.5-acre holding . Obviously , this disproportion is due primarily to the vast amount of uncultivated acreage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people concentrated on small plots where intensive family labor makes up for size , lack of credit , machinery , technology and other important agricultural inputs . Rhetoric to the contrary , there is no solid statistical evidence to support the specter of scarcities accompanying reform . True , production may temporarily decline , but inevitably it recovers to surpass pre-reform harvests . The post-reform experiences of Mexico , Bolivia , Japan ; Taiwan , Egypt and Yugoslavia show a substantial increase in productivity per acre . In Taiwan , for example , individual landholdings were reduced by almost one-half between 1940 and 1965 , yet output per acre more than doubled . Mexico has enjoyed an agricultural ' growth for the past twenty years second only to Israel 's performance . ' High productivity must be joined to higher employment , and agrarian reform , when properly carried out , almost always reduces rural unemployment . Studies in Mexico , Venezuela , Chile and Bolivia demonstrate that reformed haciendas absorb a substantial increase in work- ' ers . For example , up to 20 per cent more families have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chile . On Peru 's coastal sugar estates , which formerly belonged to W.R. Grace &; Co. and a few wealthy Peruvian families , production , employment and workers ' incomes have risen , notwithstanding predictions to the contrary . Of course , Peruvian peasants hardly demand the standard of living enjoyed by the hacendados . What Latin ' American government officials have failed to understand is that agrarian reform is ' not a question of food scarcities but quite the opposite : higher 1 productivity , employment and consumer purchasing power . Thanks in part to the influence of U.S. technicians and businessmen , who have mistakenly believed that the historical experience of the United States could be repeated in Latin America , agricultural policy in most of those countries continues to emphasize more Output through large-scale mechanization . That is fine for a nation with a large industrial base , a highly geared economy and an enormous central government budget that can be utilized to influence demand , investment and employment . But such conditions do not exist in developing countries where consumer demand is not sufficient to support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of unemployment and underemployment ( an average of 39 per cent for Latin America ) . Nevertheless , Latin American governments remain convinced that the only solution to rural underdevelopment is ' to create large , mechanized farms , which necessarily displace labor and deepen unemployment . Small family parcels are swept away by the tractor , and their occupants either become landless , unemployed peasants or migrate to the cities where they become landless , unemployed slum , dwellers . In neither case can they afford to buy the consumer goods produced by industry . The day may come , too , when demand for the agricultural produce of the large farms will be insufficient to warrant further investment , particularly if increased output is dependent on the domestic market . In most Latin American countries , those who . can not afford to buy potatbes , simply go hungry or starve . In Colombia , where a , common sight is a protein-starved infant eating earth , 100 children die daily of malnutrition  --  and ColoMbia is one of the more prosperous Latin American countries . ' Everyone agrees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can economically produce higher yields than can some peasant trying to coax an acre of corn out of the side of the mountain . But that is not the point in Latin America . Under the current rules of agrarian reform , only the very rich , only the owner of a vast underfarmed ranch , can afford the machinery , and that machinery will be used to develop commercial crops for export on a section of the land the owner chooses to develop . The peasant formerly needed to harvest the crops is evicted , and his small portion of the hacienda , the most intensively cultivated , returns to pasture . The export crops may produce some additional income for the central government , but the peasant will never benefit because the funds , if they ever find their way back into the agricultural sector , will be expended on infrastructure to aid the large landowner . Perhaps the most disheartening aspect of this vicious circle is that the green revolution , that idealistic instrument of technology , is bound to enhance the large landowners ' power and may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was designed to eliminate. , The small holding does not have access to the capital and technical information necessary to increase yields . It is the hacienda that benefits from aid programs under which agricultural machinery can be obtained at a favorable rate of exchange , cheap credit and long-term repayment ; therefore the rich landowner is being subsidized to contribute to unemployment . Some of the triple dwarf ' wheat varieties are extremely difficult to cut by ' hand and shock . Moreover , the double-cropping and triple-cropping ' techniques developed by the green revolution encouraged speed in harvesting and , therefore , mechanization . No matter how hard he tries , the peasant can not keep up with the large landowner who has a monopoly on technology and , thanks to the benefits of the green revolution , is able to produce larger quantities at lower prices . Because the peasant can not make up in quantity what he loses in price , he eventually sells his small parcel to the large landowner and ' moves to the city slums . In Nicaragua , where mechanized cotton was introduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the stability of the region was totally and irrevocably unbalanced . Under Nicaragua 's " agrarian reform " program , the big landowners were able to take over the peasants ' land to make room for large-scale cotton production , causing such a serious campesino migiation that 5 per cent of the cotton crop was lost in 1964 because of labor shortages despite a high national unemployment rate . The cotton owners have since remedied this situation by importing 200 mechanical pickers . Of course , expensive machine imports have negated some of the cotton boom 's foreign exchange gains . Meanwhile , Nicaragua has been forced to import grains because the cotton , plantations have displaced the grain farms . If anything , the green revolution is bound to increase the political power of the rural elite who can expect to recoup the influence lost to Latin America 's industrialists , on the whole more liberal than the landowners , because of the increase in value of agricultural real estate . The outlook for agrarian reform , already dismal , can hardly improve , for Latin American landowners are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even if reform will save them from revolution . " We deserve what happened to us , " said the young scion of one of Peru 's ( once ) twenty families , whose enormous hacienda had just been expropriated by the left-wing military junta . " If we had opened our eyes in time , it is possible that none of this would have happened , " " We all know we can not go back to the old hacienda system , " said the owner of a 200-acre farm in Chile , " but why does the government have to expropriate everything ? " Well , in 1965 when the moderately ' reformist government of Christian Democrat Eduardo Frei offered compromise in the form of higher rural taxation , it was 368 accepted only on the condition that the landowners could deduct the estate tax from their personal income tax . These same landowners , who so bitterly fought Frei 's modest agrarian reform , who refused to pay equitable taxes , frittered away 84 per cent of their farm income on personal consumption at a time when real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Chile and Peru are exceptions , of course , as ' any Colombian landowner will tell you , but then that 's what the Peruvians used to say about Cuba before the military junta seized power in- 1968 . I remember the head of the cattlemen 's association in Cuzco , that somber Inca . capital , telling me , between large dinner courses , how he dealt with the " Communist agitators , " or local university students , who had had the audacity to lead peas . ant invaders onto ' his hacienda . " We roughed up some of the students and peasants  --  nothing like a good beating to restore discipline  --  and left one of the students tied up to the ranch , gate . We have n't had any trouble since . " ( I assume he has retired to his New York apartment or the Swiss chalet he described in great detail , since the junta must have put his hacienda at the top of the list for expropriation . ) Land concentration was considerably worse in prerevolutionary Peru than it is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alliance for Progress " it is hardly encouraging . There 3.5 per cent of the farms , all large , occupy 65 per cent of the agricultural land , while 76.5 per cent of the farms , all less than 25 acres , cover 6 per cent of the land . Half the country 's 22.5 million population is engaged in agriculture , but 70 per cent of Colombia 's farm families live on sub-family-size plots of 3.2 acres or are headed by farm laborers without land . As in other Latin American countries , the uneven land distribution dates to the colonial period when the Spanish crown bestowed fiefdoms on its loyal hidalgos . Most of these large land tracts are dedicated to cattle ranching , a euphemism for underfarming in view of the proportion of land to cattle , usually 10 acres per head . Three-quarters of Bogota 's 2.5 million population aged 15 to 59 were born outside the city . Half have migrated to the capital in the last thirteen years . But even with these migrations , the rural population expands by 100,000 a year . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one-quarter of the labor force , and the statistics are going to get worse , since industry provides only 10,000 new jobs per year for a labor ' force that is increasing by 200,000 annually . As in Peru and Venezuela , agrarian reform was started in Colombia in response to peasant invasions which concentrated in the coffee-growing states of central Colombia . Because a 1936 agrarian law turned out to be an ineffectual , stopgap measure , a second law was enacted in 1961 to establish the Colombian Institute of Agrarian Reform ( INCORA ) , which was authorized to buy and expropriate private landholdings and underwrite colonization and such large undertakings as irrigation projects . The 1961 law has since been refined by two other laws , the most recent of which was enacted earlier this year as a " reform of the reform . " THE NATION/OCtOber 15 , 1973 Colombians have always shown a great willingness to " obey but not comply ' , with the law , " so it is not surprising that INCORA has failed to respond to the high-sounding goals of the various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acres to 102,470 families , but what about the other 100,000 families without land , the 750,000 families living on ' subsistence plots or the 1,194 new families started each week ? Actually , very little has been done to alter the existing land tenure structure because only 63,000 acres were acquired by INCORA through direct expropriation . Most of the land was allocated from the public domain , and 90 per cent of the titles , , accounting for 95.9 per cent of the land distributed , represent de jure recognition of the plantations were unsuitable for small family parcels ( although the small parcels had been grouped together in a cooperative , ) and that , in any case , " there are much cheaper lands elsewhere . " , That ' argument is heard frequently in hacienda circles ; indeed , only the imminence of food scarcities receives more ' publicity . With so much virgin land to choose from , why does INCORA insist on buying or expropriating established farms and ranches , even if they do consist only of unimproved pasture ? A good point , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acres of public lands has been set aside for national forests and watershed , and most of the remaining area either is already occupied or unsuitable for farming . As other Latin American countries have established settlement claims to public lands . Since 1970 , when a conservative government came to power , the " Communist agitators " of INCORA have either been dismissed or so firmly chained that almost no reform has been undertaken . ( Nevertheless , the grand sum of 1,750 acres haS been expropriated since ' 1970 , goodness knows how . ) Not only does ' the ' agency ' have to ' contend with powerful political and economic interests , it ' is also so hamstrung by red tape that , at least three years are needed to complete an expropriation and reallocation ' of land . Even after completing all the paper work , INCORA may be told that they have incorrectly interpreted the law by a local judge , often a relative of the owner of the land being contested , or overruled by the Council of State , a sort of Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ council recently overruled INCORA 's expropriation of ' 25,000 acres of sugar-cane fields in the rich Cauca Valley of southwestern Colombia after the usual three-year delay . In the interim , many of the 1,275 families that were to have benefited from the expropriation had begun working the land under INCORA 's direction . INCORA approved a $136,000 loan for irrigation , and the peasants invested $13,600 of their own money in land improvements . While the peasants had increased the production and quality of the cane , the council ruled thatdiscovered , colonization schemes sound great at cocktail parties or in board-room meetings , but in fact they are economically prohibitive . Just where , for example , will Colombia get the billions needed ' to develop its portion of the Amazon jungle , most of which is so remote that it is not even properly mapped ? Even where Spontaneous colonization does take place , as in the northwestern jungles , the colon is simply a means to an end for the rich owner coming in behind him . The cdlon burns and hacks away the forest , plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Within a year or two , the cattle herds , which are being pushed onto the public lands by the deyelopment of commercial crops , begin encroaching on the colon 's small stake . Then comes an either-or offer  --  a few pesos for the land improvements , or the crops and house will be burned and the colon , beaten up and/or jailed . Most take the ' pesos and head elsewhere , perhaps to a city . In the past three years , 400,000 tenant farmers have been evicted from their small plots , with devastating social consequences . Even the Colombian Farmers Association ( SAC ) , spokesman for the , large landowners , is beginning to worry about what its members have wrought . Jorge Gutierrez Escobar , the association 's vice president , recently sent out a plea to reincorporate 10 per cent of the evicted tenants for the landowners ' own survival . " These poor peasants have nowhere to grow a banana tree or a yucca plant because no landowner will allow them to enter their property for fear of . . . agrarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so bleak if those peasants with small plots of titled land had sufficient access to credit to improve yields and to add an acre or so in order to accommodate a groWing family . But here again , agrarian reform has favored the large landowner at the peasant 's expense . For example , 35 per cent of the special development funds of the National Agrarian Bank ( CAJA ) , the so-called " friend of the peasant , " has been earmarked for farmers with more than $100,000 in collateral . Although the CAJA was founded specifically to provide peasants with loans unavailable from the commercial banking sector , the bank halved the peasants ' percentage of the credit during , the last decade , while increasing the number of large loans to big farmers and cattlemen to 29 per cent of the total . Supplier of half the agricultural credit available in Colombia , the CAJA should be called the " friend of the haciendas . " U.S. taxpayers may be pleased to know that $28 million of AID money went into the CAJA . . Not surprisingly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have increased steadily in the past three years . The largest number of invasions have occurred in the Caribbean coastal states , where the rural birth rate , urban and rural unemployment and the concentration of land are the highest . As a study sponsored by the Land Tenure Center of the University of Wisconsin documents , these invasions are spontaneous and without political direction . Yet there is no reason to believe that they could not evolve into a more serious threat to the status quo . Three guerrilla groups are currently operating in Colombia , and while they pose no serious danger to the central government , they do reflect the deep malaise in rural areas . AID , the World Bank and other international lending agencies would like to believe that the recent reform of the agrarian reform will speed up expropriations and purchases by INCORA because , on paper at least , the newest measures do spell out the difference between productive and unproductive farms , establish a new system of taxation , and give INCORA wider powers of expropriation . Yet without the political will , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation . Like the proprietress of the hacienda with her excellent-conduct recommendations , any Colombian landowner with a little palanca , or pull , can find a loophole in the reform 's reform . That is not to say that Colombia 's agrarian reform has been a total failure . The fact of INCORA 's existence holds out some hope to the landless peasants and , goodness knows , enough INCORA directors have tried to tackle the problem of land tenure . Moreover , small agro-industries that are being developed allow the peasant to market his crop at a profit without having to go through a dozen intermediaries . Such is the case of the sisal growers in southwestern Colombia who at present are able to sell their crop to a nearby processing plant . Certainly there is enough awareness of the problem in politically influential circles , including the army , Colombia 's two most important newspapers and the industrial sector , to suggest that any President firmly committed to land reform could accelerate distribution . That President may turn out to be Alfonso Lopez Michelsen , the Liberal Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaigning on a platform ' of sweeping reforms in both the cities and the countryside . If elected , Lopez will have to confront powerful economic interests on an issue which , even after decades of intensive study and experimentation , lacks any effective force . Mexico 's subsistence farmers , the ejido families , still live in grinding poverty sixty-three years after the revolution . Lack of credit and technical aid , large commercial crop plantations , murdered peasants , rural guerrillas  --  these are the realities of the Mexican campesino , the same complaints heard everywhere in Latin America . Withal , can any government seriously accept the Mexican experience as a model ? And the Bolivian revolution ? Any visitor to the bleak , poverty-stricken Andean , highlands where Aymata Indians eke out a subsistence living with the same tools their pre-Columbian ancestors used , could hardly give the ' Bolivian model high marks . Colonization schemes to move the Indians down the mountains- to the rich tropical lowlands have not been successful , on the whole . Meanwhile , 100,000 campesino families are still waiting for land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with state farms has been no more successful than that of the Soviet Union and other Socialist countries . Indeed , the Cuban Government was forced to implement a " second agrarian reform " guaranteeing small farmers ownership of land and the right to farm without associating with cooperatives or collective farms . , Venezuela , on , the other hand , has an excellent record of well-funded , carefully advised cooperatives working under a system known as the Foundation for the Instruction and Applied Investigation of Agrarian Reform , with both peasant incomes and agricultural production on the rise . However , the oil-rich Venezuelans are the only Latin Americans who can afford to spend millions of dollars on , agiarian reform . Then too , there has been little effective opposition to agrarian reform because the old , landowning class never regained the political , power it lost to the petroleum industry . Chile is suffering a tragic upheaval and it is impossible to predict anything about its agrarian reform , but there is considerable evidence that ' Chilean peasants are just as unenthusiastic about state farms as their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Inca empire , victim of some of the Spanish conquistadores ' worst atrocities and a feudal throwback to the Dark Ages in the 20th century . Surely , there is some poetic justice in the fact that one of the hemisphere 's most backward countries , with all the problems common to underdevelopment , should emerge as the only Latin American nation with an imaginative , indigenous agrarian reform program that , while not necessarily a model for the rest of the continent , at least is providing some of the answers to ? the questions raised six decades ago when Emiliano Zapata rode down from the Mexican hills . Started four years ago , shortly after the military junta seized power , Peru 's agrarian reform is plagued by all sorts of problems , chief among them being the lack of sufficient arable land to support all the rural population . Nevertheless , it has one exceptional virtue : flexibility . Bits and pieces have been borrowed from Yugoslavia , Sweden and Israel , experimented with , kept or discarded . ' There are no set formulas and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existed , cooperatives have been formed to replace ' the old management . Small farms have been grouped together into cooperatives and expanded by the addition of expropriated land . Profits from the cooperatives are used to improve the land and to support nearby villages which are being encouraged to develop small agricultural industries . Unlike the Cubans or the Chileans , however , the Peruvians have maintained the principle of private property ; hence , no productive farm smaller than 375 acres has been expropriated . By encouraging smaller , privately owned farms as well as cooperatives and by establishing industries in rural areas , the Peruvian Government has gone to the heart of the problem , at last : in Peru , employment is as important as productivity and is certainly given a higher priority than labor-saving technology . Moreover , the junta has been , elastic enough in its agricultural policy to throw out any experiment that proves unsuccessful  --  sometimes cooperatives , sometimes private ownership  --  and replace it with another . " Peasant , the boss will no longer eat of your poverty , " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ junta means it . To succeed , however , the military will need at least two decades , because agrarian reform is not some giant statistical leap into higher employment , income and productivity , but an entirely , new mental and emo-tional outlook for the dehumanized Indian masses . And . two decades are a long time in Latin America . Down in Machachi , across ' the border in Ecuador , the village peasants can not even remember that there ' once was a military junta that devoted all its energies to agrarian reform . The boss has gone back to eating of the peasant 's poverty , and the peasant is worse off than he was before the reform . The Ecuadorians have even picked up the Colombians ' favorite refrain : " There 's nothing wrong in Ecuador . " ' D                     