@@494923

Perversion : 77re Erotic Form of Hatred , by Robert J. Stoller , MD , ( Pantheon ; $10 ) has a plum brown dust cover upon which the main title ? Perversion appears in bright red letters , and the subtitle in no less glaring yellow ones . The reader is advised , therefore , against carrying it upon his or her lap on the subway ( as this reviewer thoughtlessly did ) . Aside from this one minor proviso , however , this book is to be recommended most heartily . It is an elegant and subtle disquisition upon the essential " meaning " of the sexual perversions ; and its author is that rare bird , a distinguished scientific authority who seems to revel and pleasure in the uses of language . Stoller 's book is not , as should be made clear at once , a catalogue of sexual esoterica in the manner of KrafftEbing ? nor is it a compendium of hints and tips for the sexually jaded . ( Indeed , if you are seeking technical information of this sort , you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Perversion is , instead , a leisurely theoretical exploration of this " commonality , " i.e. , the common clinical features , to be found in all of the perverse sexual practices ? no matter how distinct and different they might appear to be on the surface . This factor is , according to the author , hostility ? a masked but powerful drive for the avenging of an ancient wrong . What perversion always involves , says Stoller , who is a psychiatrist , psychoanalyst and an expert on sex and gender identity , is someone harming someone else . The " harm " may be done in fairly gross and obvious ways , or in fantasy ; but the perversion itself is an eroticized expression of hatred . The need to hurt is , indeed , a part of the hidden agenda of the perverse individual : it is the element necessary for sexual arousal and for the achievement of orgastic pleasure . " Think of the perversions with which you are familiar , " he writes , " necrophilia , fetishism , rape , sex murder , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In each is found . . hostility , revenge , triumph and a dehumanized object . " What leads to the perverse individual 's " choice " of his or her particular sexual script ? Why does the pedophiliac always become enflamed by the foot rather than the person ; why must the transsexual array himself in Female clothing in order to achieve sexual potency ? What leads to the elaboration of a particular sexual protocol , such as one described by Stoller , in which a woman patient of his experienced periodic buildups of tension that culminated in her going out to burglarize a family home and afterwards picking up a man in a bar , accompanying him to a hotel , and engaging in a savage act of intercourse ? According to the physician , such perverse " story lines " are rooted in infantile emotional trauma . They have arisen within the context of a family dynamic which was , for the child , both exciting and evocative of great terror and fear . Whatever the early childhood conflict might have been , it is memorialized and preserved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice is , itself , the reenactment of the terrifying infantile experience . The perversion is , in other words , " a reliving of actual historical sexual trauma aimed at precisely one 's sex fan anatomical state ) or gender identity ( masculinity or femininity ) .. . . " In the repetition of the drama , however , the long-ago event ? in which the child experienced himself as overwhelmed ? is erased . " This time , " writes Stoller , " trauma is turned into pleasure , orgasm , victory . But the need to do it again ? unendingly , eternally again in the same manner ? comes from one 's inability to get rid of the danger , the trauma The intelligence and force of Stoller 's writing-style can not , I fear , be conveyed by the brief quotes given here ; nor can the sheer pleasure of his theoretical fireworks be summarized very handily . Let me say only that there are two long discussions ? of homosexuality and of transsexuality ? that I would commend as noteworthy ; and that the book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Necessity of Perversion . " A practice of quite another sort ? the practice of meditation ? is the subject-matter of Dr. Herbert Benson 's new book The Relaxation Response ( William Morrow ; $5.95 ) . Anyone who is alive in the year 1975 , and who is not presently a meditator , ought to be kind to himself or herself and go out and buy this book . It is the wisest move you could possibly make , both from the point of view of bodily health and from an " emotional welfare " point of view as well . The relaxation response of which Dr. Benson writes can best be described as " transcendental meditation without the beads . " Benson , a member of the Harvard faculty and a cardiologist at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston , has been engaged in studies of the physiological responses to meditation ever since the late 19605 . His interest in meditative practices arose during a time when he was investigating the ways in which stresses in the environment acted upon the circulatory system and the heart in order to bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blood pressure ) and heart-attack . This concern kindled a curiosity about the reverse side of the question : how might self-induced states of bodily relaxation be used to modify or control conditions such as hypertension ? Early laboratory studies of physiological responses to meditation , carried out by Benson and his colleagues ( with transcendental meditators as the subjects ) demonstrated that the daily practice of the routine would , over time , have a predictable reducing-effect upon the individual 's blood-pressure . Curiously enough , however , there was no change during the period of time when the person was actually engaged in meditating . The change simply took place during the weeks subsequent to the time when he or she had begun the regular practice . And , if the person stopped the meditation-routine , his or her blood-pressure returned to " Go " within a period of days or weeks thereafter . But there were , Benson noted , many physiological changes that did occur during the meditation-period itself . One was a decrease in the rate of oxygen consumption . This was-dramatic , For the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three minutes of meditation -- to a rate which is less than half that generally seen after a full eight hours of sleep . There was , as well , a measurable increase in the density of alpha waves , the slow brain waves which are associated with subjective states of " floating , " " feeling good , " " feeling utterly relaxed . " The investigators recorded , furthermore , a marked drop in blood lactate during meditation ? and this is a chemical in the bloodstream which appears to bear some strong relation to states of anxiety . A number of other physiological indicators also seemed to support the notion that meditation elicited a bodily state characterized by low metabolism without loss of consciousness ; a state that was restful , as sleep is restful , yet was different from sleep ? because the individual was awake . Benson and his associates began to think of it as integrated bodily reaction which was the direct opposite of the " fight or flight " response or reaction . ( This is , of course , the body 's immediate response to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of instantaneous internal adjustments , such as an outpouring of adrenalin and an increase of sugar in the bloodstream ? to provide energy ? that prepare the individual to flee or to face an aggressor . ) Benson 's meticulous laboratory studies eventually led him to the realization that TM was but one amidst a wide variety of techniques that could successfully evoke this " deeply relaxed but wakeful " bodily state . Indeed , as he observed , many of these techniques had long been incorporated into religious practices both of Eastern and of Western origin . The author has now worked out his own " non-cultic laboratory method " for eliciting the relaxation response ? and this method has already been carefully studied in his laboratory . It works . It 's good for you . And , at $5.95 , it 's literally the best bargain in town . If there were a " tome of the year " award it would go , undoubtedly , to Edward 0 . Wilson 's Sociology : The New Synthesis ( Harvard University Press ; $20 ) which weighs in at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controversial work is in the nature of an overview and a bringing-together of data and materials from several distinct scientific disciplines ? mainly animal behavior , population genetics and ecology . Professor Wilson 's purpose , in bringing these dispara to areas of sciences under the " roof " of a single volume , is to encourage the view that there are evolutionary principles or " laws " underlying the social behaviors in species ranging all the way from the social insects to Man . According to Wilson , a Harvard biologist , environmental pressures have shaped and moulded social behaviors in much the same way that they have acted to shape the body forms and structures of the different species . A tendency to behave in certain ways is , he suggests , as heritable as a physical characteristic such as size . In both cases ? i.e. , the behavioral and the physical trait ? the characteristic has become programmed into the species , because it was adaptive ; it promoted survival , and the passing-on of the same or similar behavioral and physical characteristics . Certain clearly observable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the strict Darwinian sense ? which is the ability to survive and reproduce one 's own genes , and the ability of one 's offspring to do so , etc . The young warrior who rushes into battle and dies in defense of his people is displaying a puzzling kind of social behavior if one observes it from an evolutionary point of view . But this behavior , which Wilson terms " altruism , " may have been programmed into our species because it promoted survival of that warrior 's close kin , those who partook of his own gene-pool . Such behavior might , therefore , be an adaptive mechanism for promoting survival of those groups who shared this genetic tendency . The behavior of the warrior , notes Wilson , bears a functional similarity to that of the honeybee who , in stinging an intruder , is committing a suicidal act ; the bee will perish in defense of the hive . In both instances , he suggests , the behavior of the individual promotes survival of the group , and thereby enhances the group 's " inclusive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may not promote theindividual species-member 's own survival , acts to insure his genetic representation in the succeeding generation . This is the reason why , theorizes Wilson , such social behaviors have been " selected for " over the course of evolutionary history . The concept of " inclusive fitness " is one of the important themes in this work ; but Wilson 's book is rich with a great number of other interesting hypotheses and ideas ; and with some fascinating scientific evidence that has either suggested or supports them . Sociobiology is , in fact , like a vast prairie of scientific information , across which the reader can roam and graze at will . Here you can read about the behavior of the social insects , about animal communication , about the inevitability of parent-offspring competition ( I continue to love my children , anyhow ) . In the end , one is left with a slight dissatisfaction and sense of puzzlement . For , when Wilson tries to bridge the great gap between the lower species and Homo Sapiens , his tone of authority seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ways in which understanding of the genetic bases of human behavior might be applied to the study of our social existence , or there are no better examples that he can cite . ( If the latter is true , then Sociobiology ? as a scientific discipline ? may be promising more than it can deliver . ) At any rate , the ones he uses are Far from elegant ; and I 'm not sure how useful these biological tools will be when one attempts to use them in explaining the complexities of human social func-tioning . To take an instance Wilson observes that a behavior such as homosexuality ? which exists throughout the animal world ? was very possibly programmed into the human species because homosexuals played a " nu rturan t , " supportive social role . This input of nurturance served , in turn , to enhance the group 's " inclusive fitness , " and therefore to ensure the passing-on of the shared genetic tendency to display homosexual behaviors . All well and good if one could point to any evidence whatsoever that homosexuals had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widespread , ever filled nurturant , supportive roles . This was certainly not the case among the ancient Greeks . ( One eminent biologist with whom I discussed the matter told me that Sioux Indian homosexuals were made to dress in women 's clothing and to perform women 's work : " But , " he added with a smile , " there ca n't have been more than six or seven of them in all of Sioux history ! " ) I am not , in this review , going to sail into the current dispute about whether or not Professor Wilson is engaged in making unethical " genetic prophecies " ? about the naturally subordinate role of the female , about the heritability of intelligence , or allied quarrels . My objections are less on idealogical than on esthetic grounds , for some of his statements have a . random-sounding , dubious quality . When he remarks , for instance , that the ' ' transition from purely phenomenological to fundamental theory in sociology must await a full neuronal explanation of the human brain , " I have no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full understanding of the human brain is ever going to be achieved ? Most experts , at least so far as I am aware , think it likely that the brain ? which must , of course , make use of itself as the organ or " tool " of knowing ? is not equal to the task of self-knowledge . It is not powerful enough , has n't the degree of sophistication necessary for truly apprehending itself : one would have to have a higher system of understanding , a " super brain " of some sort to make possible the complete comprehension of our own . If the fruits of any science , social or otherwise , must await " full neuronal understanding , " this must imply a very long wait indeed .                     