@@493890

Ideas Whose Time Has Come and Gone During the early months of this year , the newspapers and , perhaps even more so , the serious journals were full of stories about the dangers of Eurocommunism . The threat was said to be immediate and pervasive : Eurocommunism would settle over the continent sometime late tomorrow afternoon . To the Kremlin watchers and the China watchers were now added the Eurocommunism watchers . Some articles , such as a notorious one that professed to have discovered a phenomenon known as Anglocommunism , were hysterical . It all reminded me of the schoolboy joke in Britain before the war : that Neville Chamberlain took his weekends in the country , but Hitler took his countries in the weekends . It was all going to be like that again . . . . But when did we last read an article about Eurocommunism ? The subject has evaporated . This is not because certain events happened which " defeated " Eurocommunism , but simply because there was no such phenomenon there in the first place . It was one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ underemployed commentators who inhabit that gray world of the universities , institutes , and the media that quaintly gathers them to itself as experts . Another idea that ballooned this year , and has evaporated even more quickly , is that of a tax revolt that is " sweeping " the country . ( These ideas are always said to be sweeping a country or a continent , as if there is never any body of resistance to them , including the usually reliable resistance of the sheer inertia of the people . ) As the governor of Virginia wisely told his fellow Republicans last week , their gains at the elections last month were modest because they took the tax revolt for granted . Let us put it this way . If the radical measures implicit in a tax revolt were taken , it would mean a drastic upheaval in people 's personal lives and the arrangements of society . Therefore if the country really is in a conservative mood , the last thing that it will support is a tax revolt . This may be good or bad , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commentators ? this time on the domestic front ? were all too eager to see a great rebellion in the west . Even as it petered out before their eyes ? before the elections ? they still traced its progress across the country . The political life of a nation is governed far more by ideas than we usually acknowledge . We fix our eyes on day-to-day events and on public figures ? they seem to be real ? and of course on the socioeconomic background to politics . But ideas are the engine . Even the most inarticulate can grasp an idea ? they do it all too voraciously ? and then spew it forth as their own with their own energy . It may not be their motive , but it is their motor . But ideas are things of such phantasmagoria , constantly shifting , kaleidoscopic , even with something of the character of optical illusions , that we should touch them first , turn them over , with the longest pair of tongs we can find . In the past few years , our politics has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which the largely underemployed commentators have clasped to their bosoms ? something new to write about , a trend to uncover ? and always in the end they have opened their hands to find nothing , not even a few faded petals , only a smell of musk . But undaunted they will find a new idea , the day after tomorrow , that is sweeping the country , or a continent , or for that matter the world . Do you remember the time of " polarization " ? The voters were polarized . The country was polarized . This idea had a fairly long run , for so flimsy a construction , from the late 1960s to the election of 1972 . Out went the intrepid reporters into the land , to find what was vexing the people . I call this the " Andrew Wyeth " school of reporting . The stories always began in the same way . " Joe Bonehead leaned against his barn in southern Illinois . He stooped and picked up some of the black earth , and let it trickle through his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not voting this year . ' Why not ? Joe sucked a straw . ' Mrs. Bonehead and I , we 're polarized . ' Mrs. Bonehead came up , carrying a pail of milk . She did not have to be asked . ' We 're polarized this year , ' she said , ' so we 're not voting . ' One hears the same all across the country . " But whatever afflicted the American people at the time , the one thing that is clear now is that they were not polarized , not so set apart that they had ceased to know or be able to talk to each other . Then there came 1976 . The idea of polarization would not run again . This did not unnerve the Andrew Wyeth school of reporters . Out they went again to feel the pulse of America . " Joe Hardknutt leaned against one of the pumps in his gas station . " ( Why are the people they interview always leaning against their barns or their gas stations ? If they are worth interviewing , should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare , like jogging or reading People ? ) " ' Mrs. Hardknutt and I are n't voting this year . We 're alienated . If you 're alienated , you know , you do n't vote . Not Mrs. Hardknutt and me , at any rate. ? In a trice , it was said everywhere . 1976 was the year of the alienated voter . It is here in the realm of ideas , where ideas are supposed to be what really moves people , that the commentators most reflect Eugene McCarthy 's famous image of them : they are like blackbirds sitting on a telephone wire and , when one takes off and flies to another wire , they all lift their wings and fly after it . Running alongside the idea of polarization and , to some extent , that of alienation as well , was the idea of the white backlash . I used to sit , during those George Wallace years , waiting for the crack of the backlash . After all , a backlash implies a violent movement , if anything . But never did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas . There has been no backlash , and this has made it more difficult to notice what was happening : the slow creeping of neglect among the whites . The issues and the voting in this year 's elections were , in fact , the " benign neglect " of Daniel Patrick Moynihan made respectable by the ballot . Because there has been no backlash , because after the turmoil of the 1960s here is " This Peaceable Kingdom " of the comfortably off , we are slow to realize how the racial minorities and the poor have been shunted once more out of sight . The poor are always with us ; but invisible again , thank the Lord ! Except in a few localities , the blacks were simply nowhere in November . The election was not about them . This is acceptable to us because we are dumbly grateful that the threats of polarization and the backlash have come to nothing . But if we understood that neither polarization nor the backlash were ever genuine ideas , we would see much more clearly how insidiously we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Billings or Artemus Ward ? now tell me that it was Mr. Dooley ? who said : " Think always of the poor ; it will cost you nothing . " That is very much the stage to which we have returned , and a great deal of the blame lies on those who charge the political discourse with large and overexcited ideas , whose dreadful consequences we then congratulate ourselves for escaping . To maintain the comfortable whites ' interest in those less fortunate needed a much steadier and more prosaic apprehension of what was going on than polarization or the backlash . Turning back to the idea of alienation , it is dangerous to introduce so loose a concept , one that can generate so much self-indulgence , into the day-to-day workings of politics . Alienation is one of those theological terms ? charisma is another ? sociologists have seized upon . I myself believe that the penetrating social message of Marx has been diluted by the discovery of his early writings about alienation . Such an idea all too easily turns a genuinely social protest into a merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does it I - give more support than to the comfortably well off who - then retreat into their private enclaves of selfabsorption and self-actualization . Yet it was out of the popularized ideas of alienation and even of existentialism that the " new politics " of the late 1960s and early 1970s was born . The shivering of every lance of the " new politics , " the futile and discreditable end to which it has so quickly come , even now culminating , if one wishes to be so harsh , in the jungles of Guyana , has its explanation here . It is foolish ? and if it were not only foolish , it would be malign ? to gaze at the largely civil and tolerant society of America , and try to encompass its vexations in so trite an idea as alienation has become . But these ideas are splashed , not merely into the columns which not many people read , but into the news pages where reporters attempt the theses they never wrote at college . To return to Europe . The idea that there is or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the further idea that Britain is , like the Gadarene swine , on a precipitate decline from which it will not and can never hope to recover . But in fact Britain is doing rather well at the moment , and not because of oil in the North Sea , and the much maligned unions are cooperating in wage and price guidelines that are effective . Quite apart from that , as an American friend once said to me , " The English can never be down for long . If they find they are losing , they merely change the rules . When their agriculture ceased to be competitive , they invented the industrial revolution . When they found that Europe always beat their armies , they said that only navies won wars . " It is not all a piece of nonsense . It is just as tenable an idea as any that is based on ; grovelling among statistics of the GNP . But the idea of Anglocommunism remains dazzling to the mind . " What are the Communists supposed to take over ? " a wise Englishman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Services ? The Monarchy ? The House of Commons ? Perhaps they might take over the BBC for a week or two ? it 's always been flabby ? but people would simply stop believing the BBC . " Not only is it inconceivable that the Communists could take over Britain ; it is inconceivable that the right-wing vigilantes could do so either . Yet one has only to put " - ism " on to a word , and people seem to become so gullible as to be out of character . Change " Anglocommunism " to " Anglocommunists , " and one starts to number them off . Six ? Twelve ? And even they are not altogether serious in their professions of faith . Let someone try to run an article on Anglocommunism now . It would be laughed out of court . It is another idea , once trumpeted , that has evaporated . If there was ever a threat of Eurocommunism , it was said to hold two dangers : first , that the European Communist parties would win elections and , second , that if they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second of these ideas simply flies in the face of all we know of the human nature of politicians . If ever they did gain power , they would not endanger it by submitting to Moscow . One also has to ask , even if a little less certainly than of Britain , what they would take over . Europe is not in the 1930s , for either Communists or Fascists . As for the first proposition , one has to ask in today 's circumstances , what is power ? The complexities of the international economy , and no less of strategy , again make Italy and even France very different from the way they were in the 1930s . The countries of Europe are just not there to be taken over in that way . It can be said that we hear little of Eurocommunism now , after the flurry at the beginning of the year , because the Eurocommunists were defeated . ( Actually in France they secured their object : they defeated the democratic left . ) But if there had not been a Moro kidnapping , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have let it be said that they were a real danger , but that luckily they were defeated . There is a more tenable view : there was never a real threat at all . It should not have to be said that I believe that Russia is a threat to world peace and to the independence of many countries if it is allowed to turn the key in the lock . But to carry one 's apprehensions about Russia into a total misreading both of Europe 's historical sense of itself , and of the profound changes that have been wrought in it since 1945 , is the kind of stupidity of which only mostly underemployed commentators are capable , as they fantasize about great ideas and great movements of history . There is something petty and dangerously misleading in thinking that Europe is now there for the taking , as for various precise historical reasons it was there for Hitler in the 1930s . The idea of Eurocommunism has disappeared , not because it was defeated , but because it was not there in the first place . Consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the near future is that the Russians may intervene in Yugoslavia after Tito 's death . One assumes that America would then find its will , and retaliate with the force needed . But then think of this . America would in its own interests , and those of the West as a whole , be defending the one genuinely Eurocommunist country on the continent . But we are told that Eurocommunism is in league with Russia . Alas , the confusion ! Someone once said that art had to keep at least a tenuous connection with life . Ideas have to keep at least a tenuous connection with reality . We have become victims of ideas that float in their own atmosphere . One can not even shoot them down . They are the UFOs of political debate now . People claim to have seen them ; none can ever really describe them ; they leave no trace when they leave . Eurocommunism . . . polarization . . . alienation . . . backlash . . . What 's next ? 