@@493953

October 1979 marked the confluence of two of the most notable anniversaries in the history of modern America , the 50th of the great Wall Street crash and the 100th of the invention of the electric light . There is a relationship of consequence between these two seemingly disparate events . Thomas A. Edison 's feats in developing not only the light bulb but the accompanying power plants and delivery systems brought American homes , businesses , and factories into the electrical age . By 1929 , at the time of the heralded 50th anniversary , the country was also on the threshhold of the electronic age . Radio was a reality in millions of homes , and experimenters that made Malthus not only the best abused but also the most influential thinker of his age . The idea of a " surplus population " condemned , by the immutable laws of nature , to misery and vice gripped the imagination of contemporaries , creating a climate of opinion receptive to Ricardo 's " iron laws " and the " dismal science . " One is tempted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Malthus , had been the parent stem from which 19th-century economics ( and social thought ) proceeded , what a much wiser and richer place the world would be today ! " that year successfully transmitted television across the continent . The burgeoning technological civilization that the Edison celebration marked created glittering expectations . The future of technology and the economy seemed limitless . These expectations helped fuel the spectacular boom of the stock market in 1928 and 1929 . Then came the inevitable crash . It was an indication that while America had advanced at breathtaking speed in technology , its political economy was still that of an earlier age , inadequate to counter the maladjustments of the modern industrial order . Now , 50 years later , the excitement over the Edison commemoration and the technical advances it symbolized has long since been forgotten . The great crash remains a vivid memory only for senior citizens , but has made such an impression upon ensuing generations that it is one of the enduring traumas in our national heritage . The exhilaration and tragedy of the boom and the bust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them the persistent question , " Could it happen again ? " None of the three books now appearing ( or reappearing ) on the phenomena of 1929 gives any searching forecast , nor is that the purpose . Rather , two are entertaining narrative social histories , and the third is a new edition of a classic analysis . The Day the Bubble Burst by Gordon Thomas and Max Morgan-Witts is a large-scale study by two of the most successful producers of books about disasters . They have gathered some 14.5 million words of materials , spanning books , contemporary writings , manuscript collections , and numerous interviews , through the labors of a sizable staff plus the international facilities of Readers ' Digest . In the familiar form of the disaster genre they cut back and forth among sketches of their numerous protagonists until at length they all come together in common calamity at the end of October 1929 . The cast is so large that readers will have trouble keeping it straight , but the effect is powerful as they tell the stories of some small victims , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Most of those upon whom Thomas and Morgan-Witts focus were plungers who already had made large fortunes in the market and were restlessly , ceaselessly seeking still greater gains . Typical of this number was William Crapo Durant , who with his millions from General Motors ( he was its founder ) , made still more money in a pool that drove up RCA stock and creamed off the profits at the expense of latecomers , mostly small speculators . Yet Durant firmly believed in the durability of the boom , and even paid an unexpected visit to President Hoover to try to prevent him from putting a damper on it . By 1929 numbers of small investors had caught the Wall Street fever . Some of them even came in person to gawk and become rich . Among the well-to-do the market became an obsession . The fever spread to Europe and East Asia . When Edith Stone visited Paris and Berlin in the summer of 1929 she found the stock market took priority over all other topics of conversation . Wall Street had become like a giant whirlpool @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The excitement came to some degree out of a feeling of assurance that this was not a wild , foolhardy speculation like the South Sea Bubble or even the Florida land boom of 1925-26 . Rather , public figures argued , the reflected the enormous economic advances of the technical age . Wealthy and successful men like Durant , Bernard Baruch , and John J. Raskob gave frequent reassurances . Professor bring Fisher of Yale , who might better be remembered for his contributions to economic theory , stated in the fall of 1929 , " Stock prices have reached what looks like a permanently high plateau . " He was countering the persistent warnings of Roger Babson , whom one newspaper dubbed " the Prophet of Loss . " But views like Babson 's were in the minority and little heeded . The fortuitous combination of a media more effective than ever before together with skilled practitioners of the new arts of advertising and public relations was bringing the confident message of the new era to the American people . There was much to crow about , for despite serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation was enjoying a higher level of prosperity than ever before . If only there were no interference with the captains of industry , the bankers , and the engineers , the persistent theme ran , they would bring an ever rising living standard . Raw materials and energy supplies seemed limitless . ( It is worth noting that , high as their expectations were , few could have dreamed of levels comparable to those of the consumer society of the 1960s and 1970s . ) This media-public relations view is a major theme of Warren Sloat 's 1929 . It too is an interweaving of vignettes , but rather better written and easier to follow than The Day the Bubble Burst . It covers some of the same people and events , but sweeps far afield to the turn of the century and to topics as remote as the dancer Nijinsky . The organizing episode is the Edison Commemoration that Henry Ford held at his Greenfield Village in October 1929 . Edison reenacted his experiment while a nationwide radio audience listened and a group of famous spectators , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ masterwork of Edward Bernays . Men like Bernays and Rockefeller 's adviser , Ivy Lee , became effective molders of opinion . Public relations experts had nothing to do with promoting the stock market , but on behalf of their clients they created a golden image of business enterprise , one that the unexpected events of October 1929 punctured for a generation . What followed was the great Depression , creating privation for millions who never had been caught up in the speculative craze . Those in search of the meaning of this catastrophe should turn to the new edition of John Kenneth Galbraith 's The Great Crash . He says that he has never enjoyed writing a book as much as this one ; the reader has only to thumb through it to share his joy . Galbraith 's nimble wit transforms political economy from what Carlyle labeled the dismal science into discourse so full of wry humor that one is in danger of overlooking his admonitions . Galbraith 's mockery is a genteel way of expressing outrage . Authors of both of the social histories acknowledge their debt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scattered through The Day the Bubble Burst , but has lost much of its pungency except for a passage concerning the astounding activities of Charles E. Mitchell of the National City Bank , whose machinations were uncovered and who was forced to resign early in the New Deal . Galbraith writes : " In his inaugural address on March 4 , Roosevelt had promised to drive the money-changers from the temple . Mitchell was widely regarded as the first . " And Thomas and Witts-Morgan : " President Roosevelt in his inauguration address had promised to drive the money changers out of the temple . Mitchell was one of the first to be driven . " The Great Crash is a relatively brief lesson on speculation , using the 1928-29 boom as an example . Galbraith 's point is the incontrovertible one that at some point a boom inevitably collapses . It is a view so unpopular that he himself has long been regarded as a " prophet of loss " ( if not worse ) by those who equate rising stock prices with 100 percent Americanism . Twenty-five years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the perils of a boom before a Senate committee and the stock market promptly dropped three billion dollars in paper values . Senator Homer Capehart thereupon tried , quite ineffectively , through use of a clumsily edited quota tion , to make Galbraith out to be a Red . Through the Freedom of Information Act , Galbraith has lately found out that J. Edgar Hoover aided Capehart . Galbraith 's prose is so quotable that it is well to let him speak for himself . Concerning the issuing of optimistic predictions : " By affirming solemnly that prosperity will continue , it is believed , one can help insure that prosperity will in fact continue . Especially among businessmen the faith in the efficacy of such incantation is very great . " To have stopped the boom would have been unpopular , and indeed could only have resulted in calamity , even though the longer the boom persisted the worse would be the drop . " No one wanted to be the person to prick the bubble . " Further , there was no easy way to moderate the market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , interest on loans for margin buying of stock was up to 20 percent ; it persisted at eight or 10 percent , phenomenal rates at that time , yet the market went on upward . Margin sales of stock and the proliferation of investment trusts and holding companies had a double effect . Their leverage enormously augmented profits for holders when stock values went up . Conversely , when they dropped , the result was reverse leverage and devastating losses . These factors contributed to the speed and intensity of the crash . That was the basic perilous situation in the summer of 1929 . There were wild speculation and spectacular rises in stock prices up to the beginning of September . In the painful aftermath bankers and brokers were castigated , but Galbraith points out mitigating factors worth remembering . Although market operators engaged in numerous practices since forbidden by law , such as rigging pools to drive stocks up , and some participants were outright dishonest , basically the brokerage houses were run properly . Most of them survived . Most New York bankers too were men of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put up a billion dollars in loans to aid distressed investors . They received scant credit for their actions . With the debacle , Galbraith points out , there evaporated , at least for many years , the notion that brokers should be free to regulate themselves unrestrained by governmental interference . The SEC ended or modified some practices . As for banks , Federal Deposit Insurance has made runs and closings largely a thing of the past . This small book does not contain startling predictions for the 1980s but still has some relevance at a time when there seems no limit to the rising prices of gold . It is a fascinating story told with uncommon verve and sense , a moral tale for our times and for some time to come .                     