@@479966

WHEN WE LOOK BACK on the series of events between 1776 and 1789 which brought forth the United States of America , we must first be struck that the leaders were interested less in the ideology the formula-tion of a systematic philosophy ? than in the technology of politics . They were testing well-known principles by applying them to their specific problems . Their special concern was " to organize the means for satisfying needs and desires " ? which is a dictionary definition of technology . There are a number of clues to this open , experimental , technological spirit of our North American revolutionaries . Our first and most obvious clues are in the basic and enduring documents of the Revolution . The most important of these , of course , was the Declaration of Independence , which bore the date of July 4 , 1776 . The most-quoted and best-known passage , the Preamble , was actually the least characteristic . The col. onists ' principles were first described as " self-evident . " Then " a decent Respect to the Opinions of Mankind " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cogent summary of the causes of the particular act which they declared ? the separation of thirteen British colonies . When Jefferson was accused of writing a document that had not one new idea in it , he recalled his clear , simple , practical purpose : " Not to find out new principles , or new arguments , never before thought of , not merely to say things which had never been said before ; but to place before mankind the common sense of the subject , and to justify ourselves in the independent stand we are compelled to take . " The body of the document applied these well-known principles ? not the dogma of a particular sect , but accepted tenets of British political life during the previous century ? to the conduct of the British king , who had asserted unlimited sovereignty over certain American colonists . The heart of the document was a list not of principles but of grievances . Some twenty-six items indicted the king for a wide range of specific crimes . These ranged from the king 's wanton refusal to assent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the imposition of standing armies without the consent of the colonial legislatures , the quartering of troops on unwilling inhabitants , the protection of murder . ers , the obstruction of seaports , and the cutting off of trade . Our nation 's birth certificate thus unwittingly but obviously certified a congenital concern for everyday consequences . The document was not primarily a declaration of principles or a proclamation of the rights of man , it was a declaration of independence .... While , of course , independence was what made the new nation possible , confederation was what made it durable . Despite its eloquence , the Declaration of Independence might have remained buried in colonial archives along with the early state papers of Bermuda , the Bahamas , and Jamaica if it had not been followed within a dozen years by the Constitution of the United States of America . The longevity and vitality of the Constitution came from the fact that the framers aimed to guide the future but not fence it in . The best evidence of their self-denying intention was that their document was so brief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can read in an hour , is a scant twenty-five pages long . By contrast the constitution of my home state of Oklahoma is 158 pages , not counting amendments . Because the framers of the federal Constitution were scrupulous to say no more than necessary , they provided a document uncannily open to the future . The three opening words , " We the People , " would prove troublesome . In their ambiguity was rooted the bloody Civil War of 1861-1865 . For the leaders of the Southern states , preferring to imagine that these words really meant " We the States , " argued that the states which had made the Union could also dissolve it . The Constitution was not to take effect until the people had adopted it . " This expression We the People , " explained Henry ( " Light-Horse . Harry " ) Lee , " was introduced .. with great propriety . This system is submitted to the people for their consideration , because on them it is to operate , if adopted . It is not binding on the people until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wisdom , in preparing a Constitution for posterity , not to try to elaborate or make more explicit the meaning of " the People . " They did not say " we the property-owners " or " we the qualified voters . " Their words , an adequate working definition in their time , would be a providential receptacle for new meanings ? as civil and political rights were extended to non-property-owners ? to former slaves , to women , to persons above the age of eighteen , and possibly to other categories now still beyond our imagining . All the listed purposes of the Constitution grew out of the urgencies of the framers ' recent experience . The tribulations of the loose confederation during the late war signaled the need for a " more perfect Union , " the oppressive interference of the British government with the courts indicated the need to " establish Justice , " recent civil disorders ( Shays ' Rebellion in western Massachusetts , and others elsewhere ) made obvious the need to " insure domestic tranquillity , " while the war itself and the later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need to " provide for the common defence . " This antidoctrinaire empirical spirit would keep the document openly responsive to later needs .... I N THESE AND COUNTLESS other ways the founding fathers declared themselves custodians of an expanding future . Federalism was their grand device for holding together experimenting communities . Each state 's experiments were limited only when they violated the rights of individuals , threatened the experiments of others , or weakened the whole national community . The ingenious add-a-state plan allowed a national laboratory to grow by installments . " We may safely trust to the wisdom of our successors the remedies of evils to arise , " Jefferson wrote to Adams less than a decade after the Constitutional Convention : Never was a finer canvas presented to work on than our countrymen . All of them engaged in agriculture or the pursuits of honest industry , independent in their circumstances , enlightened as to their rights , and firm in their habits of order and obedience to the laws . This I hope will be the age of experiments in government , and that their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mere force . We have seen no instance of this since the days of the Roman republic , nor do we read of any before that . Either force or corruption has been the principle of every modern government . The new nation was to be not a citadel but a laboratory . The best symbol of the founders ' experimental spirit was the federal system itself , the very framework of the new nation . In retrospect . their inspiring tentativeness stands out against the new absolute , the empyrean abstraction which others at that time imagined to be embodied in every really modern state . That abstraction was " sovereignty . " It haunted governments , inflating them with an ill-founded sense of omnipotence . The feudal world of medieval Europe saw political powers , rights , and duties diffused across the land in myriad , variegated clusters . As new national states emerged after the sixteenth century , each tried to homogenize its piece of the political landscape . Each tried to build a pyramid of power , which , of course could have only one apex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political thinkers had imagined sovereignty to be the elixir of modern nationhood . They defined " sovereignty " as one and indivisible . " It is impossible , " Governor Thomas Hutchinson of Massachusetts insisted in 1773 , " there should be two independent Legislatures in the one and the same state . " " In Sovereignty , " Dr. Samuel Johnson wrote in Taxation Not Tyranny ( 1774 ) , " there are no gra-44 dations . " For the American colonies the British were able to see only two alternatives , " absolute dependence " or " absolute independence . " Yet between the British government and the American colonial governments a working federalism had already emerged unannounced . While certain questions were decided in London , others were left to the capitals of the thir ? teen colonies . Sovereignty was diffused and divided . American federalism ? a product of Atlantic distances , American space , and the slowness of communication ? existed in fact long before there was an American theory . Those who ruled the British Empire remained ideologues , but American colonial leaders were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sovereignty , grown up in violation of legal metaphysics , was a leading fact of the Anglo-American experience , and a key to the American political future . The founding fathers prepared the way to extend their laboratory of diffused and divided sovereignties into the full westward extent of the continent . What would happen if a growing people of varied origins and on varied landscapes went on trying federal experiments ? The United States became a nation in quest of itself . Two kinds of revolutions 1 F WE LOOK BACK on the great political revolutions and the great technological revolutions ( both of which are clues to the range of mankind 's capacities and possibilities ) we see a striking contrast . Political revolutions , generally speaking , have revealed man 's organized purposefulness , his social conscience , his sense of justice ? the aggressive , assertive side of his nature . Technological change , invention , and innovation have tended , rather , to reveal his play instinct , his desire and his ability to go where he has never gone , to do what he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order to fulfill his plans , the other his willingness to sacrifice in order to pursue his quest . Many of the peculiar successes and special problems of our time come from our efforts to assimilate these two kinds of activities . We have tried to make government more experimental and to make technological change more purposive , more focused , more planned than ever before . These two kinds of change ? political and technological ? differ not only in their Why and their How , but also in their What of It ? By this I mean the special character of their consequences . Political revolutions tend , with 45 certain obvious exceptions , to be displacive . The Weimar Republic displaced the regime of Imperial Germany ; the Nazis displaced the Weimar Republic ; and after World War II , a new republic displaced the Nazis . Normally this is what we mean by a political revolution . Moreover , to a surprising extent , political revolutions are reversible . In the political world , you can go home again . It is possible , and even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ideas and institutions of an earlier regime . Many so-called revolutions are really the revivals of anciens regimes . The familiar phenomenon of the counterrevolution is the effort to reverse the course of change . And it is even arguable that counterrevolutions generally tend to be more successful than revolutions . The reactionary , whose objective is always more recognizable and easier to describe , thus is more apt to be successful than the revolutionary . It is the possibility of such reversals that has lent credibility to the largely fallacious pendulum theory of history , which is popular . ized under such terms as " backlash . " Technological changes , however , thrive in a different sort of world . Momentous technological changes commonly are neither displacive nor reversible . Technological innovations , instead of displacing earlier devices , actually tend to create new roles for the devices which they might at first seem to displace . When the telephone was introduced in the later nineteenth century , some people assumed that it would make the postman obsolete few dared predict that the United States Post Office might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when wireless and then radio appeared , some wise people thought that these would spell the end of the telephone ; when television came in , many were the voices lamenting the death of radio ; and we still hear Cassandras solemnly telling us that television is the death of the book . But in our own time we have had an opportunity to observe how and why such forecasts are ill-founded . We have seen television ( together with the automobile ) provide new roles for the radio , and most recently we have seen how both have created new roles ( or led to the new flourishing of older roles ) for the newspaper press . And all these have created newly urgent roles for the book . A hallmark of the great technological changes is that they tend not to be reversible . I have a New England friend who has not yet installed a telephone because , he says , he is waiting until it is perfected . And a few of my scholarly friends ( some of them , believe it or not , eminent students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stubbornly refuse for even less plausible reasons to havea television set in the house . Who , having had a telephone , now does without one , or having once installed a TV set , no longer has one ? There is no technological counterpart for the political restoration or the counterrevolution . Of course there are changes in style , and the antique , the obsolete , and the camp have a perennial charm . There will always , I hope , be some individuals , devotees of " voluntary simplicity , " who go in search of their own Waldens . But their quixotry simply reminds us that the march of modernity is ruthless and can never retreat . In France , for example , the century following the Revolution of 1789 was an oscillation of revolutions and anciens regimes ; aristocrats were decapitated , parties were voted out of power , old ideologies were abandoned . But during the same years the trend of technological change was unmistakable and irreversible . Unlike the French Revolution . the Industrial Revolution ? despite an occasional William Morris ? produced no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between our ability to imagine future political revolutions and to imagine future technological revolutions . This is perhaps the most important , if least observed , distinction between the political and the technological worlds . Our failure to note this distinction I describe as the " Gamut Fallacy . " " Gamut , " an English word rooted in the Greek " gamma " for the lowest note in an old musical scale , means the complete range of anything . When we think , for example , of the future of our political life and our governmental forms , we can have in mind substantially the whole range of possibilities . It is this , of course , which authenticates the traditional wisdom of political theory . It illustrates what we might call " John Adams 's Law , " namely , that political wisdom does not substantially progress . No wonder the astronomical analogy of " revolving " ( the primary meaning of " revolution " ) was so tempting ! But the history of technology , again , is quite another story . We can not envisage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future technological history will be made . One of the wisest ( and , surprisingly enough , one of the most cautious ) of our prophets in this area is Arthur C. Clarke , the author of 2001 and other speculations . Clarke provides us with a valuable rule of thumb for assessing prophecies of the future of man . In his Profiles of the Future ( after offering some instructive examples of prophecies by experts who proved beyond doubt that the atom could not be split , that supersonic transportation was physically impossible , that man could 46 never escape from the earth 's gravitational field and could certainly never reach the moon ) , he offers us " Arthur Clarke 's Law " : " When a distinguished but elderly scientist states that something is possible , he is almost certainly right . When he states that something is impossible , he is very probably wrong . " This is Clarke 's way of warning us against what I have called the " Gamut Fallacy " ? the * mistaken notion that we can envisage all possibilities . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what is possible , simply because we can not imagine everything . Where , as in the political world , we make the possibilities ourselves , the limitations of the human imagination are reflected in the limitations of actual possibilities themselves . But the physical world is not of our making , and hence its full range of possibilities is beyond our imagining . Experimenting with education F ALL A NATION 'S institutions , its colleges and universities ? next to its churches are the most easily petri- fied . In England , for example , before the end of the nineteenth century the political system had been liberalized , the franchise broadened , the economy industrialized . But Oxford and Cambridge , the centers of academic prestige and power , remained relics whose customs could be understood only by a sympathy for the Middle Ages . The Old School Tie and the college blazer remain remnants of class snobbery . Long after Americans had ceased to study Latin , and the language was employed only by medical doctors writing their prescriptions , Latin continued to be the language of college @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stasis , the story of higher education in the United States is remarkable , perhaps unique . While our colleges and universities have not failed to be citadels of the status quo , here , more than in most other nations , these institutions have been frequently and liberally 0 irrigated by the currents of change . They have even become some of the more conspicuous areas for democratic experiment . Needless to say , the American phenomenon has not been the product mainly of the desire of professors to dissolve the ancient categories of their revered expertise or to enter the risky competitive marketplace . Rather it has been a by-product of characteristically American circumstances . In the United States we offer a spectacle ? unfamiliar on the world scene ? of the endless fluidity of the categories of knowledge , and the intimate entanglement of the so-called higher learning with the changing needs and desires ? even the whims ? of the larger community . / N THE UNITED STATES , by 1977 , there were some 10 million students in about 3,000 institutions of higher learning . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our history , excepting certain periods of war and depression , all these figures have been steadily increasing . The G.I. Bill of 1944 and its successor programs ( 1952 ; 1966 , ) offered unprecedented opportunities and inducements for veterans of World War II , the Korean War , and the Vietnam War to enter colleges and universities . During much of our recent history , the absolute numbers , the proportion of the American population in such institutions , and the rate of increase of these numbers have been significantly higher than those in other industrially developed countries . At the same time , American education ( including higher education ) has been characterized by the lack of any national system . In most places , and certainly in Europe , the system was built like a pyramid . Elementary schools prepared vast numbers of people to read and write , then smaller numbers were selected for secondary schools , and finally a tiny proportion of these were sent on to colleges and universities . This elite group at the top tended to come , of course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it should not be called a system ? grew quite differently . American democracy gave a bizarre shape to our educational institutions . Instead of being a pyramid wide at the bottom , these institutions are very much like an inverted pyramid ? topheavy at the upper levels . From the traditional European point of view , our educational structure is upside down . In place of an educational system we have had a widely diffused national program of educational experiment . Despite , even because of , this lack of a system , certain features have emerged in American education as a whole : Community emphasis and community control . American institutions of higher education have tended to be founded by communities and to be supported by communities for particular purposes . They have been expected to justify themselves to the communities which founded them ( commonly defined geographically or by religious denomination ) . For example , Harvard College , the oldest institution of higher education in the United States , was set up in 1636 by the Massachusetts Bay Colony Adaptability of institutions and fluidity of subject matters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tended to be willing , or even eager , to adapt themselves to whatever at the moment has been considered to be their sponsoring community 's urgent needs . Just as Harvard College aimed to provide a learned ministry for the Massachusetts Bay community , so land-grant institutions ( many of which were originally called agricultural and mechanical colleges ) aimed to train farmers and their wives for rural America , and normal colleges aimed to train teachers . The host of law schools , business schools , engineering schools , schools of journalism , schools of nursing , and their descendants have aimed to provide qualified practitioners . Traditional distinctions between high culture and low culture , between the " liberal arts " and the practical arts , and other time-hallowed distinctions have tended to dissolve . As new schools and new " programs " and projects for degrees and certificates have been freely added , the boundaries of traditional disciplines have been befogged. in England , for example , there has been a tendency to define history as what is taught or examined in the Honours School at Oxford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States , where we have had no Oxford or Cambridge to dominate the scene , people supply their own definitions . Sometimes these are crazy , often they are faddish , but often , too , they are fertile and suggestive . New subjects enter the curriculum casually . " No Trespassing " signs are harder for professors to erect . Sociology , anthropology , psychology , economics , and statistics become more easily interfused with history , or begin to be taught in a regular curriculum . One man 's sociology is another man 's history . There come to be nearly as many definitions of subjects as there are institutions ; institu-tions compete in their definitions of subject matter and in their invention of subject mat-ters , This fluidity has , of course , encouraged fashionable , " newsworthy , " and up-to-the-min-* ute subject matters and those which seem to have some instant vocational use . The prestige pool ? for both students and faculty ? is indef-initely expanded . Just as German and French officers serving with the American Revolution-ary Army were astounded at the omnipresence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European visitors nowadays are understand-ably puzzled at the range of subjects for which Americans can be awarded the B.A. degree and at the countless American " professors . " Competition among institutions . In countries with organized , centralized systems of higher education , there tend to be a hierarchy of institutions , a uniform salary scale , and roughly uniform conditions of employment . In the United States the rule is diversity . An instructor in one institution may receive a salary as high as that of a full professor in another ; he may have a smaller teaching load and greater freedom to define his job . Institutions compete for faculty , faculty members compete for positions elsewhere . The variations in the conditions of student life , in academic standards , and in extracurricular facilities produce a widespread competition for students . The diversity can increase opportunities for self-fulfillment for both faculty and student . A student who has been disadvantaged in family or in early education can enter an easy institution and transfer to a more difficult institution with higher standards . While each institution has an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living conditions , and to employ the full apparatus of advertising and public relations , it also has an incentive to excel . 4D These characteristics of American higher education are all found in some form or other in American elementary and secondary education . Community emphasis and community control are ensured by locally elected school boards . Adaptability of programs and fluidity of subject matters come from community pressures . And even the competition among institutions is expressed in the competition between parochial and public schools , between private academies and public schools . and in an increasingly mobile American population in which families with children often choose their place of residence by the character and quality of the local public schools . A LL THESE HISTORY-ROOTED character-istics have been modified and confused by certain developments that have climaxed in the later twentieth-century America . These have tended to remove or reduce the benefits of our traditional experimentation and to substitute dogmatic central purpose ? or the demands of a homogeneous populism ? for the plural experimental spirit . Most of these recent developments have tended to encourage or enforce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The interpretation of the federal Constitution , and numerous federal laws , to ensure the constitutional right of students to nondiscrimination in educational opportunities . The landmark here , of course , is the desegregation decision of the Supreme Court , Brown v. Board of Education ( 1954 ) . One consequence has been a general reduction in the differences between institutions , even where their differences showed a variety of interest rather than an intention to discriminate . Thus there are fewer all-male or all-female institutions . b . Increasing sources of federal funding for education , e.g. , funds for buildings , books , audiovisual aids , and numerous special programs ( Head Start , et cetera ) , the founding of and increasing appropriations for the National Endowments for the Arts and Humanities . c . Increasing federal support of scientific and technological research and development , using university faculties and facilities . An obvious example is the federal support of the research climaxing in the first nuclear chain reaction at the University of Chicago . As much as half of the budget of some " private " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Health has become a potent influence . d . Increasing foundation support for education , research , and publication . The Ford Foundation , the Rockefeller Foundation , the Guggenheim Foundation , and a host of other foundations , large and small . operate in the national arena . e . Increasing strength of professional organizations for teachers and specialized groups of scholars and of accrediting organizations . For example , the American Association of University Professors ( which has its rules of tenure and has blacklisted institutions ) and the American Federation of Teachers and other unions . Accrediting organizations for colleges and professional schools ( e.g. , the North Central Association , the Association of American Law Schools ) increase in power as their accreditation can affect the eligibility of an institution for sizable federal aid . f . Increasing influence of students dominated by one or another current national political or reformist dogma . g . Increasing pressure for sexual , racial , and other " minority " quotas for teachers and students . Often these pressures take the form of special federal and state programs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threats of federal agencies to withdraw aid . Despite these and other pressures toward uniform standards , uniform conditions , and uniform opportunities in American educational institutions , American higher education retains many of its historic strengths and weaknesses . At best , the American situation has offered a national opportunity for creative chaos , endless variety , and open opportunity . At worst the American situation has been anarchy and philistinism . One notable consequence of this maelstrom has been the peculiar difficulty we Americans find in agreeing on the definition of an educated person . We become increasingly wary of traditional humanistic definitions of a liberal education , and dangerously reluctant to make literacy , much less literariness , a necessary ingredient of the highly educated . The American experience ? a federal experience with a strong tradition of community variety and local control ? suggests that any effort to provide a more feasible , more precise definition of the " educated person " is not apt to succeed here through the proclamation or enforcement of national norms . Efforts to establish national standards in education have not been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been in a negative way ? by finding means to prevent the violation of the rights of all citizens to equal treatment and equal opportunity . Or in the enforcement of minimum requirements ( such as library facilities , numbers of Ph.D.s on the faculty , faculty freedom from interference by boards of trustees ) . The American preoccupation with the future ? to which the past and present are considered only a clue ? has always made it difficult here to instill a decent respect for thebody of traditional learning , and the vocabulary required for that acquisition . Perhaps the closest approach to a universally acceptable American definition is Alice Freeman Palmer 's " That 's what education means , to be able to do what you 've never done before . " T HIS EXPERIMENTAL SPIRIT , which had made the new nation politically possible , would explain much that would be distinctive of the nation 's life in the following two centuries . The American limbo ? a borderland between experience and idea , where old absolutes were dissolved and new opportunities discovered ? would puzzle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and idea , between materialism and idealism , they labeled a people who had so little respect for absolutes as vulgar " materialists . " In the gloriously filigreed cultures of the Old World it was not easy to think of life as experiment . But American life was experiment , and experiment was a technique for testing and revising ideas . In this American limbo all sorts of novelties might emerge . What to men of the Old World seemed a no-man's-land was the Americans ' native land . The experimentalism which had worked on the land , and would test the varied possibilities of fifty states , had found new arenas in the course of the nineteenth century . What federalism was in the world of politics , technology would be in the minutiae of everyday life . While ideology fenced in , federalism ? and technology ? tried out . Just as federalism would test still unimagined possibilities in government , so technology would test unimagined possibilities in the modes of experience . It was not surprising that the United States would become noted ? some would even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Swiss writer Max Frisch once described technology as " the knack of so arranging the world that we do n't have to experience it . " But in Amer-ican history technology could equally well be described as " the knack of so arranging the world as to produce new experiences . " In America the time-honored antithesis between materialism and idealism would become as obsolete as that old petrified absolute of " sov-ereignty , " which had made the British Em-pire come apart , and then made the American Revolution necessary . American experimen-talism ? in its older political form of Ameri-can federalism and in its more modern gen-eralized form of American technology ? would become the leitmotif of American civiliza-tion.                     