@@491639

The most important political event of the twentieth century is not the crisis of capitalism but the death of socialism . It is an event of immense significance . For with the passing of the socialist ideal there is removed from the political horizon the one alternative to capitalism that was rooted in the Judeo-Christian tradition and in the Western civilization which emerged from that tradition . Now , to ever greater degree , anticapitalism is becoming synonymous with one form or another of barbarism and tyranny . And since capitalism , after 200 or so years , is bound to endure crisis arid breed disaffection , it is nothing short of a tragedy that anticapitalist dissent should now be liberated from a socialist tradition which  --  one sees it clearly in perspective  --  had thefunction of civilizing dissent , a function it was able to perform because it implicitly shared so many crucial values with the liberal capitalism it opposed . Today , we live in a world with an ever increasing number of people who call themselves socialists , an ever increasing number of political regimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself has been voided of all meaning and frequently of all humane substance as well . It must be emphasized that this is not a question of the institutional reality diverging markedly from the original , inspiring ideal  --  as the Christian Church , let us say , diverged from the original vision of the Gospels . That kind of wayward development is natural and inevitable , if always dismaying  --  ideals CONTINUED ON FOLLOWING PAGE pay a large price for their incarnation . In the case of contemporary socialism , however , the ideal itself has ceased to be of any interest to anyone  --  it has not been adapted to reality but contemptuously repudiated by it . True , there is a dwindling band of socialist fideists who keep insisting that we must not judge socialism by any of its works . The Soviet Union , they tell us , is not " socialist " at all ; nor is China , or Yugoslavia , or Cuba , or Hungary , or all those other " people 's democracies . " Neither , of course , are such regimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claims to socialist legitimacy are not to be taken seriously . As for Western countries with social-democratic governments , such as Britain or Sweden  --  well , they get a passing grade for " effort , " but it seems that they are insufficiently resolute or intelligent to bring " true " socialism about . This is all quite ridiculous , of course . Socialism is what socialism does . The plaintive lament of the purist that socialism ( or capitalism , or Christianity ) has " never really been tried " is simply the expression of petulance and obstinacy on the part of ideologues who , convinced that they have a more profound understanding than anyone else of the world and its history , now find that they have been living a huge self-deception . People who persist in calling themselves socialist , while decrying the three-quarters of the world that has proclaimed itself socialist , and who can find a socialist country nowhere but in their imaginings  --  such people are anachronisms . As such they do serve a purpose : They help the historian and scholar understand what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could discover that from reading books , to be sure , but it is sometimes enlightening to interview an actual survivor . The absolute contradiction between the socialist reality today and the original socialist ideal is most perfectly revealed by the utter refusal of socialist collectivities even to think seriously about that ideal . Perhaps the most extraordinary fact of twentieth century intellectual history is that all thinking about socialism takesplace in nonsocialist countries . In this respect , one can again see the fallacy in the analogy  --  so frequently and glibly made  --  between contemporary socialism and early Christianity . The Church certainly did deviate from the original teachings of Jesus and his apostles and did transform these teachings into a theology suitable for an institutional religion . But these deviations and transformations , this development of Christian doctrine , were the work of the Church Fathers , whose powerful minds can fascinate us even today . In the case of contemporary socialism , there are no Church Fathers  --  only heretics , outside the reach of established orthodoxies , developing doctrines for which socialist authority has no use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  not even an authoritative biography of Karl Marx ! ? has issued from the Soviet Union in its 60 years of existence . If you want to study Marxism with Marxist intellectuals , you go to Paris , or Rome , or London , or some American university campus . There are no intellectual Hegiras to Moscow , Peking , or Havana . Moreover , the works of Western Marxist thinkers  --  and some are indeed impressive  --  are suppressed in socialist lands . Sartre 's Marxist writings have never been published in Russia , just as Brecht 's plays have never been produced there , and just as Picasso 's paintings have never been exhibited there . Socialism , apparently , is one of those ideals which , when breathed upon by reality , suffers immediate petrifaction  --  which is why all those who remain loyal to this ideal will always end up bewailing another " revolution betrayed . " The basic defects of a liberal-capitalist society have been obscured from us by the socialist critique itself  --  or , to be more precise , by the versions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movements . The original sources of socialist dissent are best discovered by going back to the original socialists : the so-called " utopian " socialists , as distinguished from the later " scientific " socialists . Reading them , one finds that socialism derives its spiritual energy from a profound dissatisfaction , not with one or another aspect of liberal modernity , but with that modernity itself . Indeed , the original socialist criticism of the bourgeois world is , to a remarkable degree , a secular version of the indictment which the " reactionary " Catholic Church was then continually making , though to a world increasingly deaf to Christian tonalities . The essential point of this indictment was that liberty was not enough . A society founded solely on " individual rights " was a society that ultimately deprived men of those virtues which could only exist in a political community , which is something other than a " society . " Among these virtues are a sense of distributive justice , a fund of shared moral values , and a common vision of the good life sufficiently attractive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life ends only in death . Capitalist society itself  --  as projected , say , in the writings of John Locke and Adam Smith  --  was negligent of such virtues . It did not reject them and in no way scorned them , but simply assumed that the individual would be able to cope with this matter as he did with his other " private " affairs . This assumption , in turn , was possible only because the founders of capitalism took it for granted that the moral and spiritual heritage of Judaism and Christianity was unassailable , and that the new individualism of bourgeois society would not " liberate " the individual from this tradition . It might free him from a particular theology , or a particular church ; but he would " naturally " rediscover for himself , within himself , those values previously associated with that theology or church . This was very much a Protestant conception of the relation between men and the values by which they lived and died . It survived so long as traditional religious habits of mind survived in the individualist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say , for many generations capitalism was able to live off the accumulated moral and spiritual capital of the past . But with each generation that capital stock was noticeably depleted , had to be stretched ever thinner to meet the exigencies of life . Bankruptcy was inevitable , and we have seen it come in our own time , as a spirit of nihilism has dismissed not only the answers derived from tradition but the very meaningfulness of the questions to which tradition provided the an-swers . A " good life " has thus come to signify a satisfactory " life style ' ? just another commodity that capitalism , in its affluence and gen-erosity , makes available in a thousand assorted varieties to suit a thousand tastes . Socialism can be seen , in retrospect , to have been a kind of re-hellion against the possibilities of nihilism inherent in the bourgeois Protestant principle  --  an effort within the framework of modernity to reconstruct a political community that would withstand the corruptions of modernity itself . To call it a " secular religion " is not far off the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ socialists would have found nothing arguable in this ascription . The Saint-Simonians , as we know , very consciously set out to establish a post-Christian religion that preserved the best of Christianity as they understood it . All the " utopian " socialist communities had a religious core  --  at the very least a " religion of humanity " into whose values young people were indoctrinated . To challenge or criticize those values , and the way of life associated with them , was to risk immediate expulsion . In our own time the Israeli kibbutz can remind us of what a socialist community , in the original sense , was supposed to be like . This " utopian " socialism was not really " utopian " at all . Indeed , it is the only kind of socialism that has ever worked . The trouble is that it can only work under certain very restricted conditions . ( 1 ) The people who set out to create a socialist community must sincerely subscribe to socialist beliefs . ( 2 ) They must be satisfied with a small community  --  otherwise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classes , in short a " society " rather than a community . And ( 3 ) they must be fairly indifferent to material goods , so that a voluntary equality will easily prevail . In circumstances such as these , socialist communities " work , " in the sense of continuing to exist and continuing to hold on to the loyalties of a new generation as well as those of the founding members . They work most effectively , as historians of socialism are fond of pointing out , when the religious core is strongest , because then the shared values are most successfully affirmed and reaffirmed . It is no accident , after all , that the Greek polis  --  the model of political community  --  neither believed in nor practiced religious toleration , to say nothing of religious plural-ism . But this kind of socialism has always been marginal to socialist history , which had much larger ambitions . The " scientific " socialism of Marx and his follow-ers  --  whether they defined them-selves as " orthodox " Marxists , " n e o " - Marxists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transform all of society , and quickly . It derided the idea of slowly converting people to a belief in socialism until these people formed a majority . Similarly , it contemptuously rejected the notion of creating model socialist communities within the womb of capitalist society  --  as , say , the early Christians created their own exemplary communities throughout the Roman empire . Though the moral and spiritual impetus toward socialism may have been derived  --  and is still largely derived  --  from a profound sense of the inadequacy of modernity to satisfy the yearnings for political community , " postutopian " socialism itself has become a modernist political doctrine . This is true of both the communist and socialContinued on following page democratic versions of " scientific " socialism , each of which , in its own way , takes a managerial and manipulative approach to politics and tries to create a new political community through the actions of government upon an unenlightened and recalcitrant populace . The crucial difference between " scientific " socialism and " utopian " socialism lay in their attitudes toward economic growth and material @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in affluence , as we have come to understand that term  --  i.e. an ever increasing amount and variety of consumers ' goods made available to an ever increasing proportion of the population . They were by no means Spartan in their conception of a good community . They did expect to abolish poverty and to achieve a decent degree of material comfort , which would be equally shared . But their conception of a " decent " standard of living was , by twentieth century standards , quite modest . This modesty was a matter of principle : Being community-oriented rather than individual-oriented , " utopian " socialism saw no merit in the constant excitation of individual appetites , which would inevitably place severe strains on the bonds of community . The main function of the socialist community , as they conceived it , was to produce a socialist type of individual  --  persons who had transcended the vulgar , materialistic , and divisive acquisitiveness that characterized the capitalist type of individual . Here again , the Israeli kibbutz gives us an insight into the " utopian " intention . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the community , and even to achieve a pleasing level of comfort for its membership . But " affluence , " in the sense of widespread individual possession of such " luxuries " as automobiles , television sets , hi-fi radios and record players , freezers and refrigerators , travel abroad , etc. , is solemnly regarded as a political threat , to be coped with cautiously and prudently . " Scientific " socialism , in contrast , denounced capitalism for failing to produce the society of abundance made possible by modern technology and mocked at " utopian " socialism for wishing to curb " needs " rather than satisfying them copiously . This approach made it possible for " scientific " socialism to become the basis of a mass movement , since it pandered so explicitly to the mass appetites excited  --  but also , to some degree , at any partic-ular moment , frustrated  --  by capitalism . The political mass movements that had socialist goals then divided into two kinds : those that thought a liberal parliamentary democracy should be preserved within a socialist community , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the twentieth century , both these movements succeeded in establishing themselves as the governments of major nations . And in all such instances the end result has been frustration and disillusionment . In the case of totalitarian socialism  --  that current of socialist thought for which Lenin stands to Marx as St. Paul did to Jesus  --  the frustration has been absolute and definitive . Central economicplanning of a rigorous kind has demonstrated a radical incapacity to cope with a complex industrialized economy and urbanized society . Obviously , the central planners can build steel mills or dams or armament factories . But the Pharaohs of ancient Egypt could boast of comparable achievements  --  there is nothing " socialist " about the ability to get certain things done . What the central planners of the Soviet Union clearly can not do is create an " affluent " society in which its citizens would have a standard of living on the level of that of Western Europe and America . Yet a Western standard of " affluence " is precisely what the Soviet citizens want . These citizens were never " socialists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have 60 years of Communist rule succeeded in making them such . In the earlier decades of the Soviet regime there was a lot of windy talk about " the new Soviet man " who would emerge from " the Soviet experiment . " One hears little such prattle today , even from official Soviet sources . Soviet Communism is a pseudoreligion , and the Soviet government is a pseudotheocracy , which , even after decades of coercion and terror , has been pitifully unable to effect any kind of mass conversion to socialist beliefs . As has been noted , there are no socialist intellectuals in the Soviet Union  --  only an increasing number of antisocialist intellectuals . The effort to create a socialist society that would be more prosperous , more " affluent , " than a capitalist one , while creating a socialist citizenry through unremitting force majeure , has been a disastrous failure . " Managerial " socialism has turned out to be far more utopian than " utopian " socialism . The same destiny has awaited the non-Leninist , social-democratContinued on following page is version of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for it , it is a success that is a kind of failure in socialist terms . Such is the case of Sweden , after decades of social-democratic government . In a sense , Great Britain represents Sweden 's socialist future . Though Britain 's movement toward socialism came much later than Sweden 's , and though some of the more conservative British socialists still talk as if a Swedish condition was the ultimate ideal they were striving for , the British impulse has been more powerful , less controllable , less deferential toward economic realities . There has been more nationalization of industry in Britain , the trade unions are far more belligerent , the " left " socialists  --  the ideological fanatics who redouble their socialist efforts as the socialist ends fade into unreality  --  are more influential . The consequences for the British economy have been disastrous  --  Britain now vies with Italy for the title , " the sick man of Europe " ? and there have been no discernible compensating improvements in the British social and political order . No one even seriously claims that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result of their socialist experiences . Indeed , all the objective indexes of social pathology  --  crime , juvenile delinquency , corruption , ethnic dissent , emigration , etc. ? show steady increases . It is hard to believe that Britain will simply continue on this downward course . The British love of liberty is still strong ; the British liberal political tradition still possesses a large degree of popular acceptance ; the British people as a whole are still more reliant on common sense than they are enamored of political fantasies . It is reasonable to expect that the Labour government will be succeeded by a Conservative govern ment , and the British experience with socialism will be followed by a " reactionary " affirmation of the principles of liberal capitalism . But then the issue will be posed anew : What can a liberal capitalist society do to inoculate itself against a resurgence of anticapitalist dissent ? We now know part of that answer . One of the things that can be done is to design all measures of " social welfare " so as to maintain the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " welfare state " is , on the part of the majority of the people , a demand for a greater minimum of political community , for more " social justice " ( i.e. , distributive justice ) than capitalism in its pristine , individualistic form can provide . It is not at all a demand for socialism or anything like it . Nor is it really a demand for intrusive government by a powerful and ubiquitous bureaucracy  --  though that is how socialists and neosocialists prefer to interpret it . Practically all of the truly popular and widespread support for a " welfare state " would be satisfied by a mixture of voluntary and compulsory insurance schemes  --  old-age insurance , disability insurance , unemployment insurance , medical insurance  --  that are reasonably ( if not perfectly ) compatible with a liberal capitalist society . Over the past quarter century , a host of conservative and neoconservative economists and social critics have shown us how such mechanisms could and would work , and their intellectual victory over earlier " Fabian " conceptions of social reform has been decisive . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business community and the " conservative " ( i.e. , antisocialist ) political parties of their practicality  --  not an easy mission , but not in principle an intractable one . Other problems indigenous to a liberal capitalist society are still virgin territory so far as constructive theory is concerned . What , for instance , shall we do about the government of those most peculiar capitalist institutions , the large corporations  --  bureaucratic and , in a sense , " collectivist " versions of capitalist enterprise that Adam Smith would surely have detested ? And , even more important , what can a liberal capitalist society do about the decline of religious beliefs and traditional values  --  a decline organically rooted in liberal capitalism 's conception of this realm as an essentially " private affair " . neither needing nor meriting public sanction ? These and other questions will continue to make any counterreformation on the part of liberal capitalism an exceedingly fragile enterprise . But they will have to be answered if the death of socialism is not simply to mean a general disintegration into political pseudosocialist forms whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a prime political value . As Cardinal Newman once observed , it is not too hard to show the flaws in any system of thought , religious or political , but an erroneous idea can be expelled from the mind only by the active presence of another idea . The dead idea of socialism is now putrifying both the world 's mind and the world 's body . It has to be removed and buried .                     