@@488023

DEAR SIRS : Howard Romaine projects in " Why a Black Man Should Run " The Nation , Sept. 27 a novel and fecund idea : a black base , or fulcrum , for a viable American Populism . It has its historical precedents in the reviled Black Parliaments of the Reconstruction , when semiliterate former field hands offered legislation  --  including woman suffrage ? considerably more progressive than did their opposite bodies in the North . Of course a black man should run for President in 1972 ? if only to indicate Nixon 's pallor ! And there should be regional thrusts too , as Bond suggests . The combination of the two strategies could lead not only to greatly increased black registration and voting  --  a net gain  --  but to . . . more participatorY democracy , cleansing of the Democratic convention procedural challenges , and possibly the defeat of Nixon by someone less indistinguishable from him than the ineffable Humphrey . ? ? John Bright actors ' stakes San Francisco , Calif . DEAR SIRS : I can only say " right on ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Equity : Do You Call That a Union ? " The Nation , Sept. 20 . As as ex-business representative for Equity , I went through the frustrations of hearing the union blasted for its lack of empathy toward the actor , and yet having to uphold it as a union " official . " After about a year of this , reality caught up with myth and I got out . Unfortunately , the prospects of changing this union are practically nil with the administration currently , entrenched therein . Attempts to revolt have been sparse and abortive ( witness the " Freeway Movement " led by ' Rudy Solari and others in Hollywood about four years ago ) . But the actor has got to help himself ( and herself ) because the stakes are the highest . Ann Sebastian school prayer Beltsville , Md . DEAR SIRS : A discharge petition will force a vote soon in the U.S. House of Representatives on a proposed amendment to , the U.S. Constitution which would allow " nondenominational prayer " in the public schools . Such an amendment is objectionable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bill of Rights was amended , and could lead to other changes in the Constitution which could destroy all American liberties . The proposed prayer amendment would open every school district , school , PTA , classroom , school board and state legislature to endless bitter controversies over the who , what , when , which , why and to whom of school prayer It would open ' the door to the imposition of sectarian religious exercises on schoolchildren . A prayer amendment is absolutely and totally unnecessary . The Supreme Court made clear in 1962 and 1963 that children may pray voluntarily in school now . What the Court ruled unconstitutional was government-sponsored or mandated prayer or religious observances . All Americans concerned with preserving religious freedom and church-state separation should write their Congressmen urging that this proposed amendment be defeated . Edd Doerr correction DEAR SIRS : In.my article on the trial of the Black Panthers The Nation , Oct. 4 , there are three errors I 'd like to correct . The killing at the . Marin County Courthouse did not include a juror . Joan Bird @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrested . And Richard Moore 's other name is Dharuba , not Iharuba . Edwin Kennebeck EDITORIALS ' Toying with Rhodesia In one respect the United Nations ' mandatory economic sanctions against white minority-ruled Southern Rhodesia ' ' are like school bussing . No one really likes them ; each is a necessary evil , a means to an end . The difference , however , is that , at present rates of progress , American schoolchildren will be frolicking in integrated bliSs for millennia before Rhodesia 's 96 per cent African majority obtains political control . As Prime Minister Ian Smith told newsmen during the latest round of negotiations to produce a face-saving exit for white Britain , Rhodesia will never permit one man , one vote . " We disapprove of that sort of thing  --  at any time , " he said . This fall the ostensibly obligatory U.N . sanctions mark their fifth anniversary as a monument to hypocrisy . An Administration source claims that only Britain and Sweden besides the United States have unswervingly respected this paper wall . Another source even questions Britain 's sincerity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for some economic inconvenience , the British fiction that Rhodesia is still a colony has protected Smith 's regime from directly confronting its critics . The time that Smith has bought now seems to have worked in his favor . The Conservative government in London is ' even more accommodating than its LaboUr predecessor . Peking , which is likely to stir African hopes , has not yet been admitted to the U.N . In Washington , the Senate voted 44 to 38 on October 6 to resume imports of Rhodesian chrome , principally from mines owned by Union Carbide and Foote Mineral , both of which lobbied strongly for the measure . A key factor in the vote was the unpaired absences of Presidential hopefuls Harris , Jackson , McGovern and Muskie . Unless the amendment is removed in conference , or the President vetoes the entire military procurement bill to which it was appended , the United States on January 1 will join South Africa and Portugal as the only nations publicly and voluntarily breaking sanctions . Any White House expressions of regret about the Senate vote would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lobbying against the measure on a pro forma basis and refused to issue any public statement before the Senate 's final tally , despite a telegram from the black caucus . Meanwhile , an Administration spokesman said sanctions are a " short-term measure to create pressures on Rhodesia for a settlement with the United Kingdom . " I Completely missing was the suggestion , once routine , ' that the settlement must be " satisfactory " or " acceptable " in terms of inducing social and political change in Rhodesia . If Smith refuses to give Britain even a fig leaf of a settlement , London can blame Washington for the failure and can then dismantle its own sanctions on the ground that it is useless to continue them without the United States . Smith , and those who think like him here in ' Brit- ' ain , need to be reminded that sanctions against Rhodesia will remain until the social goal is achieved . In 1966 , - the United States and Britain voted in the Security Council for the proposition that Rhodesia constitutes a " threat to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provides for eventual collective force if necessary . Any ' t attempt , even by the British who originally proposed the mandatory sanctions , to undo this work is certain to lose , iv if need be by Soviet veto . . So the United States is faced with a U.N . crisis which Peking will join Moscow in exploiting . Unless the President is prepared to flout the United Nations , he must , , .0 , however reluctantly and tardily , jettison his " Southern strategy " in Rhodesia . He must move vigorously to block the chrome amendment while it is still one the Hill . Or failing that , he must find an administrative device to prei- i , vent Rhodesian chrome from entering the country . ? The 1966 U.N . resolution called the Rhodesian situa-tion a " rebellion , " but did not define whether the rebel+ lion was that of the white minority against the black majority or that of the white minority against Britain . However , Britain announced publicly months before , . Rhodesia declared independence in 1965 that it would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States now to suggest that sanctions are a measure merely " to create pressures for a settlement with the United Kingdom " and not necessarily to gain majority African rule is farce of the cheapest sort . What threat is there to the peace when the supposed invader says it wo n't invade ? 0- " Therefore , when the sellout , is complete , the United States should join with the U.N . majority , which will insist that , in calling upon the organization to undertake , r ? mandatory sanctions , and thus seriously engaging its reputation , Britain placed Upon the Security ' - ' - ? - puncil substantial international responsibility for Rhodesia  --  an act which Mr. Heath can not now unilaterally undo by the wave of an Orwellian wand . In addition , the U.N . should prosecute violators of the mandatory sanctions before The Hague tribunal . This would include any nation , Britain as well , that recognizes Rhodesia . In these actions the United Nations system clearly would be plowing new ground , but the mandatory sanctions against Rhodesia already are unique @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ization to backpedal now would reduce it to the kind of r that sanctions made of the League . Without exaggeration , it is fair to say that the future of the United Nations as an effective mechanism is at ox stake in the Rhodesian question : Outside the U.N . framework , the only thing frustrated Africans could do would M be to fan the smoldering Sino-Soviet competition to muster ' r , the force necessary for a shooting war . Since Mr. Nixon apparently has difficulty undersanding . this line of thought , some of his prospective opponents . A ? might stick around Capitol Hill more and jog his think- ' 7 ' ing a bit . A Wise Decision Rep. Richard H. Poff declared last year : " I would rather be on the United States Supreme Court than be President . " He will be neither . Had he been formally nominated by Mr. Nixon for one of the two Supreme Court vacancies , he might have made aa good addition to the Court . He was not a judicial ogre , and the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endorsed him would seem to give him some claim to consideration . But his record made him impossible . He could not wipe out what he had said and done , particularly in the civil rights field . He may have been contrite . In The New York Times ( October 3 ) , Ben A. Franklin quoted from an interview Mr. Poll gave to Wayne Woodlief , a Washington correspondent for Virginia newspapers . He said , " I can only say now that segregation is wrong today ; it was wrong yesterday . Segregation was never right . But it is one of the most lamentable frailties of mankind that when one 's wrong is most grievous , his self-justification is most passionate , perhaps in the pitiable hope that the fervor of his self-defense will somehow prove him right . " Then he pleaded that he had always been afraid that the Democrats would defeat him by putting up some conservative who would run a segregationist campaign . These disavowals came too late  --  not until last June , when Mr. Poff began to have realistic hopes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name to the American Bar Association for evaluation , the tide of opposition was already rising so high that it was obviously wise for the nominee to retreat . He would have been put through a searing ordeal , and in the end would probably have been turned down . Even the ABA committee which was weighing his qualifications could not be relied on to give him its best rating . The passing grade ? " Not opposed " ? would really have been a form of . opposition . The puzzle is why Mr. Nixon decided to nominate Mr. Poff , and why Attorney General Mitchell went along with the choice . Mitchell and Nixon seem to have learned nothing from their Carswell and Haynsworth experiences . If the President wants a Southerner for " balance , " replacing Black , there are several whom he could name and who would encounter no difficulty in the Senate . But if he insists on someone tailored exactly to his specifications , he is headed for further abrasive confrontations . If only , for once , he would swallow his prejudices and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only do the country a service but might begin to be respected as a man who has been spiritually enlarged by the high office he holds . Getting Together in Baltimore Except for baseball scores , Baltimore is generally as bereft of good news as any large American city coping with poverty , racism , municipal bankruptcy and hostile suburbs . There still exists , however , a surprising reservoir of determination to meet the , city 's problems , and occasionally there are hints of a yearning to find at least a modus vivendi in relationships between the races . On a weekend in late September the determination and the yearning combined to erupt , not in a riot but in a riotous interracial good time  --  a Baltimore City Fair that attracted more than 600,000 people . The fair 's perpetrators are bewildered by their own success . In strictly objective terms the fair , with its neighborhood exhibits and its standard county-fair selection ofamusements , should n't have been that much fun . What profound need did this urban carnival fulfill to attract such a flood of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the second annual Baltimore City Fair , differing from the 1970 version only in that it was bigger and attracted more than twice as many admissions . Some skeptics regarded the first fair as a novel attraction that would never work a second time . They were wrong , as it turns out , and the fair has become an instant tradition , but they were also afraid  --  and not without some justification . Baltimore 's city population is 905,759 , 47 per cent black . In the pattern of other Northeastern cities , the downtown section is almost surrounded by black neighborhoods , most of them slums or only slightly better . Wealthier Negroes have found homes in prestigious old city neighborhoods , and a few have crossed the city line , but low-income blacks have been totally walled off from the suburbs .. . For fifty-eight years a revered Baltimore tradition has been the annual Flower Mart , a one-day affair conducted downtown in stately old Mount Vernon Place by the wellborn ladies of the Women 's Civic League . In May of 1970 the Flower Mart was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swarmed in from the perimeter of the Mount Vernon Place district . The first Baltimore City Fair was planned in optimistic defiance of the Flower Mart debacle . The inspiration apparently came from the city 's Department of Housing and Community Development . Baltimore has been a city of strong neighborhood loyalties , but the pride that characterized the once white communities has been eroded by the realities of racism and the slums . At the same time , the remaining white neighborhoods feel threatened by their approaching minority status and resentful of a city government that is pouring most of its meager resources into assuaging the , miseries of the ghetto . The fair was conceived as a civic uplift for woebegone neighborhoods ; ' of all colors. - The fair planners ( a consortium of private and public citizens ) had one architectural asset . Over the past ten years the central core of Baltimore has been razed and rebuilt as Charles Center , a resplendent cluster of office buildings , hotels , theatres and , most important , three spacious plazas . Charles Center has proved to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nighttime flop . After sundown , a venturesome pedestrian feels like a sentry walking his post . The fair was a natural event for Charles Center . The concept was simple . Each city neighborhood was invited to set up a booth to show off its products , its food , its music or , in fact , anything it chose to display . in 1970 twenty-four neighborhood booths were set up in a large tent apart from the other attractions and a $1 admission to the tent was charged to defray the cost of the fair . The result was a community celebration in which thousands of neighborhood residents , both black and white , had a direct stake . That first fair attracted some 300,000 people and , for three days in September , Charles Center was alive , day and night . Then , while the 1971 fair was being planned , there was an ominous setback . Noting the success of the Baltimore City Fair , the Women 's Civic League moved its Flower Mart to Charles Center . As in 1970 , it was driven from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the staff of the 1971 fair , who had to convince neighborhoods , concessionaires and business sponsors that there was a vast difference between the Flower Mart , suburban , white and irrelevant to the large urban groups , and a fair that directly involved almost every grass-roots neighborhood in Baltimore . Baltimore took a chance . The 1971 fair opened on a sunny Friday afternoon with twice as many neighborhood booths as participated the year before , rock groups on three outdoor stages , harbor excursions , five beer gardens , and a concert by the full Baltimore Symphony Orchestra ( driven into the lobby of a friendly bank when it started to rain ) . There were no riots , no disturbances , and scarcely a policeman 's club raised in , anger except at a few purse snatchers . The greatest single attraction was jazz singer Ethel Ennis , whose Saturday night concert attracted some 25,000 people . A warm and lovely native of Baltimore 's ) . black community , Miss Ennis ( married to a white newsman ) personified the biracial fair . Emotionally moved after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the occasion . " You had the feeling , " she said , " that the black people and the white people of Baltimore were saying to each other , ' I want to get along with you . ' " Freedom of the Press The press is free only when the government keeps its hands off the content of what is broadcast or published , and when publications and radio/TV stations have reasonable economic security . These are the prime conditions . The secondary ones include ability to get the news in the face of governmental lying , euphemistically termed the " credibility gap . " Press security .. can also be undermined by prolonged , reiterated attack by governmental potentates like that alliterative mouthpiece , Vice President Agnew . His speeches , always delivered before friendly , loudly applauding audiences and ; for obvious reasons , always given time on the air , are an insidious ? ? 41 threat to all but the most reactionary media . The halfway enlightened are on the spot : if they counterattack vigorously , it can be made to appear that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be magnified for political advantage . The media are at a ? further disadvantage because over the years they have so often yelled " freedom of the press " when there was no real danger . k ) , The economic lesions of the printed media , in particular magazines , are highlighted by the red ink at Harper 's . and the demise of Look . Apparently the richest country in the world , and one of the most literate , can support two old , distinguished magazines like Harper 's and Atlantic only with difficulty , if at all . The folding of Look is even more ominous , in that its circulation was not of the order of a few hundred thousand , but had numbered no less than 7.7 million and was still 6.5 million When management cut it in the hope of staying afloat . Gardner Cowles nearly broke his back financially in the , THE kk-rioN/October 18 , 1971 effort to keep it alive , but too much advertising had gone elsewhere , mostly to television . Life survives , but from any respectable journalistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improvement in the latter over the years has been largely due to the influence of the former . In the early days of Life , sex , " grue , " and miscellaneous sensationalism were carefully blended for each issue . Look was never that kind of magazine . If it was not a paragon without fear and without reproach , it did print much first-rate material and , at the end , was still the best of the picture magazines . Look , it should be noted , was done in largely by the government and its creature , the postal system . Look 's postal bill was $4 million and was estimated to rise to $10 million in the next five years . Mr. Cowles correctly termed this " unconscionably high and a complete reversal of U.S. postal policy since the days of Benjamin Franklin , who felt that the cost of transporting magazines and newspapers should always be kept low . " Now the advantage is with the purveyers of junk mail , which so jams mailboxes that the receiver who is on many mailing lists must search @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the face of all this economic and political adversity , about the only bright spot is Sen. Sam Ervin 's crusade on behalf of the communications media and against governmental oppression . Ervin is to the Senate what Justice , Black was on the Supreme Court . A political conservative , he believes in the Bill of Rights as applied to the electronic and printed press , as well as to individual citizens . " Some government officials , " he says , " appear to believe that the purpose of the press is to present the government 's policies and programs to the public in the best ' possible light . They appear to have lost sight of the central purpose of a free press in a free society . " He is trying to shield the press against the Justice Department , which persists in trying to force reporters to reveal confidential sources  --  a sure way of depriving them of any sources at all . Carried far enough , this kind of bureaucratic tyranny would leave the government as the sole source of political information . In that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press of the totalitarian countries ( and let 's not cite only the iron curtain nations but also our client state , South Vietnam ) and the " free " American press ? The Young in Heart Wayne Morse , we are immensely pleased to note , will be a candidate for election to the Senate in 1972 . " My doctor tells me I have the heart of a 40-year-old man , " he says . At 71 ( on October 20 ) , he is light years younger in spirit and outlook than most of his former colleagues in the Senate . By any standard , and judged on both domestic and foreign issues , Morse was one of the most valuable members of the Senate in the years from 1944 , when he was first elected , to 1968 , when he was defeated by Senator Packwood . His ' stand on Vietnam alone would entitle him to the highest rank , along with that other young-at-heart statesman , Ernest Gruening . When virtually all of his colleagues were swallowing hook , line and sinker the tall tale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tonkin incident , Morse remained unconvinced and cogently skeptical . A notably independent politician , Morse supported Sen. Mark Hatfield in 1966 over his fellow Democrat ( he had become a Democrat in 1955 ) Robert Duncan . If Senator Hatfield seeks and wins the Republican , and Morse the Democratic nomination , Oregon voters will hiciv cl , surfeit of riches . Both are worthy of the office but our preference , out of old loyalty and ongoing admiration and respect , would be for Wayne Morse . And should Hatfield decide not to seek re-election see " Oregon : Gunning for Hatfield " by Ralph Friedman , The Nation , June 21 , then Morse 's candidacy will become the more important . The Senate always stands in need of precisely the qualities that he exemplifies . He is fiercely independent , possesses a brilliant legal mind , is an expert in many fields of legislation ( education , labor , foreign policy , social welfare ) and has never been reluctant to puncture those big fat specious propositions that , in the name of some tribal sentiment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Senate , " and now more than ever the Senate could make good use of his sharp , critical intelligence . His defeat in 1968 was shameful in the sense that he failed to win the backing of elements of the electorate on whose continued support he had every reason to rely . But there is good reason to believe that , by now , these same elements have had occasion to regret the , stand they took , largely because they did not approve of Morse 's opposition to the war in Vietnam .                     