@@282195

Startled by the Newark riots in 1967 , New Jersey officials took steps to be prepared for any future disturbances . At the suggestion of then-Attorney General Arthur Sills , police began compiling detailed dossiers on people taking part in demonstrations , even when the demonstrators violated no laws . The surveillance was promptly challenged by the state chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union . Arguing that police intelligence-gathering activities would " intimidate and harass " demonstrators , the A.C.L.U. asked a superior court judge to order the investigations stopped , the dossiers destroyed . <P> The judge duly issued the order . Indiscriminate snooping , he ruled , would have a " chilling effect " on anyone who wanted to advocate political and social change . But last week the New Jersey Supreme Court unanimously overturned that decision and upheld the right of the authorities to keep files on all demonstrators , whether peaceful or violent . Said the court : " The basic approach must be that the executive branch may gather whatever information it reasonably believes to be necessary to enable it to perform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The high court did , however , order a lower-court hearing on the scope of police surveillance and the relevancy of the material being gathered to a proper police function . Thus , civil-liberties groups still hope to narrow the scope of intelligence activities . The police now compile their data on two forms . One classifies demonstrations as pacifist , religious , right-wing , leftwing , civil rights , militant , nationalistic , black power , Ku Klux Klan and extremist . The second form is less vague , potentially more dangerous . It covers the people attending or taking part in demonstrations and calls for information on their families , employers , finances , personal habits and past activities . <P> The first of its kind in the U.S. , the New Jersey decision could have far-ranging repercussions . Police intelligence-gathering is widespread . In Chicago , police keep tabs on suspected " subversives " by filming demonstrations and gathering personal information on those involved . Detroit police use a video-tape system to record sit-ins and protest marches . The U.S. Army 's domestic intelligence operation collects , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political protests-and protesters . <P> Irrelevant Intelligence . Few lawyers question the basic duty of the police to identify and investigate potential sources of trouble . What bothers civil libertarians is the gathering of such apparently unnecessary intelligence as credit reports and marital data and its indiscriminate distribution and use . Their concern is valid . The Army 's domestic intelligence unit has neither the time nor the personnel to verify most of the information in its voluminous files , yet shares it with several agencies responsible for security clearances . <P> Few deny that careful intelligence-gathering can be necessary and effective in keeping the peace . Forewarned about the nature and size of a demonstration , officials can take proper steps to prevent both violence and police overreaction . But zealous surveillance without judicial control , like the " probable cause " evidence required to obtain search warrants , may well pose serious dangers .                     