@@487963

America does not know what to do with its criminals , nor with its children . How , then , can anyone reasonably expect it to know what to with its children who commit crimes ? About seventy years ago reformers in this country , appalled by society 's treatment of both criminals and the young , established " juvenile courts " to dispense justice to young people with problems  --  not only those who committed crimes , but also ' those " neglected " or " abused " by their parents , or simply " dependent , " lacking anyone to care for them humanely . These courts also took charge of miscellaneous ragamuffins whose behavior was disagreeable or offensive , but who were not shown to have violated any criminal laws applicable to adults . These latter troublemaking but officially noncriminal children are now referred to , awkwardly , as " status offenders , " because courts take notice of them primarily for what , they are  --  a nuisance to adults  --  rather than for anything specific they have done . Probably the most unwanted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court , they include truants , runaways , girls who get pregnant or stay out too late , and children who break various laws enforced specially against children , such as curfews , drinking laws and laws against smoking or reading dirty books . In many cases , nobody ( including often their parents ) wants to deal with these children . They have become accustomed to adults ' rejection and hostility . Juvenile court judges have no more answers than does anyone else , but courts can remove children from their hostile homes and schools . Ironically , because they are not proved to have committed any crimes , but understandably , because they are alienated and rejected , status offenders generally suffer more severe treatment than do young criminals : more are detained before trial and more are locked up in state institutions after trial . Larry Schultz is director of the Juvenile Justice Standards Project jointly sponsored by the American ' Bar Association and the Institute of Judicial Administration , and a lecturer at the Law School of New York University . The problem of the juvenile status @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally . Fundamental to their nature is their broad jurisdiction over children whose many different kinds of problems adults have been unwilling or unable to solve , and their almost unlimited power to enforce involuntary " solutions " to these problems ( a power which , in practice , is severely limited by lack of resources ) . From the outset , the vast discretion given juvenile courts by virtue of their sweeping jurisdiction and remedial powers has been roundly criticized as lawless . It has ' also been defended as necessary to preserve " flexibility . " What is often overlooked is that this discretion was nothing new and even now is hardly unique : . it is obviously less than the control society gives parents over their children 's lives and it is no different in kind from the discretion society gives to schools and to the thousands of assorted public and private agencies that assume control of the young after they pass through the courts . What is also often overlooked is that courts have vast discretionary power to dispense justice to adult criminals , judges being permitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentence and and a thirty-year prison , term . In short , the handling of child criminals by juvenile courts mirrors society 's treatment of noncriminal children and its adult criminals . In the past few years , most institutions with broad discretion over people  --  especially those which deal in disproportionate , numbers with the poor and racial minorities , as do juvenile courts  --  have attracted a swarm of court challenges to the legality of their powers and procedures . Juvenile courts have not been spared . In 1966 , the Supreme Court for the first time scrutinized juvenile court procedures and found them wanting . In a case from the District of Columbia it decided that , before a juvenile court could " waive " its jurisdiction and send , a juvenile 's case to an adult court for criminal prosecution , it must let the juvenile be represented by a lawyer and conduct a hearing to decide whether waiver was justified . Although the 1966 decision was based on a local statute rather than the federal Constitution , ' Justice Abe Fortas , who wrote the opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the surface , an intimation borne out a year later when the Court handed down the juvenile laws ' sacred text , In re Gault . In Gault , with ' Justice Fortas again speaking for the prevailing Justices , the Supreme Court decided that , be , cause juvenile courts were apparently not markedly more humane or effective in dealing with child criminals than were adult courts in dealing with adult , criminals , children accused of crimes must be given some of the basic rights extended to adults accused of crime . These rights included representation by a lawyer , notice of the crimes charged , protection against self-incrimination , and a chance to confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses . In the years since Gault , hundreds of appeals have been brought to try to pin down the procedural rights of juveniles accused of crime . The fruits of this effort have not been as bounteous as was anticipated six years ago . It has proved difficult enough just to secure the rights given on paper by Gault . A recent study of New Jersey courts found that even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state by the practice of committing children " temporarily " to institutions for " study and diagnosis " under an " informal calendar " system . This system insulates itself from Gault by avoiding " final " placement in a juvenile institution . Pending disposition , however , the juveniles can be locked up for several weeks or even months . In other states , less subtly , lawyers have simply not been provided . In states where they have been available , they have often been ineffective . Some are cowed by judges or uninformed and slightly suspicious of the whole system . Most-are overworked . Some are indifferent . A few are diligent and effective . The value of the other rights theoretically guaranteed by Gault is compromised not only by the absence or inadequacy of counsel , but by the , fact that most children accused of crimes , like most adults , plead guilty . In juvenile ' courts , however , few guarantees have been established to try to insure that guilty pleas are made with the juvenile 's full consent , based on knowledge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plea is decided between the judge and the lawyer , who then inform the juvenile what his plea will be . This is thought to be justified by the " parens patriae " theory that has sustained juvenile courts from their inception ( and that also lies behind the powers of schools and juvenile prisons ) : the juveniles ' " best interests " are being served by more knowledgeable and mature adults . - If the attempt to make the Gault rights effective ' has been slow and difficult , even less progress has been made in Securing other meaningful rights . For instance , juveniles accused of crime seldom have a right to a grand jury indictment or a preliminary hearing to decide whether an accusation is justified . The 1966 Supreme Court decision set guidelines for " waiving " , juveniles to adult criminal courts , but that guarantee has been partially undermined by recent cases in which the safeguards were not applied when the waiver decision was made by a prosecutor rather than by a court . The Supreme Court itself has put a block in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courts by deciding that juvenile delinquents have no constitutional , right to a jury trial . The federal Court of Appeals in New York has decided that , children have no jury trial right even when they are sentenced to adult prisons . None of this should have surprised any careful Gault watcher . Procedural reform has faltered because there is no clear understanding of what juvenile courts are for . Do they exist basically to enforce criminal laws or does the incantation of " parens patriae " really mean something : do and should the juvenile courts serve " the best interests of the child , " even if the child is a murderer ? The Supreme , Court , by deciding that some criminal procedures apply , but ' not jury trials , has shed little.light . Probably , the worst abuses attributable to the chronic confusion that plagues the juvenile system occur before juveniles even get to court . Some 400,000 children a year are put into detention facilities that are no different front jails  --  or that are jails  --  under the , almost unlimited discretion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of these children are detained because someone has decided that they will not show up in court at the right time if they are sent home  --  the only generally accepted reason for detaining adults accused of crime . But many children , probably most , are detained for reasons that would not justify detaining adults accused of crime . Doubtless it is not widely known that preventive detention , which aroused such furore , when it was introduced in the District of Columbia 's adult criminal courts , is universal in , , : the juvenile courts : children everywhere may be detained because someone thinks they are " dangerous . " Many , other children are detained because their parents do n't want them or can not be located . There are few procedural controls over this process of detention , and virtually no effective criteria . There are some exceptions to this pattern . In New York City , for instance , juveniles are represented by a notaby effective system of " law guardians . " Relatively few of them plead guilty , and most are given their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of detention facilities . Many children , if they have no place to go before the courts can hear their cases , are being put temporarily in homes instead of jail-like detention centers . , But nobody is likely to advertise New York City 's juvenile justice system as a model for others to imitate . And this would be true if procedures there were suddenly perfected and made perfectly fair , because the problems of the New York family court system have far less to do with procedures than with power : the kinds of cases the courts hear and the way the cases are disposed of . Characteristic of the prevailing mood among poverty lawyers are two current lawsuits in New York . One challenges as unconstitutionally broad and vague the New York family court 's jurisdiction over juvenile status offenders . New York State 's highest court recently decided that status offenders can not be put in the state 's training schools with juvenile criminals , but the American Civil Liberties Union wants the federal courts to go further and bar status offenses from the courts entirely . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private agencies in New York City in which family courts there place many juvenile delinquents ( as well as status offenders , neglected children and others ) . A report last year , prepared by a highly respected committee chaired by former Family Court Judge Justine Wise Polier , found that these agencies discriminate massively against children who are poor or from racial minorities or afflicted with the worst problems  --  especially those with low IQs and histories of offensive behavior . The new lawsuit , which names eighty-four , defendants , claims that these practices , as well as the agencies ' restrictive sectarian rules , are unconstitutional . The suit argues that , since these agencies are heavily supported , from public funds , they should be considered governmental agencies and not be permitted to discriminate as to whom they will serve . These lawsuits are typical of the current trend in juvenile court litigation , as well as in legislation and administrative reforms . Recent news reports have recorded the use of cages and small , dark , insanitary isolation cells in a private Texas facility for neglected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another private center in Texas by Illinois courts that then disregarded the children 's complaints of cruelty and deprivation . The situation was finally uncovered by poverty lawyers in Chicago , who quickly succeeded in having the children removed . A lawsuit in Texas is challenging a range of practices in that state 's public institutions for delinquent children , including mail censorship , arbitrary controls over hair styles and dress , segregation by sex , absence of privacy , forced menial labor , mandatory attendance at religious services , a lack of due process before discipline is administered , imposition of long periods of solitary confinement , and arbitrary decision as to when a juvenile is released . That suit also demands that children be either effectively " treated " by the facilities or released . New York State has responded to complaints of abuses by creating a system of ombudsmen within the agency responsible for the state 's training schools . This system probably helps a basically progressive youth administrator who wants to introduce important reforms . Reformers argue , however , that an outside , independent ombudsman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be more effective . Like procedural reforms , these attempts to clean up places where juvenile delinquents are put and to make them more humane largely duplicate efforts in the adult criminal justice system . But they probably have a better chance of success than does litigation aimed at improving adult prison conditions , since the public may accept more leniency for children . Also , lawyers can argue that chili dren have a right to better treatment than adult priminals , since they enjoy fewer procedural rights in courts . Still , reformers increasingly recognize that improving institutions for children will not affect the fundamental problem of uncontrolled discretion . There are two basic wayS to reduce juvenile court discretion . One is to limit the broad , sweep of the courts ' jurisdiction . That is the purpose of recent legislation and litigation attacking the courts ' power over juvenile " status offenders . " The other way is to limit the dispositions available to , juvenile courts . Juvenile delinquents , unlike adult criminals , are not subject to more . serious penalties for more serious , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courts is that children who commit crimes should be given " individualized " treatment appropriate to their special needs , regardless of what crime they happen to commit . Matching the penalty to the crime was considered " punitive " or " retributive " and therefore unjust for the very young . But a system of individualized treatment , whereby a truant can be put in a children 's prison while a robber goes free , is now being widely challenged as unjust and arbitrary . The same challenge is being Made also to laws that give judges similarly broad discretion when sentencing adults . In both systems , the proposal to tie the seriousness of penalties strictly to the seriousness of the crime meets the same objection : it is too " rigid " and does n't permit " individualized treatment . " To this objection , the reformers have two retorts . One is that the idea of " individualized treatment " is a cruel fantasy in a system where more than half the children released after a sojourn in training schools are quickly returned to those schools or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more subtle , and more basic , objection relates to the idea of justice . Normally , government in our society does not have the power to force people ' to leave their homes , families and normal lives , and enter an institution for long periods of time because some public official decides that the institution is " good for them " ? even if it is . The question is whether it becomes any more fair to exercise this same power merely because the person put away has broken a law . The issue is more complicated in the juvenile than in the adult system because it is obvious that in some ways children who commit crimes should be treated as children rather than criminals . To take an extreme case , a 6-yearold who regularly sets objects and people on fire is obviously a proper subject for government action , but not because the child is an " arsonist " A 10-year-old who gets into a school-yard fight , even if he starts it , should rarely if ever be brought to court charged with " assault . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ juveniles should not be treated as people who are in general more immature , unformed and dependent than adults . The question is how to recognize the fact of childhood without making it an excuse for official lawlessness . Although there is no way to eliminate entirely the tension between requirements of even-handedness and sensitivity to the individual , the contours of a reasonable , fair and sensible system of juvenile justice may emerge from some principles that are now being defined by litigation and reform movements : ( 1 ) Sharply distinguish between government coercion justified by a need to enforce criminal laws ' and , coercion justified by a need to help children . The consequences of making this distinction are suggested by the other proposed principles . ( 2 ) Make the severity of penalties against children who violate criminal laws vary primarily according to the seriousness of the crime proved . This principle entails giving courts no ' greater power to dispense severe remedies against any individual member of a group than the public demands generally for the group as a whole . That is , courts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a training school because it is rumored that he uses heroin . ( 3 ) Enforce criminal laws against children with as little severity as possible , given the public need to see criminal laws enforced . ( 4 ) Use government coercion profesSedly to help children only on several conditions : that reasonable voluntary solutions to the problem have been ' tried and failed ; that the need for coercion is clearly shown by a serious danger to the child ; that the child is unable to exercise reasonably mature judgment to avoid the danger ; and that a workable remedy is in fact shown to be available to the courts . ' ( 5 ) Again , use the minimum level of coercion likely to eliminate the danger . ( 6 ) Use no coercion against ' juvenile status offenders . Deal with them as delinquent if they commit crimes ; deal with them as children in need , if that is appropriate ; or , most important , provide voluntary services and support that they and their families must have to survive . Otherwise , leave them alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for that matter ) fairly and humanely , but if there is a need to enforce criminal laws against them , do so honestly and not under the pretense that society takes an adolescent mugger away from his parents for the same reason that it removes an abused infant .                     