@@494914

The year 1070 is an anniversary for all kinds of things besides American independence . It marks , for example , the 20th anniversary of the Sou thdalc Shopping Center near Minneapolis , the work of Victor Gruen &; Associates . Southdale has a special place in the history of the Ameriean shopping center ; it marked the debut oh the large , em losed mall , and set a pattern which has been extensively imitated and adapted in the last two decades . The rcY:tonal shopping center is now so ubiquitous , that It is surprising how short a history it actually possesses . All the more reason then , to survey its varieties and social implications , as they become more apparent . Early shopping centers , like so many modern innovations , developed in C a Iifornia during the 1920s and " 30s . Livingthe closing shot of the Indian escaping , with McMurphy now figuratively liberated ; in the first set of urban communities built entirely around the automobile , Californians quickly discovered the advantages of placing groups of stores around or within parking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the- country . Richard Neutra designed a small shopping center for Lexington , Kentucky ; New Jersey had the Big Bear Shopping Centers , built around giant groceries , with parking space for up to 1000 cars . In the ' 30s also , chain and department stores , both vital to the future centers , began to adapt their businesses to the increasingly affluent suburbs and the ever mobile automobile . Until then , retail location in large American cities had been generally a function of existing transportation lines . But as automobile usage spread , downtown location be-came more problematic . " The automobile emancipated the consumer but not the merchant , ' " the Architectnral Forum noted in 10.19 , and well before then firms like Macy 's and Sears Roebuck had begun building in the suburbs or on t he peripheries of metropolitan centers . It was the union of department stores with the older ideal of grouping easily accessible smaller stores that produced the first regional centers. 1 his was supplemented , of course , by the explo-sion of highway construction during the Eisenhower era . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' 60s were the golden era of shopping center construe hon. By the end of the ' cOs more than 10,000 shopping centers of every size and shape had been built . The huge shift of wealth and population to the suburbs guaran-teed their profits . Large department and n stores ? like Hudson 's in Detroit a Dayton 's in Minneapolis ? were eager to get a piece of this action . Instead of simply opening up more branches , department stores began to organize their own centers , hire architects and developers , and get mortgages from life insurance companies , whose huge supply of capital enabled them to influence the suburban landscape as powerf Lilly as their huge downtown sky s ( rapers shaped the center cities . By the middle ' 50s also , developers began to realize t he crucial role of design planning . The department stores were the magnets , their drawing power and placement making or breaking the profits of their smaller neighbors . The straight lines of the early malls , Like John Graham 's Northgate in Seattle , began to yield @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offer a veritable encyclopedia of shopping center forms , Old Orchard in Skokie , and later Oakbrook , opened in 1%2 , contained several department stores and carefully landscaped courtyards , with flower beds , streams , ponds , bridges , fountains and seating areas . The rambling , informal lines of these centers , and the series of differently sized quadrangles , produced a village-like atmosphere , the large size ( sometimes more than one million square feet ) deliberately underplayed . At Mondawmin Shopping Center , in Baltimore , developer lames Rouse used two levels to produce what contemporary critics found to be an intimate , casual setting , something like ' ' a harming market town. - By the late ' 50s two-level centers were increasingly popular ; they cut down on the forbiddingly long walks between stores , a feature of older malls. 24 It the rambling , garden-like centers of the late " 50s and early ' eUs were profitable and inviting to shoppers , the Southdale model was the wave of the future . Gruen concentrated his buildings in a two-level mall , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , benches , so arranging the various spaces to give the impression of downtown bustle . Serenity and village charm were not South-dale 's goals ; instead , it sought a replication of downtown energy , exploiting the concentration that two enclosed levels , each open to the sight of the other , permitted . Precedents existed . Glass-covered arcades like Milan 's GaIleria and London 's Burlington Arcade were familiar to European-born designers like Gruen A few American cities ? Cleveland and Providence among them ? also possessed important arcades . But even nuire exemplary were the courtyards and light wells of American commercial buildings constructed at the turn of the century . Department stores , for example , had courts that were cathedral-like in their boast of space , sometimes topped by stained glass domes . Aware of being surrounded by hundreds of other shoppers , customers made their way in an atmosphere of bustle and activity . This kind of collective drama was what Southdale and many of its successors sought . Shopping centers , Gruen wrote in .1%0 , ' ' can provide the need , place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ancient Greek Agora , the Medieval Market Place and our own Town Squares provided in the past . " The new open spaces , he continued , " must represent an essentially urban environment , be busy and colorful , exciting and stimulating , full of variety and interest . " Thus two levels quickly became standard for most centers along with ramps , escalators , broad staircases and two-level parking lots . Ramps were particularly useful for women shoppers ( the vast majority of customers ) , who could move strollers and high heeled shoes easily up and down the undulating inclines , and catch a maximum view of other shoppers and store fronts . Even more than the verticality , it was the enclosed character of the new malls that delighted their users . Southdale was covered because of cold winters and hot summers , but areas with mild climates also sought temperature control . Marvin Richman , of Chicago 's Urban Investment and Development Company , points out that the continued profitability of open centers like Oakbrook does not diminish the zeal of tenants to move into covered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more of the large open centers constructed , " he concludes . If that is what customers want , that is what they will get . Little at the shopping centers is left to chance . Along with Disneyland they were early experimenters in the separation of pedestrian and vehicular movement , and the isolation of service activities from customers . Ingenious devices handled crowded parking lots , security problems and the normal difficulties of congestion , Logos were adopted and int-orporated into shopping bags , maps and guard uniforms . Graphics and lighting experts facilitated shopping convenience . But nothing was given away , and efforts made only where they could show . Seen from the outside , from its vast acreage of parking lots , the typical shopping center looks like a pile of blocks . The elemental shapes of the center do n't hlen.1 into the landscape ? for there is no landscape to blend into ? but they are not easily separable from it either . The streets are inside , so there is little reason to control facades which abut highways and parked cars . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ma nipula tii in and self- .... onsciousness become clear once the complex has been entered . Piped-in music , pavements designed to cushion noise , forced ventilation , controlled lighting , all screen the customer from distraction and aid his sense of location . The malls and arcades that lead to the main courts , writes an analyst and designer of shopping centers , Louis Redstone , " should strive for an intimate character and subdued atmosphere . The purpose is to have the shopper 's eye attracted to the store displays . " To encourage " shopping interest , " when upper galleries are separated by large spaces , connecting bridges should promise convenient access and " give tempting views of the lower floor . " Everything that goes into the center is organized to enhance the shopping act . " The typical shopper , " according to one designer , " makes no thoughtful judgments concerning good or bad graphics , architecture or space design , He feels good or uncomfortable concerning buying or not buying , staying or leaving . ' ' Thus most shopping centers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seek an envi-onment that will pull people in , keep them there , and encourage them to return . If the end is unambiguous , the setting is not . The desire for variety coexists with an insistence on order ; the marvel of discipline and control yields impulse buying ; the natural environment is destroyed in order to produce a replanted landscape ; indoors and outdoors are blurred through climate control and the conceit of street lamps , trees and occasionally , aviaries and zoos . There are legal as well as environmental ambivalencies . In the past 15 years shopping center owners have had to fight a series of challenges that focus specifically on the public/private , or inside/outside character of their properties . The rights of freedom of speech and assembly , of picketing and distributing pamph lets , are not totally clear . The latest Supreme Court decision split 5-4 , in determining that , in fact , shopping centers were not public thoroughfares but could limit activities normally permitted in public spaces . But it is probably not the last word . The shopping center itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lite . One thrust of modern technology has been to permit and even to encourage acts which were once public and collective to he broken down into more private compartments . The automobile , which took the traveler out of a shared setting and allowed him to move either by himself or with selected companions , has spearheaded these changes , aided by the telephone , radio and television . The potential for social violence , the threat of crime and the nature of racial tensions have also served to limit the number of public occasions for casual mingling . Compartmentalization , however , has inevitably produced reactions . The hunger for great , enclosed spaces that can provide dramatic settings for collective acts can be detected in the many new sports arenas , the Portman hotel interiors , the atriums and courtyards of a number of recent city skyscrapers . Substitutes for streets , which are now so pervasively associated with danger and dirt , nodes of concentration in a sprawl that does not quite satisfy the urban memories of the displaced , the shopping centers permit suburbanites to shop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even orchestra concerts and plays . The designers offer several options . if some suburbanites seek to recall urban glitter and excitement , planners can oblige . Real limitations exist , of course . While all cities are attempts to control chaos , their control is frequently disguised because of the lengthy period of imposition . In the shopping center , artificiality is more obvious because nothing is any older than anything else . There is nothing worn , nothing used ; even the flower beds stay fresh . But when the developer aims unambiguously at an urban mood ? as in Woodfield Moll , near Chicago , or East ridge in San lose ? he produces , with hard materials and bright colors , exciting , dynamic interplays of light , texture and movement : great hanging mobiles , huge open plazas , balconies , ramps and stairways cutting with sharp angles across the empty spaces . From dozens of vantage points the shopper can gaze across what seem to be limitless vistas , depressing when they are empty , but exhilarating when they are filled with active people , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even cities need to recall what they Once were , or are still trying to become . Many have built their own shopping centers , in an effort to retrieve the downtown . Chicago 's new Water Tower Place , beginning its slow unfolding this month , has carried the vertical possibilities of center design to new extremes . The shopping center , that supports a 22-story hotel and 40 floors of expensive condominiums , has seven levels . Seen from the outside its marble , windowless walls ( which conceal the service corridors ) could he housing a warehouse or convention hall . The street is as irrelevant to it as the suburban parking lots are to their centers . Inside , however , after customers arrive by escalators at the mezzanine , they will encounter a seven story courtyard , bulging at the middle floors , crossed by three glass-enclosed elevators . Powerful lights will pick out the prismatic colors of the glass , increasing the sense of movement within the center ; five other small courts , two and three-story , will he scattered through the rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Water Tower Place 's atrium recall another period of Chicago design , the era of John Root and his partner , Daniel Burnham . Root provided , in the Rookery , the Masonic Temple , the Chicago Hotel , the Mills Building in San Francisco , Kansas City 's Board of Trade and the Society for Savings in Cleveland , a series of unforgettable light courts in glass and iron , surrounding delicately banistered staircases and filigreed elevator wells . Passage upward in those elevators , unlike the closed cabs of today , was an exhilarating adventure , playing lights and shadows against one another . " Through the constant interplay of dualities , " writes Donald Hoffmann , Root 's biographer , " of solid and void , structure and space , stasis and kinesis , opacity and transparency , darkness and light , " the architect achieved a vital resolution . With its totally artificial lighting and very different materials it is not vet clear that Water Tower Place can approach the achievement of 19th-century masters like Root . But the effort to try to recapture the lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one . Water Tower Place and Woodfield , centers that are urban in spirit or place , form only one among many varieties . The developers of Water Tower Place have just opened another shopping center , this one in Aurora , Illinois . It maintains the conventions of size and enclosure , its retail space projected at well over one million square feet ; but its very different approach to large space gives it another kind of personality . The Fox Valley Center is almost as large as Woodfield but much less urban in feeling : its use of wood and tile ? in flooring , fixtures , railings and columns ? the subdued earth colors , the controlled scale of its courts and its lighting system , prevent this center from unleashing a sense of overpowering size or energy . The vast distances are disguised , and the center courts divided into two unequal parts , each a studied contrast to the tither . Each department store has its own plaza , but they are or appear to be more intimate than their cubic footage suggests . The shopper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large , dramatic openings , but the wood and the foliage screen and break up the stark vistas , faintly echoing the village-like qualities of the older , open centers like Oakbrook . Not that the " rural " centers are any " softer , " to apply Robert Sommer 's term , any more flexible or responsive to individual needs . These are , on the whole , hard environments , their seating and traffic patterns clearly established and permanently fixed . The shopping itself can be disappointing . Because small , individually-owned businesses do not generally have the capital to relocate here , chain stores and franchises dominate . One shopping center repeats the outlets found in another The music , the fixtures , the forced air can all he dreadful . At certain times of day there is an inertness , a deadness about the centers which no city space ever quite descends to . They are dominated by homogeneous groups ? housewives , older people or teenagers ? and thus lack the human variety of the street scene . And finally there is that single-minded devotion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those critics who prefer to associate architectural innovation with more disinterested planning , and who find closed interiors to be oppressive . But there is little evidence that many customers obiect to the total definition of the shopping center . There may indeed be relief- at the lack of ambiguity , the limits on choice which the environment poses . All the attractions are controlled . One walks from the car to the center , and then tours the shops . Everyone seems there for a reason . Social transactions are simplified and dignified by the spatial drama of the great courts . Aware of the amphibious quality of contemporary American life , the merging of one function or activity into another , the studied informality to so many personal inter-changes , developers have created integrated spaces with multiple uses that can handle anything from the most trivial errand to an evening on the town . It is their capacity for visual surprise and contrast , and their impressive displays of technical virtuosity , that make the shopping centers stand out . The last architectural form that serviced American dreams so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and they relied on decorative detail and costly materials . Architectural fantasy today employs space and lighting rather than electric stylistic quotation . Engineering technologies permit the shopping center to expand the achievement of their true ancestors , the great railroad stations : span a void in metal and glass , and use the proportions to honor the activity within . Space and light have always been luxurious , and few have exploited them as cleverly as the center designers . Conspicuous spatial consumption brings monumental status . In joining modern pleasure in large , unadorned surfaces to an older , baroque theatricality , the best of these buying machines remind us , once again , That the commercial spirit has nurtured much of our most interesting American design . 