@@314863

Disenchantment with ungrateful recipients and competing pressures on the federal treasury have steadily diminished American enthusiasm for helping less fortunate lands . Congress did not deign until the end of January , several months later than usual , to pass the aid appropriation for the present fiscal year . When it finally got around to what was obviously an unwelcome duty , it made the total only $1.8 billion-the smallest amount in the 22 years of foreign aid since the Marshall Plan was launched . Last week , to save foreign aid from withering away , a 16-man presidential task force headed by Rudolph Peterson , retired President of the Bank of America , came up with a series of drastic recommendations for overhauling all aid programs . <P> Peterson 's force would abolish the U.S. Agency for International Development ( AID ) , which now manages most of the assistance programs , and put U.S. aid funds into a pool managed jointly by the U.S. and other major international contributors , notably Western Europe and Japan . The underdeveloped countries getting aid would also have a bigger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divided . ' ' Only a genuinely cooperative program can gain the necessary long-term public support in the U.S. , " the report contended . <P> Unrealistic Objectives . Such a switch might appease many congressional critics of the present program , including Senators William Fulbright and Edmund Muskie , as well as George Aiken , who recently damned the existing scheme as " a diplomatic pork barrel . " It would also help to further lower the U.S. profile in international affairs , as Nixon wants to do . Military aid would be split off entirely from economic and technical assistance , thus ending a longstanding confusion . The U.S. would set up an international development bank , which would have $4 billion in capital and borrowing authority , and a technical-aid institute initially authorized at $1 billion . It would also double the current U.S. annual contribution of $500 million to the World Bank and other international aid institutions . The total outlay of federal funds for foreign economic aid would not necessarily increase at once , but the level of lending would be determined by the U.S. development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Nixon came only a day after word leaked out about a strong critique of U.S. aid programs prepared for Secretary of State William Rogers by the American Ambassador to Chile , Edward Korry . U.S. effectiveness has been impaired , Korry asserted , " by the persistence of inaccurate or outdated assumptions and by the pursuit of unrealistic objectives . " Korry argued : " By not differentiating our development objectives in accordance with realities , we appear to be engaged in developing virtually the entire less-developed world . " Like Peterson , Korry found the answer in joint responsibility by donors and receivers for financing and carrying out aid programs . In substance , the Korry and Peterson reports are similar ; in tone , however , Kerry 's is much more harshly critical of inadequacies in the present aid structure .                     