@@252690

Even as President Nixon was announcing the mining of North Vietnamese ports , the U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. , George Bush , moved to inform the Security Council . According to prescribed protocol , such formal notification is made to the Council president , but this month that regularly rotated position happens to belong to the U.S. representative , namely Bush . Bush ceremonially addressed his letter and then delivered it to himself , informing himself that the U.S. had a legal right to take action under the U.N . Charter 's doctrine of " collective self-defense . " <P> The mildly pointless ritual underscored old questions : Can international law have any real value in limiting armed conflict ? Do the complex doctrines of law simply disguise the fact that might makes right ? Could the doctrines work if they were generally observed-or enforced ? <P> Consider blockades , for instance . Nixon pointedly did not declare a blockade , but he clearly hopes his actions will have that effect . To international lawyers , however , the term blockade has traditionally had a quite specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be enforced by enough ships to police all incoming and outgoing vessels . This " effectiveness " requirement was constructed to end " paper " blockades , such as the one Napoleon declared in 1806 to pressure other nations into ending trade with the British . International maritime lawyers ultimately agreed in the 1856 Declaration of Paris that anyone who wanted to exert such pressure should pay the price of actually maintaining the necessary force . Relatively thin blockades were still attempted , however , notably during the Civil War when the North interdicted 3,000 miles of Southern coastline with 42 ships . <P> Mines are also conceded to be legal weapons under the Hague Convention of 1907 , an early major agreement on the rules of sea warfare . Even so , if they are unanchored , they must self-deactivate within one hour after control over them has been lost ; similarly all anchored mines must be equipped to deactivate if they slip their moorings . The obviously sensible purpose is to prevent armed mines from drifting into international shipping lanes . The Hague Convention also prohibits the mining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sole object of intercepting commercial navigation . " But since mining to block warships is held to justify the blocking of commercial shipping , President Nixon specifically claimed he wanted to prevent " North Vietnamese naval operations . " <P> The situation presents other legal complexities . A U.S. State Department official conceded last week that the Government could cite no precedent from other wars for its action , but he pointed out that the North Vietnamese have also sown mines . The most questionable aspect of the U.S. legal position is the lack of a declaration of war . Writing in 1967 in a military legal journal , Navy Captain Geoffrey E. Carlisle stated that " without a state of war , a blockade of Haiphong would be of doubtful legality . A similar analysis could be made with respect to mining harbors. "                     