@@491316

EARLY in the morning , during a London winter so chill that the water pipes had frozen in her flat , a thirty-year-old woman took two pitchers of milk and some bread up to her two young children so they would have food in the morning , returned to the stark blue-whiteness of her kitchen , lay down to rest with her head in a gas oven , and died . Sylvia Plath , so intelligent and efficient and sensitive , did everything exceptionally well , including both living and dying . Yet beneath the false bravado she felt " like hell. - Just prior to her death she wrote a small body of poems of astonishing pain and power , published posthumously in the volume Ariel , which has already become a modern classic . They portray aspects of the private world of mental illness that led to her unexpected death . Her suicide was a tragedy in the true  --  not the popular sentimental  --  sense , for she was a young woman of large and growing literary and personal stature whose life was cut short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illness . Sylvia Plath 's death was both a literary and a human loss , for she left behind two young children and the aborted promise of poetry yet to be born . The loss is significant enough that it would be worth examining even if it were only as an isolated event . Why did Sylvia Plath die ? Could her suicide have been prevented ? But in fact the suicidal urge has become a modern literary theme . And so has the fact of suicide itself . To the death of Sylvia Plath must he added those of Ernest Hemingway , Hart Crane , Randall Jarrell , Karl Shapiro , William Inge , and John Berryman . The list reads as if it were simply distinguished American writers of the twentieth century . Does her suicide , to any extent , illuminate theirs ? The death of Sylvia Plath seems to have resulted from a complex interaction between personal conflicts , the strain of her creative drive , and recurrent psychiatric illness  --  three factors that hovered over her life and struck with vicious energy during its last months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and weighed . The weight of the evidence suggests that psychiatric illness must be implicated as the primary factor . Role of Personal Factors Superficially , Sylvia Plath 's life reads like an American success story rather than an American tragedy . She was born in 1932 in Winthrop , Massachusetts . Her father , a distinguished zoology professor at Boston University , died when she was nine , and she then moved inland with her mother and younger brother to live in Wellesley with her grandparents . Her mother began to work , teaching secretarial courses at Boston University , while her grandmother ran the household , and her grandfather added further support by working as a maitre d ' at a local country club . Sylvia was a talented girl who combined love of nature with interests in drawing and poetry . While in high school she repeatedly submitted stories to Seventeen magazine , the teenage girl 's major literary outlet in that era , and eventually her stories and poems began to appear in print . An excellent student , she attended Smith College on scholarship . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spent a month in luxury at the Barbizon Hotel meeting such idols as Elizabeth Bowen and Vance Bourjaily . She graduated Phi Beta Kappa and summa cum laude and then went to Cambridge on a Fulbright , where she met and married British poet Ted Hughes . Her persistently successful course was confirmed further when she spent a year as a highly admired teacher at Smith , then decided to write full time , published The Colossus and The Bell Jar , and gave birth to two children during these years as well . People who knew Sylvia commented repeatedly on her efficiency , intelligence , good humor , and ease . She seemed a person with both the determination and the ability to do everything well  --  from winning awards to writing to cooking to rearing children . But beneath her facade of graceful intelligence was hidden an uneasy turbulence , and beneath her success and determination was a driven and uncertain woman . The other side of the story is hinted at in her novel , The Bell Jar , published in 1963 under the pseudonym Victoria Lucas . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of depressive illness in an intelligent young woman . Medical readers can learn more about depression from reading it than from reading many psychiatric texts . To a considerable extent , it draws on details from Sylvia Plath 's own life . But one should be cautious about reading this novel as purely autobiographical . Its heroine , Esther Greenwood , and Sylvia Plath are not precisely the same . The image of the bell jar , which gives the novel its title and provides a unifying theme , implies that Esther 's perceptions are distorted by her illness . This image conveys the impact of psychiatric illness on her emotions and relationships with others . She feels trapped inside the bell jar , much like a curio or a scientific specimen under observation , and she feels stifled and cut off from others . When she looks out and observes people , her perception of them is distorted by the curved glass that her illness has placed around her as it has slowly descended . As this image suggests , Sylvia Plath was aware that she was portraying feelings distorted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was obliged to reshape material drawn from her life to create drama , conflict , and irony . Although one can not therefore extrapolate directly from The Bell Jar to conflicts that Sylvia Plath herself had , two themes run through the novel which may have had some bearing on the actual course of her life and death . These are her sense of loss over her father 's death and her related feeling that her own femininity is somewhat imprisoning . Both of these themes were important components of her psychiatric illness , but they can not be considered as precipitating factors or causes . At best , they can be considered contributory . Loss of Her Father . Both Esther and Sylvia lost their fathers at early ages , and both suffered severe emotional disturbances as young adults . The association between parental loss during childhood and the later development of depressive symptoms has been hypothesized by psychiatrists but never proved . Esther comments in The Bell Jar that she had been her father 's favorite , and it occurs to her that all the happiness in her life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her father with love of the sea , and somehow in his death she sustained a double loss : " My father died , we moved inland . Whereon those nine first years of my life sealed themselves off like a ship in a bottle  --  beautiful , inaccessible , obsolete , a fine , white flying myth " ( " Ocean 1212-W "  - -  a prose essay published in Newman 's The Art of Sylvia Plath ) . Sylvia 's return to visit her father 's grave just prior to attempting suicide , portrayed in The Bell Jar , suggests her desire to recover her loss through death . The other side of the coin , the angry child who wants to renounce her father because of his abandonment and betrayal of her , Sylvia portrayed in the poem " Daddy " ; it was written a few months before her successful suicide and is perhaps the most powerful poem in Ariel . Images of the devil , a sadistic Nazi SS man , and a vampire who has sucked her blood combine to characterize " Daddy . " The pull @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated she intentionally wrote into the poem , is further enhanced by implying that her vampire father returned through her husband to torment her and drain her life . She will finally kill her father , as one must kill a vampire , by sending him back to the grave with a stake in " his fat black heart . " The poem ends with a bitter denunciation : " Daddy , daddy , you bastard , I 'm through . " hopelessness about the future , and inexplicable outbursts of tears . When she returned home to Wellesley , the symptoms worsened markedly , and she suffered from profound apathy , severe insomnia , and a progressively stronger suicidal urge . Except for a distortion of has argued that her successful suicide was intended to be discovered prior to her death and was actually a " cry for help . " In any case , she was very depressed , and adequate treatment might have prevented her death . Endogenous or Reactive Depression ? The extent to which her depression was endogenous or a reaction to personal factors is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available seems to imply that her illness was of the endogenous or psychotic type rather than the reactive or neurotic type . Her depressions were severe , both culminating in serious suicide attempts . Her first depressions responded well to somatic therapy . Her second suicide attempt , which was successful , occurred when she her feelings about other people ( taken alone not at all pathognomonic of schizophrenia ) , she displayed none of the symptoms of schizophrenia such as delusions , hallucina-tions , flattening of affect , or deterioration in thinking . Her symptoms finally culminated in a serious and nearly successful suicide attempt . During her hospitalization she was first unsuccessfully treated with insulin , and then with electrotherapy , to which she responded well . She was able to return to Smith and functioned well enough to graduate summa cum laude and to earn a Fulbright to Cambridge . Classical schizophrenia is rarely compatible with the high levels of intellectual and emotional achievement that Sylvia Plath displayed after her first episode . Depression , unlike schizophrenia , permits a full restitutio ad integrum. but symptoms may recur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course . Sylvia Plath apparently remained well until len years later , when she again experienced depressive symptoms . Writing The Bell Jar may have caused her again to relive the old feelings of hopelessness and despair , and it may have reawakened conflicts about men . Its final pages contain the prophetic statement that the bell jar , with its stifling distortions , may again descend eventually , perhaps somewhere in Europe , suggesting that she could have been struggling with early depressive symptoms as much as a year before her death . In any case , her severe depression during the weeks prior to her death in 1963 was characterized by the same insomnia and suicidal urges that she had experienced during the final stages of her first episode . It may have been milder , for she was able to write prolifically and well , and she possessed enough insight to reach out for help by contacting first a British physician and then her former therapist in Massachusetts . Her friend A. Alvarez had much to live for , such as her two children and her striking creative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were again painfully distorted . Her symptoms , such as her marked terminal sleep disturbance or her sense of nihilism , are the sort that we normally associate with endogenous depression . Thus , Sylvia Plath seems to have suffered from recurrent endogenous depressions . In her particular case , personal factors were of secondary importance , and the cause of her death was a biological or medical ill-. ness , a unipolar affective disorder . Her first episode responded well to medical treatment , and her second probably would also have done so . It seems a cruel twist of fate that when the bell jar descended for a second time , she was alone in London , unable to reach out easily to one source of medical help whom she apparently trusted . Role of the Creative Drive A third factor that must be evaluated for the impact that it had on her life is the role of her creative drive . This factor is of particular interest because of the increased suicide rate among modern American writers . Is there some association between creativity and self-destruction ? If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Or do suicidal urges enhance creativity ? Recent literary explorations of Sylvia Plath 's life and work seem to imply that she drew on her own inner bleakness and death wishes to enhance her creative power . After her death Sylvia Plath was canonized as the patron saint of a school of American poetry known as the " confessional poets . " This group , including the poets Robert Lowell and the late Anne Sexton , made a conscious de-parture from the controlled intellectualism of the T.S . Eliot era and used exploration of personal emotions as its theme . Feelings about parents , reactions to recent life events , and even psychiatric illnesses and hospitalizations were made both public and poetic . The Ariel poems fall strongly into the confessional movement . Sylvia Plath is often thought to have recognized where her flirtation with blackness and death was leading and to have chosen to continue the ride at its intoxicating pace because of the poetic intensity it produced . A. Alvarez , her friend and himself a poet who has attempted suicide , said of the Ariel poems : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These poems are characterized by a courageous exploration of meaninglessness and evil . They usually are seen as a journey into the heart of darkness , running the risk that one may never find one 's way back out . For example , " Nick and the Candlestick " portrays a mother nursing her young son by candlelight . The scene is a lonely one , pervaded by imagery of bats , piranhas , the cannibalism of communion rites , and a flickering candle that may go out at any time . In this dark atmosphere , the baby becomes tae only solid and innocent thing in a malignant universe , and he seems a frail commodity to bear such a burden . In " Edge , " written during the last few weeks of her life , Sylvia imaginatively portrays her own suicide , down to the specific detail of the pitchers of milk provided for the children . The poet indeed draws enormous power from imaginatively living the atmosphere of death and cruelty that pervades the Ariel poems , from daring to confront the possibility that life is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kindness " she says , Risks of the Confessional School . Because she not only found such terrifying visions in herself and expressed them so intensely but also pursued them to their logical conclusion by taking her own life , Sylvia Plath has come to symbolize the risks inherent in the confessional school in particular and in the introspectiveness and honesty required of all good writers . It is tempting for young writers to equate her death with integrity and to admire her for having the courage of her convictions . And it is tempting to assume that exploring gloomy caverns within oneself and having a love affair with the death instinct are admirable sources of poetic power . Again , the record should perhaps be set straight  --  on both literary and medical grounds . W.H. Auden ( that eloquent surviving spokesman of the old order of traditionalism and common sense ) has already in a sense made this point w'len he reviewed A. Alvarez 's The Savage God , an exploration of suicide as a literary theme and to some extent a celebration of the confessional school . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great poetry also results out of achieved moderation and stability . He mentions Frost and Herbert , but one might also think of Milton or Eliot . In any case , the obvious literary moral is that one need not necessarily be " a suffering poet " to be great . The roads to creativity are many , and they include both experiencing and overcoming pain and tension . Ever since the 19th-century surge of romanticism , which has not yet fully receded , there has been a tendency to romanticize and glorify suffering . Good poets know that this is self-indulgent and their poetry is remarkable for its control . Sylvia Plath knew that her suffering resulted from a depressive illness , and she did everything within her power to control it . Her friends testify to her courageous attempts to maintain an appearance of cheerfulness when the bell jar descended . She would , I think , be appalled to discover that many have sought to canonize her as a sacrificial offering to the modern muses . For her life and work , although powerful and filled with intense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as she knew painfully well , the suffering of true endogenous depression is a call from Furies rather than the Muses , a call that " feels like hell " for those so unfortunate as to experience it .                     