@@491331

During the early morning hours of the first Tuesday of September , 111 prisoners , political terrorists , kidnappers , bombers and assassins made a spectacular escape from a maximum-security penitentiary in Uruguay . It was one of the best-planned , best-executed breaks in prison history . Friends of the prisoners , working from the basement of a house across the highway from the penitentiary , carved two forty-foot tunnels under the prison walls . With perfect engineering , they emerged in the target cell , from which the prisoners then scrambled to freedom . Authorities believe they were hauled away in buses . Both the tunnel-builders and 106 of the escapees are members of the Tupamaros , a clandestine revolutionary Marxist group that has been harassing the Uruguayan government for the past eight years . Among the prisoners liberated were all the important Tupamaro leaders , including the organization 's founder , Rail Sendic . The sensational prison break may augur the Tupamaros ' abandonment of kidnapping as a tactic for gaining the release of their members incarcerated by the government . In fact , two days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambassador to Uruguay , whom they had kidnapped eight months earlier . He had been granted amnesty , the Tupamaros said , because they were able to release their own men from captivity . It was the second amazing jailbreak in two months . Last July , thirty-nine Tupamaro women escaped from the women 's jail in the capital , Montevideo , through a tunnel that led from a cell to the city 's sewer system . This further supports that the Tupamaros have capable engineers in their ranks . The Tupamaros ' success with their illicit operations has perplexed authorities . In brilliant moves , they have robbed banks and other heavily guarded enterprises . They have purloined secret files from businesses and courthouses to turn up wrongdoing to embarrass government officials . On November 11 , 1970 , nine machine-gun-wielding Tupamaros , including four women , brought off the biggest robbery in the nation 's history . The gang kidnapped three officials of Uruguay Bank of the Republic . used them to force guards to open the bank at night , then took three and one-half hours going through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fleeing near midnight . One bank employee left with them , apparently willingly . He may have been an accomplice . The loot was a cool $6 million in gems and $48,000 in cash . Earlier , a team of Tupamaros overcame watchmen at a tobacco company and carried off a safe containing 441 pounds of gold , which at the then official world price of $35.27 an ounce , was worth 5250,000 . Until the jewelry heist , it was Uruguay 's biggest theft job . Tupamaros set fire to the General Motors building in Montevideo , causing $1 million in damage . The raid came as a protest over New York Governor Nelson Rockefeller 's fact-finding trip to Latin America at the behest of President Nixon . Two Tupamaros , carrying machine guns and disguised as policemen , overcame watchmen , then sprayed G.M. offices and cars with a hose attached to a gasoline pump . They left leaflets which protested / the visit of " an agent of Yankee imperialism " and accused the auto firm of selling cars to police " for repression of Uruguayan students . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to change the place of-his talks with Rockefeller from the capital to the heavily-guarded resort of Punta del Este . Rockefeller at no time entered Montevideo on that trip . Even more baffling is the success Tupamaros have had in kidnapping and holding prominent hostages hidden for lung periods of time without detection , even though practically the entire law-enforcement apparatus was mobilized to find them . The most startling case took place in the summer of 1970 when Tupamaros kidnapped and later killed American police official Dan Mitrione , who had been conducting a seminar in modern law-enforcement for Montevideo 's constabulary . He was seized in a fruitless effort to exchange him for In a series of kidnappings , the guerrillas have demonstrated brilliant planning and swift , bold action . the release of Tupamaros imprisoned by the government - the same ones later freed in the tunnel-escape job . Tupamaros ignored pleas from all over the world to spare him , including one " in the name of God " by Pope Paul VI . The revolutionaries " executed " Mitrione , and the shock of his death rattled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was demonstrated in the Jackson kidnapping . Wearing masks , they rammed his car , battered two of his guards to the ground with clubs , dragged the chauffeur from his seat , took the wheel and sped off with the Briton in the back seat . In a feint , other revolutionaries broke into the home of a U.S. Army officer , held him and his wife captive until just before the British envoy was to be abducted , then called police , who raced to the suburban area to rescue the Americans . By that time their captors had fled . Despite a reward offer of $50.000 and England 's efforts through Oliver Wright , its top trouble-shooter , to maneuver his release  --  including an attempt to get Chilean President Salvador Allende to intervene  --  Jackson , in eight months of captivity , was not found . A Tupamaro letter said he had been sent to " the people 's jail . " Failure to locate him led to the resignation of InTHE // terior Minister Antonio Francese , who had advocated refusal to negotiate with the kidnappers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jorge Pacheco Areco , who was elected vice president and then became chief executive when President Oscar Daniel Gestido died in office , has taken a hard line against the Tupamaros , whom he calls " common criminals . " Both in 1970 and this year , at his request , Congress suspended constitutional rights , first for twenty and then for forty days . The present government has had fifty-six cabinet changes in four years . When the President closed down the leftist paper Extra , there was a furor in Congress . The lower house , the House of Deputies , voted to impeach the President but failed to obtain the required two-thirds majority to oust him . In July , 1970 , Tupamaros abducted Aloysio Dias Gomide , Brazilian consul . Six months later his wife Aparecia collapsed , exhausted , in Rio de Janeiro after unsuccessful attempts to raise the $1 million ransom Tupamaros demanded . Gomide was eventually set free . apparently after the terrorists accepted $250,000 in tribute . Last January 12 , Tupamaros killed Uruguayan police detective Jose Leandro Villalaba on his way home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been slain by them . A bizarre case was the kidnapping of Amer-ican agronomist Claude Fly , sixty-five . who was abducted August 7 , 1970 , as he worked at the laboratory of the Uruguayan Agricultural Ministry Research Building outside Montevideo . He had a history of heart trouble . During his incarceration , Fly wrote to his family that he was being held in a tiny wire cell , " seeing no daylight . knowing no time of day or week , neither hearing nor reading current news  --  virtually suspended in time and space . " Last March , after seven months of captivity , lying on a stretcher and suffering from a heart ailment , Fly was deposited at the gates of a hospital near downtown Montevideo . Hospital physicians estimated that he had had a cardiac attack some eight or ten days before . Among their other successes , Tupamaros frightened off masses of Argentine tourists , who comprise 90 percent of Uruguay 's tourist trade , by warning them to stay away . Many Argentines who ignored the threat complained that Uruguayan police treated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tourists were dismayed at the sight of police snipers on downtown Montevideo roofs . Tourist director Armando Matos said the number of visitors to Uruguay declined almost 50 percent in the first six months of this year . But who are the Tupamaros and what are they after ? Information on them is scanty because those who are captured are imprisoned and the Uruguayan press publishes nothing about them . It is against the law to mention their name in the papers . They must be referred to as " seditionists " and " criminals . " One foreign journalist , Julio Camareno , a Spaniard . was detained for four days after having reputedly obtained an interview with a Tupamaro . Furthermore , Tupamaros have never specifically outlined what they would do if they took power . Castro 's Cuba seems to he their nearest political ideal and it is believed that many Tupamaro leaders underwent intensive guerrilla training in Cuba in 1968 . What is known is that the National Liberation Front was formed in 1963 as a rural movement by Sendic , a law student and former farm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sendic in 1962 led the first of what have become annual marches of sugar workers on Montevideo . Sendic was arrested August 7 , 1970 , when police raided a house where he and six other guerrilla chieftains were holding a war council . He has been at large since being freed in the prison break last September . Members of the National Liberation Front became known as Tupamaros , a name derived from Ttipac Amaru II , a Peruvian Inca who attempted to overthrow Spanish rule in 1780 . With an ill-equipped Indian army , he managed to take all of what is today Bolivia . and parts of Argentina and Peru . After crushing his revolt , the Spaniards cut out Ttipac Amaru 's tongue and then had his body pulled apart by horses . Why the Tupamaros took as their hero an Indian who tried to drive from his soil tyrannical , foreign white men is a question behaviorists will have to answer . Tupamaros are white men lighting other white men who are their countrymen and who were chosen in free elections . Perhaps they simply identify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Tupamaros use as a symbol the initial " T " within a live-pointed star . Tupamaro leaders believe in the Cuban-inspired theory that only armed revolt started in rural areas can bring economic and social change in Latin America . But the movement shifted to Montevideo when its leaders became convinced that rural guerrilla action was doomed to failure . When Ernesto ( Che ) Guevara , the Argentine revolutionary who helped Castro come to power in Cuba , was captured and executed in 1967 while trying to topple the Bolivian government , wide dis-may was felt throughout the revolutionary left . Guevara , theretofore idolized as a successful revo-lutionary , had failed at his own game  --  revolution . Those Tupamaros who believed urban , rather than rural , guerrilla warfare was the key to revolu-tionary success were strengthened in that view by Cite 's disastrous experience as a rural guerrilla . It is debatable whether Guevara failed because rural guerrilla warfare simply wo n't work in South America , or because , as an Argentine educated in cosmopolitan Buenos Aires , he was a foreign white urbanite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Whatever the cause , he failed , and nothing in revolutions fails so much as failure . Che continues to serve as a sort of holy ghost of the revolutionary movement insofar as his ideas on organizing society go . But as a strategist and tactician he 's been bracketed with General Custer . The Tupamaros do not seek a large number of active followers , and it is estimated that their total active membership is around 1,500 . They believe that Uruguay 's laboring class has developed a bourgeois attitude and can not be recruited in large numbers into this movement . Some observers think the Tupamaros are correct in this view . The theory is that as a society becomes educated , democratic and satisfied in its very essential needs , it is inclined to promote reform rather than revolution . The deprived groups tend to organize along class and political lines and then campaign for a fairer distribution of the wealth  --  in so doing , accepting the same values as do the more affluent sectors of the society . In other words , once one starts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better job , one does n't remain engrossed in revolutionary thoughts . Tupamaros , however , do not fit the stereotype of the shabby revolutionary who can be distracted by material lures . They are not the " nothing-to-lose " kind of people who are always considered dangerous to society . The terrorists recruit mostly from Uruguay 's professional class  --  doctors , skilled laborers , engineers , bank workers , electric and radio technicians  --  from the effective and the elite . It is believed they have heavily infiltrated government agencies , including the one that administers electric power . The head of the power agency , a friend and adviser of the President , has been kidnapped twice , once from his seaside house and again from a dentist 's chair . Further , when Uruguay 's Attorney General Guido Berre Orribe was kidnapped for " a short chat " last March , it was after he had reported his telephone out of order . Two Tupamaros dressed as telephone repairmen from the power company went to his home and seized him . He was released two weeks later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their surroundings during captivity as having been sunless , extremely hot and buzzing with the sound of noisy ventilators . This leads authorities to believe now they were held underground . Montevideo has no subway , but there are many tunnels under the city for water and sewer pipes , steam conduits and electrical and telephone cables . An underground captivity would explain why authorities searching the surface never found the hostages . But why all this trouble in Uruguay ? For years this smallest of South American countries might have been personified as a respectable , middle-class citizen going about his legitimate business , doing little to attract unfavorable attention . Apparently well-ordered and content , Uruguay has enjoyed its reputation as the " Switzerland of the Western Hemisphere . " It has remained tucked away , comfortable , removed from the mainstream of , world events . Like the Swiss , the Uruguayans have had a deep-rooted democracy , orderly social progress and the sort of smugness that comes from not having engaged in a shooting war , civil or otherwise , for many years . It might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pleasant and trouble-free land have , at the same time , ill-equipped it to cope with internal problems . Observers suggest that perhaps Uruguay has become " too civilized for its own good . " The Purple Land , as British author W.H. Hudson once called it because of the exotic wildflowers which abound throughout its grassy plains , has few of the built-in troubles common to most South American countries . It is prime real estate , with no expanses of unproductive wilderness , no ethnic underdogs , no suppressed religious minorities , no church-state conflicts and no grinding poverty . It has an estimated 2.8 million population , almost totally Caucasian , primarily of Spanish origin . As in Argentina , there has been considerable Italian immigration , but this has merely flavored the country 's Latin stock . Indians , who originally inhabited the area , are virtually nonexistent today . There are few Negroes because Uruguay never had slavery . Other advantages are a temperate climate conducive to work and progress ; over 90 percent literacy ( highest on the continent ) ; a large middle-class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explosion ( expansion rate of 1.4 percent ? the continent 's lowest ) ; a homogeneous population ( no strong racial or religious minorities ) and , unlike most of South America , no domination by the military . Uruguayans credit their firm belief in civilian government for the absence of army leverage in their affairs . They have been able to keep the military small through historical happenstance - the two titans of South America , Argentina and Brazil , want Uruguay as a buffer state between them . in short , Uruguay can afford the luxury of a small army because the two giants on its borders wo n't let each other , or any other nation , invade it . Uruguay has what relatively few nations can contemplate , a sort of guaranteed national security . The country 's official name is Republica Oriental de Uruguay " Oriental " meaning Eastern . Bounded on the north and northeast by Brazil , on the southeast by the Atlantic Ocean , and the south and west by Argentina , from which it is separated by the Uruguay River , it possesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Nebraska . Some two-fifths of the 2.8 million Uruguayans live in Montevideo , the country 's only large city . Uruguay is a grass-growing land with over 70 percent made up of permanent pastures and meadows  --  one of the few areas in the world where sheep and cattle can graze together . There are few mineral deposits , and little coal or petroleum . Unlike many other South American lands , which seek to achieve advanced industrialization by development of their natural resources , Uruguay is perforce an animal-husbandry nation . The cattle industry provides meat , meat extracts , hides and skins for domestic and foreign markets . Sheep are raised primarily for wool , 90 percent of which is exported . That " Cattle is king " shows up in the people 's diet . Among the most carnivorous people in the world , Uruguay 's annual consumption of meat is 220 pounds per person . Meat-packing plants , until 1969 , allowed their workers to buy five pounds of prime beef a day for less than one-tenth of a cent ; much of this was resold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers ' way to combat terrible inflation . The end of distribution of meat to workers caused strikes at the packing plants . When not eating beef or lamb in steaks and chops , Uruguayans partake of meat stews , such as hearty puchero , often elegantly served in a half a pumpkin . Carnonada criolla is another chunky meat stew , laced with various fruits  --  whatever is in season . Pavesa , a rich soup , is made of beef and beef bones , and has a poached egg in each portion . So meat oriented are Uruguayans that they generally disregard seafood , although it is available , fresh and tasty . The national drink is mate , a form of tea . Although the heavy protein diet might appear unbalanced to Americans , Charles Darwin , in his Voyage of the Beagle , observed that Argentine gauchos ate only meat and drank only mate , but were loaded with energy . As do most South Americans , Uruguayans eat dinner late , between 8 and 10 p.m . Eating earlier is considered gauche . Uruguayans are friendly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Argentines . Uruguayans often have individual Argentines as good friends , but profess not to like them as a people . Uruguayans consider Argentines to be rather stuffy . One gag is that a profitable business would be to " buy an Argentine at his actual value and then sell him for what he thinks he 's worth . " Part of the difficulty may be that constant familiarity with Argentine tourists has bred contempt , as in the attitude of Parisians toward Americans . Uruguayans consider themselves cerebral , and become passionate only about such important things as love or a soccer game . As soccer aficionados , they take second place to none . It 's a matter for celebration when national teams whip those of other nations . A contradictory aspect of Uruguayans ' character is their tremendous collective concern for social laws and economic security while at the same time conducting their personal affairs with a " no thought for the morrow " philosophy . As a nation , they are planners ; as individuals , they tend toward spontaneity  --  to live in the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which literally means " alive , " but comes out as " taking advantage of any situation . " Many Uruguayans think it 's vivo not to wait one 's turn at the movie-house queue or at the store . Nor would they think it immoral not to pay a bill when demand for payment is n't made because of a bookkeeping error . Yet the same Uruguayan will sacrifice all luxuries to pay back a friend . In the manner of most Latin Americans , they consider a friend and an institution two different entities , the former deserving of all consideration and the latter meriting only that which it is strong enough to exact . The same man who would try to wring two welfare checks from the government would chase a person three blocks to return a dropped wallet . Women have full political and civil rights and are active in the professions , politics and civil service . But the male is boss in the man-woman relationship . The women seem to like it that way . They say they want a man to look up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of American men  --  mustered mostly from American movie and television scenarios  --  is that they are wishy-washy and henpecked . Some 90 percent of Uruguayans are Roman Catholics , but French liberalism runs strong in the professorial class . Many of the intellectuals are agnostics , or feign to be . But even these seem to have a " take no chances " philosophy : The priest is generally called to administer the last rites when that moment comes . Another paradox is that Uruguay , one of the most democratic-minded nations of the world , has , as its literary patriarch , Francisco Acuna de Figuera ( 1790-1862 ) , a monarchist who satirized the movement of independence . Despite Uruguay 's many inherent advantages , recent events have shaken her profoundly . When the world market for meat and wool began to drop in 1953 , the Uruguayans felt it immediately . Since the big national industries of cattle and sheep raising employ , directly or indirectly , a third of the nation 's work force , a thriving middle class that was used to government subsidy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it demanded make-work policies which led to even worse inflation . Now the middle class is discontented , There are still not many poor  --  but they remain poor . There 's no upward mobility for them , nor for the middle class either , rather a downward slide for eighteen years . Since 1968 the President has imposed wage and price controls and has used the army to break strikes . Between March , 1967 , and May , 1968 , the Uruguayan peso underwent five devaluations and the cost of living rose 136 percent . Wages of government employees are adjusted periodically but lag badly behind price hikes . Citrus fruits became so expensive that lemons were sold by the slice . Many shopkeepers find it tiresome to change tags every day as inflation soars . There 's been a rise in vivismo as the economy squeeze continued from page 139 worsens . Checks bounce from customers and some patrons do n't pay at all . Meanwhile , despite the need for a major reduction in government spending , unions  --  most of whose leaders are Communists  --  press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not updated its breeding methods . In the United States a head of cattle can be matured in two and one-half years on good fodder ; in Uruguay it takes four . They do n't have the foreign exchange to buy modern equipment and fertilizer . United States aid of some $35 million a year aims at gradually increasing the productivity of Uruguay 's farms and ranches , but experts consider this a drop in the bucket . Uruguayans are starting to leave the country in the belief they can do better almost anywhere else . Mostly they go to Venezuela , where there are jobs . Some sociologists have the theory that when deprived people are exposed to television and given a chance to see how the middle class lives , they begin demanding a bigger slice of the economic pie . But it 's a different kind of discontent in Uruguay , based not on a new desire for what one never had , but on longing for a return to the way of life most people did have , but lost . Such discontent is even more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Uruguayan housewife tells that she and her husband had a house and a car of which they were most proud . Inflation riddled her husband 's salary until they had to sell the car in order to split their home so that they could take in paying tenants . They keenly resent t he downward trend in their economic life , feeling that the longer one works , the less one can buy . They remember how it used to be , and they want it that way again . They , and many other Uruguayans , seem to be looking for some sort of leader who could take them back to the good old days . But Uruguay 's government has an elaborate web of parliamentary precautions to dilute the powers of any would-be strong man . In its civilized efforts to protect itself from despots , it seems to have made dramatic leadership impossible . Political stability in Uruguay was established during the presidency of Jose Battle y Ordoliez , the nation 's greatest historic figure . Don Pepe , as he was popularly known , was president from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noble sentiments . The first welfare-stater to come to power in the Americas , he abolished capital punishment , gave the people an eight-hour day , a minimum wage , old-age pensions and paid vacations . He slapped taxes on capital , real estate , horse racing and luxury sales . He made education free , nationalized public utilities , meat packing , fish processing , alcohol and oil . Because of Don Pepe , a peon could come to the city and find work if he could no longer find work with the landed gentry . Don Pepe accomplished all this without one rigged election or one political murder . His successors carried his welfare concepts further and further . In its foreign policy , Uruguay has generally gone along with the United States . Communist party membership has never been strong in Uruguay but Communists are well organized . Geared to Moscow , not Peking , in 1960 they led a general strike in which 90 percent of the country 's labor unions joined . The twenty-four-hour stoppage demonstrated Communist organizational ability . Fidel Castro 's seizure of power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1961 , leftists tried to break up a meeting of 3,000 anti-Castro demonstrators and fighting spread for twenty blocks in downtown Montevideo . More than fifty persons were apprehended during the street battles and police later raided Communist Party headquarters , arresting 161 persons who had taken refuge there . Two days later the government ordered the Cuban ambassador and the Soviet Embassy 's first secretary out of the country , charging them with having instigated the disturbances . Today , the Moscow-oriented Communists favor a common front with other parties of the left to remove , by electoral processes , the present government . Despite the Tupamaro successes , the mass of Uruguayans do not think the revolutionaries can win with these tactics . The people who are discontent with the government - and this seems to include a majority of the under-thirty group  --  look to the elections scheduled for November 28 for a possible change in the administration of Uruguay 's affairs . Leftist groups not associated with the Tupamaros have banded together in the " Broad Front " ? a political coalition which hopes to duplicate the manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the electoral process , The Broad Front has settled upon General Liber Seregni Musquero as its candidate . The Front 's platform includes breaking up the large cattle and sheep ranches and converting them into cooperatives , nationalizing all banking , and renegotiating Uruguay 's $500 million foreign debt . In foreign affairs , the Front would develop solidarity with other " anti-imperialist " nations meaning other anti-U.S . governments . The Front 's candidate says it is neither socialist nor Marxist , but it draws its support from the small Christian Democratic Party , the Communists , the Socialists and five Marxist groups splintered oft from the two traditional parties . The traditional parties , the Colorados ( reds  --  no connection with Communism ) and the Blancos ( whites ) have existed since immediately after Uruguayan independence . Uruguayans have tended to vote Colorado or Blanco as a matter of tradition , because their fathers voted one party or the other . To an outsider , there does n't seem to be much difference between the parties ; both are democratic and welfaristic with the Blancos somewhat more conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power for an unsually long stretch , from 1865 to 1958 . The present administration is Colorado . Under Uruguay 's Constitution , the President was prohibited from succeeding himself . But the Constitution provides means for its own amendment by referendum , if enough signatures are obtained on petitions asking for a change . President Pacheco 's supporters last May gathered a sufficient number of names so that he will legally appear on the ballot November 28 by referendum . If the majority support the referendum , he will be declared reelected . Both major parties are split . and it is expected that between them they will field five candidates for President . Whatever the outcome of the election , The Purple Land , the " Switzerland of the Western Hemisphere " has obstacles towering as formidable as the Swiss Alps . 