@@285568

A long step was taken last week toward the still-distant goal of providing the U.S. with a virtually limitless source of energy . In Washington , the new Energy Research and Development Administration issued a draft " environmental statement " * detailing the environmental impact of a large , advanced fusion test reactor . ERDA 's action made it clear that the U.S. is determined to harness nuclear fusion , the process that feeds the fires of the sun and gives H-bombs their awesome power . If all goes well , the $215 million test reactor , to be built on the Forrestal campus of Princeton University , will go into operation in the early 1980s . <P> Repulsive Charges . To meet that deadline , U.S. scientists , starting with a technique devised in the Soviet Union , will have to develop an almost entirely new technology . Unlike nuclear fission - the splitting of a heavy atom into two lighter ones-fusion occurs when two light atoms collide and merge into a heavier one . The reaction releases considerably more energy than fission . Starting the chain reaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's nuclear reactors is relatively easy ; basically , all that is required is the bringing together of enough fissionable uranium or plutonium in the right shape . The neutrons emitted by these naturally radioactive elements then begin the self-sustaining chain reaction . <P> Fusion , on the other hand , requires extreme pressure and temperatures as high as 100 million degrees . Under these conditions , the nuclei of light atoms are energized ( or speeded up ) enough so that they can overcome their mutually repulsive electrical charges , collide and fuse . In the hydrogen bomb , the necessary pressures and temperatures are produced by first setting off a fission explosion . Controlling and containing fusion will be vastly more difficult , but scientists believe that the Russian-invented Tokamak ( for " Toroidal Kamera Magnetic " ) system can be developed into a practical and safe reactor . <P> Inside the Princeton doughnut-shaped Tokamak , deuterium and tritium ( both isotopes , or different forms , of hydrogen ) will serve as fusion fuel . In the form of a plasma ( a high-temperature , ionized gas ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus the gas will be supported by nothing but magnetic force and will be insulated from the steel walls of the reactor . If the plasma touched the wall , the wall would be heated , the plasma would be contaminated and its temperature lowered . The powerful magnetic fields will be manipulated to squeeze the plasma , raising its temperature and increasing the pressure upon it . The plasma will be made even hotter by an electric current generated inside it by another magnetic field and by a beam of deuterium atoms shot into it . These combined effects should raise temperature and pressure high enough in about a tenth of a second to begin fusion of the deuterium and tritium nuclei . The scientists ' major goal : to come close to producing as much fusion energy during one of these periods as is used to power the Tokamak during the same time .                     