@@318718

THE ENDURANCE OF " FRANKENSTEIN " Edited by George Levineand U.C. Knoepflmacher ; University of California ; 341 pages ; $16.95 <P> Of all the imaginary monsters that have lurched forth in the past two centuries , none has frightened more people more often than the one sparked into life by the idealistic scientist Victor Frankenstein . Dracula retains his bite , to be sure , and has flapped into current vogue on stage and screen . But the overtones of the thirsty count 's exploits are chiefly sexual , leading to titillation rather than thought . That is not true of Frankenstein 's man-made man-monster . He troubles the mind because he is a projection of the mind , a soaring ambition shockingly embodied in flesh . Mary Shelley 's Frankenstein ( 1818 ) appeared well before Freud , well before the technologies of organ transplants and genetic tinkering that make the laboratory creation of life ever more plausible . Yet the young author , only 19 when she began her tale , guessed horrible possibility that increasingly haunts the modern mind . It is not just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working at its loftiest pitch can do the same job just as well . <P> Such speculation may seem lugubrious to those who know the monster only through Boris Karloff ' s film impersonations or through such burlesques as the TV sitcom The Munsters and Mel Brooks ' Young Frankenstein . As this collection of twelve essays suggests , though , Mary Shelley 's novel is a surprisingly open-ended source of disturbing , even terrifying implications . Its awkwardness and philo sophical uncertainties mark Frankenstein as the first and most powerful modern myth , not a pure Jungian river flowing through the collective unconscious but a polluted industrial spillway . <P> Biography alone can never explain leaps of imagination , but the facts of Mary Shelley 's life do point toward the direction she took . She was the daughter of Mary Wollstonecraft , an author and pioneering feminist who died of a retained placenta eleven days after little Mary 's birth in 1797 . Her father was William Godwin , a novelist and Utopian planner . Despite his free-living principles , Godwin acted outraged as any bourgeois papa when Mary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shelley . In Percy , the impressionable Mary found a dreamer like her father , but several times larger than life . She absorbed much of his apocalyptic optimism and encyclopedic learning . She also took time to ponder the casualties that Shelley 's blithe spirit left in its wake . In the year before she began Frankenstein , she bore Shelley a daughter who lived less than two weeks . She confided a heartbreaking vision to her journal : " Dream that my little baby came to life again , that it had only been cold , and that we rubbed it before the fire , and it lived . Awake and find no baby . I think about the little thing all day . " Not long after Mary started her novel , Shelley 's abandoned first wife Harriet committed suicide .                     