@@494878

As the facts leading to the alert of our armed forces on the night of October 25 seep out , disturbing questions are surfacing on the man ? ner in which critical national security matters are decided . At his press conference the following noon , Secretary of State Kissinger , when pressed to defend the President 's action , said that it had been taken at 3 am at a special meeting of the National Security Council , that the members were unanimous in their recommendations , and that Mr. Nixon had joined the deliberations after the collective judgment had been formed . At least the earlier phases of the alert , however , appear to have been put into effect before midnight . White House records do not list any meeting of the NSC on either October 24 or 25 . Kissinger initially pledged to provide a full account of events as soon as the emergency had passed . Now , a month later , he has re ? neged on the promise of disclosure , so we are left with selected leaks and the familiar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security as the pretext for secrecy . And yet the important ques ? tions may not be whether there was too much secrecy or whether the NSC did formally recommend the alert to the President , but rather whether the nature of the crisis " warranted alerting all our armed forces , including those for delivering strategic nuclear weapons , and whether the national security policy mechanisms operate in a way that facilitates a responsible decision by the President . First , look at the alert itself , which put all US forces in what is known as Defense Condition 3 . The Strategic Air Command as well as the 82nd Airborne Division at Fort Bragg , which might have had some role in policing a Middle Eastern cease-fire , were placed in a more advanced state of readiness . Why ? The President 's answer was that the alert was an indication " to the Soviet Union that we could not accept any unilateral move on their part to move military forces into the Middle East . " But our strategic nuclear forces are always in a state of readiness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a moment 's notice ; more than 50 percent of our Polaris submarines are at sea prepared to fire their missiles on order ; and enough interconti ? nental bombers are parked near the runways prepared to take off loaded with sufficient H-bombs to annihilate the Soviet Union on less than 15 minutes ' , warning . It is well known that the intelligence organizations keep careful watch on a wide variety of Russian activi ties , by satellites and by electronic means . Indicators of possible Soviet actions are precisely catalogued , so that in an emergency the President will be in the best position to evaluate what the Russians might do . In this instance the official explanation was that Washington had evidence that Soviet airborne troops had been placed on standby alert ( this was not new , it had been observed previously during the Middle East conflict ) , and that in addition at 10:40 pm on October 24 , Washington had received a second Brezhnev note , termed by some as brutal and by the President in the following terms : " It was very firm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what he intended . " This was the note Kissinger implied he would make public when the emergency was over , but which has been withheld . It is reported by those /who claim to have seen the text that after urging that joint US-Soviet military contingents be sent to compel observance of the cease-fire , Brezhnev stated : " If the US and the USSR did not act together , we should be faced with the necessity urgently to consider the question of tak ? ing appropriate steps unilaterally . " This was an im ? plied threat , but only in the event of continued US un ? willingness to act jointly . The primary thrust of the note was to get some quick action that would prevent the Israelis from engulfing the Egyptian Third Army before the agreed-to cease-fire could become effective . Some US response to Brezhnev was required , but the alerting only of our airborne troops might have been a more prudent signal . And use of the " hotline " ? strangely silent during the entire night ? would have been a more direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Nixon and Brezhnev are as cordial as claimed . Did the Soviet note warrant raising the signal deci ? bels to the nuclear level ? Secretary Kissinger has stressed that nuclear nations must take special precau ? tions against escalation , and last June Nixon and Brezhnev formally agreed " that an objective of their policies is to remove the danger of nuclear war and the use of nuclear weapons . " The last thing anyone should want is the introduction of nuclear weapons into the Middle East ; the risks are immense enough when only conventional weapons are involved . Furthermore , sending out a nuclear signal in this situation devalued its impact in any future confrontation where the signal might be more appropriate . Had the Soviet Union en ? gaged in similar nuclear brinkmanship , the US would have been properly indignant . Rumors that the Rus ? sians had moved nuclear weapons to Egypt fortunately have not been confirmed , but in the aftermath of the US nuclear signal , Mohammed Hassanein Heikal , the influential editor of Al Ahram , called for an Egyptian nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have had since the Cuban confrontation in 1962 , " the President said , in a bit of hyperbole which available facts do not sup ? port . If he thinks so , however , one should analyze hisactions and those of his chief advisers in that light . Who was making the decisions that evening ? The only two statutory members of the NSC were Secretary of State Kissinger and Secretary of Defense Schlesinger . Admiral Moorer , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , General Haig , the White House chief of staff , and Director of CIA Colby were also present some of the time . Kissinger was there also as the President 's na ? tional security adviser : David Binder of The New York Times has quipped that the NSC consisted of Kissinger , Kissinger and Schlesinger . He might have gone further and said that security policy is made by Kissinger and Kissinger . This is not a team designed to provide Mr. Nixon with a broad spectrum of opinion ; it is not sur ? prising that Kissinger was able to say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nor is it even a " team " that gives assurance that the Foreign Relations Committee of the Senate will be permitted to know why keys national security decisions are made . Secretary Kissinger has been having some ? thing of a honeymoon with the committee ; yet when he appeared before it in executive session recently , he dodged questions that were put to him about the alert order . Most incredible was the absence of the President himself from these NSC discussions . He seems to have stayed in his room upstairs , being kept informed by phone or by person ? l reports from Kissinger of what was being done in the White House basement . Whatever the subject or its urgency , the President ap ? pears to be psychologically incapable these days of face-to-face discussion with more than two or three aides . In the 1962 Cuban missile crisis , to which Mr. Nixon has compared the recent Middle Eastern con ? frontation , President Kennedy met again and again with advisers of widely different backgfounds and points of view over a period of more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy quite different from that originally proposed , one which brought us through the crisis and forced the Soviets to withdraw their missiles . Granted Kennedy may have had more time than was available to Mr .. Nixon on the night of October 24-25 , but the Middle Eastern storm had been blowing up for nearly three weeks . On the night it hit , the President did not see fit to participate in talks that led to the alerting of our nuclear forces , never took the opportunity to hear firsthand the views of an admit ? tedly narrow group of advisers nor to ask the hard questions which should have been answered before such a step was ordered . The reactions of America 's allies seem to have been completely overlooked . It is sometimes argued that the country can not afford the impeachment or resignation of President Nixon because of the very special responsibility he has for national security decisions . The question for the pub ? lic and Congress is : can the country afford a President who makes those decisions in the way they were made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brezhnev 's passage to India should be viewed as an international rather than a bilateral event . For Brezhnev 's goal in Asia matches his objectives in Europe and elsewhere ? to encourage broad relationships that he hopes will replace the regional coalitions developed under US auspices during the Cold War , and , in the process , increase Soviet influence in world affairs . It is doubtful whether Brezhnev expected Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to join him in an Asian " collective security " arrangement , an idea he floated more than four years ago , dropped , and has only recently revived . He must have been forewarned that the Indians are concerned with strengthening their frayed ties with the Chinese , against whom his project is aimed , and thus he played down the notion . Instead he bolstered the Soviet Union 's friendship treaty with India , signed during the Indo-Pakistan war two years ago , with a rather generous economic agreement . It is anticipated that Brezhnev or other Russian leaders will travel to other parts of Asia in the months ahead to deliver the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of headway in Southeast Asian countries like Thailand and the Philippines , which were formerly close to the US . They have maintained a foothold in Pnompenh despite their theoretical sympathy for the Cambodian insurgents , and there are signs that they might welcome a link with Chiang Kai-shek 's Nationalists on Taiwan . Although their recent negotiations with the Japanese were unsuc ? cessful , largely because of territorial issues left over from World War II , they have not ruled out the prospect of a closer connection with Japan . - If Soviet dreams are fulfilled , this diplomatic offensive will result in the dissolution of such groupings as the SOutheast Asia Treaty Organization and the neutralization of that part of the world . The Russians are pursuing a similar policy in Europe through somewhat different means . There they prefer to deal with Western Europe as an appendage of the US , and , in that respect , they are more or less on the same wavelength as Henry Kissinger . Their purpose is to prevent the West Europeans from becoming a strong political and perhaps military force in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into trouble in the face of criticism , especially by the French , that the US and the Soviet Union , the two " superpowers , " are bar ? gaining over the heads of the Europeans as they certainly were during the Middle East crisis . French proposals for greater political and military unity among the nine nations of the Common Market have irritated the Russians to such an extent that . President Georges Pompidou 's scheduled visit to Moscow in January reportedly has been postponed . Meanwhile the Russians have been trying to persuade the British to soften their skeptical attitude toward d ? tente , butthey were politely rebuked the other day by Foreign Secretary Sir Alex Douglas-Home , who told them dur ? ing a visit to Moscow that better relations between East and West must be demonstrated " in practice rather than just in words . " So in Europe , as in Asia , the Soviet Union still has a long way to go before it can foster the kind of security climate that it considers conducive to its own interests . West Europeans call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things to come is going to be blurred in Asia , it may become somewhat clearer in Europe as a consequence of Kissinger 's trip to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization meeting in Brussels this week . What the West Europeans want from lxim are assurances that the US will not withdraw American troops from Europe within the near future . Unless Kissinger is able to provide those assurances , the West Europeans are apt to fortify themselves in order to plug the " security gap , " as they put it . Such a move would deal a blow to the concepts of Kissinger as well as to those of the Russians , and it would suggest that the " power balance " theory , dear to both the US and the Soviet Union , is a lot easier to set down on paper than to transform into reality . Anyone who has ever worked as a foreign corre ? spondent is familiar with the type . He lives perma ? nently in a remote capital , say Vientiane or Lagos or Baghdad , as the free-lance representative for an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the better-known American newspapers , news magazines or wire services . His means of support are dubious , yet he has a comfortable apartment , a car and an expense ' account that permits him to pay for rounds of drinks . His Telations with the US diplomatic mission and with certain members of the local govern ? ment are excellent and , although he rarely comes up with scoops , he chases down the news in times of crisis with the dedication of a cub reporter . Speculat ? ing on the motives behind his residence in this faraway place , his more established colleagues usually offer the guess that he works at least part-time for the Central Intelligence Agency . Now , it turns out , their guess is probably correct . . The Washington Star-News has disclosed that some 40 US journalists abroad ate regular undercover agents for the CIA and that William E. Colby , the agency director , intends to keep most of them on the payroll while dismissing a feW whose continued clandestine activities , the newspaper said , " could most seriously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be fired are a small number of staff corre ? spondents with general circulation news organiza 8 tions . Those to be retained , according to the Star-News , are the " stringers " and itinerant authors as well as writers for trade journals and specialized newsletters , most of whom operate for the CIA with the approval of their employers . Like Rep. Lucien Nedzi of Michigan , chairman of one of the four congressional committees that is supposed to keep watch on the CIA , we are not " really surprised " by this revelation . It was known years ago , for instance , that CIA was financing Encounter , a political and literary monthly published in London . But we can not agree with Nedzi 's comment that it is nothing more than " an arrangement for gathering of intelligence " and , as such , " difficult to see much wrong with it . " News dispatches from the Congo or Indonesia or Paraguay ought to be as unbiased and independent as those from Paris or Bonn . They are not likely to be as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any other organization that has an invest ? ment in tilting information . Looking back on some of the accounts from Vietnam in the early days of the war leads one to wonder whether more than a few journal ? ists there at the time were quite deliberately putting out a line the CIA wanted to propagate . All journalists , part-time or full-fledged , should be removed from the CIA . There are two ways that can be done . First , the media ought to screen their own personnel rigorously and eliminate anyone officially connected with the agency . This is often not done because wire services , newspapers , news magazines and television networks frequently are desperate to have a man in some out-of-the-way spot and are lax about checking his credentials . Secondly , the congressional oversight committees ought to examine the link between the CIA and the press just as , some years ago , the Senate Foreign Relations Committee looked into the army of US public relations companies covertly representing foreign governments at home and abroad . This would , of course , require the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CIA than they have to date . And while they are at it , the congressional oversight committees should investigate possible ties between the CIA and private arms merchants . The biggest of these , Samuel Cummings , is a former CIA employee who lives in Monte Carlo , where he holds citizenship . He runs a firm called Interarmco , which sells weapons ranging from pistols to jet aircraft . There is reason to believe that his company was set up under CIA auspices in order to carry out special agency opera ? tions . One such operation would be the transfer of arms to countries prevented by embargoes from offi ? cially receiving US weapons . Thus , for example , Cummings could purchase arms originally supplied by the US to Turkey and ship them to Pakistan . Con ? gressional sources submit that he serves the CIA by acting as the cover for weapons movements to many covert groups supported by the agency . Strictly speaking , Cummings ' business is legal . He maintains a warehouse in Arlington , Virginia . He advertises his wares in catalogues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the US government . Half of his international operation consists of selling light weapons , the other half involves acting as broker in deals . Back in 1967 he bought up the Soviet weapons captured by Israel in the six-day war and resold them . More recently he reportedly acquired surplus military equipment used by Bangladesh and is selling it to various customers . He has claimed in his own defense that his business represents only a tiny fraction of the worldwide arms traffic , most of which is carried on by the US and Soviet governments . Of particular interest , however , is his possible tie to the CIA . Here again the oversight committees in the House and the Senate have an investigative obligation . But it is unlikely that they will fulfill it as long as their overriding aim , as Senator Stennis put it not long ago , is to protect the agency rather than make it accountable to the public that pays its bills . The chairmen and members of the Senate and House committees that approved the nomination of Con ? gressman Gerald Ford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoke often at the hearings on the nomination as if they expected Ford to replace Richard Nixon in the presidency and were deciding whether he is fit to do so . They never said this .. But there was in their comments something more and deeper than orthodox expressions of awareness that Presidents are mortal and that any Vice President may succeed his President . Whether Mr. Nixon will finish out his sec ? ond term or will resign , be impeached and removed , or be declared incompetent to conduct the office while still in it is a subject of speculation and argument in Congress as it is throughout the country . Chairman Howard Cannon said that his Senate Rules Committee " should view its obligations as no less important than the selection of a potential President of the United States . " Chairman Peter Rodino said at the start of the House Judiciary Committee 's hearings that " what we may indeed be undertaking this morning is an exam ? ination of a man 's qualifications and fitness to hold the highest office in America , that of President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the committees , rarely bothered with conventional quibbles to the effect that he did n't expect to be any ? thing other than a Vice President and answered matter of factly when he was asked what he 'd do " if you were President . " For a minor example , he said that he had                     