@@479059

The real underground in this country lurks in the boiler rooms of government . All of those other so-called undergrounds ? the hippie communes , the drug subcultures , the anti-Establishment press ? actually are about as clandestine as a circus parade ; they may indeed be the most overpublicized aspect of contemporary America . But hardly anybody knows what is really going on within , as the jargon puts it , " the working level " of our bureaucracies . This is not the result of a conspiracy of silence . On the contrary , most bureaucrats are pathetically eager to talk about what they are doing ? but who listens ? Certainly not the press . It habitually ignores them , except on those rare occasions when some civil servant gets caught snuggling up to a defense contractor or dipping into the till . The reporters who cover Washington ? and the state capitols and city halls ? would much rather write about politics than about government . Politicians , in their perpetual struggle for votes , make good copy , full of comedy , conflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government , conducted without benefit of the Spiro Agnews and Abbie Hoffmans . look undramatic and therefore unnewsworthy . Which is a pity , because some curious things are going on these days inside the deceptively quiet warrens of officialdom . While the New Leftists talk a lot about revolution and the creation of " parallel institutions , " the closest thing to revolutionary change which is actually happening is usually the work of anonymous public servants . And in a few places such men really are creating new , experimental institutions , unlike anything this country has seen before . For the last two years I have been talking to these unnoticed revolutionaries wherever I could find them , andfrom time to time I have reported here on some of their innovations : new devices for civilizing big metropolitan areas , in Minnesota 's Twin Cities and in Greater Seattle ; multi-state planning to combat the miseries of Appalachia ; the confederation of counties to rescue a wrecked environment , as in Northeastern Pennsylvania ; and schemes now under way to build a hundred new cities within the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard look at another kind of invention . Its enthuiasts describe it as the most interesting discovery since the wheel , which it much resembles . To its enemies it is known as Ed Logue 's Fearsome Juggernaut . Personally I think it is too early to make a firm assessment ? but it does seem to offer reasonable promise of becoming one of the most effective tools yet devised for coping with the double crisis of our cities and our ecology . I is formal name is the Urban Develop- ment Corporation of New York State , and ? on paper at least ? its powers are indeed fearsome . Moreover , the man who runs it has a reputation for ferocity . During World War II Edward J. Logue served as a bombardier in the Fifteenth Air Force , and his ill-wishers ( who are plentiful ) claim that is where he got his ideas for dealing with slums . And with some reason . Before he took on his present job , Logue was largely responsible for rebuilding the central core of two cities , New Haven and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and fur months their downtown areas looked much like London after the blitz . Now they are often cited as the nation 's most successful examples of urban renewal , but while Logue was making the dirt fly the complaints flew even faster . He was accused of insensitivity to the needs of real-estate speculators , ward politicians . displaced slum dwellers , building-trades unions , and contractors who were accustomed to sweetheart contracts with public agencies . Logue himself did n't realize how unpopular he had become until he ran for mayor of Boston ; he took such a licking that he still winces when he talks about it . In scores of other cities , of course , the men in charge of urban renewal have been far more sensitive to local needs and pressures ? but in these places nothing much has happened . Even Ed Logue 's worst enemies admit that when he is on the scene things do tend to happen . Consequently , when Governor Nelson Rockefeller named Logue in 1968 to manage the just-hatched Urban Development Corporation , with its unprecedented powers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor Lindsay ? expected the worst . " Why , that madman could tear down Manhattan , " one New York politician told me at the time , " and nobody could lift a finger to stop him . " n theory , he could do just that . The 1 Corporation is authorized by law to move into any community in the state , take whatever property it wants by condemnation , raze any structures on the site , and replace them with homes , factories , schools , or office buildings , as it sees fit ? all without paying any attention whatever to local zoning laws and building codes . It could put up a vast Negro housing project in the middle of Scarsdale , the richest white suburb in the state . It could build entirely new people who believe that medical researchers at pharmaceutical companies intentionally overtook some side effects or problems in order to market a product . Nothing could be further from the truth . As scientists we deal in facts . Involved as we are with other people 's lives and health , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less would be unthinkable . Follow the development of a new drug for toe treatment of certain mental illnesses , for example . When this new compound first showed biological effects we launched a battery of studies in experimental animals . These verified early findings , so we then gave the Food and Drug Administration our basic chemical data , our animal testing results , and our plans for human testing ? that all important first step where we look for side effects or toxicity and study how the drug is metabolized in healthy human volunteers . The most experienced researchers in the field conduct such studies , provide the data , and protect individual rights . These tests revealed nothing significantly adverse , thus clearing the way for initial trials in selected ill patients . The results ? Still good . Consequently , we stepped up the process with painstakingly monitored studies in a thousand patients , involving top academicians and practicing specialists in leading clinical centers . Meanwhile , animal studies 14 THE EASY CHAIR cities in the open countryside ( and , in fact , already has three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has a lot of money ; well over a billion dollars at its own command , and possibly another five billion of private invest ? ent to be spent under its direction . This unique array of armament was primarily Logue 's idea . He persuaded Governor Rockefeller that will , less the new agency would be helpless to do anything significant about the state 's horrendous housing crisis . When I went to Logue 's office , in an aluminum skyscraper on Fifth Avenue , to ask how he intends to use all that power and glory , I found him a lot less fierce than his legend . Instead of the hard-nosed , decision-snapping executive type that I had expected , he turned out to be a rumpled , ruminative Irishman with a penchant ( rare among public figures ) for making wry jokes about himself . His office looked as if he had camped there overnight and had n't yet decided whether to stay . A big relief map of New York State was mounted on the wall facing his desk , but the floor was cluttered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were stacked in a corner . He rummaged through the litter of documents on his desk until he found a paperback copy of Parkinson 's Law . " My Bible , " he said . " I keep it handy to remind me never to build up a big organization . If I did , I would become its prisoner . I could n't move . I mean to keep this outfit small and fast on its feet . " He made it clear that he had no illusions ' that he actually could use all of the formidable authority which Rockefeller . and a reluctant legislature , had given him . The act setting up his corporation had swept through the legislature on the wave of emotion following Martin Luther King 's assassination , and even then it would not have passed if the Governor had not turned on all the political pressure at his command ; for three days you could hear the crackle of twisted elbows all over Albany . Consequently , Logue knows that he does not have a genuine mandate from the legislators to attempt anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to force a low-rent housing project into a white middle-class suburb , in defiance of local wishes and zoning laws , the legislature almost certainly would snatch back overnight the extraordinary authority which it had granted him with such misgivings . Even though he can not use it to the hilt , however , this codes , then he will have taken the first indispensable step toward stimulating a modern building industry ? an industry which can grasp all the economies of the mobile-home makers , and turn out a more attractive , more commodious. and more durable product . And he just might do it . ecause of its special powers and Logue 's impatience , the Corpora . tion is moving with a speed that is positively dazzling , in comparison with ordinary public-construction ventures . Your typical urban renewal administrator , for example , may spend.years struggling with red tape and jealous bureaucrats before he can lay the first brick . ( I know of une such project which has been under way for eighteen years , and is still far from finished . I Within two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Logue had broken ground for his first big undertaking : aS60-million scheme to revive Newburgh . an ugly , semi-moribund little city on the Hudson River about an hour 's drive north of Manhattan . It includes 520 new homes , an 18-acre site for industrial development , and a reconstruction of the crumbling downtown business district . Before this year is out , Logue hopes to be laying streets fur his first new town -- a community of about five thousand families at Lysander , on the northwestern edge of Syracuse . ( This one was relatively easy , because the Corporation was able to pick up 2,100 acres of vacant land , all in one piece , which had been used as an Army ordnance plant during World War II . ) With luck , he may also have construction crews on the job before next Christmas on his second new community , this one lying within the borders of New York City . It will be located on Welfare Island , just off the east shore of Manhattan ? the only big empty space left in the metropolis aside from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preliminary design , drafted by two distinguished architects , Philip Johnson and John Burgee , calls for a town square facing the waterfront , shops in glass-covered malls , and apartments-with-a-view interlaced with parks and playgrounds . Best of all . automobiles will be barred from the island , except for a garage at one end . Welfare Island may well become the most sought-after address in the city , comparable to Golden Gatewa ! , Center in San Francisco . The third . and most ambitious , new town probably will not reach the construction stage for a couple of years . Its site is Amherst , northeast of Buffalo , where the state is building a major university . Described by Governor Rockefeller as " one of the great institutions of its type in the world , " it eventually will enroll nearly thirty thousand students ? and within the next fifteen years it is expected to attract more than 140,000 new residents into the Buffalo-Amherst area . Unless advance plans are made to accommodate this grow di in an orderly fashion , it could be a disaster ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blurbs . Consequently , Logue 's men are working with local officials on a master plan for the entire region , including extensive reconstruction of the Buffalo waterfront and downtown business district . Elsewhere such efforts at master-planning often have ended up as a sheaf of forgotten blueprints on a dusty shelf . This one has a better chance , because the UDC has both the money and the authority to carry it through . Many planners , long used to working in an economic and political vacuum , ca n't yet believe it 's for real . eartening as all this may sound , the Elfuture of the Urban Development Corporation is not going to be an unbroken triumphal march . Most of its other upstate projects ? in Utica , Binghamton. and Ithaca , for example ? are moving roughly on schedule . But aside from Welfare Island , its undertakings in New York City are likely to run into endless delays and acrimony . Not that they are particularly ambitious ; most of them are modest , conventional housing projects , adding up to a mere seven thousand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has now become almost impossible to build anything in New York City except office buildings . At this writing , virtually all residential construction has come to a dead stop . Private builders can no longer put up even luxury apartments , because their cost ? forced up by rising land prices , high interest rates , extortionate unions , and the general misery of doing business in this traffic-strangled , strike-beset city ? has outreached even the wealthy . Government-financed housing for low- and middle-income families also has halted , because the cost-perroom has overrun the limits set by federal law . Moreover , to clear a site in New York you have to move somebody 22 ? which means a fight both with the uprooted tenants and with the neighborhood where you propose to put them . Worse yet , the city has lost 100,000 apartments in the last three years . Most of them were old buildings , abandoned by their landlords because they were losing money ; their city-controlled rents no longer brought in enough rash to cover taxes and repairs . As a result , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ losing more homes than it can build . Under these circumstances , it would be ridiculous to look to the Urban Development Corporation for the salvation of New York City . With all its billions and special powers , it could never make a perceptible dent in such an unmanageable problem . Probably , in fact , nobody else can either . Although Mayor Lindsay keeps pleading with heartbreaking eloquence for more money ? from Washington , from the state , from anybody ? he is not about to get what he needs ; the new city plan completed last winter calls for $52 billion , in addition to all revenues now in sight . In the absence of this kind of cash , the city is likely to continue its decline ? in population , industry , and quality of life . And maybe a good thing , too . Who mourns the passing of Tyrannosaurus Rex ? T oward another of his declared goals Logue has not yet made any visible progress . He would like to help the poor and the black to escape from the decaying core @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been doing for generations . Most suburbs have successfully fended off such migration , despite all the fair-housing and civil-rights legislation ; their weapons have been zoning and building codes which prevent the building of any homes a poor family could afford . Since he can override such codes , Logue hopes eventually to put up suburban houses which can he sold or rented to low-income families ? and to do it in a way which will stir up a minimum of suburban outrage . They would be built in small clusters ? say , thirty or forty units each ? so scattered that they would not upset the racial balance in any school district , or overload the tax resources of any given corn- So far , however , not a single such development has been announced . One reason is that even the Corporation 's spacious too ! kit lacks a couple of needed items ; it can not write down the cost of land , or give subsidies to low-income home buyers or renters . An other reason is that this kind of deal , on however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians . Perhaps it has been deemed prudent to postpone even the attempt until after the next election . In spite of these shortcomings , I believe , the Corporation is likely to prove a notably useful invention , in a field where the United States has lagged far behind England and Western Europe . In its Housing Act of 1949 , Congress called for the building of public housing for 810.000 families within six years ; twenty-one years later , we still have not reached that goal . In addition , we need at least two million privately built homes every year for the next decade ? hut we 'll be lucky this year if we get half that number . Let 's face it : when it comes to home building we are a backward nation , in technology , financing , know-how , and organization . For the first time in this country , the Urban Development Corporation puts together in one bundle all the resources ( or nearly all ) required to do the job right . And because it is largely self-financing , it should not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wheel , its money is supposed to go round and round ; it can sell a billion dollars ' worth of bonds to private investors , and as they are repaid out of project revenues it can issue some more . In many of its ventures , moreover , it expects to pay only for " packaging the deal " ? that is , for the planning , the negotiation of treaties with local and Washington agencies , and the rounding up of whatever subsidies may be available from other sources . Then it will turn the project over to private investorlmilders for completion with their own money . While it can not offer a panacea for all the woes of Megalopolis , it does show a reasonable promise of rejuvenating scores of smaller communities , thus encouraging a healthier distribution of people and jobs across the landscape . And if its planning is as intelligent as it now looks , it can help accommodate New York State 's share of the next 100 million Americans ( due within thirty years ) without the ruination of our environment . Finally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country . Pennsylvania , New Jersey , and California already are showing interest in building their own models of Ed Logue 's Fearsome Juggernaut . If the prototype actually works as well as Logue believes it will , they will not be the last .                     