@@283386

Richard Nixon has never been able to count American scientists among his most enthusiastic supporters . In recent years , some of his own scientific consultants have publicly criticized him for his use of defoliants in Viet Nam , his support of the supersonic transport ( SST ) and his campaign for the Safeguard anti-ballistic-missile system . But the President does not seem to be listening . Administration policies , says the Federation of American Scientists , have left " the scientific community with an ever greater feeling of frustration . " <P> Now , in a sweeping reorganization designed to save money and help streamline the cumbersome federal bureaucracy , Nixon has all but exiled Washington 's scientific establishment . He decided to abolish the post of Presidential Science Adviser-an office created by President Dwight Eisenhower to help meet Russia 's technological challenge . In addition , he may eliminate the White House Office of Science and Technology and the President 's Science Advisory Committee . The 20 scientists of that committee provided technical expertise when they were asked for it , and occasional criticism even when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As a result , for the first time since the Russians launched Sputnik 1 , the nation 's scientists have no direct voice in the inner councils of the White House . <P> Communication between scientists and the White House was , in fact , less than satisfactory even before Nixon 's recent budgeteering . The last Presidential Science Adviser , Edward E. David Jr. , who resigned last month after 2 years of service , admits that he never saw the President more than twice in any single month . Furthermore , in promoting controversial schemes like the SST , Nixon has tended increasingly to bypass the White House science staff , preferring instead to work through his technology counselor , William Magruder . Thus Nixon 's latest moves hardly come as a surprise to scientists . Says M.I.T. President Jerome Wiesner , who was President Kennedy 's science adviser : " The reorganization simply recognizes the situation as it has existed throughout the Nixon Administration . " More bluntly , Philip Abelson , editor of Science , the journal of the 130,000-member American Association for the Advancement of Science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of downgrading science . <P> Under the new streamlined setup , the duties of science adviser will fall to H. Guyford Stever , director of the National Science Foundation . On policy matters , he will consult with Treasury Secretary George Shultz , the Administration 's new economic czar ; on money requests , he will go to Roy Ash , head of the Office of Management and Budget . An aeronautical engineer and former president of Carnegie-Mellon University who once was an M.I.T. faculty colleague of Shultz 's , Stever is convinced that he will always get an adequate hearing from his new bosses . " I might have to jog a little farther to get to see these people , " says Stever , who has not earned a reputation as a crusader , " but two blocks is n't too bad . "                     