@@479177

M NOT LIKE BILL MOYERS , " he used to say of th , C ' former Presidential aide who virtually advertise ( himself as the liberal angel behind the scenes of tin Johnson White House . " I do n't believe I should take credit for all the good things the Administratior does and blame the bad ones on the President . ' And the deep confidence game implicit in tha remarkable disavowal expresses the finely filigreer complexity , the many layered ambiguity , tha . envelops the role played by President Nixon ' ; Assistant for National Security Affairs , Henry Kis singer . For indirectly ? by the company he keeps and the swinging figure he affects as well as by many con fidence games - Kissinger tries to come on as the secret good guy of the Nixon foreign-policy Estah lishment . Actually , when set against the dovisi temper of the country , the Congress , and the Cabi . net , he works to reinforce and legitimize the Presi dent 's hard-line instincts on most major interna tional business . His closest friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a suspec ; figure , personifying the treason of the intellectuals One thing no one doubts is the importance o : Kissinger 's role in the Nixon Administration . 11 ( sees the President alone almost ever y morning . fit speaks to him on the phone two or three times dur ing a routine day , and often takes a drink with bier late in the afternoon . On special occasions such trips abroad , or before speeches or press confer ences , he is almost constantly with the President He travels by Air Force plane only , and with z : bodyguard . He inhabits a sumptuous ground-flow office a couple of doors down from the President ' working rooms ? a far cry from Lite severely mill tarian basement occupied by Walt Rostow anc McGeorge Bundy , his predecessors under Presi dents Johnson and Kennedy . He negotiates witl heads of state , foreign ministers , and ambassadon galore . He does almost all the hriefings attribute . lo high While House officials on major statement and big developments in foreign policy . He fight : the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Eastern Establishment , and the Intel . lectuals . It is perhaps not too much to say that ht is the second most powerful man in the world . Discovering exactly where he casts his influence is not so easy . For personal reasons , supplementec perhaps by experience of the Eisenhower staff sys tern , President Nixon has a positive horror of mak ing decisions amidst the explicit pulling and haul ing of rival bureaucratic groups . Kissinger does no stimulate such bureaucratic conflict , as McGeorgt Bundy did for Kennedy ; nor does he mine the bu reaucracy for new ideas and slogans as Wall Rostov did for Lyndon Johnson . On the contrary , Kis singer 's function is to screen the President from th , raw bureaucratic pressures . It is for that purpos , that there was devised the so-called " options sys ID such as the State of the World message delivered by the President to the Congress in February 1970 , or the Presidential statement on the Far East which became known as the Guam Doctrine . With these goals identified , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then serve up to the President various ways of reaching the objectives ? the famous options . In making his choice , Mr. Nixon only selects among intellectually distinct alternatives , thereby avoiding the dirty business of having to favor one Department and its chief over another . And in a few areas ? for example , the decisions to return Okinawa to the Japanese in 1972 , and to renounce chemical and biological warfare ? the options system plainly helped Mr. Nixon make decisions that would have been much harder if the opposition of the Joint Chiefs and their tribunes in the Congress and the press had been asserted , naked and unashamed . But on major issues that keep cropping up over and over again , the President wants to gauge personally what Cabinet officers and military advisers really think . The options system can not work ? as indicated by the establishment of WSAG , or the Washington Special Action Group with top representatives of the chief agencies , for the daily management of such affairs as the Cambodian crisis of last spring or the Jordanian civil war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on arms control , the Near East , and Vietnam ? well-known bureaucratic positions have emerged . And in each case , Kissinger has tended to come down with the President and against most of the rest of the bureaucracy on the central issue of applying pressure to the Communists . N THE MATTER OF ARMS CONTROL , the starting I point was a policy put together by the Johnson Administration . The Johnson package provided for a freeze by both sides on strategic weapons with no allowance for new additions or qualitative improvements including further development of either the ABM or the MIRV ( for Multiple Independently-Targeted Reentry Vehicles ) . Disarmers in the Congress , the State Department , and the Arms Control Agency wanted to go with that package as soon as the Nixon Administration came to office . But Mr. Nixon had scant political interest in a Johnson package ? the more so as he had backed the ABM and attacked the Democrats for allowing development of a " strategic gap . " For different reasons Kissinger shared the President 's skepticism . As a believer in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Russians on strategic weapons unless it was linked with Soviet cooperation in such political matters as the Near East and Vietnam . As its first big decision in the arms-control field , the Nixon Administration dropped the Johnson package by moving for deployment of an ABM ( redesigned , through the work of Kissinger and his staff , to protect this country 's land-based missiles ) . Given that inch , the Pentagon came roaring back to claim the usual yard . Secretary of Defense Melvin Laird began putting out horror stories about a possible first strike by the Soviets with a new missile ? the SS-9 . Development of MIRY was pushed along , as were arguments for a full ABM system designed to protect the big cities against enemy missiles . President Nixon was plainly loath to overrule his military men directly , and at a press conference in January 1970 , he even seemed to favor the full-scale ABM . With pressure on the Russians thus mounted , Kissinger moved to channel it toward negotiations . He set up a Verification Panel that brought together heads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared by his staff . He and his staff demolished Pentagon claims about tricks the Russians could play through secret deployment of new or improved weapons . They won general agreement for a set of new proposals . After soundings in Helsinki , the Administration put to the Russians last September in Vienna what is essentially a Nixon package . The Nixon package calls for a freeze at present levels , with limited deployment of ABM permitted and no provision for cut ? ting off MIRV development . It is still being negotiated with the Soviet Union . In the Near East , the starting point was a general concern that , as the President put it in his first press conference , local rivalries might draw the United States and the Soviet Union into a " nuclear confrontation . " The State Department was given the task of arranging an easing of tension between Israel and the Arabs . The Department moved in two critical stages . First , on December 9 , 1969 , Secretary of State William Rogers proposed that Israel withdraw from territories seized in the Six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to live in peace . Second , a pears initiative , put together by Assistant Secretary Joseph Sisco , was advanced on June 19 and accepted by Egypt , Jordan , and Israel on August 7 . It provided for a ninety-day cease-fire and talks through the U.N . mediator . President Nixon undoubtedly approved the general approach of the Department . But he apparently had misgivings that the Russians would use American actions to embarrass this country with the Arabs , while increasing Soviet influence . And whenever events seemed to vindicate those suspicions , Kissinger surfaced to warn the Russians they were moving into troubled waters . In February , the State of the World message prepared by Kissinger warned that " the United States would view any effort by the Soviet Union to seek predominance in the Middle East as a matter of grave concern . " In July , after the Russians started to assume the air defense of Egypt through new missiles and planes manned by Soviet pilots , Kissinger asserted at a background session at the Western White House that the American purpose was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After August 7 , when the Russians violated the cease-fire by moving up missiles , and then allowed their Syrian friends to menace Jordan , Kissinger was in the thick of a flurry of moves to apply pressure on Moscow through the President 's visit to the Sixth Fleet , the reinforcement of Israel , the very strong line taken about a possible Soviet submarine base in Cuba . Even after the death of Colonel Nasser , positions within the United States government remained as they were . While the State Department has been pushing for Israeli agreement to withdraw as a step toward peace , Kissinger has been working to keep up the pressure against any further Soviet penetration . S TO VIETNAM , KISSINGER SET OUT his views in Ilan article published in the January 1969 issue of Foreign Affairs . He believed there was no chance to crush the other side by military means : " The guerrilla wins if he does not lose . " At the same time he felt that American prestige was deeply and adversely engaged in Vietnam . " The commitment of 500,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrote . Kissinger 's answer to the problem thus posed was the answer of two-track negotiations . On one track , the Saigon regime would negotiate with the guerrillas , or National Liberation Front , a political status for South Vietnam that would encompass such concessions as had to be made . On the other , the United States and North Vietnam would negotiate a mutual withdrawal of forces that would register a peace without victory or defeat . In that way the war would end with the blow to American prestige minimized and camouflaged . Technically Kissinger has never departed from that prescription . Inside the Nixon Administration , he has been the constant protagonist of negotiations . In the very first months he managed a secret effort through the Russians that collapsed ignominiously in June . He pushed an effort through the French after the death of Ho Chi Minh . When Prince Sihanouk fell , he worked through the Russians for an all-Indochina conference . After the Cambodian operations put the President under pressure to show a willingness to deal , it was Kissinger who came up with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new peace negotiator . And he was a principal architect last fall of the ceasefire offered on October 8 . But the Communist price for negotiations has been some sign of change in the Saigon government . While Secretary of State Rogers has repeatedly seemed to flirt with the idea of change in Saigon , President Nixon has been adamantly opposed to political concessions , in South Vietnam . Negotiations have been acceptable to the President only on condition that the other side change its objectives . To that end . Kissinger , unlike Rogers , has repeatedly managed to square his interest in negotiations with the President 's instinct for mounting pressure on Hanoi . The first adjustment involved the gradual passage of the military burden from American troops to the forces of the Saigon government ? Vietnamization . Kissinger combined negotiation with Vietnamization by developing the theory that as theother side saw the Saigon regime becoming stronger , it would be more and more pushed to deal with Washington . And suppose the other side used the occasion of the drawing down of American troops to launch a large-scale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly a threat devised by Kissinger , he would take " prompt and effective measures . " Next came the enormous swelling of public dissent in this country at the time of the Moratorium of October 15. 1969 . The President met that head-on , asking the country in his speech of November 3 to choose between a sellout and a peace with honor . Mr. Nixon wrote much of the speech himself ? including the appeal to the " great silent majority . " But Kissinger was with him every step of the way . His office prepared drafts of the speech . He repeatedly asserted that the other side would only negotiate if it was convinced the President could hold the country 's support . And when the tactic had worked , when the President 's appeal had prevailed , no one was more pleased than Kissinger . " He did n't say a thing , " a former staff man recalls . " He just smiled like the Cheshire cat . " Then there was the little matter of expanding the war into Cambodia . Secretary of Defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it be known that they opposed the decision at some times and on some grounds . But how about Kissinger ? Unlike Laird and Rogers , he participated in every phase of the decision making . At one point he convoked a meeting of five of his brightest young associates to get their views . All were against . One argued that expanded commitments to the Cambodian regime would weigh against any short-term military gains likely to accrue . Another described the internal upheavals likely to occur . Kissinger has indicated to at least one friend that he passed these views on to the President . But all the evidence suggests that he himself raised only feeble objections to the operation . He has expressed the belief that there would n't have been any serious trouble except for the shootings at Kent State . He has peddled to complaisant journalists the story that the whole purpose of the operation was to provide a cover for a more rapid pullout . And why ? Once again the rationale seems to have been that Cambodia , by decreasing the other side 's military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I am , " he once said in an allusion to his predecessor 's unremitting faith in the possibility of victory in Vietnam , " the Walt Rostow of peace by negotiations . " I HAT KISSINGER SHOULD TURN OUT TO BE a hard boy in the Nixon Administration is not really so surprising . Becoming tough is what his life story is all about . He was born in 1923 into a cozy and comfortable little world . His father , Louis Kissinger , was a teacher at the gymnasium , or prep school , in Fiirth , a small town outside Nuremberg in Franconia . His mother was a formidable housekeeper . The family was unmistakably middle-class . Middle-class Jews , however , in a Franconia that was a hotbed of nascent Nazism . Three years before Hitler took over in Berlin , the Nazis were in the saddle in Fiirth . From 1930 through 1938 , from the age of seven until he was fifteen , Kissinger lived as a despised pariah . He was denied entrance to the gymnasium and forced to go to an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up almost every day . His father was stripped of his post and humiliated , Twelve relatives eventually died at the hands of the Nazis . When the Kissingers got away in 1938 , it was through the agency of his mother . For some time thereafter she supported the family , working as a cook for neighbors on the upper West Side of New York . His father had been broken in spirit . " He was a man of great goodness , " Kissinger says now , " in a world where goodness had no meaning . " The reaction of the son was to go deep in his shell . From 1939 to 1943 , when he was going to George Washington High School in New York , Kissinger seems to have made no friends ? hence , probably , the survival of the German accent which most refugees who came over in their teens lost . He recalls that if he was walking down the street in New York and saw a group of boys approaching the other way , he would cross to the opposite sidewalk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mathematics , he set his sights very low . " I worked in a shaving-brush factory during the days , " he says , " so that I could go to school at nights to prepare for what was then the height of my ambition ? becoming an accountant . " Not much changed when Kissinger was drafted into the Army in 1943 as a private in the infantry . The writer Theodore Draper , who served with Kissinger , recalls him as a " nice , quiet boy ... a young fellow who did n't know what to do with his life . " ' ' lie was totally lAiihdrav , n , " says Fritz Kraemer , another member of the same unit who was to have a deep influence on Kissinger 's later life . And Kissinger himself observes of that time : " Living as a Jew under the Nazis , then as a refugee in America , and then as a private in the Army is n't exactly an experience that builds confidence . " The depths of Kissinger 's inward-turning , the glacial quality of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who took him out of it . For they were 1111t the ordinary sources of inspiration to bright young men ? dedicated scholars like Christian Gauss or potent intellectuals in the mold of Felix Frankfurter . On the contrary , to shock Henry Kissinger out of the depths , to charge him with purpose and ambition required men who were themselves outsiders ? a couple of flamboyant personalities , nostalgic for vanished features of an aristocratic life they presumed to embody , and full of snobbish contempt for present times . One of these was Fritz Kraemer. " 1 am the last individual in a mass society , " Kraemer said vi hen I called him at the Pentagon where he works as an assistant to the Army Chief of Staff . " Journalists who come to see me about Henry go away disappointed . " If the last phrase was a come-on , the first was only a slight exaggeration . Kraemer , the sonof a Ruhr businessman , with the bearing and style of a Prussian , had left Germany in the late Twenties for schooling and adventure in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a private in the American Army and won a battlefield commission . He then set up a kind of military . government school for the officers and men of the 84th Division . Kissinger , a private in that division , attended one of the lectures and wrote Kraemer a fan letter . Kraemer asked him to come around . " Within twenty minutes , " Kraemer recalls , " I recognized that here was a rare political intelligence . " He had Kissinger made an instructor in the school and a translator for the commanding He general of the 841h Division . T-T took in Jamd the education of his prot ? g ? . Looking back he says , " A lot of junk has been written about how I put Henry into Harvard . What happened is this : I used to tell him , ' Henry , you understand everything but know nothing . You need an education . ' One day he came to me and said he was going home ? home to college . 1 said to him : ' Henry , gentlemen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York . ' The rest he did himself . He won a New York State scholarship . Then he was admitted to Harvard . " The other crucial patron was William Yandell Elliott ? a sometime Army officer , Presidential adviser , and professor of government , who , in Kissinger 's own phrase , " lived as a grand seigneur in a world where eminence has become a technical achievement . " Elliott became Kissinger 's tutor at Harvard and much more . " We met every week for years , " Kissinger recalled in a tribute written when Elliott retired from Harvard in 1963 . " Bill Elliott made me discover Dostoevski and Hegel , Kant , Spinoza , and Homer . On many Sundays we took long walks in Concord . He spoke of the power of love , and said that the only truly unforgivable sin is to use people as if they were objects . He discussed greatness and excellence . And while 1 did not always follow his words , I knew that I was in the presence of a remarkable man . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realization that he could do truly distinguished work in politics and philosophy ? a sense of metier . Under their impulse he shot up the academic ladder at Harvard : A.B. , 1950 ; M.A. , 1952 ; Ph.D. , 1954 ; Lecturer , 1957 ; Associate Professor , 1959 ; Professor , 1962 . In 1949 he had married a refugee girl , Ann Fleischer . He could have settled down to the normal don 's life of Cambridge . But Kraemer and Elliott had also imparted to Kissinger something far more important ? something that , as Helmut Sonnenfeld , a friend from Army days who now serves with Kissinger in the White House , perceives , " could not have been given by wild - eyed radicals . " They delivered to him an antidote against the quietude of his early life , a reason for not being the victim he had been . They taught the principle , and embodied the practice , of struggle against anarchy . " A man , " Kraemer said to me when ruminating about Kissinger , " does not know the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marseilles , hungry and with only one suit , being stalked by another man who wants that suit . Then being reasonable or good does n't matter . Then a man has to stand up for himself or die . " I T WAS THAT DO OR DIE CREDO which struck fire with Kissinger . He had experienced in his own life shattering calamity . He had known the time when there was " no place for goodness . " He un ? derstood the danger of unhappy endings . So he made it his life 's work to show that force could be used to avert tragedy and catastrophe . He became not a mere diplomatic historian , but a defense intellectual or military schoolman , primarily concerned with power . In that role he made a name for himself at the Council on Foreign Relations , and then as a consultant to Nelson Rockefeller . His best-known books ? Nuclear Weapons and Foreign Policy in 1957 ; The Necessity for Choice in 1961 ; The Troubled Partnership in 1965 ? all argued the need for reshaping armies to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set out even earlier in a Ph.D . thesis on Europe after Napoleon which was published later under the title , A World Restored : The Politics of Conservatism in a Revolutionary Age . In that work Kissinger identified as the leitmotif of modern history a running battle between farces of revolution and forces of conservatism . On the side of revolution were con ? querors and prophets ? " the great symbols of attacks on the legitimate order . " In dialectic tension with these wreckers were the statesmen of con ? servatism who sought to restore - order and balance " through " a pattern of obligations sufficiently spontaneous to reduce to a minimum the necessity for the application of force . " Needless to say , Kissinger did not align himself with troublemakers ? the Rousseaus and Napoleons who surfaced in latter days as Marxes and Lenins and Hitters and Stalins . He cast his lot with the statesmen ? with Castlereagh especially , and Metternich in the Napoleonic era ; later , and less , with Bismarck : and , most recently , with General de Gaulle . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only an elegant generalization of Kraemer 's specter of the man hunted on the docks of Marseilles . As Kissinger put it in A World Restored : Whenever peace ? conceived as the avoidance of war ? has been the primary objective of a group of powers , the international system has been at the mercy of the most ruthless member of the international community . Whenever the international order has acknowledged that certain principles should not be compromised , even for the sake of peace , stability based on an equilibrium of forces was at least conceivable . Given those views , a man who came to Washington as Assistant to the President in 1969 had scant choke . Vietnam had prepared the Zeitgeist . All around were men prepared to compromise for the sake of peace . The Secretary of State favored almost any deal to get out of Vietnam , and wind down tension in the Near East . The Secretary of Defensewas prepared to pull troops from Vietnam and Europe and everywhere else . Doves dominated the Congress and most of the Foreign Service . Inevitably , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to yield . Between the President and Kissinger there was established a professional and psychic bond far deeper than previous Presidents developed with their chief foreign-policy assistants . Kissinger became a Nixonite par excellence . But for many months and many people Kissinger obscured this commitment through a convoluted personality that , in the interests of not making enemies , projected a kind of double image . At bottom there was that lack of grace known in modern times as insecurity . Superficially , at least , Kissinger is the prototype of Dr. Strangelove . He has the refugee background and marked accent . He speaks in slow , ponderous cadences ? " like a man who has never had a childhood . " Professor Richard Gardner of the Columbia Law School who has known him since Harvard remarks . He has a form ( 5 feet 9 inches tall , 160 pounds ) and face ( severe eyes behind heavy glasses and long nose under high brow rising to wavy , light-brown hair ) that do not make much of an impression . Not surprisingly , he is rarely at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Brigadier General Alexander Haig , remarks with the caution appropriate to a deputy , " is not always sure he 'll be accepted . " " He does n't really believe anybody likes him , " Adam Yarmolinsky , a Harvard friend , once exclaimed . Kissinger himself repeatedly refers to his own " paranoia . " Jokingly , of course . Only the joke is n't all that funny . The Kissinger wit , which can be formidable , runs to a type . " I suppose , " he used to tell lecture groups , " you all came here to find out just exactly how depraved a Harvard professor can be . " " This will be good for my megalomania , " he said when his students applauded a farewell statement he made before taking his present job . " Everything 's going to plan ? over the cliff , " is one of his regular gags now that he 's in office . A couple of days after it was reported that Attorney General John Mitchell had called him an " egotistical maniac , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me eighteen years to achieve total animosity at Harvard . In Washington 1 did it in eighteen months . " In all cases , Kissinger himself is the butt of the jokes , and they turn on some trait other people regard with misgivings , even alarm . Functionally , the gags work to probe an uncertain landscape , distinguishing friendlies from hostiles . With the friendlies , Kissinger can be warm and patient to a rare degree . He takes remarkable pains to talk at their level to his young children ? Hirabeth , eleven , and David , nine . I have listened to him spend a quarter of an hour explaining to them the role of a newspaper columnist . He has charm to burn for women he likes . " He 's sass , a regular courtier , " Mrs. John Sherman Cooper , wife of the Senator from Kentucky , says , using the German word for sweet with its sugary overtone . Former secretaries have been known to wait for hours just to have a chance to say hello . His big difficulty lies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for years . and divorced in 1964 only after his wife took the initiative . " Henry , " a colleague who knew him then explains , " does n't like the idea of losing touch with people . He fears that cut loose they might turn hostile . " This fear finds expression in almost all of Kissinger 's most prominent traits . His suspiciousness is proverbial . He once accused a Harvard colleague who suggested they dine together in a hotel room so they could talk without interruption of not wanting to be seen with him . Even in government few men are so secretive . " I never knew what Henry said to the President and I never will , " Roger Morris , a former staff member whom Kissinger likened to a son , acknowledges . L IKE MANY PERSONS constantly on the watch for enemies , Kissinger is extremely reluctant to extend trust . Bayless Manning , now dean of the Stanford Law School , but once a rapporteur working under Kissinger on a Rockefeller Brothers Fund project , recalls that he and other rapporteurs nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taught courses with him were not allowed to invite guest lecturers without his approval . Everat the White House Kissinger tries to do everything himself . He works at a phenomenal pace ? often from seven in the morning to the wee hours . Recently , the draft of a guest column written for the New York Tirnes by the Deputy Director of the Budget , Caspar Weinberger , elicited from Kissinger a fifteen-page critique . One evening after ten lie told his appointments man . David Young , to " take the rest of the day off . " Since he is always available to the President , but also tries to sec practically everybody else who comes to town , his schedule is inevitably chaotic . " I spend each day canceling the appointments made the day before , " Lawrence Eaglehurger , who used to keep his schedule , once lamented . Even when the disorder of the office procedure had reached scandalous heights ? with people waiting for hours and Cabinet officers complaining of calls not returned ? Kissinger would not delegate authority . Though both his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of disruption that Kissinger appointed General Haig to that post . In one respect Kissinger 's one-man-showmanship had undoubted consequences . He is the only one on his staff who has regular access to the President . Nixon wants it that way , but so does Kissinger . He has never taken on his staff , as Bundy and Rostow did before him , individuals with the kind of personalities sure to command Presidential attention . The absence of staff access to the President has inevitably meant that only the problems of interest to Kissinger get the highest attention . Scant heed is paid at the Presidential level to Africa or Latin America or trade.When African , Latin American , or economic affairs come up , the White House , in effect , is out-to-lunch . Not a few of the numerous Kissinger staff resignations have come from men who came to feel that working for Kissinger was a kindof servitude , I once mentioned to a former Kissinger staff man that a couple of young technicians working in his communications office had used their passes to crash the White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burst out , " Good for them . I 'm glad somebody had the guts to stand up ? even on that issue . " A curiously connected phenomenon is Kissinger 's taste for high abstractions . Almost alone in the American academic community , Kissinger is literally a doctrinaire . His intellectual heroes are supreme theoreticians ? Hegel and Kant . His constant charge against past policy makers was that they acted pragmatically to the point where , he wrote in The Troubled Partnership , " each event is a compartment analyzed and dealt with under pressure ... without an adequate consideration of its relations to other occurrences . " Back in 1957 he was arguing in Nuclear Weapons and Foreign Policy that " doctrine is important . " In a paper on European policy published by the Brookings Institution just before he entered government he was again asserting : " In the years to come the most profound challenge to American policy will be philosophic . " Most Kissinger watchers put down this bent for generalization to a trait passed on from his father 's academic background ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But my strung impression is that Kissinger also uses high abstraction as a protective device ? a system of rules that fence out the need for spontaneous adjustment in face-to-face contacts . Long ago , and it is a mark of high intellectual penetration , Kissinger concluded that the case he wanted to make ? the conservative case for legitimacy ? could not be well argued in the pragmatic spirit of self-interest . On the contrary , he wrote in A World Restored that " the case has to be made by fighting as anonymously as possible ... so that the contest occurs at least on a plane beyond the individual . " It is typical that on Vietnam he has ordered from his own staff and most of the rest of the government immensely complicated and highly structured studies on the progress of Vietnarnization and pacification . And while everybody in government is running down those hares , Kissinger and his principal , President Nixon , are free to concentrate on the only interesting question ? the question about the intention of the governments of Saigon and Hanoi . Finally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taste for camouflage , Kissinger has at all times sought to anticipate and propitiate potential foes . His capacity to profit from criticism is truly impressive . At Harvard , his closest colleague was Thomas Sehelling , an economist who made his reputation by showing the danger of relying on the tactical nuclear weapons Kissinger had recommended in Nuclear Weapons and Foreign Policy . Though known as an associate of Nelson Rockefeller , Kissinger maintained ties with the White House intellectuals under Kennedy , notably Arthur Schlesinger and McGeorge Bundy . In the Johnson Administration , Robert McNamara used him to play a role in a major sounding of Hanoi , and he was regularly briefed on the progress of the Paris peace talks by the chief negotiator , Averell Harri ? man , and Under Secretary of State Nicholas Katzenbach . In the Nixon Administration he began playing almost instinctively , and even before accepting appointment , the role of ambassador to the intellectual community and the Eastern Establishment . He had known the appointment would probably come through long before election day 1968 . But when Nixon actually extended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it over . He then went the rounds of his friends . He spoke to the Harvard and Kennedy intellectuals ? Bundy , Galbraith , Schlesinger , Schelling , Yarmolinsky , Richard Neustadt , and a leading disarmament specialist , Paul Doty . He canvassed the Eastern Establishment at the Council on Foreign Relations and in the Rockefeller entourage . His explanation for this inquiry suggested that the near victim of Hitler had delicate scruples about a figure associated in the past with the Republican right-wing . " For people of my generation , " Kissinger told me when I asked at the time about his hesitation , " Nixon had a certain reputation . I needed to assure myself that reputation was not deserved . " But , of course , virtually everybody told Kissinger to take the job . The predictable result of the canvass was that he had for a little while anyhow lined up the support of the main centers of intellectual and Establishment opinion . T HE SAME TECHNIQUE REVEALED ITSELF in the appointment of the Kissinger staff . For day-to-day operational business he took men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from the Pentagon , was in charge of liaison with the military . Helmut Sonnenfeld , an old friend , and Pete Vakey , John Holdridge , and Richard Smyser were pulled from the State Department to deal with Europe , Latin America , Asia , and Vietnam respectively . But amidst these , in free-floating positions , were a bunch of young men known in previous Administrations as critics of official policy ? particularly in Vietnam . They included Daniel Davidson from Harriman 's staff at the Paris peace talks : Anthony Lake and Lawrence Eagleburger from the staff of Under Secretary Katzenbach ; Richard Moose from the National Security staff assembled by Rostov : Roger Morris from the National Security staff assembled by Bundy ; and Morton Halperin , Lawrence Lynn , and Winston Lord from the McNamara Pentagon . As the special feature of the staff , moreover , Kissinger set up under Halperin and Lynn a Systems Analysis unit ? a transplant from the organization established by McNamara in the Pentagon to block out basic strategy through critical analysis of the various programs thrown up by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the other side . From the very first ? from a small White House dinner he attended as " date " for Alice Roosevelt Longworth ? he kept up his White House fences , particularly with Mrs. Nixon , it is said . But his best buddies seemed to be Washingtonians associated with earlier regimes . At his last birthday party , the guests were former Secretary of Defense and Mrs. McNamara : Richard Helms , who became head of the CIA under Lyndon Johnson , and Mrs. Helms ; John Freeman , the former editor of the New Statesman who was made Ambassador to Washington by Labor Prime Minister Harold Wilson , and his wife ; and Katharine Graham , publisher of the liberal Washington Post . On one occasion , Kissinger even asked Mary McCrory , columnist for the Washington Star , to arrange for him a private dinner with some leaders of the peace movement , including Sam Brown and David Mixner . On top of all that , Kissinger cut out for himself a role foreign to every leading Nixonite but distinctly reminiscent of the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going out with well-known glamour girls ? Barbara Howar in Washington , Gloria Steinem in New York , and Jill St. John in Hollywood . His luncheon dates at the Sans Souci became a regular subject of press gossip ? the basic rule being that the more hairy the crisis , the more often Kissinger had a long-stemmed lovely to lunch . I am , " he himself announced at a party given for Miss Steinem by Mrs. Howar and full of journalists , " a secret swinger . " The secret swinger image with its underlying lime of secret good guy has had a certain impact sith the media . CBS-TV did a special on him which ' eatered his social life . But nobody close-in has seen fooled . On the contrary , many have felt had ; ind there has been a steady flow of friends and associates away from Kissinger . At least a dozen of he best staff members left either because of inability o reach through Kissinger to the President or be.ause of dissatisfaction with hawkish policies . Five - including two young foreign-policy experts whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roger Morris ? quit after Cambodia . A lelegation of thirteen close Harvard colleaguesncluding Schelling , Kistiakowsky , Neustadt , ( armolinsky ? made a public visit to his office at hat time to demonstrate their lack of support for its policies . Arthur Schlesinger and Carl Kaysen if the Institute for Advanced Study wrote him rankly that he should quit . When Kissinger reealed the dinner arranged by Miss McCrory , Sam irown promised the peace movement would drive Zissinger from Cambridge if he ever tried to re-urn . Even the glamour girls began to feel they . ere being used to win sympathy for Henry in ophisticated circles . When Barbara Howar was eked on the CBS special how somebody with her , eacenik views could keep going out with Kisinger , she said , in a reply rut from the show , Politics make strange bedfellows . " Some of the attacks shook Kissinger badly . " He ad a couple of rocky days , " General Haig says of le period after Cambodia . He allowed to go unorrected ? indeed he may well have stimulated ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had threatened that he would not be allowed to return to his post at Harvard . He railed repeatedly against the intellectual community and the Eastern Establishment . " What the hell 's an Establishment for , " he once asked with great heat , " if not to support the President when he 's in trouble ? " Occasionally he even fell back on a pathetic version of the tyrant 's plea . Cambodia he justified because otherwise President Nixon would be unseated by the superpatriots of the right . " The country , " Kissinger said , - has destroyed its last two Presidents . It can not stand destruction of a third President . " Since the Cambodian affair the tension has eased . A first-rate man who also once served in the McNamara Pentagon . Wayne Smith , has taken the Systems Analysis post vacated by Lawrence Lynn . Kissinger has seen or lunched with most of his former academic colleagues . There is no doubt that he can go back to Harvard if he wants . But my sense is that the bitterness remains and a certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on him . When the time comes to step down , Kissinger will almost certainly want to one-up the Harvards . A good guess is that he will probably accept a fellowship at All Souls , Oxford . V/EANWHILE , NO ONE CAN DOUBT that there reIVImains a case to be made against Kissinger . a strong ease . He has carefully camouflaged his true colors . He has betrayed the trust of innocent people , and induced a suspension of disbelief among normally vigilant persons . He has caused some of the very best men in government to leave government . Worst of all , perhaps , he has , particularly in the Cambodia business , become wrapped up in his own work to the point of seeing foreign affairs as a set of technical problems , not the stuff that engages the lives and passions of millions of people . Still , that is not the treason of the intellectuals . While hardly exempt from moral criticism , intellectuals do not enter government to be nice guys . They are called upon to help Presidents get hold of problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economists helped Roosevelt and subsequent Presidents get hold of the business cycle that the bankers could not manage , foreign-policy intellectuals were called in by Kennedy , Johnson , and Nixon to get hold of security problems that the generals and diplomats could not solve . Far from presenting a case of intellectual treason . Kissinger has been true to his mission in remarkable degree . Others may be hotter to disengage , but Kissinger , and Kissinger alone , has provided a forum for careful analysis of how to manage a safe winding down of the American presence abroad . He has fenced off his President from bureaucratic pressures . He has helped Mr. Nixon achieve more mastery of foreign policy than was ever enjoyed by Johnson or Kennedy or Eisenhower or Truman . And for my own part , I find it scarcely credible that the Nixon Administration will be a better instrument of government when Kissinger finally takes his leave .                     