@@314267

EXPLODING parcels suddenly turned up in Arab mailboxes last week , only a month after a similar wave of deadly letter bombs had been sent from Amsterdam to Israelis round the world . In Beirut , one package exploded in the central post office , injuring three workers ; another blew up in an export-import firm operated by a Palestinian , wounding a secretary and an office boy . A letter bomb to a Beirut newspaper was disarmed . In Cairo , postal employees spotted and defused a package mailed from Belgrade . In Algiers , a package wounded the secretary of the Palestine Liberation Organization office , to whom it had been addressed . In Tripoli , meanwhile , an official of the same group , Mustafa Awad Zeid , was blinded by a letter bomb that exploded as he opened it . <P> Danger in Europe . So went the continuing underground war between Arabs and Israelis . After the massacre of eleven Israelis at Munich ( TIME cover , Sept. 18 ) , an Israeli diplomat was killed in his London office by an exploding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Al-Fatah propagandist who worked as a translator for the Libyan embassy was killed by a dozen shots that hit him as he walked out of his apartment house . Rome police have still not been able to decide whether his assailants were Israelis or members of the anti-Palestinian Jordanian intelligence service . <P> The war is played most dangerously in Europe , where agents of all sides can move about with relative freedom . European authorities , however , have increased precautions , especially at airports , and terrorists are occasionally tripped up . Anti-metallic detectors clanged last week in Amsterdam 's Schiphol Airport . Customs men searching two bags were surprised to discover one crammed with pistols and ammunition , the other with hand grenades , five detonators and 21 letter bombs similar to those sent to Israelis in September . Airport police promptly arrested a Palestinian traveling to Caracas on an Algerian diplomatic passport . The man , identified as Ribhi Khalum , 33 , was released after he insisted that someone else had given him the bags to carry to Caracas . <P> West Germany , with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures against Arabs than has any other European nation . Bonn has banned the 1,000-member General Union of Palestinian Workers and the smaller General Union of Palestinian Students . The government , conscious of 55,000 Arabs living in the country , said it had acted to prevent " the transfer of violent conflicts " to West Germany . Bonn also expelled 44 Arabs suspected of political activity contrary to German law , tightened up visa requirements and established an elite police force to deal specifically with subversion and terror . But Bonn 's proposals for a pan-European anti-terror force similar to Interpol were coolly received by Britain and France , as dangerous to both individual rights and to the two countries ' relations with Arab states .                     