@@488060

Nasser 's death at any time would have been a bad augury for peace in the Middle East . Coming now , it is another serious threat to the shaky cease-fire which , signed on August 7 , has only about thirty days to run . Since Nasser personally dominated the Egyptian political scene , no successor of stature is in sight and a struggle for power may ensue : The contestants can be expected to employ demagogic appeals and further inflame public passions . It has been difficult to find a point of stability in the Arab world : Nasser came closer to it than anyone else  --  he had , in fact , no serious rival . Nasser 's death at this juncture is likely to make Jordan still less stable . King Hussein relied on Nasser , as Nasser , to a lesser degree , relied on Hussein . The King has been lucky , wily and courageous , but his luck may be running out . His ' regime was and is an anachronism . Half of his subjects  --  so-called -- are Palestinians . Between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arafat has said , " a sea of blood " ? perhaps 20,000 dead . Between the Palestinian bourgeoisie and the landless , propertyless Palestinians in the refugee camps there is the usual gap between rich and poor . The Palestinian bourgeoisie have backed Hussein for twenty years . Now , as his position grows more precarious , they may abandon him . Without them , his throne is still more insecure . The danger of greater involvement of the superpowers and their allies is evident . The United States has agreed to replace the arms Hussein has lost and perhaps to . be generous beyond mere replacement . But just how generous , and with what items , no outsider has the slightest idea . The extent of our commitment to Hussein , like other commitments of the sort , is known only in the inner I circles of the Nixon Administration . If we have laid our bets on him , the odds may look different now . Hussein turned against the guerrillas not merely out of annoyance over the airplane hijackings but because he knew his throne was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops mauled and weakened the guerrilla forces , , but he was forced to accept a compromise Since he could not win the civil war , he lost it . The dilemma is acute . To achieve a continuing ceasefire , not to speak of a modus vivendi , there must be a measure of stability in Jordan . The Israeli position is sound enough  --  that it is impossible to deal with " movements , ? particularly when there are eleven or so rebel groups . States can deal only with states Yet in the long run some way must be found by which to deal with the Palestinians . As Geoffrey Godsell writes in The Christian Science Monitor , the guerrillas " are still very much there , refuse to be silenced , and are likely to remain potentially spectacular troublemakers until they are respected and taken into account  --  by , the big powers , by Arab governments , and by Israel . " They lost in world esteem , though not not in Arab esteem , by the hijackings , but they have won back a measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Only when they have full responsibility of decision can they be made responsible : as long as they are treated as nuisances there will be trouble . An Instrument of History Of Nasser , The Nation never took the position that he was Adolf Hitler or Benito Mussolini on the Nile . It was this analogy  --  so vivid to Sir Anthony Eden  --  which led the British astray . At our request , James Morris , at that time Middle East correspondent of the London Times , who knew Nasser well , did a portrait of him which appeared in the issue of January ' 12 , 1957 , " Nasser : Pharaoh in Shirtsleeves . " The assessment stands up remarkably well ; time has confirmed , we feel , Morris ' perception and judgment . Some excerpts : Nasser is a genuine product  --  at Once a symbol and an inspiration  --  of the Bandung era . He is the first powerful , indigenous spokesman of the Afro-Asian resurgence . Chou En-lai 's dogmas come from Russia . Nehru is a product of the British Empire . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But Nasser reflects to perfection the groping , half-grown , ill-read , eclectic nature of the Bandung philosophers . He is a through-and-through Afro-Asian ; and he sees his country pre-eminently as a link between those two rumbling continents . It would be overestimating the man . . . to suppose that he has always seen himself as filling this precise role in history . He is not a man of vivid intellect , 4 nor is he highly educated . He has progressed consistently towards his Afro-Asian ends . . . . But he has done so , perhaps , more by instinct than by thought . He is a visionary : a man whose ideas are not rigidly crystallized by experience or education , but whose horizons are limitless . His revolution has not been cast to any one previous model . . . . Only in fundamentals . . . have Nasser 's policies been very consistent : for he is an instrument of history . He was born into the nationalist era ; but he has reached his maturity at a time when nationalism has become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new conflicts between Asia and the West , the older struggle between communism and democracy , with all that new restless energy that is associated with the name of Bandung . . . Nasser once said that he is really the leader of two separate revolutions  --  the revolution against social misery and the revolution against imperialism . In the first months of his rule he concerned himself chiefly with the social revolution , thus capturing the loyalties of men of good will all over the world . . : . But throughout his career he has made it clear . . . that this first revolution was only the means to an end . His heart has always been in the second one ? which he calls , in the jargon of the age , the revolution against imperialism . . . . He is obsessed by the idea of power ; it is not prosperity that he offers his dev9tees , nor peace , nor even material progress , but power . . . . But I am still not convinced that Nasser is seeking power simply for himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflects an instinctive urge for power that is welling up in the hitherto powerless nations , and if his aspirations are vague  --  frighteningly vague , in some ways  --  they do not seem to me to include any shoddy passion for personal self-advancement . He is a dedicated man , a man who believes in destiny and the promises of fate . His personal private life , so far as anybody knows , remains blameless . He would be a much less formidable antagonist if there could be attached to his reputation some taint of the corrupt or the megalomaniacal . . . . It may be that Nasser , though he is now obviously serving the interests of the Kremlin , still thinks he is working simply for his own visionary ends . Or it may be that , under the insidious influence of Mr. Shepilov , he has deliberately thrown in his lot with Russia . Whichever is true , I have little doubt about three things . First , Nasser is no benevolent liberal , nor even an Egyptian Ataturk : he is a dictator playing power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his concepts and ambitions far transcend the aims of petty nationalism , he displays ( so far ) no personal power-lust , and his aspirations are not simply cheap or tinsel . Thirdly , he is au fond anti-Western : he sees the West , not the forces of communism , as the principal obstacle to the advance of the Bandung bloc . Presidential Overkill President Nixon 's panicky campaign to undercut the impact of the report of his Commission on Campus Unrest is an extraordinary exercise in Presidential overkill . After all it was his commission ; the members had been handpicked by White House aides . It was , moreover , quite evident that he had disapproved of the earlier report by Dr. Alexander Heard on the same subject . Why risk a second exposure to criticism unless he was prepared , this time , to accept it ? If he wanted a report handcrafted to his own tastes and biases , he could have named the Vice President , Max Rafferty , Dr. Sidney Hook , Governor Reagan , J. Edgar Hoover and George Meany . But he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt have " gone along with " the report had word not got back to him that the report would  --  by implication at least  --  be critical of his performance and the Vice President 's rhetoric , At this point the President launched his counterattacks . Selected henchmen in the Senate ( Hruska , Allott ) began to take pot shots at the report before it was issued . The President hastened to Kansas State to make a speech which was obviously designed to counter the forthcoming report . Then a letter was sent by the President to 900 university administrators and trustees urging them to restore " order and discipline . " This insulting communiqu ? reached the recipients on the eve of the college fall term which , to date , has gone forward in a reasonably quiet manner . Then Nixon set up a special briefing by J. Edgar Hoover , which produced a press release to counter the release being issued by the commission . The President then had himself photographed with Governor Scranton and promised to read the commission 's report . His aides , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have time to read it before leaving for Europe , As a further maneuver in the carefully planned counteroffensive , he requested an authorization for an additional 1,000 FBI personnel and new powers to investigate campus " terrorism " that the Los Angeles TimeS denounced editorially as " unwise , dangerous and unnecessary . " In the wake of this " stunt , " he set off for Europe before he could he questioned about the , report . As a final kick in the groin the Vice President pronounced the report " unacceptable , " blasting it as an apologia for violence ( the very reverse of what it is ) and declared that its strictures will be taken as " more pablum for . . . permissiveness . " The reason for this overheated reaction to a sensible and timely report is that what the commission had to say did not jibe with the Nixon-Agnew tactic of " running against , the students . " The President should insist , the Commission points out , that no one play irresponsible politics with the issue of campus unrest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doing with the full approval of his boss . Let those who may be asked in the future to serve on Presidential commissions appointed by the incumbent think twice before they accept . For unless they report what the President wants , and avoid even indirect criticism of his administration , they may expect to receive the same surly treatment that is being meted out to Governor Scranton and his colleagues . No Innocent Abroad The White House describes the President 's European trip as " symbolic . " Its Mediterranean segment may have had some military symbolism , but the overwhelming objeotive is a quest for votes ? Irish , Italian , Catholic , Middle European  --  since the descendants of immigrants in this country remember their origins with varying degrees of passion . The stop-off in Yugoslavia may be read in part as a signalto the Russians that an empathetic relationship may spring up between Tito and Nixon , but the Irish detour was a bald appeal for the Irish vote , Every American President must curry votes , but rarely are they sought so clumsily . John F @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way some- what reminiscent of his origins , but few Americans have been aware that Richard Milhous Nixon ( in Ireland the ) 4 ' middle name is spelled in various ways ) had any claim to Irish ancestry . His wife ( Patricia Ryan before her marriage ) is in an unassailable position , and Daniel P. Moynihan was - added to the party to suggest that Celtic pixieness survives in America . Still , it was an unusually tasteless performance , even for Mr. Nixon . The Wall Street Journal remarked that while the " whirlwind trip " had diplomatic overtones , the President 's audience with the Pope and his search for family roots in Ireland seemed directed solely at the AmeriCan voter , The success of this operation is in some doubt . Gullibility is not an Irish failing , either among those who remained at home or those who came to the United States , From Dublin , Mary Holland writes in the London Observer that the mood there ranges from pique in governmental circles at the haste with which arrangements were made , through anxiety in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " cynical derision among the general population . " Of course , once an American President visits anywhere , a considerable amount of hoopla is bound to be raised . Two Irish villages named Timahoe have vied with each other for a claim to the Milhous , Millhouse , or Milhouse ancestors . Nixon advance men ; together with John D. Moore , the U.S. Ambassador to Ireland , gave the nod to the Timahoe in County Kildare , leaving the other Timahoe desolate . The victorious village is reported to be busy cleaning up the tiny Quaker graveyard where President Nixon 's great-great-great-great grandfather , Thomas Millhouse , is supposedly buried . Mr. Nixon will visit the grave , which can not be identified because of the Quaker custom of not marking gravestones . The world it awaits the appropriate remarks which the President will IF make , either extempore or as composed for him by one 0 of his press agents . Let no one think that this is a small or inexpensive undertaking . The American Embassy in Dublin has a normal complement of twenty-five Americans and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred people are being flown in from embassies all over Europe . Their duties , according- to Virgil Randolph , the First Secretary at the Embassy , are " to cover such services as communications , security , press and administration . " One may Surmise that of these , press is not the least important . The Lusaka Conference Through the ages , small countries that continued saying things of which the powerful did not approve have been called " irresponsible . " Greater military power made some nations more responsible than others for world peace , just as a man going through a museum with a sledgehammer is " responsible " for the safety of the treasures . And since the powerful were " responsible , " those ' who challenged them were automatically " irresponsible . " Yet as Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India pointed out at the Third Nonaligned Summit Conference meeting at Lusaka , Zambia , in early September , it is the great powers that need to be restrained for the sake of peace , and it is the military regimes which run around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " that disturb rather than guard the peace . It is a pity that Pentagon planners of U.S. foreign policy did not sit in on the Lusaka sessions . Some speeches ( like that of Foreign Minister Ratil Roa of Cuba ) were shrill and exaggerated , but even these might have provided a corrective for the Pentagon 's ordinary intake . Some in the Nixon Administration are said to regret the President 's gesture of scorn last November 15 , when he watched a football game on TV while a quarter of a million Americans demonstrated for peace outside his- window . At , Lusaka the " demonstrators " were representatives of sovereign nations , and lack of official U.S. interest seemed a replay of November 15 : " Just ignore them . " Normal press coverage before the conference could have helped redress the balanCe , but even The New York Times limited itself to an unusually tendentious piece ( August 21 ) , deploring the expense , which Zambia was incurring , but saying nothing about the agenda . The real story about the construction of the conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Tito of Yugoslavia , who , took most of the ligtiative during the three years of diplomatic preparation , also threw all relevant resources of his country into a joint effort with Zambia to complete the structures in only sixteen weeks . It was a dramatic accomplishment in the face of difficult logistics , and one which will help solidify Yugoslavia 's role as champion of the developing world . Western liberals are turned off by the difficulty of defining nonalignment in specific terms . President Kaunda of Zambia put it this way : " One of the most important characteristics of nonalignment is unity in diversity .. . . We respect the differences in our policies . .. . What we want and what we shall strive to achieve is a common front to create an atmosphere of , independent behavior in international affairs , as well as real freedom in our respective countries without outside interference . " In such a diverse group , any attempt to define nonalignment too closely would obviously inhibit growth . That there are potentialities of growth is indicated by the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forty-seven in the Second Nonaligned Summit in 1964 , and twenty-five in the first summit in 1961 . Four of this year 's participants are Caribbean UN members : Jamaica , Guyana , Trinidad and ' Tobago , and Cuba . Observers were present from Barbados , Argentina , Bolivia , Brazil , Chile , Peru , Uruguay and Venezuela , in addition to Mrs. Binh , Foreign Minister of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam , and spokesmen for African liberation movements . The Lusaka Conference marked a swing away from the concept of nonalignment as a peacemaking balance toward the idea of a group enlisting in the worldwide struggle for justice against the powers that be . Yet this role is also compatible with peacemaking ; in fact , speaking truth to power on behalf of those who dare not raise their voices is a prerequisite to any meaningful amelioration of conditions as a basis for peace . A storm ' is rising in the nonaligned world , and it behooves the United States to listen and .1-effect , and then take strong steps against , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even in some liberal circles , to say that nonalignment was all right back in the days when there were just two superpowers , but that now we have a multipolar world , the concept is outdated . That is similar to the spectacle of conservative politicians praising radical but dead heroes ( as in the case of Patrice Lumumba ) . The aim is to satisfy radical sentiment and nostalgia while holding a hard line for present and future policy . Most of those who infer that nonalignment used to be all right were also very critical of Nehru 's peacemaking when he was alive . World politics is not all that different from U.S. big-city politics . The manipulators of power abhor the independent vote . They want a straight-out fight in which they can ' , fee/ safer about predicting the future . But the need to appeal to the independent vote is what keeps city machines - from being more corrupt and oppressive than they are . There was criticism at Lusaka of the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia as well as of the war in Vietnam . Nonaligned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in world politics , and as such deserve much more consistent support than they have hitherto received . It 's really quite simple : peace between nations requires peacemaking nations- . , , WILLIAM R. LLOYD ,                     