@@493632

spent , but it has said that no significant amount of it will be devoted to strategic programs ? those aimed at deterring or waging a nuclear war with the Soviet Union . Almost all of the money is expected to go to conventional ( non-nuclear ) military purposes . And only a small part of this will be used to buttress our defenses in Europe , the most likely site of a conven ? tional war with the Soviet Union . If the reason for more defense spending is that the Russians are posing a greater threat than before , as Brown suggests , then it makes no sense to increase spending on programs that do n't address the Russian threat . The administration also makes the common mistake of equating the amount of money spent on defense with the quality of defense . As France learned with its very expensive Maginot Line , this can be a fatal error . What we spend on defense is less important than what we buy . What Carter wants to buy does n't look so good . Carter and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notable is a " rapid deployment force " to permit quick US intervention in trouble spots outside of Europe . Carter tied this implicitly to the seizure of our embassy in Tehran , arguing that " we must be prepared to deal with hostile actions against our citizens or our vital interests . " What he tactfully neglected to mention is that this strike force would be of no use whatever in a crisis like the present one in Iran . The US already has the ability to send in a contingent of Marines to free the embassy ; we lack only the means to prevent the slaughter of the hostages . The rapid deployment force unfortunately would not be rapid enough to prevent it either . When questioned , a Pentagon spokesman conceded the force would be useless in Iran : " It 's a force for use if , say , country X in the Persian Gulf is worried about an invasion by a neighbor . The Marines could be on the ground in two or three or four days . " The list of likely countries fitting that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wake of the Tehran incident and the seizure of the mosque in Mecca , the Saudis want new evidence of our willingness to stick by them . But we have no mutual defense treaty with Saudi Arabia . If the Carter administration thinks we should be preparing to go to war on behalf of a feudal Arab monarchy solely to protect our access to Saudi oil , it should say so . This is not a view universally held among Americans . The Carter administration proposes two major projects to make the rapid deployment force a reality . It wants a new fleet of logistics ships to be stationed near likely trouble spots , carrying enough heavy equipment and supplies to sustain a Marine invasion for 30 days . And it wants a new fleet of cargo airplanes to carry tanks and other heavy gear to the site of the invasion . It is n't clear that we need either of these ; it is clear , however , that we do n't need both . Hawkish senator Richard Russell shot down the idea of " prepositioning ships " 12 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasonable argument ? stillrevelent ? that if we have the ships , we very well might use them . In any case , building a new fleet of these ships should relieve us of the need to build a new cargo airplane . The reason heavy equipment needs to be kept near where it would be used is that transporting it over long distances ( by either sea or air ) simply takes too long . Planes just are n't big enough to carry a lot of tanks . If they were , we would n't need to place tanks on logistics ships near countries prone to instability . But here again Carter is suggesting better and quicker means for intervening in foreign countries without confronting the question of whether such intervention is likely to be either morally defensible or practically effective . Of the remainder of the budget increase , some of it looks wise and some not . The administration says it will step up spending on mundane items like spare parts , maintenance , and training . Almost everyone agrees that this increase is badly needed , since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , even as weapons systems have become increasingly complex , requiring more frequent repairs and more training time . But the increase also includes new funds for such questionable projects as building a new anti ? submarine frigate , which promises to be a poor match for modern submarines , and buying more A-10 tactical air fighters . More crucial , however , is the administration 's insistence on increasing spending in all these areas without cutting other projects that either add little to our military power ( such as huge Trident nuclear submarine , which has grown from a SALT bargaining chip into a monstrosity costing more than a billion dollars a throw ) , or else serve mainly to escalate the arms race ( such as the MX missile , which will give us a first-strike capacity and thus give the Soviets good reason to attack first in a crisis ) . Certainly the Pentagon budget may need more money for some things , but there is no shortage of places where funds could be cut safely . Unfortunately the people who need reassurance ? the Senate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to offset these increases , or for that matter about justifying the increases themselves . The public , which will have to bear the cost of this expensive decision , should care . Forty-eight years ago Justice Brandeis made his famous comment praising the American arrangement of semiautonomous states within a federal system as an incubator of progressive government : " It is one of the happy incidents of the federal system that a single courageous State may . . . serve as a laboratory ; and try novel social and economic experiments without risk to the rest of the country . " Sadly , recent economic and political trends have stood Brandeis 's argument on its head . State autonomy in the economic sphere , which he supported as progressive , has become one of the most reactionary influences on contemporary public policy . The reason is the competition for industry in which most governors and legislatures feel compelled to engage ? either for the economic survival of their states , or for their own political survival . Since large industry is dominated by national and multinational corporations , business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are fixed , capital is entirely mobile . According to this widely held view , among the factors that most influence where that mobile capital will come to rest are the level and structure of state taxation ; the degree of union activity within a state ; and state regulatory policy in areas from pollution control to employment rights for the handicapped . In terms of Brandeis 's metaphor , the states still exist as separate laboratories , and they retain the legal right to experiment that he helped win for them in the 1930s . But the right is atrophying because the experimental subjects ? private businesses ? have convinced state officials that corporations will flee their jurisdictions rather than submit to any innovative efforts to regulate their activities or redistribute their wealth . Trying " novel economic and social experiments " in this context is like trying to isolate carcinogens in a Walt Disney movie , with the talking rats telling you to stuff your saccharine because they can get all the sugar they want in the nice laboratory across the street . Unlike Brandeis 's experiments in progressivism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the rest of the country , " today 's state experiments in reaction are explicitly intended to penalize the rest of the country . The purpose of giving tax and regulatory breaks to businesses is to entice them away from other states , or at least to hold onto your own in the face of other states ' enticements . A recent article in the Boston Globe noted the satisfaction felt in Massachusetts because a new state agency had used tax-exempt bonds to bribe a national retail chain to move 209 jobs to Boston . Local pride at this accomplishment seemed undiminished by the fact that the jobs in question came from the South Bronx . If tax rates , environmental standards , and labor rules were all set nationally , as they are in other in ? dustrialized countries , business would not be able to pit the different states against one another in this way . The tradition of state autonomy in such matters is supposed to preserve a degree of local freedom within our national system . But the mobility of big business makes this freedom somewhat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if some of these policies were set nationwide . The states are prisoners of their own freedom . In 1976 Massachusetts votersdefeated a proposal calling for flat electricity rate " , to end the practice of volume discounts for large industrial users . They were persuaded that it would be eco ? nomically suicidal for one state to impose such a rate structure by itself . But a year later , when the US House of Representatives put a similar proposal into its version of the 1977 energy bill , the provision was eliminated in conference with the argument that such a national policy would invade an area reserved for the states . Most economists with whom I have discussed this problem contend that there 's a flaw in the basic thesis . They say that the business community greatly ex ? aggerates both how mobile industrial and commercial activity really is , and how much differences in state policy influence decisions about where to locate . State-imposed costs are usually a small part of the overall cost of doing business . Consequently , even 20 or 30 percent differences in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small blips on a corporation 's fiscal radar screen . I 'm convinced we can afford to be skeptical about the need to let corporate wishes shape state policy . Unfortunately , few other state officials share that skepticism . The perception that states must either adopt " pro-business " policies or suffer serious economic harm is one of the dominant influences on policymaking in much of the country , and particularly in the industrialized Northeast and Midwest . State officials have been impressed ? some even alarmed ? by the significant shift of economic activity in the United States away from the Northeast and Midwest to the South and Southwest . There are complex reasons for this trend ; I do not believe that industry was driven from snowbelt to sunbelt by unsympathetic state governments . But the critical political fact is that this shift of jobs and capital in a south and southwesterly direction was also , in general , a shift away from states with higher taxes , more nearly adequate welfare and unemployment compensation benefits , and tougher economic regulatory policies ; and toward states with lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have reasoned , post hoc ergo propter hoc . The effect of this on public policy is clear to see . First , it is one of the main reasons that the real incomes of welfare recipients have been falling , and will almost certainly continue to fall . The first demand of the business community in snowbelt states is for reduc ? tions in state and local spending . This usually means cutbacks in spending on human service programs . For one thing , welfare and related programs are among the largest items in any state 's budget , making them a tempting target . Second , welfare recipients especially the non-elderly are always politically vulnerable , and especially so in today 's conservative climate . Business leaders who demand reduced state spending may not wish to see welfare recipients hurt , but they rarely participate in efforts to find more humane budget cuts . Most state budgets contain plenty of socially unuseful spending , reflecting the political needs and preferences of elected officials . The corpora te community in most states ? while insisting on budget cuts ? seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own in deciding where to cut . The second major effect of the business community 's pressure on the states is to make state tax structures less progressive . In addition to pressing for generally lower spending and tax practices , the business com ? community has demanded a disproportionate share of tax relief for itself , in both its corporate and its individual capacities . This campaign began with efforts to reduce corporate tax rates , and to abolish or severely reduce taxes on business inventories and sales taxes on machinery . Soon states began to offer special tax incentives to corporations willing to move in from outside , as well as to those undertaking expansions within the states where they were already located . States have used their rights to sell federally tax-exempt bonds to help finance corporate expansion . And special state tax credits and deductions for firms adding to their employment rolls or productive capacity have also become widespread . These reductions have done more than simply reduce the amount of money available for general government purposes . These tax concessions to businesses have helped bring about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its imitators . The proportion of state and local taxes paid by individuals has increased sharply as a consequence of the reductions offered to corporations . As Bob Kuttner wrote in the Washington Post , " the tax revolt in 1978 was created largely by business tax relief at the expense of homeowners . " Tax relief for corporate entities has waned in popularity recently as some economists have attacked the economic assumption on which it rests , pointing out how small a part of business expense state taxes represent . But in its stead has come an explicit demand by the business sector and its allies that individual taxation in the states be made less progressive than it now is ( usually not very progressive ) . This argument is used most effectively in the northeastern states , which want to replace heavy manufacturing with economic activity more suited to their climates , lack of energy sources and resources , and remoteness from transpor ? tation lines . This sort of activity ? for example , high technology manufacturing and major financial institutions ? employs fewer people than auto- or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those it does employ . Since they use relatively little in the way of raw materials or energy , labor costs are a major concern to these firms , and their argument is that the high cost of living in the northeastern states forces them to pay uncompetitively high wages to attract the employees they need . The solution , these states are told , is to reduce taxes in the higher brackets , so that young engineers and managers can afford to . live in the Northeast . This focus on the economic plight of middle management and high technology manufacturing employees creates another potent second order effect . It makes it unlikely that much will be done on the state level to alleviate the plight of big cities . One of the most serious causes of urban distress in Massachusetts , for example , is our disastrously high rate of property taxation . For years it has been the goal of most students of the state 's economy to lower these rates , which have their most pernicious social and economic effects in older , larger cities . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five years , but they are now endangered by the view that economic salvation rests with continued development of computer industries ? which are located almost exclusively in the suburbs . The third impact of the competition for industry is in the regulatory area . Environmental rules , consumer protection , protection of employment rights for minorities , pregnant women , gays , and the handi ? capped , all face very serious political obstacles today from corporate leaders who threaten to move out of the state if they are hedged in with any more restraints . This happens in both the industrialized states , which seek to stop their economic losses , and in the sunbelt , where it is argued that regulatory policies that might discourage new arrivals must be avoided . Many of the changes we expected to accompany increased in ? dustrialization in the South and Southwest have been thwarted by precisely this tactic . The most glaring example relates to labor unions . One of the major advantages enjoyed by the sunbelt states , according to business leaders , is their relative freedom from organized labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard to keep things this way . " One thing that attracts business to the state is the fact that we do n't have many labor unions , " one North Carolina state senator said in opposition to a proposal he saw as a threat to his state 's economic growth . The proposal in question was not to change the state 's labor laws , but simply to open what the New York Times described as " a center for labor education and research " at North Carolina Central University . The Times went on to report that his opposition to this effort was widely shared by other legislators , in response to overwhelming opposition from the North Carolina business community . The only way to prevent the interstate competition for industry from continuing to exert a powerful downward pull on public services is to reassert the moral and economic case for a strong federal govern ? ment . This does not mean an end to state policy freedom . It does mean that as long as certain critical national policy questions ? such as income transfer policy , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substantially to the states , these questions will be decided not on their merits but on the basis of corporate blackmail . Of course tax reduction is not automatically an illegitimate policy choice , and those who wish to reduce further the real incomes of welfare recipients have every right to make their case . But these policies ought to have to be defended on their merits ? that is , on the basis of some notion about how our national resources should be divided between the public and private sectors . Today , in state after state , the debate is rigged . The argument that carries the day is simply that we ca n't afford to be nicer to the poor than Texas , nor more progressive in our tax structure than New Hampshire . A few simple reforms would solve the problem : A national welfare plan , and uniform levels of unemploy ? ment and workmen 's compensation benefits ( suitably adjusted for regional living cost differences ) ; a uniform national policy toward labor unions ; an end to the use of federal tax subsidies and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry ; a comprehensive national health plan . These are the essential elements of a national policy that would preserve legitimate state autonomy over a very wide range of issues , without allowing the business community to use the leverage of its real or pretended mobility to impose its particular conservative policy preferences . Justice Brandeis was right in his day . But today his laboratories are acting more like massage parlors . If American vice-consul Robert Whitney Imbrie had been in a reflective mood on his sight-seeing ride through Tehran the morning of July 18,1924 , he could have looked back upon 40 years of steady achievement and forward to a promising future . Educated at the Friends ' School in Washington , DC , George Washington University , and Yale Law School , Robert Imbrie had gone on to practice law , explore the Congo , win 10 decorations in French service during the Great War , write a book , and hold American diplomatic posts in Finland , Russia , and Turkey . Married a year and a half to a bright , well-connected woman named Katherine Gillespie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two revolutions , he seemed to have a brilliant career in the State Depart ? ment ahead of him . Imbrie had only been in Iran , then called Persia , abou t two months before that Friday morning . American interests in this country ? whose major exports to the US were rugs , quince seeds , and pistachio nuts ? were anything but vital ; but the Teapot Dome scandal and an oil shortage scare had focused some attention on Jersey Standard 's and Sinclair 's attempts to negotiate petroleum concessions there . Persia was seething in regional and sectarian unrest . Prime Minister Reza Khan , an unlettered former commander of the Persian cossacks who had been instrumental in sweeping aside the previous government in 1921 , seemed now to be losing some of the political initiative to opposition forces . Persia 's Shiite clergy , led in parliament by an aged mujtaliid , Seyid Hassan , were the most vocal of these opponent groups . Already that summer , there had been serious riots against the Persian minority that followed the Bahai sect . Imbrie himself had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bazaar a few days before . The most important Shiite observances of the year were only two weeks away , and popular feelings were running high . Throughout Persia 's capital , it was the custom for pious citizens to set up drinking places outside their homes to provide water for passersby . One such fountain , at the corner of Agha Sheikh Hadi and Makhsous streets in downtown Tehran , was reputed to have especially miraculous powers . Legend had it that a Bahai , refusing an invitation to drink there to the memory of a Shi'ite martyr , immediately had been struck blind . The crowds that gathered there daily increased as the feast days of Moharrem approached . Imbrie 's carriage reached the spot at about noon that Friday , just as the faithful were being called to prayer . When Imbrie stepped down , camera in hand , to observe the scene , the crowd made menacing noises . On the advice of a nearby policeman , Imbrie and another American from the legation returned to the carriage as the cry arose , " They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the carriage made off , the crowd rushed after it . Within minutes , the Americans were careening down the street in the direction of central police headquarters , pursued by a running press of people which grew to mob proportions as it gathered adherents along the way . Twice stopped by police , the carriage was twice allowed to proceed , the mob gaining all the while . Cries of " Stop that carriage ! The infidels have murdered two soliders and two women at the Sagha Khaneh ! " rang out from behind . The terrified driver felt some relief as police headquarters and the city garrison 's parade ground came into view down Sepah Street . But when soldiers finally brought the carriage to a halt , the mob surged over it like a wave . Imbrie 's American companion made it through the parade ground gate , only to be beaten unconscious by garrison soldiers using the butts of their rifles . Imbrie was pulled from the carriage and vanished beneath a sea of fists , stones , cudgels , and cossack sabres . Dazed , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a nearby tea house and , when the crowd tore that small building 's roof off , to the police hospital . The mob had now grown into the thousands . Tehran 's police were under orders from the prime                     