@@479406

ALTHOUGH THE . TERM " foreign devils " is no longer used in contemporary China ? is in fact so obsolete that Chinese whom we met professed not to recognize or understand the phrase -- the concept is alive and still governs , it seems to me , the Chinese attitude . China 's present program , deriving from fear of Russia , is a determined campaign to cultivate the " friendship " of foreign peoples , but the treatment of foreigners is such a hothouse affair as to suggest that the Chinese are not at all at ease in the contact . Underneath , one suspects . the old view of foreigners as strange , unnatural , essentially unwanted creatures , part barbarian , part devil , has not changed fundamentally . The relationship is now conducted according to Marxist dogma but its underlying attitude is as much traditionally Chinese as Communist . Two hundred years ago , China 's Imperial rulers , secluded within their walls of conscious superiority , sensed a threat to a past-oriented society in the dynamism of the West , and tried with guile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has won two Pulitzer Prizes. : in 1972 for Stilwell and the American Experience in China , 1911-45 ; and in 1963 for ' the Gum of August . 44 Copyright ( ) 1972 Barbara A " . Turfman force to limit contact and frustrate foreign entry . Today , despite continuous incantation of the word " friendship , " which we must have heard a hundred times a day throughout . a forty-day visit , one can not escape the impression that if only it were not for world pressures , Maoist China , like that of the Ming and the Manchus , would be happier to withdraw into the broad isolation of the Middle Kingdom . Peking 's present rulers , however , are perforce more realistic than the emperors . They have already taken the great step of embracing g a West- ern ideology in the form of Marxism- Leninism ; there is no retreat now from the world . Their initial isolation resulting from angry rejection of the West and failure to galvanize a revolutionary following in Asia , suddenly became dangerous after their break with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into open hostility , the need of friends , or at least of new options and new alignments , became crucial , however awkward ideologically . Hence ping-pang diplomacy , rapprochement first with the U.S .. then Japan , and fervent patronage of the small Third World nations . Toward Westerners the approach is a curious mixture of exaggerated Pholo ; ra ; hs by he author privilege and strict control . The privileges tend to become embarrassing especially in an otherwise egalitarian society . While the Chinese do not own private cars , the visitor always has a car at his disposal not only for the planned program but for whatever purpose at whatever hour : at 6:00 A.M. if one wants to go out early to watch the waking city , at 10:00 P.m. to come home from the ballet . The driver waits like an old-fashioned private chauffeur . Foreigners feel themselves surrounded by the trappings of an elite . They stay in separate hotels , dine in separate dining rooms or screened off from the Chinese if there is only one dining room travel in separate compartments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ station , are cared for on a separate floor of the hospital . During intermission at the theater we are not left to mingle with the crowd but are firmly guided to sit among other foreigners in a private reception room . On the lake at the Summer Palace we can not engage a rowboat to row ourselves like the Chinese but are grandly deposited in a large covered boat . provided with tea and tablecloth and poled by two boatmen . In museums our guides push aside Chinese visitors from the exhibit cases to give us unnecessary room . At a park our car drives through a pedestrian entrance where the Chinese walk ; at a railroad station , after imperious horn-blowing , we drive through a special gate right up to the tracks . Segregation , self-administered , is a feature in China , and one is sometimes uncertain , as in the screened dining rooms , who is Jim Crow , we or they . ( Blacks from Africa are of course treated like any other foreigners . ) The Chinese consider it a mark of preferment for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prefer it for themselves . In Yenan a large new hotel was under construction , and we asked what future use was planned for the present one . The reply was , " Oh , that will he for internal visitors . " Overseas Chinese who are now visiting the mainland in large numbers are treated as yet another distinct category , between native and foreign . Although China , like Israel , maintains the theory that its diaspora , regardless of citizenship , has the right of return , it treats the visiting racial compatriots brusquely . With the exception of distinguished individuals , they are confined to separate hotels , travel under separate arrangements , and are kept as far as possible from mingling with Westerners . When we made the acquaintance of some overseas Chinese from New York and invited them to join us in the private reception room during the intermission of an evening performance , our fscorts did not trouble to conceal their disapproval . The motive in all this obviously has to do with control and surveillance , since the overseas ; roups can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite clearly second class . Judging by these various distinctions and . pockets of apartheid in Communist ractice , it is plain that despite ideol. ) gy , the new Chinese , like the old , are not great believers in the equality of humankind . The odd thing is that having denolished extraterritoriality and the inequal treaties and every last vestige ) f foreign penetration , and having len minced and metaphorically ram pled upon Westerners as imierialist criminals , reactionary opiressors , running dogs , paper tigers , nd every other variety of evil , the Iinese seem unable to treat us in he flesh in any other way than as the Tivileged characters of the had old ' reaty Port days . Queried on this phenomenon , they reply that the former treatment was exacted from them but the present privileges are bestowed by them voluntarily from a desire to make their foreign friends feel comfortable and enjoy their sojourn under agreeable conditions . This has validity up to a point , and one is glad enough to take advantage of it and not to have to travel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or eat in the public room of a restaurant surrounded by tables of staring men in their undershirts . The Chinese have an acute awareness of this problem , and since their object is to make the foreigner feel well-disposed , they set about it by attention to his physical comfort , not by democratic leveling . They are probably justified by results although I think the cosseting is overdone . M Y PARTICULAR EXPERIENCE makes it ungracious to carp . I discovered on arrival that as a guest of the Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries and as a " friend of the Chinese people , " I was a guest in every sense including financial , and no amount of protests , pleas , and arguments about the awkward position it put me in as a journalist had the slightest modifying effect . A bureaucratic decision once taken is not easily changed in China . I wrote the book that presumably earned this status neither as friend nor unfriend but as a historian , which presupposes ? if it does not sound pretentious to say so ? a certain purity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historian is a propagandist like every other servant of the state , so it would have been useless to try to explain my reservations . A " friend of the Chinese people " is decidedly pampered . We had front-row seats ? sometimes upholstered armchairs ? reserved for us at evening dance performances arranged in the hotels ; audiences rose and clapped on our arrival and departure ; a special one-car train was put on to take us from Lovang to Chengchow out of schedule . In Suchow , admittedly a town of rather special flavor , we were ensconced in a separate annex of the hotel with two suites , a private dining room , an attendant butler ( there is no other word for him I , and besides the usual tea thermos , cigarettes and fruit in the bedroom , a fresh plate of candies every day and a fresh arrangement of jasmine buds in the form of a brooch . With everything provided , I , like Queen Victoria , never held a railroad ticket or used a coin . Yet the effect of all this gracious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an object of friendship as of manipulation . I looked up in Stilwell and read aloud to my daughter my own account of Wendell Willkie 's visit to Chunking in 1943 : " In the manipulation of foreigners every Chinese from amah and house-boy to the Generalissimo and Madame considered himself expert . In this matter Chinese confidence in themselves was supreme and their skills unsurpassed . They were adept , unrelenting . smooth and more often than not successful . Willkie 's visit supremely illustrated the Chinese process of influencing American public opinion . ' He 's to be smothered ' Stilwell wrote . There was to be an unbroken schedule of banquets , receptions , reviews , dinners , visits to schools , factories , girl scouts , arsenals . He was to be installed in a Chinese guest house as the guest of the Chinese Government ... " and so on . Friendship of a kind that can not easily be reversed tomorrow must have its roots in common interests and shared beliefs and , even between nations , in some personal feeling . Social intercourse with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their personal lives ; they never bring wives to a banquet to meet foreigners , which makes the banquet clearly not a social occasion but a job , and no amount of routine toasts to " friendship " can make it otherwise , especially as the Chinese Communists are neither so glib nor so practiced in the job as were the cohorts of Chiang Kai-shek . Even artificial friendship , however , is a step forward from hostility . For domestic consumption the stress on " friendship " is essential . The theory is that capitalist govern . ments are bad , but people ? that is , the " masses " ? are good ; therefore all peoples arc friends of China and vice versa . This takes care of any in ? compatibility that a member of the Chinese public might feel between official denunciation of American imperialism on the one hand and personal welcome to individual Americans on the other , or between watch . ing the former Japanese invader : FRIENDSHIP WITH FOREIGN DEVILS depicted nightly on stage as atrocious villains while the Shanghai Ballet troupe tours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . T HE DOCTRINE is apparently found convincin , by the public . One certainly finds a fund of genuine friendliness in the provincial cities and countryside expressed in smiles and spontaneous clapping . This new practice , derived perhaps from the Russians , has spread down to tiny children in rural villages who see a foreigner and clap of their own accord , which must say something of the attitude of their parents . But during institutional visits the effect on the foreigner of being met coming and going by large groups rising to their feet and clapping is absolutely unnerving . The other reaction to foreigners is staring . One can not walk down a street or in a park , museum , store , or any public place without attracting crowds who fill the sidewalk or form a circle or just stop short and stare , openly , brazenly , greedily . Sometimes it is with frank curiosity , sometimes with utter astonishment as if we were indeed foreign " devils . " Occasionally the stares express antagonism and remind one uneasily of the recent antiforeign rampages of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past 100 years . Although our guides once or twice seemed unnecessarily nervous , we never encountered outright hostility . The overwhelming impression was one of a naturally friendly people . But motives for the official friendship campaign are certainly not sentimental , as I learned from the most illuminating remark made to me in China . It came in conversation at Peking University with the president ( in current terms , Vice-Chairman of the University 's Revolutionary Committee ) , Chou P'ei-yuan , and Professor of History Chou I-Bang . In the course of discussing the startling shifts in the foreign policy of both our countries as reflected in the recent rapprochement , I asked whether the decision to open relations with an imperialist aggressor superpower caused much disruption or dissent in the Central Committee . Not at all , I was blandly told ; negotiating with an antagonist was consistent with Chinese Communist practice ; they had negotiated , even collaborated , in the versation at a banquet with the Vice-Chairman of the Provincial Revolutionary Committee of Shensi , brings up the name of the famous " Christian General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a quarter century preceding the Communists , and the Vice-Chairman replies flatly , " Feng Yu-hsiang was never governor or warlord of Shensi , " one is left bewildered . It is as if Mayor Lindsay , looking one straight in the eye , were to say , " Fiorello La Guardia ? No , he was never mayor of New York . " What motivated the Vice-Chairman of Shensi to make his assertion I have no idea . I could only feel myself facing a cultural gap without a bridge . wire FUTURE of relations is clearly I not without pitfalls but the opportunity now to establish a workable relationship is probably as good as it is likely to be ? if for no other reason than China 's extreme bitterness toward Russia . The rise of acute hostility between the two Communist giants is one of those turns in human affairs that happily makes fools of the dogmatists and makes history eternally fascinating . It has redirected the course of the last quarter of our century . Since the break , the Russians have moved what appears to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the frontier with the result that both nations live in the paranoid shadow of war ? the Russians tempted by the idea of a preemptive strike , the Chinese preparing for it . Not without reason it has been said that for China Nixon 's visit was equivalent in worrying the Russians to a million men on China 's side of the frontier . Mean . while the Chinese feel forced to turn their energies into building underground cities which . it is claimed , could save a quarter of the population in the event of nuclear attack . With the other superpower allied to Chiang Kai-shek and represented by a belligerent American presence off Formosa and on the Asiatic mainland , China understandably felt encircled prior to 1971 . It is this situation that explains the heavy internal propaganda on armed force and the glory of the gun and the heroic virtues of the People 's Liberation Army . Reaching clown to primary-school children who conduct military games and exercises with mock rifles , it is designed to instill military self-con fidence and dignify the formerly despised status of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As a Socialist state , the Chinese seem genuinely convinced of their own nonaggressiveness . The Socialist system , they maintain , does not allow invasion of other countries . " How could we explain to the world if we engaged in aggression against another state ? " Since the party line establishes the equal status of all nations , China according to this dogma can never become a superpower because it will never dominate others . Similar assertions about noninterference in the affairs of others are less than convincing . The one people who seem excluded from the unity of the masses and whom the Chinese regard as somehow undetachable from their government are the Israelis , the world 's eternal exception . No doubt this can be explained as a matter of wooing the Arabs away from the Russians , yet the Chinese show a particular animus in this case that is surprising , especially as Israel is the enemy of their enemy and is similar to them in many ways that might be expected to evoke empathy . They are the two oldest peoples with a continuous history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sovereignty over the same territory as they did 3,000 years ago . Both went through a long struggle and a final armed fight to achieve that sovereignty , both came to power at about the same time , 1948-9 , both pursued a dominant idea , in one case revival , in the other revolution . Socialism if not Marxism was the early Zionist goal , and the communal system of the kibbutzim antedates the present communes of China . Both nations stress self-sufficiency for similar reasons , and both live in fear of invasion . To test the reaction , I attempted once or twice to bring out this likeness and suggest that China could exercise a unique influence in the Middle East that might make a major contribution to world peace . The reaction was not a bland pretense that I was talking about the weather ? which is the usual Chinese way of avoiding an uncomfortable subject ? but an angry rejection of any likeness to " imperialist " Israel . In the case of a reasonably sophisticated diplomat like Huang Hua , chief of the Chinese delegation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel as " the tool of Ameri can oil interests , " a twist that woulc make even Aramco laugh . One never knows , when the Chinese talk like this , whether it is ignorance Of be . fuddled Marxist orthodoxy or some kind of reverse Oriental version o : reality . UllROM THE POINT of view of a single I unofficial , necessarily superficia : traveler , these are some of the factors that will enter into the process of forging a Sino-American relationship . The relationship is of large impor. tance to both countries , not to mention the world , but I do not think it should he approached sentimentally or with too great expectations . The Chinese are not likely , I expect , soon to expand very appreciably the admission of foreigners , although the pressure on their doors is going to be hard to resist , as it was before , and may compel some relaxation of their tight system of selection . The given excuse of limited facilities is not determining ; in an authoritarian state facilities are expandable but " friendships " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these develop according to its design . On our side there are problems too . Vis-a-vis Communist China , oui heterodox political opinions make some of us too starry-eyed and others too hard-nosed . Anti-Communism has conditioned our foreign and military policy for too long not to have cut a deep channel . McCarthyism is never dead in this country , a fact too little appreciated by the Chinese . Themselves suffering under a sentimental illusion about the masses being al . ways right , they fail to realize that a large proportion of Americans firmly regard " Commie-bastard- as one word , and Communism as the sourer of all evil from long hair to crime . and are not so much bemused by a reactionary government as ahead of it What one would like to hope foi from our side is goodwill and a cool realism ; a recognition that Commu. nist China has different needs , differ . ent goals , and a different outlook or the world from ours and has corn . mitted itself to a political system that may be antithetical but need not be inimical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sound relationship , not forgettinE that - friendship is a form of struggh too . "                     