@@490717

11. - 1I : BAIKAL , a four-hundred-mile- long body , of water in southeast- ern Siberia about twenty-five hundred miles east of Moscow , is thought to he between twenty-five and thirty million years old , and hence the oldest lake on earth . With a maximum depth of more than five thousand feet , it is also the world 's deepest body of fresh water and its largest in volume , containing an estimated fortieth of the planet 's fresh water  --  though one Soviet geographer gives the unlikely figure of twenty per cent . The lake is fed by three hundred and thirty-six rivers but is drained by only one , the Angara , which flows out of Lake Baikal 's southwestern end to run a thousand miles northwest to the Yenisei  --  which , in its turn , rims another fifteen hundred miles to the Arctic Ocean . Because a large part of Lake Baikal 's watershed area is surfaced with rock , its water is between twenty-five and fifty per cent lower in mineral content than that of most other freshwater bodies , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred and fift ) feet . These and mans of the lake 's other unique attributes and resources have , for the past ten years or so , been increasingly threatened by the incursion of industry . The threat has produced the sort of confrontation between manufacturers and conservationists that has repeatedly been in the news over here . In the Soviet Union , as might he expected , the fight has been less dramatically reported than it might he in the United States , but it has been reported , and it continues  --  just as the apparent degradation of the lake does , It would be hard to overestimate either the effect of Lake Baikal on the climate of the surrounding region  --  largely mountainous and wooded , belonging to the Buriat Republic on the east and to the Irkutsk ( ) blast on the west  --  or the remarkable variety of its flora and fauna . The city of Irkutsk is only thirty miles from Baikal , but , since large bodies of water are slow to change temperature , the temperature in the city may be as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Lakeshore . Moreover , though temperatures in the region fall below freezing by September or October , ice does not form on the lake until late December or early January . Also , the area is blessed with an unusually high percentage of cloudless days . Lake Baikal has an average of twenty-five hundred and eighty-three sunny- hours a year , whereas , for instance , Kislovodsk , a sunny resort city in the Caucasus , has a mere two thousand such hours . The quality of the air in the lake region is memorable , too . As a visitor approaches the lakeshore , the fresh , crisp air makes breathing seem almost a new experience . As for the flora and fauna of the Baikal region , more than twelve hundred organisms have been catalogued , of which seven hundred and eight are peculiar to it . Among these indigenous species are the wipe  --  the world 's only freshwater seal , of which there are thirty thousand in the lake and the golomyanka , a transparent fish that bears about two thousand live young . Lake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place on earth that those whose lives have been touched by it are sometimes inclined to believe that it has supernatural powers . The area is venerated both by the local inhabitants and by Russian conservationists . Until a decade or so ago , there was no significant industrial development on the shores of the lake , which are mainly steep slopes unsuitable for anything but small settlements , but several cities and factories had sprung up on some of its tributaries especially the major one , the Selenga River , which supplies about fifty per cent of Lake Baikal 's water . Over the years , about fifty factories , including meat-packing plants and lumber mills , had been established along the banks of the Selenga , and only about ten of these bothered to treat their waste before it was discharged . Most of these factories are near the capital of the Buriat Republic , Ulan-Ude , which is about seventt - five miles from the lake 's shore , and which also empties its sewage  --  untreatedinto the Selenga . In the fifties , the lake was beginning to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ornul , the lake 's prize fish , declined fifty-five per cent in twelve years , from 91,3011 centners ( about ten thousand tons ) in 1945 to less than half that in 1957 . The decline may have begun as a result of poor fishing practices , but it was exacerbated by pollution of the lake 's tributaries especially the Selenga , the breeding area for sixty per cent it the lake 's ( ) mid . The industrial threat to the ecology of the region was increased greatly in 1957 , when the State Institute for the Design of Cellulose and Paper Plants ( or Gipprosbum ) , under the stimulus of the State Planning Office ( or Gosplan ) of the Russian Republics , suggested that the enormous timber resources and pure water of the Baikal region be put to some use . The plans called for the construction of at least two factories a cellulose-cord factor ) ? on the southern shore of the lake at Baikalsk and a cellulose plant on the Selenga . The planners announced their intentions in 1958 , but nut until Jul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begun , was there an ) public hint of what such industrial development might mean for Lake Baikal . At that time  --  in a forty-eight-page pamphlet published by the Buriat Bonk Publishing Company , in Ulan-Ude a local writ-er , B. R. Buiantuev , cautioned that establishing such factories on or next to Lake Baikal would create complications for the lake and its huge surrounding forestland . But since Buiantuev 's essay was published in Siberia , and in an edition of only twenty-five hundred copies , it is unlikely that it received much atten tion . As a matter of fact , a potential ) effective law aimed at protecting the lake had been passed earlier that year by the Council of Ministers of the Russian Republics . Anticipating some of the difficulties that the new plants would create , the law had three major provisions : First , it stipulated that no factory could open until its officials could guarantee that a water-purification system was working and that : d1 resulting effluents were harmless . This fact also had to be certified by various ministries and by state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlargement of the BarguAn National Preserve , a sixmillion-acre forest area around the shores of the lake . Third , it banned the stripping  --  as against the selective cutting  --  of timber where the land sloped as much as fifteen degrees , and banned selective cutting as well where the slope was as much as twenty-five degrees , bans designed to prevent erosion on the lake 's watershed . In addition , the law provided for a program of reforestation . All these provisions , it soon became apparent , were to be ignored . New warnings , in a book by two writers named 0 . Serova and S. Sarkisian , emanated from Ulan-Ude in 1961 , but again few people outside that remote provincial city seemed particularly interested . Until December of that year , must Soviet citizens remained unaware that factories that could pollute the lake were being planned . Then Gregory Galazy , the director of the Limnological Institute of the Academy of Sciences , in Siberia , issued a public warning about what was happening . In a letter to the editor of the newspaper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ described how the plan for industrial development of the lakeshore had been horn , catalogued the chemical and biological changes that the new industries would inflict on the lake , and warned that the liquid waste from the plants could not only destroy some of the lake 's unique marine life but might also adversely affect the water supply of Irkutsk . Galazy went on to suggest a number of ways of averting the threats to the lake . First , he urged that the factories treat and reuse their water . But if that should prove to be too expensive , he wrote , the factories should build a forty-two-mile-long sewage bypass to the Irkut River , which does not flow into Lake Baikal . Finally , Galazy suggested that it was still not too late to abandon the whole project . He proposed that cellulose and pulp operations be transferred to the city of Bratsk , bout three hundred miles up the Angara . Since a paper plant was already being constructed at Bratsk , all that would have to be done would be to expand it . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the water of Lake Baikal itself , he said , and there would be plenty of electric power available , for an immense hydroelectric plant would soon open nearby . NVhatever happened , Galaxy pleaded , no waste water from the cellulose factories should be permitted to flow into Lake Baikal . A month later , the economic weekly Ekonomicheskaia Gazeta printed a cautionary article , but thereafter little was heard about the impending danger for three years , until 1964 . Then the debate exploded in the pages of Literaturnain Graeta , with an attack by the writer Oleg Volkov , who has since come to be known for his outspoken defense of Russian ecology . Pravda , fia , and Komsoniolskain Pravda soon joined in , but it has been Litornturrtain Gaze to that has continued to press the issue with the most persistence . TN the Soviet Union , protests like - I-  those over Lake Baikal are usual directed by one government agency against the actions of another . When a government newspaper decides to publish a letter to the editor , or when it commissions a writer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existence of an interagency squabble . Such campaigns are common in the Soviet Union , but just how the decision is made to launch them is not clear . Many instances of ecological destruction never get into the press . Moreover , there are no independent conservation groups like our Sierra Club or Auduhon Society to seek out abuses . When this kind of debate does surface , therefore , the implication is that either the potential consequences are far-reaching or bureaucratic feuding has become particularly intense . In this country , it is frequently pointed out how much private enterprise and private greed have done to destroy the environment , but in the case of Lake Baikal it was , of course , public officials running a public agency who were similarly .. responsible for proposals to exploit irreplaceable resources . From the state planners ' point of view , it was an ideal situation for low-cost mass production of high-quality cellulose and paper products . N. Chistiakov , the first deputy minister of the Ministry of Timber , Paper , and Woodworking , and E. Kuznctsov , the chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ministry , explained in an article in Literaturnaia Gazrta , in April , 1965 , " We are for the preservation of the lake , but we arc also opposed to underutilization of its huge wealth  --  its water and umber . " There remains the question of whether it is possible both to preserve the lake and to exploit its resources , and if a choice has to he made , it is not hard to predict on which side the officials in the Ministry of Timber , Paper , and Woodworking will be . As for the governors of the Soviet regions and republics , they are no more concerned with conservation than officials in Moscow are . Under the country 's system of five-year economic-development plans , which prescribe specific pro-duction and profit goals , an ad-ministrator 's success is judged in terms of increased production . There is no space on performance charts for grading a governor on his maintenance of the quality of the air or water in his domain . Moreover , governmental and managerial officials in the Soviet Union tend to resist the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there will be less money , available for expanding productive ca-pacity . NVhcn the managers of a pa-per plant at Bratsk were asked why a new waste filter had not been installed , one of them replied , " It 's expensive . The Ministry of Timber , Paper , and Woodworking is trying to invest as few funds as possible in die construction of paper and timber enterprises in order to make possible the attainment of good indices per ruble of capital ins estment . These indices arc being achieved by the refusal to build purification installations . " Both factory managers and political officials suffer if funds arc diverted from production to conservation , and as a result of this identity of interests government officials in the Soviet Union are more apt to ignore damage to the environment than officials in societies where , with private enterprise , there is a degree of public accountability . It is true that most American corporate officials would prefer fewer rather than more pollution controls , because such controls make production more costly and normally less profitable , and these executives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to our government officials . But industry 's wishes are not all that an American mayor or governor has to worry about . He also has to consider the demands of conservation groups like the Audubon Society , voter pressure groups like the Council for a Livable NVorld , and constituents whose health is endangered by oil spills and polluted air and water . There are , of course , outspoken conservationists and suffering citizens in the Soviet Union , too , and they are often supported by the Soviet press , but for the most part they have no power to influence the government . What counts above all else is increased production . S it became clear that no one was paying any attention to the law protecting the lake , a public outcry arose , leading to the formation of various investigatis e bodies . It is hard to list all the organizations that investigated the Baikal issue at one time or another , but reference has been made in the Soviet press to at least four major national groups that opposed the opening of the cellulose plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( . end , as has happened in similar situations elsewhere in the world , the testimony of at least one of the approving experts was discredited when it was brought to light that he had served is a consultant for the Ministry of l'imher , Paper , and Woodworking for a fee of a hundred thousand rubles a y ear . ) Yet while the commissions labored , so did construction workers on the sites of the plants . The commission reports fell off the presses like so imam drops of the effluent that would ultimately issue from the plants  --  but , unlike the effluent , the reports were to have no effect . Despite all the protests , no one in a position of power took any action to save the lake . Everyone agreed that it was being threatened , but everyone also pleaded helplessness . When the fish catch diminished , for example , authorities in the Ministry of Fishing Industry complained that they had no power to prohibit the discharge of sewage into the water . Only the sanitary inspector could do that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sanitary inspector did not do it . As for the waste from the cellulose factories , the authority to regulate such discharge was vested not in the Ministry of Land Reclamation and Water Management but in the Ministry of Timber , Paper , and Woodworking . That was like giving our Atomic Energy Commission control over the radioactive discharge from atomic-energy plants  --  Which , by and large , it has . Critics predicted , furthermore , that the Ministry of Timber , Paper , and Woodworking would end up transferring the responsibility , for the discharge of waste into the lake to the plants themselves . Such confusion and buck-passing made it all the easier for the factory managers to get their plants operating . A recurrent criticism by the conservationists was that the plants at Baikalsk and on the Selenga could perfectly well have been built elsewhere . Initially , the Ministry of Timber , Paper , and Woodworking had insisted that Baikal 's " exceptional ultra-pure water " was necessary for the plant at Baikalsk because it was impossible to make " super , super cellulose cord " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for building the Baikalsk factory , the editors of Konisondolskairt Pravda noted that in the mid-sixties , mice it was well under constructilm , di .. Ministry had decided to change the kind of cellulose to he produced , as well as the very purpose of the plant . Somewhere along the way , it seemed , the need for " super , super cellulose " had diminished , and the Ministry- had decided that the factory would also make paper a product that does not require exceptionally pure water . " In this way , the original insistence on the need to build the factory di 1 . rect.y on Lake Baikal underwent a qualitative metamorphosis , " the editors of Komsomoiska'a Pravda pointed out . " And what remains ? " they asked . " A nearly completed factory that , with a little scientific effort , could have been built in another region of the country and thus could have spared Lake . Baikal . " The production plan for the Selunga plant underwent a similar change . After construction had been started , the Ministry decided that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planned , but also cardboard for heavy cartons , which in no way required especially pure water . At least , said the critics , if the use of such water was essential for some products , the two plants could have been combined into one , thus localizing tire area of pollution . Next , the conservationists charged that the production of " super , super cellulose " cord had been a misbegotten notion in the first place . They said that nylon cord was superior to cellulose cord and pointed out that factories producing " super , super cellulose " in Canada had closed clown for lack of demand . They also asked how American factories that did not have water comparable to that in Lake Baikal could produce high-quality cellulose . Such arguments apparently had little effect . As recently as August 23 , 1970 , the New York Times carried an article that quoted a Russian official as saying that the United States was indirectly responsible for the pollution of Lake Baikal because the United States was the only other country in the world that made such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Union . Even the economics of the Lake Baikal projects came under fire . Conservationist critics have insisted that the Ministry of Timber , Paper , and Woodworking purposely understated construction costs for the plants by as much as twenty-two million rubles ( $24,420,000 ) ? a third of the total cost  --  in order to win initial approval . Production plans , it was said , were similarly fuzzy . For example , the planners had failed to ascertain whether the timber supply would be adequate for more than twenty-five years and had ignored the fact that the Baikalsk factory was sixty miles away from its prime timber supply . Since the end of 1966 , when the factory went into operation , erratic deliveries of timber have forced it to suspend production several times . Also , the cellulose made at Baikalsk requires further processing at another plant , thousands of miles away in the Urals  --  where , say the critics , the Baikalsk plant could perfectly well have been located in the first place . The Ministry was further castigated for its belated recognitien that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zone , and that the site chosen for the Baikalsk plant was directly on the fault of the zone . The Selengvi plant is somewhat better situated in this regard , but even so it is only sixteen yards away from the epicenter of a quake recorded a few years ago , so it seemed a distinct possibility that both factories could tumble into the water . Major earthquakes occurred in the area in 1862 , 1950 , 1957 , and 1959 , and there were smaller shocks in 1960 and 1961 . During the 1862 quake , an area of land about the size of Boston collapsed into the lake . In its initial planning for the factories , the Ministry of Timber , Paper , and Woodworking seems to have ignored the likelihood of earthquakes  --  to say nothing of its having ignored what the debris from two such factories would do to the lake 's water . Throughout the debate , officials of the Ministry maintained that the discharges into Lake Baikal by the factories would be carefully treated to protect the quality of the lake . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ construct the most advanced treatment plants in the country , if not the world . Unfortunately , however , the treatment system put into use at Baikalsk was so new that it had never been tested under actual production conditions ; indeed , according to one critic , it was tested " by simply using a model with two hundred litres of artificially polluted water . " Furthermore , the system relied in part on the use of a bacteria culture to purify , the effluent from the factory , and it is difficult or impossible for such cultures to survive in the below-freezing weather that prevails in the Lake Baikal region for eight months of the year . Also , the cultures , which feed on pulp waste , die if production is interrupted as it has been , because of the erratic timber deliveries . Not only did the Ministry fail to test the treatment process thorough ) but in direct violation of the 1960 law aimed at protecting Lake Baikal  --  it went ahead with the construction and opening of the Baikalsk factory before all the plans had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ministry of Fishing , and the Ministry of Land Reclamation and Water Management . Moreover , it seemed , the Baikalsk plant had started operating before the staff of the treatment plant had been proper. ) trained . Some of the defenders of Lake Baikal noted further that even if the treatment plant were operating propelly and at full capacity , the effluent would at best be only ninety-seven per cent pure , and the plant would be able to process only two-thirds of the emitted waste . And even though the water that would emerge under these conditions from the last stage of treatment would be drinkable by human beings , it would be yellowish , would have a slightly unpleasant odor , and could still taint Lake Baikal . Anyway , said the conservationists , if the treated water really turned out to he all that it was claimed to be , it should be recycled and used instead of new water drawn from the lake . An unplanned form of recycling was taking place anyway , the critics pointed out . Because of the peculiar nature of Lake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Baikalsk plant are circular . Thus , the water from the discharge pipe works its way back around to the intake pipe , which is only two or three miles away , and the quality of the water the plant uses has already been lowered . As a result , the Ministry of Timber , Paper , and Woodworking has had to provide for supplementary treatment , making the plant still more costly to run . S 0 far , everything that has happened L i indicates that there will he damage to Lake Baikal even if the treatment facilities operate properly . Several Russian scientists  --  including Galazy , from the Limnological Institute  --  who visited the Baikalsk factory in 1968 , reported some dismal findings . Valentine Kostylev , the manager of the treatment plant , was quoted as complaining that its filter had been malfunctioning for two years . Galazy reported that during one visit he made the treatment plant 's oxidizing machine was inoperative , the plant 's pipes were blocked up , and the aerator had broken down . In fact , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant , at a cost of four million rubles ( $4,400,000 at the official rate ) . In the meantime , waste had been shunted to , torage pools about eleven yards from the Lakeshore , and then , in the form of black slime , had begun percolating into the lake at a rate estimated by Galazy at thirty-four and a half litres a second . This apparently had been going on for most of the year ( and , at last report , continued on into 1970 ) . Although he quoted Kostylev as saying that he , Galaxy , had " come just at the wrong time , " it apparently would have been impossible for him to have come at the right time . The black slime that was flowing into Lake Baikal , according to Galaxy , consisted of fatty acids , methane , and organic sulphides . Between 1967 and the middle of 1968 , the Baikalsk plant had clumped three hundred and eighty-three tons of these toxic substances into the lake . As a result , islands of alkaline sewage had been observed floating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at distances of nine to thirteen miles from the plant 's outlet pipe , for as long as two months . These islands  --  one of them eighteen miles long and three miles wide  --  poisoned not only the water but the air around the lake as well , The effect of such toxins is not hard to imagine . The office of the Limnological Institute at Lake Baikal reported that animal and plant life near the Baikalsk treatment plant had been ' educed by a third to it half . In late 1970 , I was in the Soviet Union and had a chance to talk with Deputy Minister Chistiakov . I must say that I came away impressed with the depth and sincerity of his concern over the conditions at Lake Baikal . He showed me the daily reports he received about the quality of the water being discharged at the Baikalsk treatment plant , but , hard as he tried to reassure me that ultimately the lake would not stiffer , the best he could do was insist that when the treatment plant was properly-operational it would fulfill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original water , however , was higher than those norms . Since the treatment plant has proved so faulty , conservationists have been seeking other ways to save the lake . For the most part , they have fallen back on Galaxy 's suggestion of a decade ago  --  rerouting the effluent over the mountains to the Irkut River . The Ministry of Timber , Paper , and Woodworking continues to resist this proposal , because the forty-two-mile pipeline would cost the equivalent of forty million dollars  --  an expenditure that would probably make the whole operation far ton costly . In any event , such a pipeline would alleviate the problem of pollution only from Baikalsk , because the plant on the Sclenga would be too far away to connect up to the same pipe . Accordingly , most critics feel that the opening of the Selenga plant , due any day now , should be postponed . However , it is considered doubtful that Lake Baikal could he preserved even if the conduit to the Irkut River should be built and the Selenga plant converted to some less noxious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial activity around the lakc abandoned , and the entire shore allowed to revert to forest would there he much chance of halting the degradation of Lake Baikal . Even then , the ecological balance in the lake basin is so complex that the damage may be irreve rsible . Because of the small amount of soil covering most of the watershed area , and also because of hurricane-force winds that are common in the region , it is very hard to regenerate plant growth in the surrounding forest area once trees are cut down . Heedless of these hazards , Russian l u mbermen have Stripped many acres hare . ' rite recent growth of LOW115 and homes in the vicinity of the Take has further denuded the shoreline , and the consequences have been far-reaching . With the trees gone , the ' soil is washed away by rain and wind  --  a process that increases the flow of silt into the lake and also reduces the ability of the land area to retain the moisture it receives in the form of rain and snow , In 1968 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third of Lake Baikal 's basin had lost a significant portion of its natural water-regulating capacity , and that more than a hundred and thirty streams and Springs in the area flooded during the thaw and were dry for much of the rest of the year . This disruption of the ecological and hydro-chemical balance of Lake Baikal 's tributary streams he s inevitably affected the chemical makeup of the lake itself . There has been a noticeable increase in the quantities of sulphates , chlorides , magnesium hydroxide , and nitrates in its waters . Very little of this is traceable to the Baikalsk plant ; most of it arises from the destruction of the tree cover and from certain other forms of manmade assault on the area , so the elimination of factories could not in itself repair the damage . The method of moving the cut timber causes still further damage . Large numbers of logs arc rafted together and floated or towed down the tributary rivers and through Lake Baikal itself . Though this method is cheapest so far as day-to-day costs arc concerned , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about ten per cent of the logs sink , and sunken logs do two kinds of harm : they cover up vital fish-breeding grounds , and they absorb the lake 's oxygen . In 19613 , it was estimated that a million and a half cubic metres of timber had sunk over the preceding decade and that fifty streams , with a combined length of twenty-two hundred miles , were thereby eliminated as spawning grounds for fish . In sonic of the river bottoms , the logs were piled three or four yards high . The paper and lumber mills recently agreed to snip rafting their logs and to ship them by rail instead . But partly because such shipment requires a considerably increased cash outlay and partly because the railroads have been very slow in supplying flatcars , the logs have continued to be shipped by water , and have continued to damage the lake . For years , it was thought that landslides would he unlikely in the region because of the predominantly cold climate . With the disappearance of the tree cover , this is no longer the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cutting of the trees and the intrusion of heavy machinery into the wooded areas has unstabilized a large area of sand dunes southeast of the lake . By 1963 , there were large stretches of shifting or poorly anchored sand there .. Lately , ob servers have warned that these shifting sands are linking up with the Gobi Desert , just over the border in Mongolia , and there are fears that the Gobi will sweep into Siberia and destroy not only Lake Baikal but a large portion of the surrounding forest . UNFORTUNATELY , no one knows how to restore virgin nature . The only hope for Lake Baikal is that Soviet industry will curb its passion for production in time to prevent complete destruction of the area . To that end , a new law regulating the use of Lake Baikal was passed by the Council of Ministers of the Soviet Union  --  the country 's highest administrative body  --  in February , 1969 . The law provides for the establishment of a special water-conservation zone of some twenty thousand square miles , where no timber may he cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than twenty-five degrees . The law also stipulates that submerged logs are to be removed from the rivers and from Lake Baikal , and that logs are to he brought down the mountainsides by cableways rather than dragged down b ) tractors . Construction of new factories is strictly regulated , and none are to be established where they might pollute the lake or its tributaries . Furthermore , the purification plant at Baikalsk was to he reconstructed before the end of the year . ThL Selenga factory was ordered not to start production of cartons until its purification equipment was read ) , and other industries in the lake 's basin were similarly restricted . The questions remain whether this new law was passed soon enough and whether it is strong enough . After all , the 196 ( 1 law addressed to many of the same issues proved to be ineffective , and there is not much reason to believe that the 1969 law will be any more so . Will the Ministry of Timber , Paper , and Woodworking wait obediently once the Selenga plant is ready to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If so , they will he showing greater self-restraint than they did at Baikalsk . In fact , an August , 1970 , report in Kornsornolskaia Pravda inchcated that abuse of the lake had increased , not decreased , since the passage of the 1969 law . Nor can it be assumed that worse will not follow . Though Lake Baikal is no longer untainted , it does remain much purer than anything else around . It is only natural , therefore , that various proposals for its exploitation continue to be advanced by Russian industrial planners . For example , one proposal fortunately not acted upon  --  was that the outflow of water from Lake Baikal he artificially increased in order to accelerate the accumulation of water in the Bratsk reservoir . This would have resulted in a drop in the level of Lake Baikal  --  a change whose consequences can not be predicted . Lately , there have been reports that the Ministry of Timber , Paper , and Woodworking is not going to confine its projects in the basin to the Selenga and Baikalsk factories , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced blueprint stage . Similarly , the government chemical ministries have let it be known that the Soviet economy would benefit greatly if chemical plants could he established on the lake 's shores and could use the lake 's waters . En 1968 , Galaxy warned that Lake Baikal 's unique ecological system might be destroyed with in the next decade . The industrial managers may fulfill his prophecy . In the case of Lake Baikal , at least , there Seems little to choose between private greed and public greed . 