@@494816

Douglas J. Stewart on TV Home Cooke-ing In the early ' 30s Alistair Cooke was sent to America by The Manchester Guardian , evidently on an impulse comparable to that of the Pope who sent St. Augustine to the Angles and Saxons . Now that Cooke has capped his 40-year mission with a 13-hour TV special on our history as he sees it , shown every other Tuesday night on NBC , we are in a position to judge in which direction the conversion effects have run . First , America has had little effect in changing Cooke 's Guardian tone , a very special tone indeed . Reginald Maulding , a Tory " enemy , " recently wrote that The Guardian is more than a paper , it 's " an attitude toward life . . that one firmly wishes were more widely adopted . " With its elegant informality , its refusal to panic , and its puns ( including its title , slyly situated halfway between the " guardians " of Plato 's Republic and Juvenal 's hooting question , " Who will guard the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a board of patient , slightly comedic saints hearing the nth confession of rascal history , and once again exhorting the wretch to be good , because to be good is to be wise in the long run . Long runs are a Guardian specialty . Cooke 's pointed reminder in episode I that America had a Latin " input " long before its English one , was not , as one critic charged , a statement about the present health of Latin cultural influences on America , but a lament over lost opportunities . While unwashed frontiersmen got rid of the Indian out of fear and greed , well-dressed " leaders " banished French and Spanish influences out of pettiness and bigotry . Second , though he became a citizen in the early ' 40s , Cooke never forfeited his amateur status , and has steadfastly resisted the American temptation to learn things . He is a smashing success on TV precisely because he has never wasted precious time trying to " understand " it as though it were a deep professional mystery . Like Lord Clark , whose " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is an unabashed dealer in the " hot " medium of print , and reads his periodic sentences into the camera as though he were talking to one interesting friend . By contrast , Huntley and Cronkite talk freeze-dried sterilities to a hypothetical composite of 40 million people , and thus to no one in particular . If Cooke comes off less well than Clark it 's only because , as John J. O'Connor noted in the Times , he has a less interesting subject to deal with . Third , Cooke is an English history buff , which means maps , lots of maps . I think I counted seven old , busy maps in the first installment . Your Englishman demands a very firm sense of place and relation in history . This goes against the conventional wisdom , which holds that Americans are cartographic illiterates and must never be taxed with a map of anything more demanding than the subway system or their own garages . Either Cooke has never heard of this , or he just does n't care . And anyhow he has a point . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition of existence , with very little sense of concrete place and space . I say more maps ! Where Cooke has become a serious American is in his conversion to the economic interpretation of history . Products , commodities and markets dominated the first segment ; the Puritan commercial-work ethic the second ; and I assume that taxes , smuggling , land speculation and the ghost of Charles Beard lurk in future episodes . This was the dominant theory of many who taught and wrote American history when Cooke took out his papers , and if he sounds a bit behind the times now , it may perhaps be ascribed to more than usual zeal in learning his lessons then . Besides , the notion itself of the economic interpretation of history is an important part of American thought and character . Again , and this has caused adverse comment , Cooke seems to have stuck by establishment sources in compiling his history . I say " seems " because it is n't clear that any two reviewers have seen the identical segments . I have seen only the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each based on a different selection of prerelease showings . Thus I can not comment on Cooke 's treatment of Roosevelt and the New Deal , which angered the London correspondent of The Washington Post ( writing in The Guardian ! ) , or his alleged failure to deal lovingly with the New Left , Kent State and the new racism ? if indeed he did so fail . But on the basis of the first two installments , I can say that if Cooke uses standard sources , he does so in the Guardian manner . He needles rather than howls ; he is not self-righteous ; he has the good manners of a guest and only insults his host when he can insult their shared humanity . And , good Guardian man that he is , he takes long views . Clarity beats fury when you are trying to coax the truth out of a big stretch of history . Comparing Governor Winthrop to Chairman Mao has a two-way efficacy : it makes the easy point that thought control is a game anybody can play , and it credits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter-day chairman . Cooke 's sympathies are in fact rather far to the left , where that is consonant with common sense and patience . If the series has a serious fault , so far , it seems to be that of length . As O'Connor complained , American history is n't long or interesting enough for a 13-hour treatment . Clark 's " Civilisation " was embarrassed , with the richness of its source materials ; Cooke 's " America " certainly wo n't be . Nonetheless the series is , as O'Connor wrote , " A scathing comment on the imagination and initiative of American television , " because the best TV celebration we 've yet seen of the upcoming bicentennial is a product hired from the BBC . One might note that BBC thus emerges as a nasty socialist institution whose works are now being gobbled up by our commercial networks ; furthermore , that the public broadcasting people over here are not only gobbling up what they can get from BBC , they are actually sending American blokes abroad to see how the British do it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a broader front . Its poverty ' is obviously fabulous , but must lie in part in the foolish theory that TV is a new and separate medium with its own science and mystery , as noted above . TV is a less than earthshaking wrinkle in the general problem of communication , and the time-valued skills of literacy , learning and volubility have not been materially outmoded by the advent of the camera . Fatuous theories about media , attention spans and the need for blandness , impartiality and " straight " reporting all collapse before the simple fact that Alistair Cooke , with less than a lot to say about sometimes slim materials , is far more absorbing than any domestic competitor we can imagine .                     