@@479856

ONLY TEN YEARS ago I attended an elaborate and expensive conference , sponsored by the Carnegie people , at which teachers from England as well as the United States troubled each other for four weeks at Dartmouth College on the subject of the teaching of English , and especially the teaching of writing . The enthusiasts at the meeting were full of the news that the old disciplinary approach to language was evil , and they treated the novelty-weary cynics in attendance to descriptions of lovely , open , unstructured classrooms where depressed , deprived , and frustrated children learned to be creative and find themselves . They also whipped " standard English " soundly and sent it packing , it being alternately a motheaten inheritance from a medieval curriculum for monks , and a crude nineteenth-century device for keeping the British Empire together by demanding conformity and decorum . Just recently I attended another , shorter conference ? this one sponsored by journalists ? dedicated to the problem of why Johnny ca n't read , and at this last event I sensed that " standard English " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to rush to their classrooms and ply their students with correct usage ? that is , return to the kind of pedagogy that much of the Dartmouth conference was devoted to questioning . The shift that I observed at this meeting ( sponsored by the Washington Journalism Center ) may be partly illusory , the result of mixing English teachers and journalists in the order indicated . After all , English teachers love to look for complexities , journalists for simplicities , and right now the journalists , having read about the national decline in verbal test scores , are full of their usual compulsion to do something , whereas the English teachers at Dartmouth had a different compulsion ; they wanted to undo what they felt had long been badly done . I do n't , however , think the shift is just in my head . The air is genuinely full of complaints , recriminations ; and though some English teachers deny that anything has occurred except the turning on of media loudspeakers , most agree that " fundamentals , " whatever they are , are tniw full of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the press can miss its steady demands drat English teachers be held " accountable " or " responsible " for planting the " fundamentals " in the nation 's head . As an English fixture myself , I do n't Reed Whittemore is a professor of English at the University of Maryland and the author of several volumes of poetry . His most recent book is The Poet as Journalist . propose to accept any such responsibility . I made my irresponsibility clear at the journalists ' meeting , and they were surprised . If I was n't responsible , who was ? if I could n't decide whether a freshman was literate or not , and if I could n't then proclaim him either able to proceed in college or unable to do so , then who could ? And so on . I think they thought they had me ( po. litely and amicably ) cornered , but 1 did n't feel cornered . I felt enlightened . I felt that they were giving me a sense of what the new trend amounts to , mak ing clear to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachers are no only not the trend 's most sympathetic observers and backers , but they rep resent ? to the degree that an amor pitons beast-bird-fish can represen anything ? the opposition . They ar . still back at Dartmouth , and for then the main issue is not that of assignim responsibility but of finding out hoc to be responsible . They do not regal- , a fundamental as a simple thing t teach . They introduce difficulties , ha riers that the journalists despise . At Dartmouth , for instance , the ar noyance with simple correctness as basic standard was pervasive . I remen ber particularly the polemics of Davi Holbrook on the subject . Holbrook , big words-as ? symbols man from En1 land , had a conception of literacy th ; THE NEWSPEAK GENERATION was wonderfully broad and modern , Sixties modern . He defined literacy " in its deepest and widest sense " as the capacity to deal with inner and outer experience " ; and since he was himself a sort of lay psychologist he was a devotee of inner experience , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One of the examples he provided was a poem about a yellow bird by a " backward student " that reminded Holbrook instantly of William Blake 's " Ah , Sun . flower ! " Here is the student 's poem : A poem A little yellow Bird sat on my window sill , he hop and popped about , he wishelcl he cherped . I tried to chash my little yellow bird , but he flew in to the golden yellow sun , 0 how I wish that was my yellow brid . For Holbrook everything that was fundamental about the expressive act was somehow contained in that little poem , and he presented it to us with all its misspellings because he wanted to insist ? and how he could insist ? that the misspellings were trivial , that the usual old pedagogic ways of deciding that students were " backward " were absurd , and that this poem 's author was not backward at all but way ahead of most children his age in his feeling for the meaning of the yellow bird . That student , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his little poem , something psychically connected with Blake 's sunflower as it reached wearily for a better world beyond itself . The fundamental ? It was there . Our present activists would have a great deal of trouble with Holbrook , and at the time I did too , wishing that he would be more verbal and less soulful . But from the distance of ten years the most questionable part of his vision of the fundamental now seems to me to be something else again ? that is , his simple insistence that literature is fundamental . For Holbrook the fundamental was always and forever to be discovered where traditionalists have always discovered it , in our literary past ; and so , though he professed to be very radical and psychological and up-to-date , he simply assumed that all children , backward or forward , would reach out for the fundamental through literature , would not only make arche typal connections with Blake but actually read Blake . He could agree with others at the conference that some of the great works of the past had become turkeys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conference was Silas Magner ) but he thought that a teacher had merely to be intelligently selective to find in the past works that would be palatable to modern children . At no time did he dream , at least in public , of an educational condition in which the English literary past was not a part of the fundament . Some of the American English teachers at the meeting did dream of such a condition , but even they did not publicly gloom about its nearness . It was near . In ten years it has arrived . The fundamental is now not at all what it was . As far as I can tell , the fundamental is now somehow imbedded in the phrase " functional literacy " ; at least the common understanding outside English departments is that it is imbedded there . A functional literate is a happy modern American who has learned to cope with income-tax forms , questionnaires , the small print in contracts . Or , on the writing side , a functional literate is a happy amateur grammarian-secretary American capable of cleaning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English teacher this conception of literacy is the devil 's work . He is likely to observe that the income-tax forms and questionnaires are themselves instances of the illiterate , and that what most American businesses and professions expect in the way of standard English is so loaded with specialist jargon as not to be properly standard at all . Why , he wonders , should English teachers be held accountable for such literacy ? To hold them accountable is like telling someone who has lost a big battle to keep cats out of the house that he must now take charge of the cats . T MIS DO I acknowledge what most of my colleagues would probably not wish to acknowledge , that English teachers have lost the battle about the cats . I am of two minds about the loss , though . On the one hand , I think of it as a professional loss , a loss of English department power and stature to new academic forces . On the other hand , I think of it as a large cultural loss , something bigger than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first . The decline of student enrollment in English ( and in the humanities in general ) does seem to be real . The national trend is toward vocational courses , and it is that trend which must be blamed for the new " functional literacy " credo . Clearly , those who adopt the credo are imagining that an efficient vocational course will soon he devised that will achieve functional literacy for the whole nation in a few easy lessons , preferably by the use of some as yet uninvented audio-visual machine . My sad guess is that the trend is permanent , that the humanities are simply dead and do n't know it yet , that they have gone the way of the classics . My evidence is private , fragmentary , and wholly convincing , consisting of such discoveries as a bookstore humanities shelf with nothing on it but books by psychologists and doctors on how to make love . My brain is loaded with deaths detail like that , and it all adds up to a takeover ? by journalists and social scientists ? of great magnitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thinking , head for the hills . The demise of my profession would not he of great national import if the profession 's duties , transplanted , were conceived to be merely the teaching o functional literacy . I see no reason why the teachers in education , be havioral psychology , business , and the rest could not Lake on such pedagogy themselves in their off hours , teachin , their students the difference betwee their and there as they perform thei more important professional duties They might well even be able to in prove on English-teacher pedagog ' since they could then promote the : specialist verbiage without heir . troubled by outside dissonance . But if English departments are fact dead , or about to be , the depal merits that remain should be taught understand who or what will really I in charge of the great language m chine as they do their teaching . T will be in charge , that 's what , TV wi an assist from the newspapers . TV al the newspapers are now fighting f their supremacy over us , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McLuhan was mostly right a deca THE NEWSPEAK GENERATION or so ago when he announced the end of the age of Gutenberg . We will never again look to old books for our language standards . Our language standards are now to be set by Barbara Walters . Or perhaps they are to be set by William S. Paley , Katherine Graham , Clay Felker , and the like , they being the media entrepreneurs behind the performers ( not that Barbara Walters is not an entrepreneur ) . Would n't it be pleasant to hold these fine , substantial figures responsible , accountable for literacy ? Then surely the teachers of literacy would be much better paid than they are now by the- taxpayers , and surely also the teachers would be far more efficient than they are now . if only because they would not he given to messing around with difficult concepts of literacy like David Holbrook 's . They would sit in the television and journalism departments of our schools and take as their models for the fundamental the daily emanations of the media , while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This prospect is no joke , and what is striking about the prospect is that correct usage is at its center . TV has become the most potent force we have for verbal decorum . TV is where any slight verbal aberration looms up like a genuine fourteen-carat fundamental , just as any slight disarray of clothing or a smudge on the nose will knock several points off a Nielsen rating . TV is therefore where the maintenance of a strict norm of accent , syntax , and style has proved to be vital . So far that norm has been most conservative , deriving its texture from Midwestern voices like Walter Cronkite 's ( though it can use a British accent for high thought ) and its verbal rules from the old - standard English . " As for the newspapers , they are less decorous and less uniform , but not greatly so . Journalists are conservative writers . Their innovations of recent years , whereby the reporter may speak personally and abandon the who-whatwhere-when-why procedure in favor of coy lead-ins and other gratuitous distractions , have proved to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to like to put a subject down , a verb and an object ? and to proceed that way until he has reached the bottom of the page and can go home . His job demands that he be methodical , straightforward , and obedient . He ca n't afford to be otherwise . He needs a clear norm to which he can be obedient , or his nerves will complain . Essentially , then , he is in the position of the TV performer . So it is quite natural that the new demands for correct usage should come from such sources , and perhaps English teachers should even be grateful that these sources have stirred the language pot . But if the result of the new demands is to be the creation of a new era of correct-usage pedagogy , the masters of the new era might be well advised to take a few tips from those who thought they were the masters of the old . They might be well advised , that is , to consider what problems their correct-usage pedagogy w ill not solve . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there is the problem of what happens to literacy in the long run , when the past standards of literacy are put aside in favor of standards emerging solely from consensus imperatives of the moment . ( How long will Barbara Walters and her successors be able to remember standard English when they are their own source ? ) Second , there is the problem of how to impose discipline or order of any kind at all upon a basic language format as cockeyed as a newspaper or TV program . And , third , there is the biggest problem , the spiritual problem of what to do with the enormous mental passivity that is bred into the loyal citizens of media-land . I see nobody , from Mr. Paley down , paying these truly fundamental problems any heed , but there they are , and they are not going away . The language beast is sluggish but determined in its movements , and with TV and the newspapers now wholly in the saddle I must-suppose that another ten years will produce even greater changes than we have seen since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to be soluble by the correct-usage route ? that is , by working for a simplistic standard of functional literacy . They are not soluble by the easy route because they are not easy . They are infinitely complicated . They affect and touch on man 's whole think ing process . The media people are simply nut prepared for them , at least professionally . Professionally they do not need to worry either about the inner life of language that David Holbrook described , or about the connections between any one story ? or paragraph , or squib ? and another . They are specialists of the most intense kind , even when they conduct their daily big-think . Their profession demands of them that they think in fragments , that they wear blinders . Necessarily , they pass this professionalism on to their customers . As the modern American mind moves from the want ads to the comics to the editorials to . the six o'clock news with its twelve different items and nine commercials , it is getting an education that might be good for rabbits ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? but is very hard on a mental apparatus that has traditionally kept its cells in good order not by hopping but by concentrating ( to con. centrate : to bring or draw to a common center or point of union ) . Both reading and writing , under the old Gutenberg dispensation , encouraged concentration . A book was to live with for a while as it progressed more or less in one direction and gathered unto itself a bundle of matter that mostly cohered ( to cohere : to stick , or stick together ; cleave ) , and usually required considerable effort to comprehend to comprehend : to take in , include , or embrace within a certain scope ) , In other words , reading a book was an act of some private will requiring ener. gy and effort on the part of the reader . So was the act : the old act , of writing As David Holbrook put it , to writ ( literately one had to draw on a menta capacity of some magnitude ( capacity the power of receiving or containing specifically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and whethe the writer thought of the writing ac as a way of dealing with " inner an , outer experience , " or a method of put ting together the sentences and part graphs that would clearly , honestly , at curately , gracefully , and fully expre : that inner and outer experience ( t express : to force out by pressure ; utter one 's thoughts ; make know one 's opinions or feelings ) , in eithi case the writer was up against a cha lenge to all his powers ( power : endowment of a voluntary hein whereby it becomes possible for that being to do or affect something ) . The words that he read and wrote were a part of his thinking process , and his thinking process was put on its mettle by the reading and writing . The new dispensation is not like that . To read the newspaper or watch the tube is to be distracted ( to distract : to draw apart ; pull in different directions and separate ) , and to write in the mode of the functionally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to yield ; surrender to the power , will , or authority of another ) . Of course there are always times for distraction and times for submission ? they were part of the old literacy too ? but when the life of the mind is largely taken over by such times , there is surely something for the accountable ones to worry about . For such a big takeover , nobody , at least in our culture , can ever be held accountable . We may look for some villain sneaking about in the night distributing double negatives , but we are not allowed to look for the encouragers of verbal indolence and general scatterbrainery . The Paleys and Grahams would only he amused to be charged . Have they done anything but run successful businesses ? Of course not . To ask them to work toward reducing some of the big social-cultural in. fluences of those businesses would be like asking the Mississippi to stop flowing . What to do ? Well , if it is truly reliable functional literacy that we are looking for , I suggest that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Card Company . Over the radio that company filled my ears today with this confident assertion : " Regardless of what you want to say , there 's an American greeting card that expresses your sentiments exactly . " There , it seems to me , is functional literacy at its best , with the company performing the function for the citizen , and the citizen recognizing that the company expresses him perfectly without his having to do a thing . The media are working toward the same end but this company is way ahead . Perhaps we should make it accountable ? There may be other alternatives . If we were only to recognize and acknowledge the magnitude of the language takeover that has occurred , that would be a start . 