@@479617

the Kennedy holdovers in the Johnson White House , only O'Brien went on to independent national political prominence , as Johnson 's Postmaster General and as Chairman of the Democratic National Committee for two separate terms . There are reported to be diehard Camelot types who are offended by this track record , since it smacks of disloyalty to the memory of JFK for one of the nearest and dearest of the Kennedy entourage to be up and doing for a usurper from Texas what he had heretofore done in behalf of the New Frontier . Loyal as O'Brien was to the Kennedys , however , he was even more loyal to the Democratic party . He has preserved the vital distinction between the team player , which he has always been in politics , and the coat-holder , which he has never been . Some of the most interesting stories in No Final Victories are those in which O'Brien tries to make that distinction clear to John Kennedy , Robert Kennedy , Joseph Kennedy , and Lyndon Johnson , all of whom initially pegged him a notch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It would be misleading in the extreme , however , for me to imply that this book is packed with interesting stories . Although it chronicles the career of one of America 's foremost political men , we can infer from these pages that O'Brien has made his way in part by overlooking the human stuff of which good stories are made . Like a few fortunate Americans , for example , O'Brien has conferred on matters of state in LBJ 's bedroom . From this heady experience , however , comes a narrative that is n't even good gossip , as the rollicking punch line discloses : " ' No thank you , Mr. President , ' I said , for I , too , was dieting , and pralines were n't one of my weaknesses . " Nearly everybody agrees that Larry O'Brien is an authentic political genius . So it is only natural for a reader to look to the man 's autobiography for hints of a genius at work . How does he do it ? Where are the profound insights , the flashes of brilliance that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not in this book . This may mean that such qualities are unnecessary to political success in this country , or indeed that they are harmful , and so a wise politician suppresses them in his autobiography . Either way , this book does give evidence of Mr. O'Brien 's considerable virtues ? and they would be virtues , I daresay , in nearly any field requiring cooperation among large numbers of people : meticulous attention to detail , orderliness , an abhorrence of wasted energy and motion , thorough preparation and advance planning . It is fair to say that sonic of the O'Brien formula for political success ? codified in a handbook he passed out to campaign workers ? was made possible by the large amounts of money available to the Kennedys . But the result depended on something more : O'Brien brought to politics certain old-fashioned virtues that in the recent past have not always been associated with the efficiency that big money buys . The fact that O'Brien is a decent and fair-minded man who understands the rules of the game , and abides scrupulously by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alike . They have not had to waste time and energy worrying about whether O'Brien would keep his commitments , or whether he would promise more than he could deliver . It could have come as no surprise to veterans of the Washington scene , for example , when at the 1972 Democratic National Convention , Chairman O'Brien ruled against his friend Hubert Humphrey and in favor of the McGovern forces on the seating of the California delegation . To do otherwise would have been to violate a good-faith prior agreement that had already been worked out within the party . Within a few days nominee McGovern prevailed upon O'Brien to remain as Chairman of the Democratic National Committee and , under pressure from his own staff , reneged on his offer . O'Brien nevertheless accepted an honorific but empty position in the McGovern campaign and did what he could to stave off defeat . O'Brien 's iron sense of decorum has clearly been more useful to him as an active politician than a sense of humor or an eye for the revealing detail would have been . But for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a result we are never given enough description to reall ) learn what went on in O'Brien 's day to-day management of such things am the Kennedy-Johnson Congressiona liaison office . The fact that this office got off to a rocky start was not due exclusively to the malevolence of the Congressional conservative coalition . Or was it ? What about the day ( unmentioned in the book ) when one of O'Brien 's eager beavers called up the venerable Congressman Francis Walter to urge him to support the Walter Amendment , and Walter , incredulous , replied , " Why are you calling me , son ? " What about the time when President Kennedy 's pigheaded unwillingness to delay a House vote until after the Alabama Congressional primary cost the Administration the support of the chairman of the relevant subcommittee I Albert Rains of Alabama ) , and doomed the bill creating a Department of Urban Affairs ? Or , later on , what about the problems of decision-making at the traditionally powerless Democratic National Committee ? How and why did O'Brien decide to enforce the McGovern guidelines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did ? How did he get away with it ? Were there differing opinions about enforcement ? What forces had to be balanced out on the committee , within the staff , and in the party ? On all these matters we learn as little as G. Gordon Liddy apparently did . .4 It can reasonably be said that it is too soon for O'Brien to tell all ; but if this is so then perhaps it was too soon to write this book . As an interim document , No Final Victories has some merits : it records a number of shrewd judgments on men and events . It recounts a life of achievement and integrity . But it does so blandly . No doubt this is the face that O'Brien wishes to turn to the world . In part , I suppose this is also the homogenizing effect of Patrick Anderson 's skilled as3istance in the writing . Anderson has written an informative book indcr his own name about Presilential assistants , and much of shat he says in that book about Larry O'Brien appears in O'Brien 's ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Anderson ghostwrote leb Magruder 's much less admirable autobiography . The idea of wo such disparate figures of re.ent American history speaking au ? biographically in the identical roice seems to me somehow to treslass upon the essence of the genre . Vhat is autobiography if it is not written in the protagonist 's own idiom ? It can , I suppose , be a more impersonal account of some of the subject 's memories . But as the number of ghostwritten autobiographies increases , readers are bound more and more to agree with the graffiti artist who inscribed : " Nostalgia is n't what it used to be . " ? the Hollywood scene for a quarter of a cen ? tury. pology , quite as if she were describing life among the savages of a Papuan jungle . As a tongue-in-cheek approach the method might have had merit , but Miss Powdermaker was deadly in earnest ? to her Wilshire Boulevard was the road to Dobudura . Garson Kanin 's entertaining memoir of his experiences in the Hollywood jungle is better anthropology . On the surface it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather frightening in their implications , but they tell more about the mores and the social habits of the movie colony than Miss Powdermaker 's unintended satire . He is content for the most part to let his stories speak for themselves , and they are devastating . When he permits himself a generalization it is neat , if not necessarily original . For example : " . . . the trouble with motion pictures was ( and is ) that it is too much an industry ; and the trouble with the motion picture industry is that it is too much an art . It is out of this basic contradiction that most of the ills of the form arise . "                     