@@491612

No single domestic issue causes adrenalin to flow , blood pressure to soar , hatred and violence to burst forth , and hypocrisy to show its double-face , more than forced school busing does . School busing is despised like cowardice , and shunned like leprosy . Yet , busing remains the tool used most often today by our federal courts to eliminate segregation or " racial imbalance " in the nation 's public schools . Was the Supreme Court , in assenting to this motorized effort to right wrongs , being sly in 1971 when it warned that compulsory busing might be " administratively awkward , inconvenient and even bizarre in some situations and may impose burdens on some . . . " ? The South was the primary target of the 1954 Supreme Court decision which ordered an end to the old dual system of segregated public school for blacks and whites . It was in the South that the judicial decisions fell like artillery shells , that angry whites and blacks clashed , shed blood and eventually came together , even reconciled in many instances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " liberal " northern demonstrators and politicians , where potbellied federal marshals and local sheriffs had to prevent or quell violence . School desegregation became a once and southern happening . But then someone noticed , after nearly two decades of school integration efforts in the South , that there was far more racial imbalance in northern schools , that the white suburban noose had been pulled around northern cities , making them blacker and blacker in population . Southerners who had resisted integration now complained about a northern double standard . This awkward situation which cried for something , perhaps justice , was beautifully dramatized on the floor of the U.S. Senate , April 20 , 1971 , when one liberal Northerner tried to shame another . For years , Senators Abraham A. Ribicoff ( Dem. /Conn. ) and Jacob Javits ( Rep./ N.Y. ) had identical , affirmative voting records on civil rights legislation . One could say their civil rights records were as much a tradition as the one in the Senate which prohibited personal attacks in floor debate . But now Ribicoff proposed an amendment requiring all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  to develop a modified integration plan , or else lose their federal aid . Senator Javits favored a compromise , and this caused Ribicoff to rise and charge him with " hypocrisy " for " being unwilling to accept desegregation for his state though he is willing to shove it down the throats of the senators from Mississippi . " Javits was aghast and buried his face in his hands . Ribicoff stared at him and continued : " I do n't think you have the guts to face your liberal constituents who have moved to the suburbs to avoid sending their children to school with blacks ! " It was a moment of mortification for all in the U.S. Senate . Ribicoff 's proposal won , but the overall bill to aid school desegregation lost . This highly emotional incident in the U.S. Senate was to be repeated in number , volume , and variety across the Republic in the years to follow  --  all over the questions of northern integration and school busing . The passions involved in this great enterprise are far from spent because federal judges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Besides the expected demonstrations , and the violence which often results , there is both strange individual behavior and tragedy spilling from the strong feeling : ? A fifteen-year-old boy , Randy Truitt , was shot and killed by a black youth in a racial flare-up over school busing at the U.S. Grant High School in Oklahoma City , in August 1975 . ? In Dayton , Ohio , a white desegregation specialist , Charles Glatt , appointed by the federal court , was killed in September 1975 by another white man , who became deranged over the thought that his children were going to be bused under court order . ? Daniel Nelson became so incensed over police tactics during especially vigorous anti-busing demonstrations . in Louisville , Kentucky , in October 1975 that he took a small plane up and " buzzed " police helicopters hovering over mobs of people below . Nelson 's pilot 's license was revoked for what many considered the first aerial action in the war over busing . ? The birthplace home of the late President Kennedy in suburban Brookline was damaged by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first day of the 1975-76 school year in Boston . Demonstrators and police fought during the day , as a new busing plan went into operation , and it is believed the firebombing of the Kennedy birthplace was actually a symbolic attack on Senator Edward Kennedy , a pro-buser . ? An old man , vehement against forced school busing , stood up before the Inglewood ( California ) Unified School District , on the first day of busing in 1970 , and delivered a tirade which climaxed when he fell to the floor , dead of a heart attack . ? A busload of pupils in Louisville , Kentucky experienced a hair-raising ride in October 1975 , when their driver suddenly went berserk , driving wildly over an unscheduled route before stopping at a police station . He ran from the bus , crying that he was a " Supreme Being . " He had been hired in hurry-up fashion because the school board did n't have the time to screen many of the 295 new drivers needed to implement Jefferson County 's new integration plan . Another driver was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fought with students , and was later determined to be drunk . ? In Boston , where Roman Catholic Cardinal Humbertos Medeiros is known as an avid supporter of busing , many Catholic worshipers now substitute slips reading " Stop Forced Busing " in their Sunday envelopes , instead of cash donations . ? At South Boston High School , one noon hour in the fall of 1974 , black students threw plates of spaghetti at the floor and ceilings , with some white students joining in . The wild scene followed a rather exciting moment when two black policemen removed an angry black girl who had jumped atop a lunch table and brandished a machete . Forced school busing has turned out to be a bizarre aberration from the original Supreme Court decision on school desegregation . In that case , Brown vs . Topeka , the court decided that separate but equal facilities for black schoolchildren were unconstitutional because they denied equal standing before the law , and that segregated schools inflicted great psychological harm on black schoolchildren . One immediate conclusion was that no child should be denied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not indicate that schools must determine a child 's race and then assign that child to a school . And the 1964 Civil Rights Act specifically stated that " ... desegregation shall not mean the assignment of students to public schools in order to overcome racial imbalance . " That Act further specified that officials and courts of the United States were not empowered to issue any order " seeking to achieve a racial balance in any school by requiring the transportation of pupils from one school to another , or one school district to another to achieve such racial balance . " But the language of the Supreme Court in Brown and the subsequent directives in the 1964 Civil Rights Act were not strong enough to withstand the sweep of psychology and sociology so influential in our century . One of the strongest arguments put to the High Court in 1954 was that black children were irreparably harmed by being separated or isolated from white children when they were growing up . This argument , presented forcibly by the prominent psychologist Dr. Kenneth Some schools speak of supplying teachers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. Clark , was to influence the Supreme Court mightily in its subsequent rulings on school desegregation . With generous grants from foundations , universities , indeed , the federal government itself , a gang of scholars , psychologists , sociologists and just plain advocates produced an enormous literature in the Sixties which had the effect of indoctrinating judges , lawyers , school administrators , yea , even journalists , in the notion that American society is racist and that the one sure purgative was a militant program of school integration . It was during this period that the federal courts reassessed the moderate pace of school integration , and ordered an end of segregation , " root and branch . " This meant that school attendance boundaries had to be redrawn , schools had to be paired so whites would attend previously all-black schools , and , here it comes , busing when necessary . Then , in 1966 , a major study was released which concluded that children ( black or white ) from disadvantaged backgrounds did " somewhat better " in schools populated largely by children from middle-class-and-up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of the University of Chicago , also reported that the better-off youngsters were not held back in their schoolwork by the presence of the disadvantaged children . The Coleman Report dealt with social class , not race , but it was seized on by ardent school integrationists as proof that a more sweeping set of integration orders was due from the courts . Coleman himself predicted that this course would close the gap between black and white children in schoolwork . Naturally , busing became much more acceptable , as a result of this widely publicized study . Coleman has swallowed some of his predictions . He recently cited government statistics to show that desegregation efforts in twenty-two major cities resulted in increased racial isolation . Using an index of 100 to denote total separation , Coleman found that racial isolation went from 32 in the 1968-69 school year to 35 in 1972-73 . So the harder school integration was pushed , the more whites left for the suburbs . Coleman now strongly opposes forced busing in large cities because it is " intensifying " city-suburb racial isolation " rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , better-off whites head for suburbs , leaving lower income whites and blacks to carry the moral burden imposed by judges , politicians and scholars like Coleman . Not all lower-income people are capable of carrying that burden . Where Coleman addressed himself , second time around , to the truth that white flight contributes to the deterioration of city schools , other scholars offered heretical propositions that school integration does n't insure substantial improvement of black children 's performance . A new study , " Still a Dream " by Levitan , Johnston and Taggart , declares that " the weight of the evidence seems to suggest that integration in the schools can make small improvements in black I.Q. and achievement . " An even stronger put-down on the wonders of integration was voiced by David Armor , a senior social scientist at the Rand Corporation , in an article based on a study of six northern cities . His conclusion : blacks did not attain educational gains as a result of busing programs , though such gains had been anticipated . Besides declaring that busing is not " an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Armor said : " I also found that school desegregation has brought about an increase in racial tensions , in cases where it has been studied . However , these results are not conclusive  --  there is little data on the topic , except for some nonsystematic journalistic accounts . " Armor says he is against the " extreme approaches to this great American dilemma  --  do nothing , social Darwinism , and the all-out social-benefit effort to equalize conditions . His study even left him with a feeling of regret : " I did n't like my results , but I felt it vital to publish them , and have them read . I was going against a strong educational momentum based more on ideology than on social science than I had suspected . The recourse would have been for the public not to know the facts . " It 's especially vital for the black community to have such information , because it 's most directly affected by these programs . " I am intrigued by how the current educational research parallels a contemporary conservative swing politically . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ none of this research is sponsored by some conservative group . " It may be that today 's findings appeal to conservatives , but liberals have had their day , too  --  fifty years without important questioning of benefits from social programs such as welfare . Daniel Moynihan sociologist , presidential counselor , and present U.S. ambassador to the United Nations was the first person to examine fundamental liberal assumptions in a major way with social science . " The confusion currently prevalent in the social science community over the value of school busing is compounded by the decisions of federal judges on what to do with northern cities and suburbs on this score . Despite all the learned editorials on the ins-and-outs of the federal judiciary 's rulings on integration orders for the North , there is an inconsistency in these rulings which is perplexing . Take metropolitan Detroit . A federal judge ruled in 1974 that neither the city of Detroit nor the individual suburban school districts had officially created an " interdistrict " segregation of schoolchildren ; therefore , no need to integrate the area by busing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal judge , to Louisville , Kentucky , where he found that the city and suburbs had deliberatelysegregated students . The consequence : an order for Louisville and Jefferson County to bus black and white children back and forth for purposes of integration . Every reader knows about the uproar and violence which followed . In truth , it is difficult to see any real difference between the metropolitan situations of Detroit and Louisville . Now , in the wake of that , Judge Robert E. De Mascio of the federal district court in Michigan has ordered 21,200 students in the Detroit system to be bused within Detroit , and another 7,100 to be reassigned  --  all for the purpose of achieving improved racial balance in the Detroit system . But 70 percent of Detroit 's school enrollment is black , so how much juggling around can Judge De Mascio undertake ? . As Tom Turner , former Detroit NAACP chapter president , asked , in skepticism : " How many times can you put seventy into thirty ? " Detroit Mayor Coleman Young , a black , feels the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of white flight from Detroit to the suburbs , and , with it , a reduced tax base . Young calls NAACP lawyers " carpetbaggers " for coming to Detroit and pushing new integration suits . This is the same term many a southern white official used on northern white lawyers who came to their region years ago for the same purpose . Chicago has a small amount of busing , only 450 pupils , and the establishment powers in Mayor Daley 's city  --  black and white  --  only hope there are no tough suits filed because Chicago would blow sky-high if serious busing ever began . Realists in Philadelphia predict the same resultsfor the City of Brotherly Love , if a thoroughgoing busing ever comes there . Great big New York City and its suburban millions of people ? Forget any meaningful effort to integrate that megalopolis , or even the schools in New York City . Albert Shenker , president of the United Federation of Teachers , is all-powerful , and would never let it happen . The labor chieftains and liberal politicians do not weep over this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inconsistency . In 1970 , its schools were desegregated by busing 43 percent of its students . White parents responded by either moving from the district or enrolling their children in private and parochial schools . Nonwhite enrollment climbed from 46 to 58 percent . Reading scores dropped 11 percent in a few years . Then , in the spring of 1975 , voters tossed out the pro-busing school board . The new board not only abandoned busing , but reinstated emphasis on teaching the three R 's and discipline , including corporal punishment , as well . Is that the end of the story ? No , a federal judge is now ordering that Pasadena must not retreat from busing . The latest bulletin from this Rose Bowl city is that the board submitted a " voluntary " plan . Now , in Inglewood , where the poor fellow fell dead while delivering an anti-busing speech before the school board in 1970 , a local judge has ordered the buses to halt . Judge Max Deutz ruled a return to neighborhood schools because of pressure from an unusual alliance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conservatives . Again , the radical change in the racial makeup of the community brought out the realists . In 1970 , Inglewood schools were 72 percent Anglo . Now they are 19 percent . Blacks now account for 71 percent , and Chicanos , 10 . Inglewood is now unified against busing . In Los Angeles , the busing question has been argued for an entire decade . The Board of Education finally got around to appropriating $3 million for school busing in the 1975-76 school year , but then pulled the money back when $41 million was slashed from the budget . There 's small likelihood that wholesale busing will ever visit Los Angeles . Indeed , the school integration question in California has been tied up for years in disputes over referendum initiatives banning busing  --  first passed , and then declared unconstitutional . Consequently , advocates and agin-ers alike seem paralyzed . Neither side finds much solace in the revelation that in San Francisco some $15 million was spent on busing to integrate in the past five years , and yet that city 's schools are still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of people that blacks ( 30 percent ) are just another minority . The city 's school enrollment is presently 25 percent white ; Chinese , 16 ; Chicano , 15 ; Filipino , 8 ; Japanese , 2 ; with Koreans , American Indians and others accounting for the rest . It would take a vast computer bank , a fleet of Checker cabs , the best that - General Motors offers in buses , and a reincarnated Solomon to integrate San Francisco to the satisfaction of racial-balance pecksniffs . The travail over busing goes on and on . Dayton , Ohio ; Dallas ; Wilmington , Delaware ; and Indianapolis are in the throes of court-ordered busing plans . Wilmington and Indianapolis must come to grips with the thorny question of busing students across district lines from the city to the suburbs and back again . The U.S. Supreme Court rejected Delaware 's argument that the 1974 Detroit case precluded Wilmington from city-suburban busing . In Indianapolis , a federal judge got approval from the Seventh U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago to consider a metropolitan busing plan involving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation 's capital provides much of the essential truth about the inevitable pattern of white flight which develops when integration is quickly implemented and shows how prominent whites and blacks avoid practicing what they preach . In 1951 , three years before Brown vs . Topeka , the landmark desegregation case , there were two sets of schools in the District of Columbia public system  --  one for " colored " and one for " white . " Some 52 percent of the total enrollment was " colored " ( a term used in those days ) and 48 percent white . With the thrust of news pointing toward the great 1954 breakthrough , Washington 's white people accelerated their movement to the adjacent Maryland and Virginia suburbs . In 1954 , the figures in D.C. schools were 61 percent " colored " and 39 percent white . In 1957 , it has reached 71 percent and 29 ; in 1961 , it was 81 and 19 ; 1967 , 92 and 8 . By 1970 , the white enrollment had dwindled to 5 percent , about where it is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those belonging to parents of liberal persuasion and who firmly supported desegregation ? Here Washington , D.C. , a quiet , temperate city in 1954 , had the great opportunity to show the nation how school integration could work . All it needed was leadership from influential whites and blacks . Instead , the influential were the first to flee the D.C. system , which , by the way , had a history of excellence in both " colored " and " white " schools . Indeed , Dunbar High School ( colored ) was known for its academic standards , scholarship and discipline . It has many distinguished graduates , including Senator Edward Brooke ; Judge William Hastie , one-time Governor of the U.S. Virgin Islands ; Dr. Charles Drew , discoverer of blood plasma ; Congressman Walter Fauntroy and Robert Weaver , HUD Secretary . Several of the so-called " white " high schools in D.C. became nationally famous for sending disproportionately high numbers of graduates to the best universities in the country . Anyway , the point is that national leaders who live in D.C. have failed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on school integration . In late November 1975 , Senator George McGovern , a D.C. resident , startled an audience of issue-oriented Democrats in Louisville , Kentucky , by threatening to oppose his party 's presidential candidates in primaries if they fail to take a moral stand for busing . McGovern , a fierce antiwar candidate in 1972 , declared that he did n't want the Democratic Party , " which nearly lost its soul on Vietnam , to sell its soul on the issue of busing . " A few days later , I saw a letter to the editor of the Washington Post , signed by Joseph Rauh , Jr. , vice-president of the Americans for Democratic Action ( ADA ) and an intrepid liberal . Rauh ringingly endorsed McGovern 's speech as " an act of greatness , " and said McGovern " made busing come alive for what it is  --  an instrument of integration and thus of decency . " So I phoned Rauh , because I knew something about how McGovern practiced his views on school integration . I told Rauh that McGovern lived in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public schools . " Just like George , " said Rauh . " A man of principle . " " But he sent the children across the District line into Maryland public schools , " I said , " and paid substantial tuition to do so . " " Well , Thimmesch , " Rauh replied , " just because a man has advantages , that does n't mean he should n't use them . If a man has the advantage of money , why should n't he send his children to the school he wants for them ? You know Britain 's Sir Stafford Cripps was outstanding in the Attlee government , and he was wealthy . He was for the poor , but he did n't know many of them . " I 've never bragged about the fact that my children one is forty , the other , thirty-five went to D.C. schools . Of course , they went before all this integration took place " back in " colored " and " white " days . So George McGovern sermonizes on integration , yet avoids it where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an outside school system where there are proportionately few blacks indeed . His mentality and rationalization on this score is the same as that of Joseph Rauh , a well-intentioned man indeed , and hundreds of prominent whites in the Washington area . Let 's look to some of these " leaders . " Nearly all those who have run or are running for president , and supposedly back school integration , have gone the private school route , if they lived in D.C. , or found sanctuary in the white suburbs . Senator Hubert Humphrey 's children never attended a school with any significant black enrollment . Nor did Senator Goldwater 's . Former Senator Eugene McCarthy had his children in exclusive , virtually all-white private schools  --  Stone Ridge , Putney and Georgetown Prep . Senator Birch Bayh 's son went to exclusive St. Alban 's , though his father lives in D.C. All of Sargent Shriver 's children attended private schools . Same for vice-presidential candidates and those holding the second highest position  --  Spiro Agnew 's daughter was graduated from the National Cathedral School while he lived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sidwell Friends ; Vice-President Nelson Rockefeller 's attended the finest private schools . Senator Edward Kennedy , a strong backer of school busing for lower income people in Boston and elsewhere , has his children in expensive private schools in Washington . The children of the late Senator Robert Kennedy also attend private schools . Shortly after Adlai Stevenson III was elected to the Senate , he appeared on " Meet the Press . " He had just lambasted the White House for its leadership on school integration , so a newsman asked him why he was sending his children to private , mostly white , schools , when D.C. schools sorely needed the leadership of influential whites . Stevenson was flustered , said he wanted to send his children to public schools , " but regrettably the ones available to us are not very good , and I just did n't want to sacrifice the education of my kids . " A whole passel of present and former Senators who have espoused court actions to integrate schools , including the busing method , have sent , or are sending , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Clifford Case , Charles Goodell , Edmund Muskie , Charles Mathias , Howard Baker , Claiborne Pell and John Tunney . I am sure the list is incomplete . Oh yes , add Senators Javits and Ribicoff , the principals in that mortifying moment . To name the hundreds of Senators and Representatives who have avoided authentic integration of their children in schools by resorting to the private school or white-suburban route would turn this article into a Who 's Who in Congress . And there must be an element of grace here , for most of these congressmen probably would have lived in neighborhoods back home where the integration issue was n't relevant . Moreover , many have not pressed for super-integration or busing as the tool . And many have opposed both . But for those , say , like Congressman Donald Fraser , an ardent advocate of busing , it is fair game to put them on the spot . Fraser 's daughter was enrolled in a D.C. public school , and so he was practicing what he had preached . But when daughter fell behind in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a private school . Questioned by Mike Wallace on CBS 's " Sixty Minutes , " Mrs. Fraser explained : " Your children get educated only once . " When Wallace talked with the daughter , Jeannie , she told him she was uncomfortable because of the predominance of blacks in her class in the public school , and while there were only three or four blacks in her Georgetown Day classes , " they 're much nicer " thanthose in the public school . Another Minnesota liberal , Senator Walter Mondale , had his son in a D.C. junior high , but the lad found it too rough-and-tumble . So he was sent to Georgetown Day . Since then , Mondale had his two other children also enrolled in private schools in Washington . When Charles Goodell was the junior Senator from New York , he also sent one of his boys to a D.C. junior high , and he also pulled him out  --  after " rough " experience ? and enrolled him in a private school . At least these three tried and lost . Virtually every other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area either charged with the responsibility of implementing school integration , or , on the record for busing , copped out when it came to his own children . The U.S. Commission on Civil Rights is a prestigious Federal body which has large influence on federal judges , other decision makers and the media . Invariably , it comes out for a militant program for integration . The Commission 's preliminary staff report on Boston sounded like a battle cry against the anti-busing crowd . Anyway , the Commission 's chairman , Dr. Arthur S. Fleming , has been in and out of government since Eisenhower days , performing his civic duty , and usually allowing staffers free rein . In his own life , he had his children in public schools wherever he was teaching , or running a university , and these schools were of the all-white variety  --  untroubled and pleasant . Not so with his top assistants . Dr. Stephen Horn , president of California State University at Long Beach , is the Commission 's vice-chairman . When Dr. Horn lived in the District of Columbia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very rough , " predominantly black junior high school . Staff director John A. Biggs sent all his children to public schools wherever he lived because : " as a black , and having worked for human rights , I felt I did n't have the right not to send my children to integrated public schools . One of my children was given a rough time by white children in the Pasadena schools . " Prominent blacks in the Capital are no exception to the rule that integration activists firtd it difficult to live up to their preachments . Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall 's children were educated in private schools , though he became famous for his pleadings , as the NAACP attorney , in the Brown case . Clifford Alexander , who ran the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for President Johnson , sent his children to private schools in D.C. So did Congressman Walter Fauntroy and James Farmer , once head of the Committee on Racial Equality . And Mayor Walter Washington 's daughter was picked up each morning by a chauffeur-driven car bearing the Mayor 's license plates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for liberals who do n't want their children in D.C. schools . Carl Rowan , the columnist and commentator and possibly the highest paid journalist in Washington , is forever thumping for integration , and becomes vehement in his writing on behalf of school busing . Yet Rowan had sent one of his children to a private school in D.C. , where he lives . When Mike Wallace and I revealed this simple fact in broadcast and print , Rowan reacted hysterically . He wrote an angry column , calling Wallace and me reactionaries who wanted to send him back to the filth , rats and poverty of the ghetto . Neither Wallace nor I said or wrote anything even remotely resembling his charges . The media in America are all-powerful these days , and much of it is concentrated in Washington . The broadcast and written words which flow out of here on the subject of school integration and busing are almost always coming down on the side of action . Without knowing these newsmen personally , most Americans would conclude that they send their children to well-integrated schools . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of newsmen in metropolitan Washington are like the congressmen , and again , it would take pages to document it . But consider several of the powerful figures . Benjamin Crowninshield Bradlee lives in D.C. and is the executive editor of the Washington Post , the paper which dogged the Nixon administration on school integration and compulsory busing , and later rode the Watergate story as though it had discovered Adam and Eve munching that apple . Alas , Bradlee 's children all attended private schools . One of his sons was n't comfortable in a private school , so Bradlee sent him to a public school , but chose the McGovern technique and sent him to a public school in Maryland . Though Bradlee is reputed to be a liberal , he probably is n't keen for busing . Still , he is regarded as one who should show leadership for the causes the Post espouses . Same with Philip Geyelin , the editor of the Post 's liberal editorial pages . His son went to Georgetown Day . A Geyelin child never attended a D.C. public school . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their support of busing as an integration tool , he said : " I never ride public buses here , but that does n't mean I wo n't write editorials about public transit in the District . " The top journalists in Washington are very well paid , and this partly explains their strong preferences for private schooling for their children . Hugh Sidey of Time , Inc. has spent a considerable amount of money for such schooling . Mel Alfin , Newsweek 's Bureau Chief , lives in D.C. , sends one child to National Cathedral School , and another  --  yes , the McGovern route to Maryland  --  even though the public school tuition has climbed to $1,700 a year . When Torn Wicker wrote his New York Times column from Washington , he paid a nice sum so his son could attend the prestigious St. Alban 's school . James ( Scotty ) Reston sent his children to private school . Oh well , the list is endless . And yet their prose will always thump hard against those racists , those obstructors , those middle Americans who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that liberals and integration enthusiasts talk one way and act another ? Yes , a few . Senator Henry ( Scoop ) Jackson is against busing , but he 's for integration . He lives in D.C. , and his children attended D.C. public elementary schools . He let all the voters know that in the 1972 Florida primary and showed photos of his daughter and her black teacher . Linwood Holton is now in the private practice of law in Washington , but when he was governor of Virginia , he had hischildren attend an integrated inner-city public school in Richmond for one reason : there was controversy over a federal integration order , and Holton felt that he should show leadership , even though his children could have attended the suburban schools . By the way , Holton is not a liberal Democrat . He is a middle-of-the-road , Southern-born Republican . When the Washington liberal is confronted with his great inconsistency , he always says , " Well , the public schools here are so bad , I have no choice but to send my children to private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington 's schools have been badly administered , though they are not run down and underfunded as many of the " avoiders " complain . And some public schools in D.C. are quite good . Ironically , one is Millard Fillmore , located in fashionable Georgetown , where many prominent liberals nest . Fillmore 's enrollment of 117 pupils includes 80 blacks , bused in from poor neighborhoods . What Fillmore needs is more pupils , and in its immediate area , there are 120 white children who are sent off to private schools . The white parents who have children in Fillmore , along with some black parents , have worked hard to make Fillmore a good school  --  which it is . They are so sold on it that they have gone door-to-door in Georgetown , trying to recruit pupils , but oh , the resistance they get from those white parents , who , in their private moments , express disgust with the violence which accompanies the school busing situation . The worst violence in recent years occurred in Boston and Louisville . This violence was n't all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and mind  --  for wise local observers the feeling and character in both cities will never be the same . Boston was always regarded as a center of learning and enlightenment , the " cradle of liberty , " a city proud to elect political leaders like the Lodges and Leverett Saltonstall ( Yankee Republicans ) , Mayor Curley ( poor Irish ) , the Kennedys ( rich Irish ) and Edward Brooke ( black , Protestant Republican in a white , Catholic , Democratic state ) . The uninitiated never thought of Boston as racially biased ; indeed , until a few years ago , there were n't many blacks to be biased against in Boston . Even today , blacks account for only 23 percent of the city 's population . But in the fall of 1974 , long-dreaded school busing came to Boston , and after two years of violence and turmoil , the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights was calling Boston " The Little Rock of the North , " and throwing the term " racism " about freely . Whatever , since forced busing began , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school system which went from a majority white enrollment to majority black ; there was a suit , by pro-busers , to close down one violence-prone school , by the same rationale that caused an American officer to declare in Vietnam that we must destroy the village to save the people . The brunt of the official agony was borne by Boston Mayor Kevin White , once a young , innovative politician , but now resigned to the role of putting out fires . " I do n't want to go through another year like the last one , " he said one day last fall . " It was a civil war . I 'm in good shape physically , but what a drain . " White , like other Massachusetts public officials , had known for years that an alarm clock was ticking and would one day burst into raucous ringing . That clock was a state " racial imbalance " law , enacted in 1965 , which denied state funds to noncompliant school districts with more than 51 percent minority enrollment . There followed years of fierce debates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and U.S. Congresswoman , and a stonewall attitude by the Boston School Committee ( board ) . Finally , the Massachusetts Board of Education designed a racial-balance plan for Boston , but not its white suburbs , of course . ( Father Robert Drinan , the U.S. Congressman but then Dean of Boston College Law School , was a key figure in drawing up the plan . Which caused one Southie to quip , " How many children does Father Drinan have ? " ) A distinguished suburbanite , U.S. District Judge W. Arthur Garrity , Jr. , then ordered that the Continued on page 84 // 126111ffig continued from page 42 plan take effect in the fall of 1974 , and that meant busing one-third of public school pupils . It also meant a great furor in the old , established , ethnic neighborhoods which Mayor White had worked so hard to preserve . The South Boston Irish are particularly proud of their area , and their heroes are politicians and priests who are commemorated in statues and parks : John F. Kennedy ( but not Teddy because of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Father Timothy J. O'Connor ; Murphys and Fitzgeralds . The " Southies " are also fighters , and it took the best of the helmeted Tactical Police Force , swinging clubs on Irish noggins , to subdue a gang of them who had let their denunciations on busing spill out of the Rabbit Inn and onto the streets . The Southies like their clubs to have muscular names , hence ROAR ( Restore Our Alienated Rights ) , the anti-busing organization . The Southies are almost smug over their neighborliness . " When we had a big apartment house fire here recently , " says Mrs. Hicks , " everybody came with blankets , coffee and invitations to be taken in for the night . They would never do that in Wellesley . " So the Southies and other antibusers held rummage sales and a $100-a-plate dinner , ran a car wash , and solicited donations to establish several private " academies " ( tuition : $500 a year ) . And fifty of them knelt in Sister Mary Veronica Park to pray their rosaries for an end to busing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violating Judge Garrity 's rule prohibiting a gathering of three or more people within 100 yards of a public school . The Judge of South Boston District Court , citing the First Amendment right to assemble , freed the six with a warning not to abuse the right . The first wave of violence is always televised and written about in volume . But when the streets are quieted , the violence moves inside the schools which TV crews and reporters are forbidden to enter . The black and white children have been charged with it , partly from their parents and partly from being put " onstage . " Every morning at South Boston High School , the children must pass through metal-detection devices and walk by a cordon of armed policemen . The tone for much of the white opposition was met by John J. Kerrigan , Boston School Committee Chairman , who bitterly fought the racial-balance plan , busing , and Judge Garrity . Kerrigan claims an expanded voluntary busing plan from city to suburban schools is all that can save the situation now . He spews sarcasm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ double conspiracy , " he says . " Suburban people want to keep the problem in the city . Black leaders talk quality education but force whites out . Neither group wants voluntary busing . " The hypocrisy is terrible . The legislature talks about voluntary busing , but votes it down . Liberals are liars . " And it 's the old story on where the key figures send their children . Mayor White 's children were in public schools , but he 's transferred all but one to private . The Massachusetts governors who presided over this disturbing period both had their children in largely white suburban schools . Kerrigan 's child is in private school . As a black pioneer in a virtually all-white suburb , Senator Edward Brooke knew that his two daughters would be the tiny minority in the Newton Public Schools . At that , the girls transferred to a boarding school where they got their high school diplomas . The top editors of the influential Globe live in distant , affluent suburbs , sanctuaries for whitey . And Judge Garrity , well , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blacks . The judge indicated his suburban mentality when he appointed a " citywide coordinating council " to make sure all nine school districts in Boston have biracial community councils . Trouble was that over half of the forty-two distinguished citizens named to the council lived insuburbs that are all-white . When Judge Garrity visited South Boston High School in December 1975 , federal marshals guarded him . Some " Southies " cracked that he 'd better arrive next time in an M-60 tank because the order coming out of that visit drove South Boston to new fury . Judge Garrity simply placed South Boston under federal receivership , thus taking the school away from the Boston School Committee . He ordered the headmaster , football coach and other school officials removed , and virtually stripped the Boston School Committee of all its vested powers . In a word , Judge Garrity put South Boston High under federal control . Naturally , there was violent reaction . The Boston NAACP was fire-bombed , and there was fierce fighting between blacks and whites in South Boston High corridors . Anti-busing leaders urged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mourning . " The fact that Judge Garrity issued the Cromwellian order after interviewing only black children in court , and thus did not hear white children 's complaints , made many an even-tempered Bostonian livid with anger . Louisville , home of the Kentucky Derby , was always a temperate city . Being on the Ohio River helped because in the early days steamboats brought a diverse lot of visitors . Louisville has southern gentility , northern industrialism , and has been influenced plenty by the hill country people who moved there . The Democratic and Republican politicians have always been moderate to liberal . Louisville and adjacent Jefferson County were celebrated for the peaceful way they desegregated their school systems in 1956 . Integration advocates point out , however , there was more " peace " than " desegregation , " and that integration was a token affair . By 1972 , thirty-six of the city 's fifty-seven schools had 90 percent or more pupils of one race . Jefferson County 's small black enrollment was concentrated in three all-black schools . Inevitably , there were lawsuits seeking the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the U.S. Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the two systems be desegregated . The Kentucky State Board of Education ordered the systems merged in February 1975 , and then a U.S. District Judge ordered desegregation of the newly merged system in the fall of 1975 . Thus , what Detroit , Michigan and Richmond , Virginia managed to wiggle out of  --  a merger of the city and adjacent county school systems  --  was visited on Louisville and Jefferson County . Many county residents ( 96 percent white ) frankly had left to avoid Louisville 's increasingly black schools . Political and school leaders did little to prepare them for the great busing trauma . In fact , the final court order was delivered only three months before school opened , and parents were n't notified about busing plans for their children until Louisville newspapers printed them a few weeks before the first day of school . All hell broke loose in Louisville , and particularly in Jefferson County . Scores of people injured and hundreds arrested . Angry white mobs marched at night , with police helicopters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sight of one eye when it was hit with a lead fishing weight . County police were dispatched too late , and it took 800 national guardsmen to restore order . The yellow buses rolled , with human cargoes of frightened children and armed guards . The Ku Klux Klan , gone for years , prowled the county again . Organizations for or against busing sprouted like suburban crabgrass  --  twenty-five by last count  --  bearing urgent , violent , uplift titles : STAB ( Stop Tyranny and Busing ) ; Concerned Parents , Inc. ; Black Protective Parents and Citizens ; Teenagers Against Busing . Businessmen , fearing violent raids on their stores , quickly posted anti-busing signs in their windows . After two months of ugly violence and disorder , Louisville and Jefferson County spent itself . Probusers claimed only 2 percent of pupils were missing from schools ; anti-busers argued it was 15 percent . Truant officers visited vocal opponents to check on their children . A criminal court judge ruled that the extreme action taken by Louisville Mayor Harvey Sloane during the peak of the violence was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court ordered that the ban violated the right of freedom of speech and peaceful assembly both constitutional guarantees . Louisville is now in " Phase Two , " the regrouping period , when people decide what to do about school integration . Most are staying , but already there are signs of families moving to adjacent counties or across the river into Indiana , where federal judges have n't yet peered through their bifocals at briefs filed by pro-busing activists . The nearby jurisdictions unaffected by busing orders , and close to Boston , Pasadena , Inglewood , Atlanta , Jackson ( Mississippi ) , Richmond ( Virginia ) and San Francisco  --  just to name a few  --  are receiving white people who do n't want their children bused for racial balance . This is either racism or white flight , depending on your viewpoint . In almost every " busing " city , school enrollments go down . In Boston , there were 93,000 pupils in public schools in 1973-74 school year . In 1974-75 , enrollment dropped to 72,000 , and now , in the spring of 1976 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makeup of affected school systems also changes dramatically . In Atlanta , it shifted from 70 percent white in 1960 to 30 percent white now . In Boston , it swung from 62 percent white in 1973 to 40 percent now . Detroit has gone from 50 percent white to 30 percent in recent years . Philadelphia is down to 35 percent white enrollment . Pasadena lost 37 percent of its white pupils in five years . Inglewood went from 62 percent " Anglo , " as whites are called , in 1970 , to 19.5 now . School officials in Charlotte estimate that 10,000 white pupils have left integrated public schools for private segregated " academies " or for other school districts . These great shifts , whether spurred by school integration or inevitable as some sociologists claim , remove much of what has given American cities uniqueness and character . The ethnic neighborhood cohesion , the restaurants , shops and churches fade and then are lost . Orthodox and Hasidic Jewish sects fight to hang onto their turf , culture and special schools . The government-funded freeways become fast-traveled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and vehement about busing . Professional politicians dread the potential divisiveness and chaos when busing gets into politics . Louisville 's Mayor Sloane was harassed by pro-busers to testify before Congress on how busing was working in his city , and glowering anti-busers hollered at him to do the opposite . Even the issue-oriented 1972 Democratic " McGovern " convent ion wound up with a soft plank on busing . Nearly every anti-busing group cries for an amendment to the U.S. Constitution to prohibit busing . Actually , it is highly unlikely such an amendment would ever be passed by Congress . Senators and Representatives are aware that the only means by which an amendment could work would be to modify the Fourteenth Amendment , and nobody wants to tinker with the Fourteenth . And yet the air is full of bills calling for such an amendment . Alas , nearly all are political and can not be taken seriously . The majority in Congress is against busing , and the rest favor it but only with reluctance . Congressional liberals are breaking away from the party line on busing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they realize busing does n't achieve that goal . Thus the liberals sound more and more like Senator Henry A. Jackson , presidential candidate , who has long opposed forced busing , calling it " a misguided social experiment " which achieves resegregation and does n't improve educational achievement . Jackson 's constitutional amendment proposal is regarded as unworkable . But a bill by Senator Joe Biden , Jr . ( Dem. /Del. ) , a liberal , would amend the federal-aid-toeducation act so that H.E.W . would be barred from using federal funds " for assigning students to schools because of race . " Biden argues that busing is a " bankrupt concept " and violates " the cardinal rule of common sense . " Another notion kicking around Washington is for legislation to specify that integration be accomplished by a system where students be allowed to transfer voluntarily to any school if it would improve the racial balance . This way motivated blacks would probably transfer to white neighborhood schools they regard as better than theirs , and yet the whites would not be bused to schools in black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Wichita , Kansas ; Portland , Oregon ) already have such a system , and it seems to work . Two of the most thoughtful senators on the busing dilemma are Senator Walter Mondale ( Dem. /Minn. ) and Philip Hart ( Dem. /Mich . ) . Mondale painfully learned that it is one matter to talk school integration and another to practice it . He now believes busing is a last resort and agonizes over the school integration problem . " To permit discrimination is constitutionally intolerable , " he says . " And to permit massive busing is so troublesome . A president sympathetic to this dilemma could do something about it , " Presumably , Senator Mondale means that a president who had the confidence of the activists and recalcitrants alike , in the busing situation , could gather them together and urge Xemoec:lly continued from page 21 hower would have been horrified at the vile and unsavory transformation that took place in American politics between 1969 and 1974 . He would have been disturbed about the nature of his relationship with the man responsible for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approach . Pettiness and dishonesty never dared set foot in the Eisenhower White House . That was not his style . I would say to the young Mr. Eisenhower that it is the duty of our generation to search backward for the footprints left by a great man like his grandfather  --  not to uncover their sins , but rather to find the source of their greatness and the direction in which they were leading . We must find out where we lost the trail and take up marching again . By following the example of the General 's courage and integrity we can abandon pettiness of all kinds . Only then can we face our task , as my father was fond of quoting Aeschylus , " to tame the savageness of man and make gentle the life of the world . " n a calmer , middle course to guarantee good education to black and white children in their communities . None of Senator Hart 's eight children has seen the inside of a public school , integrated or not . He supports school busing if it alleviates unequal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " discordant violence " which busing can cause " spoils the effort to mix people . " He is honest enough to say that " a rich guy like Hart is fair game for those who must face the reality of busing , " and he then adds : " If I were a parent who feared putting my child on a bus going to a mixed school , I would be less outraged if I knew that the judge , the litigant and the local editor also had their children programmed for the same busing schedule . " Ah , this is the rub : American idealism holds that all children should have an equal opportunity to quality education . Hence , school integration , redistricting and busing . But when black children come from cultural and social backgrounds vastly or even somewhat different from those of white children , white parents usually allow their apprehension to become fear . And these white parents are rich and poor , of all levels of education , pro- and anti-busing . Most of these white parents , and many affluent black ones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation . They will avoid it by finding excuses to send their children to private schools , unattended by black children whose behavior is unacceptable to better-off white and black parents alike . They will avoid it by moving to the suburbs . And if they do n't have the means to do either of the aforementioned , they will often panic , demonstrate , and even become violent . Their fear and violence are readily transmitted to their children entering the integrated ( by busing ) school . Since that school is more often In a white neighborhood than not , the incoming black children also carry an emotional load . If it is a junior or senior high school , the situation is compounded by the passions of adolescence , and both white and black children may act out their feelings in aggressive and violent fashion . Putting it that way is an appeal to the intelligentsia to understand how people without the means to flee can feel . But as T.S . Eliot once wrote , the intelligentsia as a class are n't so smart . And as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observed of the intellectuals who want the " lower " classes to carry their moral burdens : " Growing hostility to this class is one of the most serious things this country faces . " This agonizing problem will not go away . And no one who has really thought it out can offer an easy solution to resolve the dilemma of guaranteeing equal educational opportunities to all children without at the same time taking away their parents ' freedom of choice .                     