@@279285

Aside from the topmost titles on the editorial masthead , two of the most coveted and important positions on the New York Times are Sunday editor and Washington bureau chief . The Sunday boss presides over the prestigious Book Review , Magazine and News of the <P> Week in Review , along with specialized sections on travel , the arts and real estate . The bureau chief in Washington supervises 39 reporters , who turn out a huge daily news file averaging 15,000 words that is read with respect in high places all over the world . Last week the Times announced two unusual appointments to those posts : Washington Bureau Chief Max Frankel will succeed Daniel Schwarz early next year when Schwarz retires as Sunday editor , and E. ( for Elbert ) Clifton Daniel , who now holds the largely honorific title of associate editor , will replace Frankel . <P> Trade gossip had it that Times Managing Editor A.M. Rosenthal wanted the Sunday spot for his close friend Arthur Gelb , now metropolitan editor . But top management has in recent years preferred some separation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hailed Frankel , 42 , as " the best man for the job . " An enterprising , thoughtful reporter who served as a foreign and White House correspondent before taking over the Washington bureau in 1968 , Frankel was clearly marked for higher things . But the appointment of a political specialist to the primarily cultural Sunday job occasioned mild surprise . <P> Good Grace . The real eye opener , however , was the selection of Daniel , the suave , courtly son-in-law of Harry Truman . Daniel turned 60 last week ; the newspaper of record omitted his age both in its press release and its published story . Toward the end of his five-year tenure as managing editor , in 1968-69 , Daniel chafed at having to operate in close proximity to James Reston , the Times superstar who outranked him at the time as executive editor . Sidetracked to speechmaking and a variety of special projects , Daniel took his transfer with typical good grace and has lately spent much of his time moderating a 30-minute news-analysis program for WQXR , the Times-owned radio station in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign correspondent for the Times in Europe and the Middle East , but has had limited experience in Washington . He will bring a headquarters viewpoint to a bureau that has traditionally been autonomous and has sometimes operated with more independence than New York liked . But bureau reaction seemed favorable to Daniel 's appointment . Gay Talese , the former Times reporter who chronicled the paper 's turbulent executive infighting in The Kingdom and the Power , thought the choice a good one . " Daniel understands reporting , " said Talese . " He has the experience , the diplomatic background . When things were n't going well , he took his lumps like a gentleman . He 's a Times man . "                     