@@494717

Dilemma of the " Lesser " Democrats by Ken Bode The opening gun of the 1972 Democratic presidential sweepstakes will be fired in Iowa at precinct caucuses on January 24 . New party rules require that all candidates for delegate ( Iowa has 46 ) must state their presidential preference or run explicitly uncommitted . So , on the morning of January 25 , we will have the , first meaningful indication of popular support for the plethora of Democratic hopefuls . Six other caucus-convention states ( Arizona , Minnesota , Mississippi , South Carolina , Washington , Wyoming ) will conduct the first stage of their 1972 delegate selection processes ? all this prior to the nation 's first primary in New Hampshire on March 7 . While some delegates may run uncommitted in these convention states , the public will have a pretty clear notion by early March how the 274 delegates from these seven states will vote on the first ballot in Miami Beach next summer . Senator Henry Jackson 's decision to drop out of the New Hampshire primary is illustrative of the dilemma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Like most of his competitors , Jackson has only a skeleton national organization . He was initially counting on the Florida primary , a week after New Hampshire , to establish his credibility as a major candidate , and said as much in announcing his can-didacy . But George Wallace 's entry in Florida as a Democrat seems certain to diminish Jackson 's chances for an impressive showing there . So , while Jackson was tempted to make it up in New Hampshire , he withdrew when it seemed obvious that he and Los An-geles Mayor Sam Yorty would be competing for the right-of-center Democratic vote . Yorty had the edge , and it would not do to lose to a man who is taken seriously by so few outside New Hampshire . That leaves that contest a three-way race between Muskie , McGovern and Yorty which only McGovern and Muskie can lose ; but Jackson 's departure also serves to dramatize the potential effects of fragmentation elsewhere . Among the various Democratic presidential hopefuls , three ? Senator George McGovern , Mayor John V. Lindsay , and Former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberal " than the rest . For purposes of some primaries , add to this list Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm . Regardless of Chisholm 's entry , all three of the white hopefuls have common problems : First , none has established a wide base of support among Democrats . The three are currently bunched together in the major polls behind Kennedy , Muskie , and Humphrey , each enjoying a proportion of national Democratic support which hovers rather constantly beneath 10 percent . Moreover , state polls ? notably those in California , where the winner-takeall primary on June 6 is crucial to everyone 's presidential hopes ? mirror the national polls almost perfectly . Nor has any of the three developed a strong appeal among two crucial elements of the Old Democratic Coalition . Full read-outs of the polls indicate that rank-and-file black Democrats prefer Kennedy first , Humphrey second . With labor , it 's Jackson or Humphrey , then Kennedy . Second , all three must enter the primaries to demonstrate support in the active electorate and offset their poor showings in the polls . As McGovern said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really means anything . " But for McGovern , McCarthy and Lindsay , the hazards of the primary route are legion . First , the costs of running nationwide are enormous and diminished neither by the reforms of the Democratic Party nor by the addition of six new primaries for 1972 . None of the three has unlimited financial and organizational resources , and at least one other liberal candidate , Senator Fred Harris , has already gone broke . Moreover , it is no longer possible to count on building support in the primaries in the hope that some momentum will carry over to state conventions . The Democrats ' early convention ' date for 1972 ( July 9 ) has so pushed the caucus convention dates up into the primary season that the processes are effectively concurrent . One must assemble a nationwide organization capable of working both at the same time . Third , because of the increased number of primaries and the need to cover 50 states and the District of Columbia in a shortened nominating season , the left-Democrats will inevitably pass over some opportunities to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , New Jersey , West Virginia , and Daley-controlled portions of Illinois , and " Favorite Son " slates in Ohio , Washington , DC , Arkansas , probably Tennessee , and perhaps others will be comprised mainly of local political leaders and their cronies , and subject only to random local challenges as the major candidates are forced to concentrate their time , resources , and organization elsewhere . These are the swampy edges of the bog . Presuming a certain overlap of support among the three , the major problem facing Lindsay , McCarthy and McGovern is that in direct , head-to-head confrontations , they will : ( 1 ) fragment that support and ensure the election of centrist or conservative delegates and ( 2 ) foster a spirit of fratricide among their supporters , generally diminishing the area of overlapping support and damaging the potential for later cooperation among them on platform issues , rules , and credentials challenges . Confrontations among the three will be most costly to each in majority-rule and winner-take-all nominating systems where fragmentation of popular support ( even a majority ) can translate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the electoral processes of this country , stemming in part from a distrust of faction by the Founding Fathers . It may be seen in the tendency of the Electoral College to inflate popular vote majorities and make it practically impossible for anything but regionally isolated minor parties to register any electoral votes at all . Courts have upheld the tradition by validating special requirements for ballot access by minor parties on grounds that the state has a proper and constitutional interest in ensuring that the winner of an election obtains a majority of the popular vote . But in the nominating process ? which has been subject to only sporadic regulation by the courts ? majority-rule democracy is rampant and in practice is often translated into plurality-take-all , which can actually lead to a distortion of the will of the majority . California , for example , is a winner-take-all statewide presidential preference primary , and will send the second largest block of delegate votes ( 271 ) to the Miami Convention . Current polls in that state indicate that with the frontrunning Senator Edward Kennedy out , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McCarthy easily exceeds that of Muskie or Humphrey . But ? with six or seven candidates in the race , including the three I have singled out , their support is ineffectually splintered , and Senator Edmund Muskie wins the entire pot . Last week , with that handwriting clearly on the wall , two of California 's leading pragmatists , US Senator John Tunney and Assembly Speaker Bob Moretti ? who had flirted with other candidates ? announced their support of Muskie . There are several other primary states where a liberal plurality divided against itself could elect ? centrist delegates . Massachusetts ( 201 ) and Oregon ( 34 ) also deliver their entire lode of delegates to the statewide winner . In Florida ( 81 ) , Indiana ( 76 ) , Maryland ( 53 ) , Tennessee ( 49 ) , and Wisconsin ( 67 ) , delegates are elected by congressional districts and at-large , on a winner-take-all basis at each level . And confrontation is inevitable . While the candidates can pick and choose their primaries to a certain extent , the scope of selection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entry primaries ( Florida , Maryland , Massachusetts , Nebraska , New Mexico , North Carolina , Oregon , Tennessee , Wisconsin ) where they must face the electorate and each other . Splintering of liberal support is also a problem in those convention states which provide no assurances that each presidential candidate will receive delegate votes in proportion to his rank-and-file support in precinct caucuses and county conventions . Minnesota ( 64 ) , Iowa ( 46 ) , and Arizona ( 25 ) , for example , have adopted such proportional representation schemes . But in Texas ( 130 ) , simple majority rule can close out minority presidential supporters ? especially if they are fragmented ? at the first stage of the process , resulting in a solid conservative-centrist national convention delegation . So what 's to be done ? Lindsay , McGovern and McCarthy must each give top priority to establishing his own credibility as a candidate ; none could realistically be expected to agree to piss up any chance to accumulate delegates or raise his popular standing , regardless of the effect on any of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in " stopping Muskie , " none has any interest whatever in being perceived as part of a cabal to do so . Finally , because direct confrontations are inevitable , the capacity for anything but staff-level cooperation is severely circumscribed . How , for example , could McCarthy and Lindsay support or endorse McGovern in New Hampshire then run against him in Florida , Illinois , and Wisconsin within the following 30 days ? The problem of splintered constituencies may not belong exclusively to the three men I 've mentioned . With the announcement by Hubert Humphrey that he intends to actively seek the nomination and campaign extensively in some early primaries , Humphrey 's hand-picked 1968 running mate inherits similar complications . Both in terms of campaign dollars and the loyalties of Demcicratic Party and labor leaders , Humphrey encroaches most directly on Muskie , with perhaps Jackson a close second . National Chairman Laurence O'Brien has attempted to lay the groundwork for ultimate party unity by proposing some common ground rules for all the candidates ? including instructions to tee off on Nixon , not one another . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process is made difficult by the fact that the stakes are so high and all the candidates are ultimately forced to compete directly against one another . Mandatory entry primaries notwithstanding , where the fruit looks ripe to McCarthy , it will probably look good to McGovern and Lindsay as well . And where they all find themselves in the same place at the same time , each candidate will be hard-pressed to distinguish himself from the opponent publicly perceived as nearest him on the political spectrum . In this way , the current Balkanization of the Democratic Party is not unlike the perpetual fragmentation of the French political left . Persons who agree on the larger political issues force disagreements on minutiae , frame their discord in terms of rigid principles which must never be compromised or embody them in the persons of their leaders . Competition for public support then develops antipathy so deep that genuine cooperation on larger issues or coalition around candidates is compromised or impossible . That 's how it was with the Democrats in 1968 . There remains a deep distrust within the Democratic Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supporters of Eugene McCarthy and Robert Kennedy on the one hand , and those ' who backed Lyndon Johnson and Hubert Humphrey on the other . But within this internal schism , there is also a residue of bitterness of a different sort between the McCarthy and Kennedy supporters themselves . The bitterness , developed over only four or five primary confrontations , left them frozen and immobile after the tragedy of 1968 , and it is indicative of the potential that exist 's for 1972 . It is no surprise that some among the Democratic left have already begun to seek a preliminary accord among McCarthy , McGovern , and Lindsay . Good luck to them !                     