@@485713

THE : AEROSPACE industry is a unique kind of private enterprise which operates almost exclusively on government finances and is manned by a work force which some feel is more typical of the future than the present . It is difficult , then , to draw definitive conclusions from the conduct of the industry or its workers and to apply these conclusions to other , industries . Despite this difficulty , particular attention is being paid by top-echelon management and labor to the recent union-shop elections held in three aerospace firms in an attempt to determine the significance of these votes in terms of workers ' ' attitudes toward organized labor . To have put the union-shop clanses , into effect , two-thirds of the employees voting in the elections had to approve . They did not . The results do not prove growing worker opposition to unionization , as some have contended . Obviously , the only proven fact is that a two-thirds majority of the voting workers , in these industries , did not want union-shop clauses . But the defeat did raise serious questiOns about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the kind of appeals which are needed when aimed at workers Whose educational levels are higher than average and who , for the most part , work in clean , modern , air-conditioned facilities as skilled technicians . BEFORE , these questions can be answered , the multiple causes of the defeats have to be recognized . Involved in the three separate elections were the International Association ' of Machinists , representing employees at General Dynamics ( Convair ) , and the United Auto and Aerospace Workers ( U.A.W. ) , representing workers at North American Aviation and Ryan Aeronautical Company . In recent years , workers in the aircraft and missile industry ( now usually known as the aerospace industry ) have fallen somewhat behind in wages and fringe benefits compared to steel , auto and others . And while almost all other basic industries have full union-shop clauses in their contracts , less than one-third of the aerospace industry has such clauses . This , the unions said , was to be the year to catch up , and the union-shop issue was put at the top of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employees in the bargaining units to become union members , a move the two organizations felt was vital if ? as one U A.W . official put it ? " we are going to get off the ridiculous treadmill we 're on . " BECAUSE of the fantastically high labor turnover in aerospace , as much organizational efforts had been going into keeping up membership in the unionized plants . as in organizing non-union companies . At North American 's plant in Los Angeles , in 1956 , the U.A.W. had 14,202 members out of the 20,642 workers in the total bargaining unit . In the succeeding six years , 17,659 new members were signed up . But when negotiations began last summer , the U.A.W. had only 14,909 members out of a bargaining unit grown to 26,881 . In other words , since 1956 , despite a healthy success in organizing , the membership had increased by only 707 . Not only was the turnover high , but the composition of the work force at North American was undergoing drastic changes . In 1941 , when the U.A.W. was first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North American workers were in the bargaining unit , at the time composed primarily of production workers and some clerical and maintenance employees on airframe jobs . The remaining 15 per cent were in engineering , technical , clerical and supervisorial positions . By 1962 , 65 per cent of North American 's total employment of 100,000 were outside the bargaining unit , only 35 per cent inside . Fewer production workers are needed when missile research and development is being emphasized . The International Association of Machinists at Lockheed Aircraft Corp . ' s Burbank facility added 1 ,  | new members to its rosters in 1961 . But this netted the I.A.M. a membership gain of only 211 . At Convair in San Die go theI.A.M. organized , i 6,932 members n the last two yedrs , but had a net loss of 2,389 members . This reflected not only the same problems seen at North American and Lockheed , but also the heavy drop in the total employment picture for Convair . The change in the kind of workers employed at these plants was , primarily , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ airframe to missile work : The companies have also been expanding rapidly into other fields , such as electronics and atomic energy . One way or another , the old airframe-production hoes , which provided large numbers of unskilled and semi-skilled jobs , were disappearing . Other aerospace firms were going through similar changes . During the last five years alone , , 100,000 workers have been laid off ' in the Southern California aerospace companies . In the same period , 150,000 workers have been hired for other jobs ? primarily by the same companies , but , also by the rapidly growing , separate electronics industry . Many of the laid-off workers have been rehired in other capacities , but they were not generally rehired into the union bargaining units . The , resulting confusion of this continuing conversion meant ; from the union 's viewpoint , that some action was essential and the drive for the union shop Was on in earnest . AS THE negotiations dragged , on , it became obvious the unions were not going to get much help from the Kennedy Administration in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefits . These would have exceeded the loosely drawn guide lines set by the Administration . But the union , shop was still possible . This , it was correctly assumed , would not be opposed by Kennedy and his advisers , such as former Labor Secretary , Arthur Goldberg , a long-time advocate of the union shop . Indeed , - if the government ? the only , really big aerospace industry customer ? firmly supported the demand , victory for the unions seemed certain . This logic , the union committees assumed , would prove as obvious to the companies as to themselves . But the companies would have no part , of " compulsory unionism . " It was a matter of " basic principles of freedom , " the managements said in unison ; they would refuse to " force any non-union worker into any union . " In 1958 , Californians had rejected a , " right to work " law , which would have prohibited the union shop , by nearly a million votes . But the companies said the absence of such a law did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they insisted , - there were no indications that the majority of workers urgently wanted such clauses . THE negotiations , , proceeded separately , but the companies were presumed to be working together as closely as the two unions , which had agreed on a joint bargaining strategy from the outset , Looking for a way out of the dead-'lock , the U.A.W. finally suggested to North American that the employees themselves decide the question . Management refused , arguing that even the minority had to be protected from " compulsory unionism , " The idea lay dormant for several weeks . In the meantime , the huge Douglas Aircraft Corp. , in financial troubles and anxious for an agreement , broke the industry front and agreed to a compromise ? the " agency shop , " under which workers do n't have to join the union , but do pay the equivalent of union dues to the union . The legality of the agency shop is still in question , and a test case is pending before the Supreme Court . If the court holds it to be illegal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a vote of its employees , with a two-thirds majority necessary for approval . But the Douglas compromise failed to set a pattern for the other companies , and as a July 23 , industry-420 wide strike date approached , President Kennedy- appointed ? - a- three- man board to assist . lt'Was headed by Dr. George Taylor , ? of the University of Pennsylvania ; who ' had headed former President. , E W isenhoer 's ' fact-finding board in ' the - 1959 steel dispute . THE aerospace baisd was empowered not only to aid in mediation and make findings of fact , but also to make recommendations for a settlement , if necessary . A refusal by either side to accept such recommendations would mean heavy public pressure , built in large part by the Administration itself , against the recalcitrant party . ' 4 After weeks of futile mediation attempts , the ' board decided to put on the pressure . It made its recommendations , which included wage and fringe benefit hikes of approximately 25 cents an hour for a three-year period ( boosts comparable to those already offered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the original U.A.W. idea of an employee vote on the real issue in dispute , the union shop . Kennedy publicly approved the idea . Lockheed continued its opposition , but the plan was accepted by North American , Convair and Ryan . ( The I.A.M. struck Lockheed on Nov. 28 , after the film rejected continued ' pleas of the President and others to permit an employee vote . Contending the national health and safety were in jeopardy , Kennedy invoked the Taft-Hartley Act 's eighty-day injunction procedure to end the walkout . Lockheed said it would never yield " on the principle of compulsion , " even if 99 per cent of its employees voted for , the union shop . ) , ' Despite - some ' Misgivings by the I.A.M. , and some warnings from a Lou Harris-poll at North American , both - unions ' and management generally , expected the elections ? at the three companies would result in'apprqval " of the union ' shop . But at North American , with more than 90 per-cent of the 35,500 eligible workers voting , ' 60 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority . This meant that 5 per . cent of the union members had voted against  --  or , : at least , had n't bothered to vote : ? in favor . Next carne , the IA M. 's turn at Convair . There , only 54 ; per cent Voted to accept the union shop , ' but the union cotild at least point with rueful pride . to the fact that ' it:had less , than 50 per cent of the work  --  rs in the bargaining unit as ' members . Finally , the Ryan vote was taken , and- while U.A.W.- membership -- was nearly 85 per cent of the total in that unit , only 60 per cent voted yes . THERE are several explanations for the unexpected defeats . From 1947 to 1950 , Taft-Hartley required prior worker approval of union-shop clauses before they could be legally negotiated . The results were almost inevitably so overwhelmingly favorable-90 per cent and higher  --  that Congress dropped the requirement as a waste of time . ( The majority needed in those elections was only 51 per cent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ones this year lies in their timing . The earlier elections were conducted before contract negotiations were completed ; the latest ones ' were held after all other issues in negotiations had been settled . Non-union workers were , in effect , being asked this year to pay dues of about $5 monthly with the knowledge that no matter how strong their payments might make the union , nothing could be added to their wages or working conditions for the duration of the new , three-year contracts . , The Lou Harris poll at North American , ( ordered by the U.A.W. ) did not substantiate the contention of some that workers , were turning away from the labor movement beThe NATION cause of the charges of corruption leveled against it by the McClellan Committee . This turned out to be a relatively unimportant factor . More important , apparently , was the post-contract timing of the elections  --  an interpretation that will be partially tested this month when a vote on the union shop will ' be conducted among Boeing Aircraft Co. workers in Seattle This may not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wage and fringe benefit boosts has already been set at the other companies , and even an overwhelming yes vote would be unlikely to change that pattern . The election will be only an ' advisory " one , not binding on the companies as in the other three elections , but it does come while the contract is still under active negotiation . Another major factor which differentiates this year 's union-shop votes from the 1947-50 elections was the attitude of the companies . While the vigor of the firms ' opposition varied from a " soft sell " approach at North American to an all-out battle at Ryan , none of the three made it a contest between the company and the union per se . The aerospace firms have all taken the position that the workers ' loyalty to the union was not in question . If the union shop Was defeated , the union contracts would still be in effect and management-labor relationships would re-main intact . But in the 1940s the elections were often a reflection of management 's fight against unionization , and a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a vote against the union . THE BASIC ' factor in ' 1962 , however , is a work force radically changed by , the influx of trained technicians and white-collar employees without previous trade-union ' experience . And those in the bargaining units work ' often , side by side with the majority of employees who are not unionized . The vast number of unorganized scientists , engineers , technicians , , office and ' supervisory personnel in the aerospace industry makes it very different from ' autos or steel , where " ' everybody " ' is in the union . Many company official 's say another factor in the defeat of the union shop is the nature of workers attracted ' to the rather exotic aircraft - missile - electronics - atomic - energy field . " These people are , more independent than ' those found in other industries , " one management man said . " This does n't mean they reject unionism . It means they are more adventurous types , with higher educational levels , who may ' well vote for a union , but like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something they are required ' to do . And ' yet many of these same people wouldvote against a ' right to work ' , law prohibiting the union shop . " The results of the elections , then , really emphasize the Point so ' often made : union leaders must- find out more about these ' " workers of the future , " now grouped ' rather . inaccurately but conveniently under ' the white-collar label , if the declining percentage of union ' membership in certain industries is not to drop even further . U.A.W. President Walter - Reuther says a union appeal canhot'be made to the white-collar worker " strictly on ' the basis of improving his salary or economic conditions , - .. ' . I - think the labor ; , movement haS ta-t on the character of a socialtnOvemeni -- the , , give the workers a sense of . consciously participating it shaping the great issues that will deterinine " ; . the kind of society ' ? in whidiN've- are ' all going to ' be , living . " This notion , ' and others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Angeles in January , when the-AFL-CIO starts a large-scale organizing drive . The drive would have been helped psychologically by approval of the union shop at the three aerospace firms , but the loss should have no negative effect . And that loss has stimulated at least some union leadership to probe more deeply inta the ailments of the labor movement ? a probing that many feel is long overdue . 