@@493634

Jesse and the Jews by Charles Silberman Most discussions of black anti-Semitism make it sound as though tension between blacks and Jews was something new . It is not . " It is common knowledge that many members of the Negro and Jewish communities of the country share mutual dislike , scorn , and mistrust , " the late Ralph Bunche wrote in 1942 , in the introduction to a volume analyzing the often favorable reactions of the black press to Hitler and nazism . Mutual distrust is rooted in the American background that Jews and blacks share . As white Americans , Jews have absorbed the racial prejudice and animosity endemic to American society ? indeed , to Western society as a whole . As Christian Americans , blacks have absorbed the folk anti-Semitism that is embedded in Christianity . In 1916 , when he was 12 , the great black educator Horace Mann Bond has recalled : I was walking along a street near my house , and had to pass a small grocery store located in our neighborhood.There was a small boy ? perhaps six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the store . As I passed he began to chant : ' nigger , nigger , nigger , nigger . ' You may not believe it , but this was the first time I can remember anyone calling me a ' nigger . ' And my response still surprises me ; I retorted to the boy , ' You Christ-killer ! ' But black anti-Semitism is more than just the mirror image of Jewish racism . There is a lack of symmetry in the relationship between blacks and Jews that gives black anti-Semitism a distinctive and troublesome cast : whereas Jewish leaders and spokesmen are conCharles Silberman 's most recent book is Criminal ViolenceCriminal Justice : Criminals , Police , Courts &; Prisons in America ( Random House ) . siderably less racist ( and considerably more sympathetic to black aspirations ) than the Jewish population in general , the opposite is true of the black community . A recent Lou Harris survey prepared for the National Conference of Christians and Jews revealed that the members of a large sample of national black leaders were much more anti-Semitic than their followers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporate executives . This asymmetry is not new . " The tension between Negroes and Jews contains an element not characteristic of Negro-Gentile tension , " James Baldwin wrote in 1948 , " an element which accounts in some measure for the Negroes ' tendency to castigate the Jew verbally more often than the Gentile , and which might lead one to the conclusion that , of all white people on the face of the earth , it is the Jew whom the Negro hates most . " That , of course , is precisely the impression that a number of black spokesmen and leaders have created by their response to Jimmy Carter 's firing of Andrew Young as US ambassador to the United Nations . Even though Young was fired by Carter ( his resignation was tendered about as freely as that of HEW secretary Califano a few weeks earlier ) , and even though black spokesmen had been increasingly critical of the Carter administration 's domestic policies during the preceding months , black leaders focused their anger over Young 's resignation at American Jews , rather than at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of August 22 , those present at the black leadership meeting declared that " The key question before us as representatives of the Black community in America is the . . . extent to which the successful demand for the resignation of Ambassador Andrew Young has in fact further damaged an already unhappy relationship between the American Jewish organizational spokesmen and the rank and file and the leadership of the American blacks . " Some of the most influential black leaders have dissented From that view ? most notably , Vernon Jordan , Bayard Rustin , and the other black members of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights . Without denying the real differences that exist between blacks and Jews on a few issues , such as affirmative action , Jordan and the others have emphasized the large areas of agreement between the two communities , as reflected in the legislative agenda of the Leadership Conference . Thus it would be wrong wrong morally , as well as politically ? to attribute the views of a Jesse Jackson or Wyatt T. Walker to black leaders as a whole , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But it would be disingenuous to deny the reality or the virulence of the anti-Semitism that exploded at the black leadership meeting in August and on other occasions since then . What has happened is that new kinds of anti-Semitism have been wedded to traditional black folk anti-Semitism . This always has been more complex than white anti-Semitism . On the one hand , Jews were viewed as " Christ-killers " ; on the other hand , black ministers and congregants always have identified closely with the Jews of the Old Testament in particular , the Jews who escaped Egyptian bondage . One consequence , Bladwin has suggested , is " a subterranean assumption that the Jew should know better , ' that he has suffered enough himself to know what suffering means . And understanding is expected of the Jews such as none but the most naive and visionary Negro has ever expected of the American Gentile . " The expectation has not been met ; and because more has been expected , the disappointment has been greater ? and the consequent rage has been greater too . Because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups , moreover , northern blacks have tended to move into formerly Jewish urban and suburban neighborhoods . But because businesses are never as mobile as homeowners and tenants , blacks have come into contact with the Jews who have remained behind as landlords and merchants ; and landlord-tenant relationships ( as well as merchant-customer relationships in the urban ghetto ) rarely foster affection on either side . Thus , direct contact has reinforced black folk anti-Semitism , not to mention Jewish racism . In recent years , black-Jewish tensions have been exacerbated by real conflicts of interest between the two groups . To be sure , a conflict of interest between blacks and Jews is not the same ? at least not necessarily the same ? as anti-Semitism ; but the one may lead to the other . This has happened , in good measure , because blacks have tended to choose occupational lines ? mostnotably , teaching and social work ? that Jews had chosen a generation earlier as their route to upward mobility . The result has been conflict over the criteria for appointment and promotion to supervisory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criteria . The complaints that blacks have voiced in recent years about Jewish control of the New York City school system are remarkably similar to the complaints that Jews voiced a generation or so ago , when they were struggling to enter and acquire administrative positions in a system then dominated by Irish Catholics . There is also an apparent conflict for scarce places in medical schools , law schools , and , to a lesser degree , colleges and other professional schools . The conflict may not be real ; there is remarkably little evidence about the impact of affirmative action programs on admissions to colleges and graduate and professional schools . An analysis of admissions to Columbia Law School indicates that adoption of an affirmative action program increased the number of Jewish students and had no significant impact on the number of black or Hispanic students . ( There was a slight reduction in the number of Jewish males and a substantial increase in the number of Jewish females admitted to the law school . ) But the Columbia experience may be different from the experience of state universities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are convinced that their conflict over affirmative action is a real one . Resentment , moreover , grows out of the complex mixture of admiration and envy with which many blacks view American Jews . " We sit on the boards of local Urban Leagues or NAACP chapters with those Jews , " one black leader told me , " but when five o'clock comes , they go to their country clubs for dinner and never invite us . " This is a familiar complaint ? one that Jews are still making about white gentiles in many parts of the United States . To American Jews , " five o'clock shadow , " as this kind of social segregation is sometimes called , is no more than a minor irritant . It is considerably more than that to middle-class blacks , who Fear that they will be unable to retain the middle-class status they have gained in the last decade . Given the black experience in this country , the fear is understandable . Until recently , every time black Americans began to move up the economic ladder , blacks were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century , for example , blacks dominated the construction trades in the South , and until the 1920s they served as railroad locomotive engineers and firemen ; such work was deemed too " dirty " for whites to perform . But when recession , mass immigration , or technological change made " black occupations " look attractive to whites , blacks were forced out and whites took over . If this were all , black anti-Semitism might be a cause for mild concern , but not for real anxiety . But that is not all . Black anti-Semitism has taken a new and dangerous turn : consciously or not , a significant number of black civil rights spokesmen , political leaders , and intellectuals have adopted the political anti-Semitism that is now a central part of the ideology of the left . Consider what has happened to James Baldwin himself . In his 1967 volume , The Crisis of the Negro Intellectual , the black nationalist writer , Harold Cruse , attacked black intellectuals in general , and Baldwin in particular , for failing to recognize that their real enemy was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call Baldwin a Jew-lover , " Cruse wrote ; " it is that Baldwin simply loves everybody . More exactly , he fits the category of apologist for the Jews . " Baldwin has come a long way since then . " The state of Israel was not created for the salvation of the Jews , " he wrote in the September 29 issue of the Nation ; " it was created for the salvation of the Western interests . " Baldwin 's thesis is central to the ideology of the left as it has developed since 1967 . Couched in the rhetoric of the so-called third world , the new view is that the nation state no longer is the principal arena for the class struggle . There is , instead , a worldwide struggle between the haves and the have-nots , with Israel being the prime symbol and example of the haves . Having been created for " the salvation of the Western interests , " to use Baldwin 's phrase , Israel exists only to serve those interests ? and American Jews exist mainly to serve Israeli interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They function in America as an organic part of the distant nation state ? a state that is the prime symbol of colonialism , racism , and imperialism . " This same view was expressed by Joel Dreyfuss , a writer of Haitian and Jewish ancestry , in a front-page article in the August 27 issue of the Village Voice . " The resignation of Andrew Young is a metaphor for a struggle between competing ethnic groups , for relationships between the haves and the have-nots here and elsewhere , for differing visions of the future , " Dreyfuss wrote . " The conflict between Blacks and Jews reflects the fact that these two groups have made their alliances with opposing camps in an international struggle for power " ( emphasis added ) . It is a short distance from this new third world rhetoric to the familiar rhetoric of classical political anti-Semitism . Radicals of this persuasion now talk of an international Zionist , i.e. , Jewish , conspiracy ; of the power of Jewish bankers ( one of Jesse Jackson 's favorite themes ) ; of Jewish control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal to black Americans : it makes them feel that they no longer are a minority that they are part of a worldwide majority composed of people of color . And third world attacks on Israel and support for the PLO provide a useful tactic for the heads of civil rights organizations , such as the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and PUSH , that have lost their raison d'etre , along with most of their constituency . Since the legislative victories of the 1960s , in fact , black leaders have been struggling unsuccessfully todefine a black agenda . That has not been easy , for the issues that affect blacks the most ? economic growth , inflation , welfare reform , national health insurance , municipal finance ? are not susceptible to discussion in purely racial terms . As Vernon Jordan has argued so eloquently , black interests can be served only through coalitions with other groups , particularly trade unionists and Jews . The result has been an organizational vacuum one that some black leaders have sought to fill through a new focus on the Middle East . Cloaked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ niggers of the Middle East , " Zionism is an instrument of racism and colonialism , Israel is making black people suffer by " making " the Arabs increase the price of gasoline and heating oil ) , support for the PLO and opposition to Israel and to " Zionism " is giving some black spokesmen the " race issue " for which they have been searching . There is danger that through sheer repetition , anti-Semitic rhetoric will come to be accepted by decent people in both the white and black communities . There is reason to fear that Americans who are not anti-Semitic themselves are becoming more tolerant of other people 's expressions of anti-Semitism . And this legitimization of anti-Semitic rhetoric , in turn , may be lifting the cover on the anti-Semitism that others had retained , however unconsciously , but had kept suppressed . The greatest danger may be more immediate : the strange alliance that seems to be forming between the left and the right . What was disturbing about John Connally 's National Press Club speech was not the specific views he expressed about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words suggesting an intent to campaign against the Jews . What else did Connally intend ? what else could he have intended ? when he argued that the United States must " now " base its foreign policy on " American interests-7 Conally argued not only that Israel was threatening peace in the Middle East , but that Israeli actions were also threatening to tear the American social fabric . " The tension between black and Jewish communities , " Connally said , " is only the latest in a series of conflicts that could , in time , impinge upon the integrity of our own society . " If anything is likely to impinge upon American society , it is anti-Semitism . Blacks who turn to it for temporary advantage will find they have a tiger by the tail . Political anti-Semitism is not simply an expression of prejudice . Because of the millennia of hatred and destructiveness to which anti-Semitism is linked , not to mention its consequences in our own time , any use of political anti-Semitism goes beyond shouting " fire " in a crowded theater ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And in that fire , blacks , no less than Jews , are bound to be burned . For all the real and imagined conflicts of interests between blacks and Jews , members of both groups have a common interest in maintaining a society in which prejudice and hatred play a declining , rather than increasing , role . 