@@493201

Ethnics in Academe When Pan Am launches a new ad on TV that talks about Americans who are Polish but have never seen Poland , African but do n't know Africa , and Japanese but have never visited Japan , it is clear that Michael Novak 's ideas about the rise of the " unmeltable ethnics " have become an accepted part of American thought . Given this new openness about ethnicity , it may come as a surprise that universities and colleges remain locked into an attitude that emerged during the late 1960s . At that time , as a result of the drives for voter registration in the South and the black pride movement , many institutions of higher learning introduced courses in Afro-American studies . These courses were soon joined by similar ones in Chicano studies , Native-American studies , and Asian-American studies ; and in many colleges all or some of these courses are now lumped together into departments of ethnic studies . This is the situation , for example , at Merritt Junior College , in Oakland , California ? the alma mater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of Merritt 's ethnic studies department and is currently in charge of the liberal arts division , which includes not only ethnic studies but also history and the sciences . In April , 1974 , not content merely to offer its students courses in ethnic studies , the Peralta Board of Trustees ? an elected seven-member board that governs Merritt and four other Bay Area community colleges ? made it a requirement of graduation that every student take one course in ethnic studies . Each college was left to decide on its own what courses might satisfy this requirement . At Merritt thelist of approved courses includes all of those in the ethnic studies department , as well as several courses in history and government and language courses in Chinese . In December 1974 , Mrs. Harriet Schmitt , a fully tenured teacher who has taught courses in English , German and film at Merritt for some 18 years , decided to introduce a course called " The Culture and History of the Jewish People . " In an effort to find a home for the course , she first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an offering in their department . However , they wasted not time in telling Schmitt that they wanted no part of her or her course . Shortly thereafter , " The Culture and History of the Jewish People " was accredited by both the history and humanities departments , and it was in fact offered during the winter semester of 1976 . Meanwhile , Schmitt persisted in her efforts to have the course declared as satisfying the ethnic studies requirement . A committee was formed to study the matter , and meetings were held at which Schmitt and past and present members of the ethnic studies department argued their cases . Schmitt proposed that if the ethnic studies requirement were kept , it should be more clearly defined , and that " Students should be given the opportunity of studying their own ethnic group as well as becoming familiar with a representative sample of others . " In response , the head of the ethnic studies department declared that a course in Jewish studies was not needed because several members of the department already dealt with the Jewish exploitation of Third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position paper in which he argued against the Schmitt course because " Jewish people are not an oppressed minority in the USA , " citing their higherthan-average incomes . Newton apparently carried the day , since the dean of instruction ruled on March 4 , 1976 , that " I have interpreted the requirement for Ethnic Studies to relate wholly to Third World People ( i.e. , Afro-Americans , Asian-Americans , American Indian and Latin/Mexican Americans ) . " Undaunted , Schmitt appealed this decision to the president of the college , who passed it along to the chancellor of the entire Peralta district , who ultimately put the matter before the elected governing board . And here matters get truly confusing . The chancellor recommended to the board that they do nothing ? in other words , that they let stand the decision of Newton and the dean of instruction ? but he was careful to suggest that courses other than those dealing with " Third World people " should be allowed to meet the ethnic studies requirement . He suggested , instead , that Schmitt might offer her course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a department of ethnic studies . This is tantamount to saying that Jews are an ethnic group on some campuses , but not at Merritt . It of course also overlooks the fact that Schmitt is a teacher at Merritt and not somewhere else . The Peralta trustees held an open meeting in October at which they accepted the chancellor 's recommendation to do nothing ? a course that saved them the embarrassment of putting the matter to vote . Before making this non-decision they listened to four hours of heated public debate during which it became clear that the board ( only two of whose members are black ) wanted desperately to avoid a racial confrontation . Schmitt , during the two years that she fought on behalf of her course , has been a frequent target of anti-Semitic slurs and ha rrassment . She still has the option of taking her case through the courts , but even she is beginning to wonder whether the costs ? both psychic and financial ? are worth it . This interesting case raises several important issues . Those who want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally cite Executive Order 11246 , which mandated affirmative action in the federal government in hiring on behalf of black , American Indian , Spanish-surnamed , and Oriental Americans . The executive order states that its nondiscrimination requirements apply to all individuals , regardless of whether or not they are members of a designated minority group . It has become clear that these two provisions ? affirmative action and universal nondiscrimination ? are at war with each other , and that special policies on behalf of some groups frequently interfere with the rights of others . The first time this question was brought before the Supreme Court ( the DeFunis case ) , it Was declared moot because , while the case was moving through the courts , DeFunis had meanwhile been admitted to the University of Washington Law School and graduated . But there is another case that may reach the Supreme Court for a decision . This is the Bakke case . The California Supreme Court has ruled that Allan Bakke was unfairly denied admission to the University of California 's Medical School at Davis because of the school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of restrictive ethnic studies programs want to argue by analogy to federal affirmative action , they may find the ground cut from under them . Many of them know this , and so they tend to bolster their argument with claims that only " Third World peoples " have been discriminated against in the US , or that the quantity and quality of their suffering entitles them to special treatment , or that only a " different " skin color qualifies one to be a member of an ethnic group . These " more ethnic than thou " assertions can degenerate into a shouting match in which the numbers of Jews killed during the Holocaust are matched against blacks killed as a result of slavery , and the discrimination suffered by Polish and Irish immigrants is compared to that endured by Japanese and Puerto Ricans . The exercise is thoroughly unedifying.                     