@@494858

DECEMBER 29 , 1973 was accomplished has become the focus of investiga ? tion . On April 6 , 1970 , nine days before taxes were due , Mr. Newman drew up his appraisal of the 1969 gift . He said among other things that " from the sixth to the eighth day of April 1969 , " he or his employees did " examine the papers of Richard Milhous Nixon Part II . " These were the papers which East and Reed ' now say Newman , to their knowledge , did not see at that , time . Shortly thereafter on April 10 , 1970 , what pur ? ports to be a deed to the 1969 gift was delivered to the general counsel of GSA , parent agency to the Archives . That deed was dated March 27 , 1969 , the day the dis ? organized material arrived in stack area 19 . The deed supposedly carried with it a list of the specific papers that made up the gift . The supposed original March 27 list is missing , and a 1970 replacement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Mr. East recently noted , those 1176 boxes did not exist as of March 27 , 1969 ; on that date the material in them was scattered among 500 cartons and assorted file cabinets . Furthermore Mr. Newman did not segregate that ma ? terial until November 1969 . Of particular interest to investigators looking into the possibility that this deed was drawn up well after the July 25 gift deadline ? is the fact that Deputy Coun ? sel Morgan signed it on behalf of the President . The President did not himself sign it as he had for the 1968 gift . No power of attorney document from the Presi ? dent accompanied the deed . There is only an affidavit that Nixon lawyer DeMarco notarized . As a notary un ? 15 der California law , DeMarco should have kept a record book establishing the date this document was signed , irrespective of the date it carries . DeMarco had no such record . The outlines of the impending tax investigations are clear . Newman will be questioned on what he did in April 1969 about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claimed that Newman at that time examined , designated and segregated the gift . The man who was then working directly with the pa ? pers says no such work was done . Newman may also be questioned on the bases for his appraisal . Of the 1968 gift , 9000 items were classified as " children 's let ? ters , " 1000 were clippings from the 1960 campaign , and 8000 were from overseas trips taken by the Vice Presi ? dent . Of the 1969 gift 57,000 items were listed as for ? eign trips by the Vice President , the bulk of the mate ? rial-414,000 of a total of 600,000 items ? being general correspondence between 1953 and 1961 . DeMarco and Morgan almost certainly will be ques ? tioned on the long delayed deed to the 1969 gift . Secre ? taries and typists who drafted the pertinent documents will also be questioned . On his tax returns for four years-1969 through 1972 ? Mr. Nixon deducted $482,019.87 as charitable con ? tributions ( i.e. , the gift of his papers ) . Add to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the earlier gift of papers in 1968 and the $94,300 on his ' 69 gift which he may still claim against his 1973 taxes , and you come up with a possible deduction of $640,000 . Spurred by the Wptergate scandals , Congress is ac ? tively striving to assert itself against the authority of a President whose power had until recently soared to imperial proportions . But in the midst of this struggle a curiously warm relationship is developing between two figures in hostile camps . Senator J. William Ful ? bright and Secretary of State Henry Kissinger are locked in an affectionate embrace that would have been hard to imagine not long ago , when Fulbright 's Foreign Relations Committee stood in the vanguard of the resistance to the administration 's policies abroad . Some observers on Capitol Hill regard the love affair as temporary ; others see it as a more durable compan ? ionate marriage . In any case Fulbright and Kissinger are on a honeymoon , and that raises the question of whether the Senate Foreign Relations Committee is shifting from its adversary role to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , returning to the kind of bipartisan approach that , during the years following World War II , made it a rubber stamp of the White House . Kissinger has been wooing Fulbright and the 16 other committee members since his confirmation in September . He has met with them in closed session on four occasions within recent weeks to discuss the Mid ? dle East crisis and US problems in Western Europe , and , according to Senate sources , he will probably meet with them publicly early next year . He telephones Fulbright almost daily either to chat about foreign pol ? icy issues or to enlist his help in overcoming obstacles in the Senate , and , to a lesser degree , he keeps in touch with other senators . After his frustrated efforts to cope with the intractable Dean Rusk and the impenetrable William Rogers , Fulbright hails Kissinger as " a very dramatic change , " and most of his colleagues concur . " Kissinger has taken pains to keep us informed , " says Senator George Aiken , the committee 's ranking Re- publican , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " candor . " Senator Edmund Muskie " respects " Kissinger 's analytical skill , and a senior member of the committee staff finds him the most impressive secre ? tary of State since John Foster Dulles because " he is obviously the man in charge , whatever his views . " Several senators have reservations about Kissinger , though they welcome the attention he is paying them . A few suspect his integrity , and some fear the spell of his charm and brilliance . Clifford Case of New Jersey , who holds that the committee ought to be neither " un ? friendly nor cozy " toward a representative of the exec ? utive branch , submits for instance that " we should walk a little wide , " and Frank Church , who has no serious complaints against Kissinger , nevertheless ex ? presses concern that " we may be taken into the fold . " Fulbright , who was intimate with Lyndon Johnson be ? fore the Dominican Republic intervention . and the Vietnam conflict tore them apart , is sensitive to this danger , but he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? at least for the moment . When asked the other day how he knows whether Kissinger is being honest with him , Fulbright referred to his experience with Johnson and said : " I 'll accept his word until he deceives me . " Kissinger would certainly have courted Fulbright and the others earlier had ht not been restrained by two factors . He realized , for one thing , that the White House during President Nixon 's first term had noth ? ing but disdain for Congress , and he would have irri ? tated loyalists like John Ehrlichman and Bob Haldeman more by . climbing Capitol Hill than he did by attend . ing Georgetown parties . Moreover he was reluctant to enter a , domain that , he thought , fell within . Rogers ' sphere . But with those rivals gone , he is free to seek friends on the Hill . The flirtation has practical as well as idealistic purposes . Recalling the turbulence of Ger ? many during his childhood there , Kissinger has a pas ? sion for stable government , and while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he recog ? nizes , as he has written , that the " acid test of a policy . . . is its ability to obtain domestic support . " By keep ing in close touch with Congress , he is trying to pursue a foreign policy that rests " on a broad national base " and reflects " a shared community of values , " as he put it during his confirmation hearings before the commit ? tee three months ago . At the same time , however , the secretary is aware of Mr. Nixon 's weakness , and de ? spite Gerald Ford 's promise to retain him , Kissinger seems to be maneuvering to improve his standing with Congress in order to cushion himself against the possibility of the President 's downfall . He also appar ? ently hopes that he can mobilize the strength to face the challenge he expects from Senator Henry Jackson , whose hostility to his Middle East strategy and his d ? tente with the Soviet Union is bound to escalate as the 1976 presidential elections draw near . Kissinger un ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ More than he esteems Ful ? bright 's sometimes vague , indecisive liberalism , which must appear to him to be redolent of the Weimar Re ? public . But Kissinger has never been known to reject acclaim and besides the Fulbright committee offers him an avenue into Congress . Fulbright 's approbation of Kissinger stems , first of all , from agreement with his policies . The senator has long favored d ? tente with the Soviet Union and a rap ? prochement with China , and , more recently , he has discovered in Kissinger a sympathetic ear for his con ? tention that pressure must be brought to bear on Is ? rael in order to reach a settlement in. the Middle East . Fulbright also shares Kissinger 's impatience with Henry Jackson , whom he assails as " the symbol of the military-industrial complex . " And in addition to his respect for Kissinger 's intellect , he seems to feel more comfortable as a trusted " insider " who is regularly consulted by the secretary of State than he ever did as the nation 's most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Lyndon Johnson , Ful ? bright 's private office is still adorned with autographed photographs of himself with the late President , one of them bearing the inscription : " To Bill . I can see I have n't been very persuasive . " According to one of the senator 's aides , he squirms at the label of " dissenter , " preferring Walter Lippmann 's remark that " he is not listened to on the floor of Congress until he has been heard around the world . " As the aide explains : " Fula bright is not a zealot . He gave respectability to the antiwar movement , but he based his opposition on ra ? tional judgment , rather than emotion , and he was al ? ways worried by the long-haired demonstrators who saluted him as their leader . He is not an operator , but a philosopher and commentator who would rather be right than popular . In other words , he is an 18th-cen ? tury man ? and a lousy politician . " Fulbright campaigns successfully at home in Arkan ? sas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first entered the Senate in 1944 . But his record as an efficient legislator has been rather spotty . One of the few major acts he has sponsored , nearly three DECEMBER 29 , 1973 decades ago , established the international scholarship program that bears his name , and one of his rare floor fights , waged in December 1970 , produced an amend ? ment to bar US combat troops from Laos and Thailand and set the pattern for the later law promoted by Church and John Sherman Cooper to prevent the de ? employment of American ground forces in Cambodia . Beyond that Fulbright tends to dissipate his legislative energies on relatively minor matters , and usually loses . He has repeatedly failed to close down Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty , whose propaganda broad ? casts continue to pierce the porous Iron Curtain , and his chronic attempts to reduce the budget of the US In ? formation Agency are invariably unsuccessful . He recently mustered a majority of his committee against the military aid bill , only to see it win by a narrow margin in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his office to grumble that he lacks the sort of institutional backing enjoyed by a senator like John Stennis , whose Armed Services Committee is bul ? warked by the Pentagon . But his setbacks are ' often due to his refusal to bargain or compromise , and this is mirrored in the fact that several of his colleagues on the Foreign Relations Committee have individually outstripped him in sponsoring significant foreign pol ? icy legislation . Case and Church initiated the amend ? ment that compelled the administrati ? n to stop bOmb ? ing Cambodia in August and prohibits any US air strikes elsewhere in Indochina , and Javits led the Senate in passing the act that set some limits on the President 's power to wage war . Another vital law in the field of foreign affairs , denying tariff privileges to the Soviet Union , was propelled through the Senate by Fulbright 's nemesis , Henry Jackson , who does not sit on the Foreign Relations Committee . These senators mainly operate with their own staffs , which are tal ? ented in the parliamentary arts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his view its function is to educate rather than legislate . ? Nor does Fulbright try to control his committee in the same way that Stennis has dominated Armed Serv-. ices or the ? late Allen Ellender managed Appropria ? tions . He considers it to be a forum somewhat like the Council on Foreign Relations , rather than an instru ? ment , and it is therefore , in the words of one of its members , " an amorphous collection of egos and view ? points " whose effectiveness as a group is limited . Composed of senior senators whose age averages 63.5 years , it includes a former Vice President , Hubert Humphrey , a couple of former presidential aspirants , George McGovern and Edmund Muskie , a former vice presidential candidate , John Sparkman , and a possible future presidential nominee , Charles Percy . Senate majority leader Mike Mansfield and minority leader Hugh Scott as well as Republican whip Robert Griffin are members , and so is Jacob Javits , who is estimated to belong to about 20 other committees , subcommit 17 tees , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all with no visible signs of strain . These as ? sorted commitments mean that , apart from Fulbright , few of its members have much time or stamina for committee endeavors . Mansfield 's subcommittee on Far Eastern affairs , for example , has not met in three years , and other ancillary groups seldom convene . Those more or less active are Church , Muskie , Hum ? phrey , Case , Percy , Javits and Stuart Symington , who has lately switched the bulk of his attention , to the Armed Services Committee . The committee usually splits on issues rather than along party lines , with con ? servative Republicans and Democrats like Griffin and McGee aligned against liberal Republicans and Demo ? crats like Case and Church . Consonant with his concept of the committee as an educational forum , Fulbright his encouraged staff in ? vestigations of official American activities overseas . The most probing of these , organized under the aus ? pices of Symington 's subcommittee on US security agreements and commitments abroad , were originally conducted by Walter Pincus and Roland Paul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Richard Moose , and some of ' their revelations would have earned them Pulitzer prizes had they been newsmen . Among other disclosures , Pincus and Paul docu ? mented the " secret war " then being waged in Laos by tribal mercenaries trained and subsidized by the Cen ? tral Intelligence Agency . They also brought to light the astonishing fact that the US was pledged to defend Thailand under a clandestine accord between Dean Rusk and the Thai foreign minister that had never been ratified by the Senate , as treaties are supposed to be according to the Constitution . That discovery prompted Senator Case and others to launch their own investigations into the use of so-called " executive agreements " as substitutes for formal treaties in order to bypass the Senate , and their probe has yielded amazing results . Between 1940 and 1970 , they found , successive Presidents signed 5653 " executive agree ? ments " but only 310 treaties received Senate approval , and these unratified commitments include such his ? toric conventions ? as the Yalta accords and the Vietnam cease-fire as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in forcing the administration to reveal all past " executive agreements " to Congress , and he is working to make future accords authentic treaties requiring Senate ratification . Since taking on their fact-finding assignment four years ago , Lowenstein and Moose have uncovered the inner workings of the administration 's bombing cam ? paign in Cambodia and examined American support for the Greek dictatorship , and their latest report , which appeared early this month , provides the first authoritative account of US nuclear options in Europe . The account will be their last . They are planning to quit the staff within the coming months , and although their departure will leave a large gap in the commit tee 's investigative capacities , many senators may not notice their absence . Few found the time or had the inclination to read their reports , and some apparently resented the press coverage they received . Senator Aiken , who insisted on approving their trips , consid ? ered them a luxury . , " Their stuff was sometimes use ? ful but you . can get the same thing downtown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those foreign trips because nobody knew what to do with them . " Some of Fulbright 's finest hours were his open hear ? ings . He opened up mainland China with a session of experts long before President Nixon visited Peking , and his devastating televised interrogation of Dean Rusk on Vietnam just after the 1968 Tet Offensive viv ? idly stimulated the drive for peace by showing that prominent senators were also fed up with the war . But although committee hearings have become increas ? ingly important as floor debate in Congress declines , Fulbright has convened few within recent years . The committee ignored the South Asia war of 1971 in which the administration " tilted " in favor of Pakistan despite its protestations of neutrality .. The more recent hearings on Chile conducted by McGee 's subcommit ? tee on Western Hemisphere affairs were closed ; so was Kissinger 's testimony on the Middle East crisis and US relations with Europe . The committee 's only major public hearing this year was staged in September to confirm Kissinger as secretary of State , and it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration 's " philosophies , purposes and policies to the public , " but members of the com ? mittee made little effort to draw him out . They ne ? glected to review in detail his past and present views on subjects ranging from Indochina , the Middle East and Latin America to arms control and international monetary matters , and they failed to explore such grand strategies as the Nixon Doctrine , the Atlantic Charter and Kissinger 's balance of power concept , whose real meaning has never been fully clarified by official spokesmen . They could have also used the en ? counter to set up guidelines to govern the future rela ? tionship between the executive and legislative branch ? es in the foreign policy realm , but they chose instead to skim the surface , sidestepping tough questions about Kissinger 's role in the wiretapping of his sub ? ordinates . Some of those questions , prepared for the senators by the committee staff , were never posed . It seemed to me as I sat through those sessions that even the more dynamic senators were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in challenging Kissinger than in participating in his power , and their gentle treatment appeared to signal their receptivity to a truce with the administration of foreign affairs . The committee 's accommodations to Kissinger since then tend to confirm that impression . Looking back on congressional attitudes toward for ? eign policy , the pattern has zigzagged with the mood of the moment and the political coloration of the ad ? ministration in office . In 1951 Senator Nixon of Cali ? fornia opposed President Truman 's decision to station US troops in Europe , and , in that debate , he clashed with Fulbright , then an advocate of unobstructed White House influence . Two decades later their posi ? tions are reversed as Mr. Nixon seeks to curb Congress and Fulbright denounces him for cultivating " a cult of personality . " During the intervening years , there emerged a bipartisan approach largely made possible by Senator Arthur Vandenberg 's assertion that " poli ? tics stops at the water 's edge . " Frances Wilcox , who headed the Foreign Relations Committee staff through ? out much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ing the entire 80th Congress when the committee failed to deliver a unanimous vote on a crucial policy issue . As a consequence the Senate overwhelmingly approved the United Nations Charter , a number of peace treaties and a network of security pacts as well as aid to Greece and Turkey , the Marshall Plan and the Point Four Program . Ironically it was Fulbright who introduced the Ton ? kin Gulf resolution to the Senate after pushing it through a joint Foreign Relations and Armed Services Committee meeting . The resolution was endorsed in August 1965 by a landslide vote of 82 to 2 in the Senate and 416 to 0 in the House . Fulbright regards that epi ? sode as the most humiliating of his life and argues that he was misled by Lyndon Johnson 's promise to avoid getting " tied down in a land war in Asia . " Yet his real break with Johnson did not come until nearly a year later , when Fulbright openly criticized the interven ? tion of US marines in the Dominican Republic under the pretext of protecting American citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist takeover . That rupture set Fulbright on the road to dis- ? sidence , and the skepticism toward the White House he was among the first to display eventually infected other members of Congress . As a consequence he set in motion a trend that has been running toward a larger congressional role in foreign policy . Kissinger is one of the most formidable politicians in Washington , and for all his eagerness to bolster himself with the support of Congress , he ardently wants to prevent the legislature from swaying his poli ? cies . Some Capitol Hill specialists contend that the Foreign Relations Committee can counterbalance Kis ? singer without usurpirig his authority by reinforcing its staff , stimulating its investigative functions , and , above all , inspiring its members to show a livelier in ? terest in its operations . If not , they warn , Kissinger will build up his power to the point where his prom ? ises to cooperate with the committee become hollow . At the moment Fulbright seems to be unperturbed by that prospect . But , judging from his past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convictions , and , if ruffled , he is likely to dissent again though he detests the role .                     