@@491431

On a hot morning last September , a gunman fleeing two police sergeants ducked down the ramp of an underground garage in midtown Washington . At the bottom , he was discovered by another officer who wished to search him . Quickly he turned , fired his gun and fled . The fugitive was arrested almost immediately . But forty-five minutes later , at George Washington Hospital , his **26;3703;TOOLONG Gail A. Cobb  --  became the first U.S. policewoman to die in the line of duty . In solemn tribute to her bravery , a large number of police officials , assembled from all over the country , attended the funeral service . A motorcade of 500 squad cars , their dome lights flashing silently , escorted the coffin to Lincoln Memorial Cemetery . The ceremony , one of the most impressive of its kind ever seen , was both a solemn avowal of the dangers policewomen face and a recognition of women 's new share in police work . For Gail Cobb , who had grown up with both parents on the force , the risk associated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ She knew as well as any officer the truth noted by Police Chaplain Joseph Dooley in his funeral eulogy for her : " The criminal knows no distinction between sexes . " But for startled readers of newspaper headlines across the country , her death unveiled dramatically the full thrust of women to the front lines of law enforcement . Until a few years ago , women traditionally contributed to police work behind the scenes  --  tending typewriters , children and other women . Never , before recenttimes , were they assigned to night duty or knowingly to any situation that might involve them in violence . Yet now they are emerging as valuable additions to all phases of law enforcement and especially what one official calls " the hub of police activities " ? patrol duty . Less than five years ago , in fact , only a few policewomen were entrusted with patrol duties in the whole of the United States . Today , more than a thousand , mostly new recruits , are routinely patrolling beats , operating in tactical units and handling undercover work . In Dallas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and bars as a pseudo-prostitute on the vice squad , until a court appearance and newspaper publicity revealed her true job . ( She now works in cases involving crimes against persons . ) In New Orleans , the police department has assigned Anita Faucheux to the motorcycle squad  --  where her husband Joseph also patrols . In Boston , the nation 's first recorded helmeted woman riot fighter was spotted in the lineup of the city 's tactical squad during last September 's unrest over school busing . And in California , twenty-seven policewomen recently broke a forty-six-year tradition by taking the wheels of state highway patrol cars . Perhaps the most striking example of the trend is Atlanta , which leads the nation in the unrestricted use of women in nearly every phase of police work . They patrol beats on foot and horseback , in cars and helicopters ; they serve on narcotics , vice , criminal , homicide and anti-robbery units . In the Georgia capital , twenty-eight-year-old , 120-pound Judy Hickman patrols the streets on a full-size Harley-Davidson motorcycle , while winsome blonde Pat Garnett , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for " a lot of bullet wounds and some baby deliveries . " Atlanta also has the highest percentage of sworn female officers  --  slightly over 7 percent , or 121 to 1,535 policemen . But other major cities are starting to follow suit . Washington , D.C. has the next highest , with 6 percent , and New York has 2 percent . Even the television networks have awakened to the new phenomenon and rushed to exploit it in sensationalized serials like " Police Woman " and " Get Christie Love . " " It is no longer a question of whether a woman can do patrol work , " says William T. Smith , staff director of the Ford-funded Police Foundation in Washington , D.C. " It 's been proven that they can . The burden of proof now lies on opponents to establish that they ca n't . " The shift has not come about without opposition or controversy , of course . A few older policewomen have felt uneasy about the new " unisex " training and assignments , saying that they did not join the force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wives have expressed jealousy , and worry that their husbands may not get adequate backup from female partners . Above all , male officers and superiors have stubbornly resisted the assignment of women to " field " duties on the grounds that they are " emotional , " " easily panicked , " and physically unfit for the rigors of patrol . In the great majority of cases , such fears would be irrelevant . For contrary to popular notions of policing , criminal and related activities arise in no more than 15 percent of all police actions , and violence and rough stuff are involved in only a small percentage of that 15 percent . Statistics compiled by the Police Foundation show that the rest comprise social or service-oriented calls : attending to dog bites , investigating bicycle and auto accidents or thefts , convoying bank payrolls , even opening fire hydrants for children in the summertime . Inevitably , though , it is the question of how policewomen stand up to that small percentage of time that underlies resistance to their admission to patrol functions . And even here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence . A recent Police Foundation study in Washington , D.C. could not find a single case in which the presence of a policewoman had endangered the life of her partners . On the contrary , given the chance at last , policewomen are daily demonstrating what they can do . Officer Marty Green , a thirty-seven-year-old former landscaping and architectural draftsman , found herself a national heroine when she foiled an armed hijacker at Louisville airport in January 1973 . Brandishing a shotgun , the six-foot , one-inch , 170-pound terrorist , AWOL from Fort Knox , was holding a hostage in a plane and demanding to be flown to Africa . Marty , an attractive , slightly built policewoman disguised as anoff-duty stewardess , made five trips alone up the boarding ramp to negotiate the hostage 's release . On her fourth trip the man agreed to surrender the hostage , and on the fifth , his gun  --  on the condition that he first be allowed to hold her hand . This proved his undoing : as he passed down the shotgun , Marty coolly yanked him into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ awaiting arms of the law . In Atlanta , officer Donna Starnes , a former model and mother of teenagers , found herself facing a belligerent 200-pound drunk alone . He started by ripping off her tie and badge . Then he leaned forward to grab her collar . At that point she yanked his head down , " kneed " him smartly in the face , snapped handcuffs on him and hauled him off to jail . Similarly , twenty-nine-year-old Bettie Jean Eppes knocked down two men brawling in a Washington tavern last year moments after she and her male partner arrived on the scene . " We walked in and within a couple of seconds my partner had been socked in the jaw and was lying on the floor , " she recalls . " I froze for a second  --  I guess I could n't believe what was happening  --  and then I decided to use my stick . So I hit both guys ... One of them said , ' Oh , my God , it 's a woman ! ' Even I was a little surprised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  but the training at the academy was so good that I instinctively knew what to do , and I did it automatically . " Despite such convincing demonstrations of physical prowess , until recently an average five-foot , seven-inch , 140-pound size requirement for patrol officers eliminated 97 percent of all female candidates . Then , in September 1973 , a landmark court decision in the case of Smith us. the City of East Cleveland enjoined the city 's police department from imposing its five-foot , eight-inch , 150-pound limitations . Larger size , the court found , did not improve police performance and , in barring admission to most women , the minimums were discriminatory under the 1964 Civil Rights Act . The court made its ruling on the basis of expert testimony on physical strength , fitness , and skills such as crowd surveillance , driving a car , and the ability to absorb blows . Physical fitness , it concluded , in no way pertains to height ; stature aids little in viewing ( or being viewed by ) crowds and providing the " leverage strength " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ departments around the country have lowered their minimums ( Washington now accepts any officers over five feet tail ) or abolished them altogether , as in New York City . Another male bastion was the squad car . Presumably , anyone over five feet tall can drive the standard patrol vehicle . Yet a recent study found that female trainees took , on the average , two weeks longer than males to pass the police driving test . The cause of the gap , however , was not physical but social  --  the conditioning that customarily prompts men to take the wheel in the company of a woman , drive more miles for business and generally acquire wider driver experience . Once trained , the study showed , women officers sustained 2 percent fewer accidents than men . These findings are being confirmed in daily police work . In Brooklyn 's Precinct 90 , for example , I found that station sergeant Stan Morse had personally picked a policewoman , Afro-haired Pearline Skinner , to drive the car in which they patrol the Williamsburg ghetto together . " I do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " growled Morse , a no-nonsense New York cop with twenty-six years on the force , " but because she happens to be an excellent driver and a good officer . " Fears that policewomen might flinch from using firearms  --  or be panicked into needless shooting sprees in an emergency  --  have proved just as groundless . One Saturday night last September Martha Ogle , a stocky , sandy-haired officer , was cruising through Atlanta 's seedy Zone Two when her car radio crackled out a " 29 " call ( drunk , disorderly , fighting ) ? a woman had been knifed and phoned police . Unlike most municipal police , Atlanta officers patrol solo and since other cars were busy elsewhere , Martha arrived alone . As soon as the terrified , bleeding woman let her in , the hefty male assailant lunged , wrested away Martha 's nightstick and flailed at her furiously . Then he grabbed for her gun . She grappled with him , but when he continued his attacks , she finally shot him in self-defense . The man died before reaching the hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beat . Even in tense situations that demand iron self-control , women have shown they can handle guns judiciously . In Louisville last year , three men molested a sixteen-year-old girl and repeatedly harassed her with threats of rape . When they gave her an ultimatum to meet them at night in the city 's Iroquois Park , police decided to set a trap using Marty Green , the policewoman who had captured the skyjacker , to impersonate the victim . Disguised with a wig , she drove to the dark meeting place . When an armed man approached the car and ordered her to follow him into the woods , she kept her face in the shadows to avoid arousing suspicion . Seconds later the trap was sprung as police hiding in the woods identified themselves and shouted to the men to drop their weapons . Instantly the night exploded into a flurry of shots and Marty burst out of the car , gun drawn , to help in the capture . One suspect was killed in the crossfire ; the other two were arrested and received heavy sentences . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for dangerous situations , " Marty commented later , " they would have had to risk the girl 's life to get those men . " Such training , police officials agree , is the key to developing women 's potential as officers . Standards vary throughout the country , but they typically require , as in New York , at least six months ' instruction . New York police recruits spend four hours a day on academic work ( regulations , civil rights , sociology , psychology ) and three on physical training , which includes first aid , hand-to-hand combat and use of firearms . Eight days are spent on a firing range for practice with service revolvers . The results can be eye-opening . Last fall Regina Robbins , a cum laude graduate from Syracuse Uni versity , came out on top of her state trooper academy class  --  over 120 men ! Her father was not surprised : " She can shoot the pants off me at the rifle range , I 'll tell you that , " he said . Added her brother , " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can do anything a man can do . She gets mad . " It is not unusual for departments  --  Los Angeles for one  --  to impose such agility tests as scaling a six-foot wall in seventeen seconds , hanging from a chinhing bar for one minute , dragging a 170-pound dead weight fifty feet in sixteen seconds  --  after running fifty yards or so  --  capped by sprinting as many laps as possible around an eighth-of-a-mile track . One of the stiffest training programs in the country is that of Georgia 's progressive DeKalb County department , which received 500 applications for sixteen positions last year . It teaches policewomen both crisis intervention and rugged hand-to-hand combat against male opponents . The department 's Captain E.E . McCart believes that equal training is a key factor in the advancement of policewomen . But he stresses that " the most important thing for any officer , which is also emphasized in our training , is that he or she have common sense . An officer has got to know when to use the proper amount of force , when to serve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It was Indianapolis Police Chief Winston Churchill who pioneered the use of policewomen on patrol in 1968 , despite departmental hostility . The innovation was the direct result of insistent demands by two women officers , Betty Blankenship and Elizabeth Coffal , who had been requesting patrol duty for a year . Churchill finally yielded and gave them the assignment  --  with one day 's notice . Since they had no special or in-service training , the two had to learn the patrol routine by trial and error  --  report writing , first aid , radio operation . They also had to buck early attempts to discourage them : in one two-week period they had to handle fourteen Dead On Arrival calls  --  some for corpses up to three days old . " Instead of hurting us , it was beneficial , " says Officer Coffal , " because we got the worst at the beginning . " In time their " Car 47 " built up a record of coping successfully with all calls , day or night , from family fights to arrests for murder . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Los Angeles , to name a few  --  to follow suit , and these in turn gave growing numbers of policewomen the opportunity to prove their flair for what can no longer be considered a strictly male occupation . Little by little , hostile male officers began to change their minds . When the Peoria , Illinois department began using policewomen , the idea , according to Chief Allen H. Andrews , was met with resistance by the male officers . But gradually they realized that in many cases  --  dealing with militant women on a civil rights picket line , dissuading female suicides , defusing family free-for-alls  --  having policewomen on the force could be a definite asset . Ironically , even unprejudiced men officers who accept the principle of policewomen on patrol have sometimes created problems through misplaced chivalry . In the beginning , particularly , confusion over roles had patrolmen leaping out to open squad doors for female colleagues  --  clearly impractical . Or it fostered a " you sit tight while I take care of this " attitude  --  equally unacceptable for a professional " police-person @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me how he was hurt and I was n't , " she said . Radio dispatchers also attempted to shield women from potentially violent situations . Officer Marian Sleeth was patrolling in Peoria when she heard a dispatcher announce a trouble call in her vicinity . She radioed back that she was only two blocks away , but the dispatcher hesitated to assign her until Chief Andrews broke in on the air and ordered : " Send her ! She 's the same as any policeman . " Such reluctance to treat policewomen impartially , however , is fast becoming a thing of the past . In fact , some police officials are making increasing use of policewomen alone to handle special situations . Inspector Bernard Crooke of the Washington , D.C. Police Department positively crows over the success of the all-female formula he tried out in his anti-prostitution drive last summer . Washington had been getting the reputation of a vice paradise , with prostitutes migrating from all over the country to " work " the downtown section . To clear the " Sin Strip " along Fourteenth Street North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The twenty-four " hookers , " dressed in slacks and low-cut sweaters , fanned out at sundown , positioning themselves on corners and waiting to be solicited . They had to be careful not to pounce too soon , for according to the law an arrest made through entrapment can not stick . The women could act only if the client 's own approach was explicit enough to justify arrest for soliciting for prostitution . Getting the evidence was often only half the battle . When they realized whom they were facing , the startled " clients " often reacted violently . In such cases Debbie Ryniker , twenty-four , found her " slapjack , " a flat oval piece of lead encased in leather , m ore useful persuasion than her own small fists . The policewomen also had to skirmish with angry // wound up as tigers out there . From now on I 'm treating them strictly as equals . " Policewomen , for their part , are asking no more than that . One Chicago female officer told me that she works twice as hard because " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  I want to be treated as a police officer . I guess I am , because when a new policewoman was assigned to our unit last week , all the men shouted , Hey , we 're getting a policewoman . ' I had to remind them that I am a policewoman , too . " Recognition of policewomen 's capabilities has been slow , says Catherine Milton , an assistant director of the Police Foundation , because " women have been hired to specialize in jobs they are thought to perform better than men . . Seldom have women been given the opportunity to specialize in jobs they can do as well as men . " Typically , the first U.S. policewoman , Mrs. Alice Stebbins Wells , was appointed by Los Angeles in 1910 for special details only . She was a graduate theological student and social worker who supervised  --  with the help of male officers  --  the enforcement of laws concerning women and children at dance halls , skating rinks and movie theaters . But her energetic commitment to the use of policewomen resulted in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states and several foreign countries by 1916 . The year before , the International Association of Policewomen was formed , with Mrs. Wells presiding . And during World War I the work of policewomen in discouraging military camp followers and in returning runaway women and children to their homes set the next decade 's trend toward employing policewomen  --  though always with duties appropriate to their " frail " sex . They were to remain in that restricted status for the next forty years . Patrol possibilities finally opened to women with the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which prohibited discrimination on the basis of " race , color , religion , sex or national origin , " and its 1972 amendment , the Equal Employment Opportunity Act , which applied the terms to public as well as private agencies . These in effect mandated police departments to treat fair cops fairly . Even with legal justification for equal duties , there remained the gnawing question of women 's physical prowess with sidearms and law enforcement techniques . To establish that , the Police Foundation sponsored studies rating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D.C. In the nation 's capital , the sixteen-month investigation was conducted by The Urban Institute , a statistical research group , whose probers conducted hundreds of interviews with officers , citizens and authorities . The Washington report concludes that women canclearly perform the job of patrol . But it also discovered " measurable differences " in their way of working that have sparked the interest of law enforcement authorities across the country . Essentially , the study showed that women tend to put more stock in dialogue than in force , and are therefore able to accomplish their mission with a minimum of violence . Because they do not believe in resorting to violence , researchers found , policewomen are " less aggressive " than male officers . They do not , for example , provoke citizens deliberately , or " engage in unbecoming conduct " so often . As one woman detective with some experience put it , " women are not much for walking tall  --  they have to use their heads . " Female officers command as much respect from the public as their male colleagues , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calmer with women , sensing perhaps that they do not look primarily to do battle . Of course , neither do all male officers . But it is nonetheless a fact that the sight of " men in blue " frequently sparks incident-causing defensiveness among civilians . In Chicago slum pool halls , one policeman reports , a male officer can start a fight just by asking for someone 's identity papers . But when a woman walks in and asks to seeidentification , a meek " yes , ma'am " almost invariably follows . Similarly , during the period from 1960 to 1968 , thousands of male officers were injured and nearly a hundred killed as a result of intervening in family disputes . Why ? According to Police Foundation Staff Director William Smith , case files show repeatedly that the over-authoritarian manner of some policemen sent to settle an argument has often angered offenders , neighbors and friends . All too often , the ensuing tension builds to brawl proportions and bodily hurt . Catherine Milton , assistant director of the Police Foundation , explains : " Take , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and finds a violent male . The confronted male may feel the need to assert his masculinity and not back down from the officer . The officer , in turn , feels the need to assert his own masculinity by coming at the offender head-on . Often , if you put a female officer in that situation , the male offender is disoriented . He would lose face by assaulting a woman . More often than not , he may even apologize , try to be polite , try not to swear . " Law enforcement authorities have been quick to deduce from such evidence that family disputes require special handling ? " a woman 's touch . " In the words of Dr. Lewis Sherman , a University of Missouripsychologist specializing in the subject of policewomen , they are " more sensitive to human elements " and understand instinctively the power of plain talk . An Atlanta cabbie told me : " I 'd rather be stopped by a policewoman any day because she is n't gon na haul me out of the car and shove me around to find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will just ask the question and look at the papers , and business is business . " Indeed , law enforcement officials all over are scrutinizing closely the kind of tough policing that has tended to equate swagger with effectiveness , or number of arrests with performance . Last year , for example , the American Bar Association stated in a study of Standards Relating to the Urban Police Function , " The heart of policing consists of working with difficult human problems  --  often at a point of crisis . . . . It may be that skill in interpersonal relationships is as important as physical fitness in equipping the officer to cope with potentially dangerous situations . " The Urban Institute authors noted correspondingly that policewomen doled out fewer tickets and made fewer arrests than men . Yet their prosecution rate-36 percent  --  was the same , and their 28 percent conviction count ( regarded as one indicator of the " quality " of an arrest ) was two points higher ! Certain arrests , it is true , are still considered a desirable deterrent to repeat offenders , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calculated toughness is viewed increasingly as a prime source of abrasion between police and citizens . For Police Foundation Staff Director Smith , the policeman with a chip on his shoulder spoiling for a fight with demonstrating students or barroom drunks is an image , however exaggerated , that authorities are determined to erase . Rather , they seek responsive , supportive individuals who can both protect and help the community . The growing inclusion of women in policing reflects and reinforces this determination . What steers women toward what is surely one of the most grueling vocations ? Motivations are as diverse as backgrounds , but the idea of serving society is strong in many applicants . Often , they come to the force from related fields : one Chicago policewoman I talked to had worked before in a welfare office , another for a muscular dystrophy fund ; New York 's Pearline Skinner had been a nurse , while Atlanta 's Martha Ogle transferred from drug rehabilitation . Too , women want challenge and variety not offered in the desk positions usually open to them . One Kentucky girl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ad for policewomen in the Louisville Courier-Journal . A Washington recruit , who had moved up from Roanoke , applied as a way of getting " to see what the capital was really like . " And a Sarah Lawrence graduate was simply on the lookout for a summer job prior to law school when she turned policewoman to keep vacation peace in Virginia Beach . Additional incentives spring from the equal admission and pay policies guaranteed by recent legislation and court rulings . Formerly , police departments maintained separate wage scales and eligibility lists obliging women to have more education and higher test scores  --  often for less pay  --  than male applicants . Now , a female rookie with a high school diploma can start , like her male counterparts , at an annual salary of $12,024 in Chicago , $12,441 in Philadelphia , $11,944 in New York City . At the same time , policewomen 's chances for career advancement have improved considerably . Where three years ago only a handful of women held command positions across the country , there are now hundreds . Previously , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience should not be allowed to supervise patrolmen . The fact that women are now on patrol has debunked this argument . Women 's ability to supervise men is so firmly established today that the nation 's highest ranking policewoman , Marilynn O'Regan of the Chicago Police Department , has now reached the post of Deputy Chief , in the Traffic Division . Close behind is Inspector Gertrude Schimmel of New York City . In Miami , Mikele Carter began her police work twelve years ago doing plain-clothes detail in the city 's downtown shopping area . She was averaging twenty arrests a month when she brought in single-handed one of the FBI 's " Ten Most Wanted " criminals . Her work earned her the title of " Policeman of the Month " and a bronze medal for bravery . The Police Foundation study has meantime exploded old myths about female absenteeism , another obstacle to equal pay and promotion . Female officers turn out to be no more absent than male officers , incur no more injuries and resign no more frequently or earlier than men do . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a job she likes and is committed to , " says Police Foundation Staff Director Smith , " especially since the pay and retirement benefits are so good . " Nor is their training " wasted " in motherhood , as has been popularly believed . The great majority of women taking maternity leave , reports the Foundation , return to police work as soon as they are able , or when the children are past infancy . In any event , all but one of dozens of the married policewomen I interviewed had children at home in the care of babysitters or relatives . Husbands help out , too : Chicago Policeman Arthur Kimber , for example , minds his seven-year-old when his officer-wife or his mother-in-law is unavailable . Possibly even more discomforting than the question of child-rearing has been the design of uniforms for the new recruits . Shortsighted superiors initially assigned the patrolwomen skirts , handbags and heeled pumps that proved wholly impractical for climbing , running and grappling with offenders . Now-retired Chief Jerry V. Wilson of the Washington Department recalls that the first designs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air hostess uniforms , done up in yellow , blue and pink . I just asked them where they thought the girls were going to carry their guns . " After much trial and error , distaff dress has generally come to resemble the utilitarian male uniform of trousers , flat-heeled oxfords and Sam Browne belts equipped with handcuffs , extra bullets , nightstick , gun , mace can and whistle . Hats and hair length still pose knotty problems , though . The usual rule is that long hair must be tucked up and away from the face  --  as much for comfort as to prevent its being pulled . But hats vary widely and are not to every woman 's taste . Most Louisville policewomen abhor their stiff , boat-shaped hat , whose pins and tendency to stand on end in a wind create constant problems . Atlanta policewomen , on the other hand , rather like the jaunty blue baseball cap assigned to all officers in summer . One anticipated headache has failed to materialize to a significant extent : jealousy of police wives . At any rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this problem . One Chicago detective said she forestalls the possibility by inviting wives of her partners over for " get-acquainted " dinners . And a male officer told me his wife approved his having access to a woman 's point of view ? " she feels it makes me understand her better . " New York , Dallas and other departments are convinced that their increasingly popular " family days " and " rap " sessions have helped overcome worries over safety as well as on-the-job socializing . More important , new statistics based on the concrete achievements of policewomen should have reassured anxious wives that their husbands ' female patrol partners are fully competent professionals . " I am convinced women can do the job as well as men , " former Police Chief Jerry V. Wilson declared recently . " As far as we are concerned , we are no longer hiring policemen and policewomen but police officers . " Against a backdrop of spiraling crime rates , urban unrest and civilian apprehension , there is greater urgency than ever to restore peace to our communities  --  by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must include the proven ability of women to calm citizens and defuse violence as well as their ability to do their part in overcoming it . n                     