@@479519

FOR MORE THAN A HUNDRED YEARS the na- tion 's railroads have been operated on the sound American principle of exacting as much profit as possible from whatever the traffic will bear . The recent failure of that principle has been so obvious and so enormous that it no longer remains plausible if trains can not run at a profit . Then presumably we have no choice but to nationalize the railroads , and by an unintended coincidence the legal means to do just that lie readily at hand in the National Environmental Policy Act . A single paragraph of that act , a paragraph written with an entirely different objective in view , provides the basis for what otherwise might be considered a purely political argument . The argument requires a certain amount of preliminary reasoning that follows from the bankruptcy engulfing the Penn Central Rail road . The misfortunes of that company have been widely advertised , and the full extent of the wreckage still remains undetermined . But so far the courts have made it clear that unless the Penn Central trustees come up with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stop operating and to liquidate the railroad . The Department of Transportation , the Interstate Commerce Commission , and the Congress all have proposed plans to avoid a catastrophic shutdown of the railroad . The solution proposed by the Nixon Administration is contained in a draft bill beginning with the assertion that " nationalization of rail freight services is undesirable . " To forestall a federal takeover , or even a partial subsidy , the bill authorizes a reorganization plan , which , in one form or another , appears in all the present proposals . The plan would relinquish half the trackage of the Penn Central and of five other bankrupt railroads in the Northeast . By discarding the rail lines that run at a loss , this reorganization presumably would leave a remnant sufficiently profitable to attract a private entrepreneur . Probably the biggest obstacle in the way of the plan is paragraph 102(2) ( C ) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1970. 13e-cause of that paragraph , the Department of Transportation was required to attach to the Administration 's bill an Environmental Impact Statement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action on the environment , delineate its long-term effects on natural resources , and , most portentously , discuss " alternatives to the proposed action . " The power of this paragraph is only that of disclosure ; the government is not required to do the ecologically sound thing . Nevertheless the disclosures that the law demands ? like the disrobing of the emperor ? reveal enough unhappy truths to threaten the long-standing political taboo against nationalization . For years , U.S. railroads have failed to provide the service to society that the system claims to do so well . Yet , the railroads have remained immune to the fundamental criticism : they fail because they are operated for profit . That railroads ought to be run under public ownership for the public good rather than for private profit is not a revolutionary idea . In most of the major nonsocialist countries of the world ? for example , England , France , Germany , Holland , Italy , and Japan ? the railroads are nationalized . Yet , somehow , it never occurs to the New Haven commuter sweating in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grain lies heaped on the ground because the railroads have run out of freight cars during the harvest season , to wonder whether the railroads should be taken away from their apparently inept owners . The question of social ownership of the railroads hasseemed to be as firmly protected from public discussion in the U.S. as was the question of sex in Victorian England . That is. until the advent of the environmental crisis . Art obsolete investment HE DOMINANT MEANS of transportation FTI 1 throughout most of the nineteenth century , the railroad eventually was overtaken by the invention of the internal combustion engine . After World War II , automobiles and airplanes took over nearly all the passenger traffic , and planes and trucks made big inroads on freight . Meanwhile , as a defense against the greedy ways in which the railroads had used their earlier monopolies , they were hemmed in by a web of goy ernmen t regulations that controlled rate structures and financial policies . All this had a calamitous effect on the railroads as private enterprises . According to a recent ICC report , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the investors ' equity ; by comparison , truck lines yielded 4.9 percent , bus lines 11 percent , and pipelines 15.7 percent . The railroads managed to increase their yield to a peak of 5.0 percent in 1966 , but four years later the yield had fallen to a 4 percent return , and in 1971 it reached a neat zero . The saga of the Penn Central Railroad is remarkable in the history of U.S. private enterprise . A company with $4.6 billion in assets loses over $500 million in two years ; the merger that creates the Penn Central ? which supposedly combines the talents of two experienced railroad managements ? bogs down in bickering over whether to use the Central 's name for the last car on a freight train ( " caboose " ) or the Pennsy 's more dignified one ( " cabin car " ) ; with all its executives and computers on the alert , the Penn Central manages to have 277 freight cars stolen from its tracks , some of which are later sold back to the railroad ; in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Central executives , according to The Well Street Journal , " took action that was to save them substantial sums as the company 's stock price plummeted in succeeding months . " T HE END CAME IN JUNE 1970 , when the Penn Central disaster became the largest bankruptcy in U.S. history , inaugurating legal proceedings likely to involve about a thousand lawyers who will receive fees of about fifty million dollars . Before environmentalism , the arguments about what to do with a bankrupt railroad would have been based solely on economic considerations : stockholders ' equity , labor costs , rate structures , and taxation . Now , however , under the NEPA requirement for an informative Environmental Impact Statement , the discussion takes on the air of a class in ecology . The impact statement filed by the DOT is a masterpiece of nondisclosure . Although essentially devoid of hard data , the statement claims that communities deprived of rail service by the proposed reorganization could readily shift their freight business to trucks ; that such shifts would have an " overall beneficial effect " ; that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be retained by a provision allowing other railroads to purchase them ( not a likely event since the abandoned lines are guaranteed to be unprofitable ) . The requirements of paragraph 102 are clear , however , and the DOT statement and others like it are certain to be judged inadequate by the courts . To bring such a statement into line with these requirements , the courts will need to consider just how the proposed reorganization would influence the quality of the environment , and then take up the merits of other ways to resolve the Northeast railroad crisis . To begin with , in keeping with the rules of good ecological discourse , the guidelines call for a clear statement of the proposed action . The DOT gives no details about how it plans to assemble a useful railroad out of the wreck of the Penn Central . This oversight contradicts the stated purpose of the Environmental Impact Statement to examine proposed actions by ecological rather than purely economic criteria . That , after all , is what the environmental crisis is all about : it is a debt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environmental degradation as an " externality " ? a cost that does not enter into the conventional arithmetic that determines how we use our resources . In contrast , the ecological approach recognizes the reality of such costs to society as a whole . Translating these abstractions into the specific terms of the DOT plan for the Penn Central we get the following picture : DOT proposes to abandon a considerable part of the railroad 's trackage , and eventually of the right-of-way itself . Leaving out for the moment the role of passenger traffic i which accounts for less than 1 percent of the Penn Central 's revenue ) this means that the freight no longer carried on abandoned rail lines would need to be hauled in some other way ; over nearly all routes , intercity trucks offer the only alternative . The task , then , is to determine the environmental impact of shifting a given amount of freight from the Penn Central Railroad to trucks . Dow much environmental degradation takes place when a ton of steel is shipped . let us say , from Bethlehem , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compared to the environmental cost of shipping it by truck , given that the resultant social good ? transferring the steel from one place to another is the same in both instances ? Environmental profit and loss T 0 BEGIN WITH , SOME BASIC FACTS about rail and truck freight : in 1970 U.S. railroads carried about twice as much freight as intercity trucks ( 808 billion ton-miles , * compared to 419 billion ton-miles ) ; the average train , however , carried about 1,800 tons of freight as compared to about 12 tons for the average truck ; as a result , freight trains traveled far less to deliver their freight than trucks ( 448 million miles as compared to 34,900 million miles ) . To carry this freight , railroads used about 365,000 miles of track ; the highway mileage can be gauged from the length of the federally supported highway system : about 900,000 miles . Thus , compared to freight trains , trucks make more numerous , faster trips , carrying considerably less weight per trip . This reflects the chief economic advantage of truck freight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more convenient , units than railroad freight . There are big differences between the effects of trains and trucks on the environment . Here are some relevant figures : per ton-mile of freight carried , trucks use four to six times as much fuel as the railroads , and produce about that much more air pollution . Although the levels of noise generated by trains and trucks are about the same , since trucks travel much more than trains to carry equal loads of freight , trucks are probably responsible for about ten times more noise , overall , than freight trains , for equal movement of freight . Next , the environmental effects of maintain- " The conventional unit of freight haulage is the ton-mile , which means one ton of freight carried one mile . ing and constructing the rail lines and highways need to be compared . Although railroads could handle two to three times their present freight traffic without clogging up , most truck-hearing highways operate close to capacity . This means that the proposed shift of freight in the Northeast from trains to trucks would require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environment . For example , highways capable of carrying trucks take up about 51,000 square miles . About 28 percent of highway construction is needed to accommodate trucks ; truck freight involves about 14,000 square miles of land use , or about 34 square miles per billion ton-miles of annual truck freight . lIn comparison , freight-carrying rail lines occupy about 3,800 square miles , or about 4.7 square miles per billion ton-miles of annual freight . ) Similarly , because cement-making uses a great deal of heat , the energy needed to construct a highway is large ? about four times that needed for the same length of railroad track . ALTHOUGH THE FOREGOING is not a complete a/ inalysis of the relative environmental impacts of truck and rail freight , it probably covers the chief points of difference between them . With such information in hand , we can estimate the environmental consequence of abandoning rail trackage , as proposed by the DOT . The plan calls for abandonment of about one-half the rail lines , which now carry about 20 percent of the Penn Central freight . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , annually , from railroads to trucks ? which now haul about 46 billion ton-miles in the Northeast region . This amounts to a 25 percent increase in regional truck freight . Accordingly , any environmental measurement depending on ton-miles of truck freight ( such as air pollution ) would increase proportionally . The proposed shift of freight haulage would result in the consumption of 420 million extra gallons of fuel annually . This would increase the total amount of fuel consumed in hauling freight in the U.S. by 3.5 percent and add about 80,000 tons of pollutants to the air . Nor do matters end there , for in keeping with the ecological rule that " everything is connected to everything else , " the impact of the DOT plan on environmental quality spreads out into the community . Consider , for example , a factory located at the edge of a small city , adjacent to a branch rail line that DOT proposes to abandon . Rail freight moving to and from the factory has little impact on city streets . But if the branch rail line were abandoned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nearest highway probably some distance from the factory . Abandonment of the railroad is likely to send a stream of trucks through city streets in and near populated areas , intensifying local air pollution , noise , the risk of pedestrian and vehicular accidents , damage to streets , and disruption of neighborhoods and community life . Another indirect but serious consequence of the DOT plan follows from the eventual abandonment of the railroad rights-of-way . The most important effect would be the long-term loss of opportunities to expand rail service , for both freight and passengers . And , despite recent trends , it is now certain that the U.S. will need to expand rail services sharply ? if we are to survive the energy crisis . The facts are now well known : at the present rate of consumption , petroleum resources available to the U.S. are likely to be depleted in the next twenty-five to thirty years , but coal supplies are expected to hold out for about four hundred years . This means , first , that the efficiency with which fuel is used , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our fuel consumption ) will have to be improved . Secondly , it means that modes of transportation dependent on petroleum products will need to be displaced by those that can use coal . On both scores it is obvious that railroads will need to recapture a large part of the freight and passenger traffic lost to trucks , automobiles , and airplanes . The advantages in fuel efficiency are considerable : as already noted , railroads use far less fuel than trucks for the same amount of freight hauled ; they are about four times more efficient in fuel used per passenger-mile than automobiles , and five to ten times more efficient than airplanes , and they are the mode of intercity transportation best suited to the use of coal as a fuel . Against this background , any proposal that would destroy even part of the rail network in the Northeast must be condemned as irresponsible . Once abandoned to the schemes of developers , these precious , irreplaceable corridors would be rapidly overgrown with the chaotic and expensive architecture of the Northeast megalopolis . Restoring the rail corridors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ save energy 4k gTrHelaSt HAVE NT TO pnA09swith no na  - -  sense enunciation of the environmental imperative requires us to confront the issue . Paragraph 102(2) C of NEPA requires that every Environmental Impact Statement rigorously examine alternatives to the proposed actions and a lesser known but equally important paragraph , 102(2) ( D ) , requires that all federal agencies describe appropriate alternatives to any recommended courses of action . This mandate has a direct bearing on the Northeast railroad reorganization plan . There is clearly an unresolved conflict between the DOT plan to dismember the Penn Central and the five other bankrupt railroads , and Nixon 's admonition to the heads of federal agencies , in June 1973 , to " review the demands an our energy resources and determine how demand can be reduced . " There is a marvelous irony in Nixon 's urging that the country achieve a 5 percent reduction in fuel consumption while DOT urges a plan for the Northeast railroads that would increase fuel used for transportation by nearly as much . In this impasse , an obvious alternative would be to relinquish the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficiency . This means that the DOT proposal to operate the bankrupt railroads as a private enterprise must be accompanied by an equally detailed consideration of the alternative ? nationalization . The government is required to seriously consider whether the railroads can most effectively " encourage productive and enjoyable harmony between man and his environment " ( to quote from the preamble of the NEPA ) as a government-owned or as a profit-making enterprise . The DOT impact statement makes an effort to meet this requirement by claiming that nationalization would be unsound , under the NEPA criteria , because " experiences elsewhere have made it abundantly clear that nationalization only means increasing subsidies and declining resource efficiency . " The only evidence offered in support of this claim is a table showing that all of the nationalized railroads of Europe and Japan lose money , while the U.S. railroads as a whole and the single Canadian privately owned railroad operate at a profit . This table was taken by DOT from a survey of world railway operations prepared by the Union Pacific Railroad in 1971 and updated in 1973 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations of U.S. and foreign railroads . The actual data tell a story quite different from the one that the Union Pacific and DOT would have us believe . There is no doubt that the nationalized railroads of Britain , France , Italy , Germany , Holland , and Japan all operate at a deficit . It also is true that the measure of efficiency stressed by DOT ? revenue produced per employee - is better under private ownership than under nationalization . Thus , U.S. railroads earned an average of $23,200 per employee , while earnings of the nationalized railroads ranged from $4,000 to $9,500 per employee . lint the trouble with the statistics is that they ignore important differences in the priorities inherent in the U.S. and European economies . Whereas the privately owned railroads derive very little of their revenue from passenger traffic ( about 3 percent in the ease of U.S. railroads ) , among the nationalized railroads thevalues range from about 80 percent , for Japanese National Railways , to 25 percent , for German Federal Railways . In other words , in contrast with the U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business of providing passenger service ; and , for reasons familiar to every commuter , it simply takes more railroad employees to deal with passengers than with freight . ( After all . no one collects tickets from each crate of freight . ) Even more to the point , the nationalized railways offer bargain rates for passenger traffic the revenue per passenger mile received by the Japanese National Railways is just half of that received by U.S. railways I. Not only are the nationalized railways willingly in the business of carrying passengers , they also do it cheaply . Irr HUS , THE DEFICITS of the nationalized rail- 1 ways do not prove that they operate with poor " resource efficiency . " Rather , the deficits reflect a deliberate choice to provide , at low cost , the most labor-intensive and therefore expensive form of rail service : passenger traffic . For years the U.S. railroads have complained about losses incurred by passenger services , and their deliberate efforts to degrade and eliminate such services make a particularly sordid episode in their sad history . If , despite the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide them , no one ? least of all U.S. railroad operators ? should be surprised that they lose money . Another important difference between U.S. railroads and the nationalized lines , which also goes unmentioned in the DOT analysis , has to do with the average length of freight hauls ( longer lengths are likely to be hauled at less cost per mile , because of the relatively high cost of terminal operations ) . Again , it turns out that the nationalized railroads have taken on the more difficult and costly task : their average lengths of haul range from 71 to 203 miles , while the U.S. railroads ' average length of haul is 532 miles ( in 1971 ) . What about the actual " resource efficiency " ? the cost of railroad operations to the environment and natural resources ? of nationalized as compared with U.S. railroads ? With respect to pollution , the nationalized railroads come out well ahead because they are much more highly electrified than U.S. railroads ; less than 1 percent of U.S. locomotives are electrified while , on the average , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 37 percent of the locomotives are electrified . Electrified locomotives produce no pollution themselves ; the power plants that drive electrified systems produce much less carbon monoxide and fewer nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons than diesel locomotives per unit of fuel consumed ) , but more sulfur dioxide and particulates both of which can be readily controlled at the smokestack . While it would be helpful to have much more evidence about the actual resource efficiency of U.S. and nationalized railroads ( for example , ton-miles hauled per amount of fuel consumed ) , there is at this time simply no evidence at all to support the DOT claim that the inefficiency of resource use resulting from any form of nationalization must be considered detrimental from an environmental viewpoint as well as from the economic view . Sparse as they are , these data provide some useful clues that help explain what is really going on in the U.S. railroads . These data on railroad operation , both private and nationalized , suggest that in a modern economy it is probably impossible to run a railroad , especially if it undertakes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private ownership would have us believe that the unprofitability of the nationalized railroads is a result of their " inefficiency . " What the evidence really shows , however , is that U.S. railroads ? or at least some of them ? run at a profit because they have refused to provide unprofitable passenger services . T HIS SIMPLE EXPEDIENT explains the fact that ome U.S. railroads ? excluding the Penn Central and its Northeast neighbors ? do run at a profit ( as did the Penn Central itself , for a while ) . If running a railroad has become inherently unprofitable , then a railroad that does show a profit has got to he taking it from somewhere ( the ecological rule that " everything has to go somewhere " can also be stated as " everything has to come from somewhere " ) . A very handy fact-filled yearbook published by the Association of American Railroads tells us where . The yearbook gives us the following general picture : for U.S. railroads as a whole , in the past ten years or so , wages have gone up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from year to year , but overall have remained about the same : and dividends have increased ( about 10 percent ) . What has gone down sharply is the working capital ( computed as the difference between assets and liabilities ) : between 1960 and 1965 , the working capital of the U.S. railroads averaged about $600 million ; in 1966 , the figure began to drop sharply , reaching $21 million in 1972 . In order to meet their financial obligations ? operating expenses , and dividends paid to stockholders ? the railroads have dipped so far into their working capital as to nearly exhaust it . The missing working capital is badly needed ; although U.S. railroads now spend about $1 .2 billion for equipment and road improvements annually , according to the yearbook , this amount is " small in relation to capital needs , now estimated at $3 billion to $4 billion annually . " It is interesting to note that the cash dividends paid out by U.S. railroads from their profits since 1965 have amounted to about $3.2 billion . In other words , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have been able to maintain their working capital and to provide much of the money needed for capital expenditures . All of which means that the U.S. railroads have maintained their profits only at the expense of the capital needed to operate effectively . Other evidence , unfortunately , suggests that the actual efficiency of operation has not only failed to improve , but has deteriorated . Apart from anecdotal evidence , such as widespread complaints about freight-car shortages , especially for grain shipments , and the perennial frustrations of commuters , there is the unhappy trend in railroad accidents . Between 1956 and 1961 , although ton-miles of freight carried increased significantly , the number of railroad accidents remained constant at about 4,000 per year . Between 1961 and 1968 the annual rate doubled , although freight increased only 15 percent and passenger operations declined . In some respects U.S. railroad operation clearly has become more inefficient . Thus , the logic of ecology , together with some simple financial statistics , establishes two funda. mental facts about the railroads : the railroads are so much more efficient than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the environment and to the dwindling supplies of fuel that we shall have to rely heavily upor them to find our way out of the growing en ? vironmental and energy crisis . At the same time it is equally true that no railroad , anywhere ir the world , has been able to provide all of these ervices to society at a cost sufficiently compet ? tive to support profitable operation . The choice is clear : if we insist on privately owned , profit . making railroads , then their present , inadequate services will be curtailed , and the systems ? beginning with the bankrupt Penn Central ? will be dismembered , worsening fuel shortage , and environmental pollution and destroying fu tore opportunities to restore the railroads am reverse these trends . If we give up the deman ( for profitable operation , which means that the railroads become publicly owned , then they cat be rebuilt to provide the country with environ mentally clean , energetically thrifty transporta Lion . The choice is between social and private profit . So , step by step , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air pollution , freigh and passenger traffic , profit and loss , the journe : that begins in the flowery innocence of ecolog : ends up before the most frightening specter ii the demonology of private enterprise : nation alization.                     