@@494926

DECEMBER . 7 , 1974 The Future of the United Farm Workers Chavez Against the Wall by Peter Barnes In April 1962 a 35-year-old organizer and former farm-worker named Cesar Chavez packed his belongings , withdrew his life savings of $900 , and drove with his wife and eight children to the San Joaquin Valley town of Delano . He had in mind an ambitious undertaking : to organize a union of farmworkers that would put an end to the notorious labor contracting system , secure decent , wages and working conditions , and upgrade farm work into an occupation that was not a badge of inferiority . Earlier efforts to organize farmworkersby the Wobblies at the turn of the century , by Communist-led unions in the 1930s , by AFL-CIO-backed committees in the 1950s ? had all been short-lived . Strikebreakers were too numerous and strike benefits too paltry ; local , state and federal officials collaborated in every conceivable way with growers ; racial mistrusts kept workers divided ; and all too often the organizers themselves were outsiders with little understanding of farmworkers or the peculiarities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the arduous task of explaining to farmworkers how they could benefit by joining what was then called the Farm Workers Association . After working in the fields all day , he would drive 50 or 100 miles for an evening meeting in a farm-worker 's home . By 1965 the FWA had a few thousand dues-paying members spread over several counties . It was not yet ready for a strike , but when a fledgling union of Filipino farmworkers called a strike against table grape growers in the Delano area , the predominantly Chicano FWA could not stand idly by . Unanimously its members voted to join the Filipinos and in so doing embark upon a struggle for union recognition and workers ' rights that is still unfinished . Today the question is whether Chavez and his union ? now called the United Farm Workers of America ? can finish that struggle on their own terms . In 1970 , after five years of strikes and boycotts , the UFWA won its first major contracts . Three years later , the majority of growers who had signed with the UFWA switched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to do this without con- 14 suiting their workers because the National Labor Relations Act does not apply to agriculture . ) UFWA membership plummeted from about 60,000 to 12,000 . New strikes and boycotts were called , but the Teamsters proved a hard group to dislodge . The press began writing the UFWA 's obituary . A New York Times magazine cover story contended that Chavez and La Causa had been " devastated " in the fields by the Teamsters . In the cities , where boycott support is crucial , liberals ( said the Times ) were tired of Chavez ' seemingly endless appeals for sacrifice , and many wondered what difference it made whether farmworkers were represented by the UFWA or the Teamsters . Reports of the UFWA 's demise are premature . In the fields as well as the cities , the UFWA is alive and kicking . There is a good chance that UFWA-sponsored legislation providing for farm labor elections will pass the California legislature next year and be signed by Gov. - elect Edmund G. Brown , Jr . If that happens it 's likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lost to the Teamsters and expand into unorganized areas . The UFWA has never been a traditional labor union ; from the beginning Chavez did things differently . The union 's staff was filled with idealists who worked endless hours for subsistence pay . ( The standard UFWA salary , which everyone including Chavez gets , is room and board plus five dollars a week . ) There was close identification with the civil rights movement and its techniques of aggressive nonviolence . There was a strong religious coloration to La Causa and close working relationships with church groups and clergy , especially Catholics . There was unprecedented emphasis on boycotts , since the poverty of most farm-workers and the growers ' ability to import strikebreakers from Mexico , including many illegal aliens , made strikes in the field extremely difficult to sustain . The UFWA 's objectives also differed from the traditional goals of unions . It wanted all the standard things ? union recognition , higher wages , fringe benefits such as health and pension plans ? but it also sought to protect field workers from poisonous pesticides and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water in the fields . It wanted to operate clinics , to build retirement villages and credit unions , to become a political force for farmworkers equal in clout to the American Farm Bureau Federation and the big growers . Above all it wanted to reform the agricultural system so that field workers would be something better than rented slaves . The distinctive qualities of the UFWA accounted for both its successes and its subsequent troubles . By 1970 strikes , boycotts and threats of boycotts had won contracts for the UFWA with most major wineries , the lettuce-growing subsidiary of United Brands , the citrus-growing subsidiary of Coca-Cola , and the big table grape growers . These contracts not only raised THE NEW REPUBLIC wages of field workers substantially ; they replaced the labor contracting system , under which farmworkers were pawns of the contractors who got them their jobs , with UFWA-run hiring halls . They improved sanitary facilities in the fields . They established strict rules regarding use of pesticides and generated funds with which the union opened five clinics and built a retirement village for Filipino farmworkers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that won Chavez his following in the cities and enabled the union to outlast the tenacious opposition of growers , made it difficult for the UFWA to consolidate its gains . Organizers and picketers who were not and could not have been motivated by high salaries were sustained by a kind of Manichean outlook : the struggle by the good guys ( Chavez and his supporters ) against the bad guys ( the growers and their allies ) was what gave life meaning . The victories of 1970 required the UFWA to be both a good administrator of old contracts and a warrior for new ones ; its psychology and its limited resources made it favor the latter task at the expense of the former . Growers who signed with the UFWA became more , not less , antagonistic , as much because of the UFWA 's style as because of the reforms it demanded . Many growers eventually decided it was worth the agony of further strikes and boycotts to get a more cooperative union . At the same time the union-run hiring halls , which were at the core @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unpopular innovation with many field workers . For understandable reasons the hiring halls gave first priority in assigning jobs to paid-up UFWA members who had participated in strikes or boycotts ; second priority went to union members who had worked longest at the ranch in question . Many workers who were low on the seniority list or just entering the labor force felt short-changed . Some who had traveled long distances with cousins and uncles were angered when the hiring halls would n't give jobs to their relatives , or would assign them to different ranches . ( In pre-UFWA days labor contractors always had a few slots for cousins . ) UFWA officials would try to explain that the apparent inequities of the hiring hall were part of the price of progress ; that hiring halls would , over the long run , lead to job stability and guarantee that older workers and women ? not just the strong-bodied male youths favored by contractors and growers ? would be able to earn a decent living . But many workers turned away at UFWA hiring halls were not convinced and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonunion ranches . The International Brotherhood of Teamsters seemed ideally suited to capitalize on the weaknesses of the UFWA . The Teamsters are everything the UFWA is not ? rich , politically powerful , Anglo-dominated , businesslike . While the UFWA dashes from emergency to emergency , never quite ready for what it has to do , DECEMBER 7 , 1974 always overextended , always counting on doggedness and righteousness to get it through , the Teamsters exuded a self-assured coolness . Teamster employees , from guards to public relations men , are well paid , work regular hours , and hold idealists in disdain . Teamster offices are well furnished and orderly , with punch-clocks but no " Huelga ! " banners . The Teamsters have represented cannery and packing house workers since the 1930s ; their interest in representing farmworkers dates from the early 1960s . It 's an oddly motivated interest , though , stemming less from concern for the welfare of farmworkers than from concern for other Teamsters and the strength of the union itself . New agricultural machines have moved many sorting and packing jobs from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep control over those jobs . They also fear harvest-time strikes by field workers that could cause lay-offs of cannery workers and truckers . By adding fannworkers to their fold , the Teamsters hope to gain a handle on America 's food supply from crop planting to supermarket delivery . The Teamsters ' notion of what an agricultural union should look like , is quite different from the UFWA 's . It is not a union of , by and for Chicano and Filipino field workers that the Teamsters have in mind , but a much more traditional organization of skilled tractor drivers and machine operators , most of whom are Anglos . In a 1973 interview with Jane Yett Kiely , a graduate student conducting a Safeway-commissioned study of the lettuce industry , Einar Mahn , then director of the Western Conference of Teamsters , expounded on this vision . " I 'm not sure how effective a union can be when it is composed of Mexican-Americans and Mexican nationals with temporary visas . Maybe as agriculture becomes more sophisticated and more mechanized , with fewer transients , fewer green @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then we can build a regular union that can have structure , that can negotiate from strength and have membership participation . " Though wages at Teamster ranches are comparable to , and occasionally a few pennies higher than wages at UFWA ranches ( roughly $2.50 an hour for field work ) , there are vital differences between the contracts negotiated by the two unions . The UFWA 's outline in detail which pesticides can be used and how much reentry time must be allowed after spraying ; the Teamsters ' simply call for adherence to state and federal laws . ( The difference , according to an observer , is that " the UFWA enforces its pesticide provisions with a missionary zeal ; no one enforces state and federal laws . " ) Both contracts require growers to contribute to health and pension funds , but the worker eligibility requirements differ . To qualify for Teamster health benefits a farmworker must have worked 80 hours during the preceding month for the same employer . Under the UFWA 's health plan , cover-15 age extends to any worker who , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , logs a combined total of 50 hours of work over the preceding three months , or 150 hours over the preceding nine months , with any grower under UFWA contract . The UFWA health plan , in other words , is designed for seasonal workers and migrants ; the Teamsters ' is limited to a small number of steady employees . Until recently the Teamster approach to " organizing " field workers was to go directly to growers to get union shop contracts . If the UFWA then struck , the Teamsters would send guards to protect " their " workers from the pickets . Since early last year the Teamsters have been trying to improve their rapport with field workers . Before signing contracts with growers they first send organizers into the fields . Contracts are printed in Spanish as well as English ; there is a Teamster farmworker newspaper , also published in two languages . Seven Teamster field offices handle workers ' grievances and claims . A new farm-workers local , headquartered in Salinas , is directed by a Chicano who formerly headed a cannery workers local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Teamsters were well on their way to winning acceptance among Chicano field workers . The Teamsters have gained ground , but they are beset with internal troubles that are undercutting their organizing efforts . Last month , in what was officially described as an economy move , the Teamsters fired 26 staff members of the farmworkers local , including Cono Macias , their top Fresno area organizer , and Beverly Freitas , director of the local 's service division . Macias had been critical of the appointment of Ralph Cotner to head the Teamsters ' statewide farmworker organizing drive . He charged that Cotner " is anti-Mexican , make no bones about that , " and said his superiors " made it clear they were not going to let a goddamned Mexican take over this project . " Macias added that Teamster leaders want to break up the farmworkers local because " it has grown too much and they fear the power of the workers . " The Teamsters do nevertheless have staying power . " Unless the UFWA can get its contracts back soon , " says a Salinas Valley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , " the Teamsters will sew things up . The UFWA ca n't win a long war of attrition . " There are two ways the UFWA might get those contracts , however : by inflicting intolerable losses on growers through the boycott , or by winning elections brought about by new California legislation . ( The UFWA does not want federal legislation unless it is similar to the original Wagner Act , and that kind of legislation is unlikely to get through Congress and past President Ford . ) The boycott probably wo n't succeed against lettuce growers ; it has a better chance against grape growers and the Gallo wine company . " The staff and sophistication of the boycott operation 16 is far superior to what it was in 1968 and 1969 , " says Fred Ross , Jr. , northern California boycott coordinator . " There are 700-800 people working in the major US and Canadian cities . We are using ads and billboards , picketing supermarkets , canvassing door-to-door , speaking constantly to schools , churches and labor groups . The whole operation raises enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boycott is difficult to judge . Department of Agriculture figures indicate that seven million unsold boxes of table grapes were in cold storage as of mid-October , about twice the number in storage at the height of the successful 1969 boycott . But growers say the high storage figures are due to an unusually large crop this year , and they claim to be doing well in terms of both price and sales volume . Gallo sales are down five percent , according to The Wall Street Journal , though Gallo itself claims they 're up . Whatever the actual sales figures , both Gallo and the grape growers appear willing to suffer some diminishment of profits if that will get the UFWA out of their hair . A quick sweeping UFWA victory via the boycott therefore seems unlikely . Pro-union farm labor legislation is , however , a strong possibility . For the past eight years the UFWA has had to contend with a Reagan administration in California ; four times the state legislature passed , and four times Reagan vetoed , a simple measure extending state unemployment compensation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were spent opposing legislation drafted by the Farm Bureau , including a 1972 initiative that would have banned secondary boycotts and harvest-time strikes . Today the political climate is more congenial . Reagan will soon be gone from Sacramento ; Richard Nixon , Charles Colson and other Teamster allies are gone from Washington . At the last session of the California legislature the Teamsters and the UFWA each sponsored farm labor bills . Both measures would have created a state agricultural Labor relations board and required secret ballot elections upon petition by workers . The Teamster bill would have prohibited secondary boycotts , timed the labor elections so that most seasonal workers would be ineligible to vote , and divided the agricultural work force into two craft units , one for field workers and one for skilled machine operators . The UFWA bill allowed seasonal employees to vote ( " The minority should not be allowed to determine the fate of the majority , " argued UFWA lawyer Jerry Cohen ) , permitted boycotts , did n't segregate field hands into units from which they could n't rise to higher paying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the elections requirement . In an end-of-the-session rush , a bill very close to the UFWA version passed the State Assembly but died on a procedural move in the Senate . ' We lobbied with people , the Teamsters and growers lobbied with money , " Cohen recalls . " When THE NEW REPUBLIC the new legislature opens in January , we 'll have farm-workers all over Sacramento and boycott committees pressuring legislators from their districts . This time we 'll get it through the Senate and the governor will sign it . " If an elections bill permitting seasonal workers to vote does pass the California legislature next year , UFWA leaders predict the UFWA will carry the Salinas Valley and the Delano and Arvin areas of the San Joaquin Valley , and win most but not all of the ranches in the Coachella Valley . Teamster spokesmen also voice optimism , but the evidence at the moment seems to favor the UFWA . Thus spontaneous strikes erupted this summer at tomato ranches near Stockton , lemon groves near Yunria , Arizona , a mushroom factory near San Jose , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the UFWA and the UFWA , hard-pressed as it was , responded with organizers and , in Yuma , with strike benefits . In most of the strikes the UFWA won higher wages without getting a contract ; more importantly it built a track record with workers that will be remembered if and when elections are held . The apple strike was particularly significant because the grower , William Buak , had previously signed a Teamster contract . When the workers , with UFWA support , struck for higher piece rates ( they ultimately won an increase from $5.50 to $8.50 a bin ) , the Teamsters tried , but failed , to keep workers on the job . Over the long run the UFWA will have to do more than strike , boycott and win elections ; it will have to iron out kinks in the hiring hall system and show that it can run its day-to-day operations in a way that satisfies workers who are n't hard-core Chavistas . It will also have to improve relations with growers under contract . Fortunately the union seems to be learning from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration , " says Lionel Steinberg , the large Coachella Valley grape grower who stayed with the UFWA in 1973 . " The dispatch system at the hiring hall has been streamlined . The people who run the hiring hall have a more constructive attitude ? they 're not so militantly anti-grower as before . We still have some problems on grievances . The ranch enforcers are like a new cop on the beat ? they love to hand out the traffic tickets . But we have a new permanent arbitrator , a Methodist minister , and the arbitration procedure is working well . " When observers predict an early demise for the UFWA , they overlook one thing : Chavez and those who 've stuck with him are long-distance runners . They have a vision of agriculture not shared by growers or Teamsters , a vision in which dark-skinned field workers can achieve some dignity and some control over their own lives . It 's a vision that thanks to the UFWA , is closer to reality now than at any time in the long history of agricultural peonage in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    