@@493743

concerning the Brezhnev letters . The Russians themselves have not publicized this correspondence , clearly more strongly worded than the propaganda outcries on rearming China that Moscow has been spouting for months . The three European governments have even avoided discussing the Brezhnev letters among themselves . The United States government has been unable to obtain the contents of these letters despite efforts in Washington and Paris . Diplomats here believe that the French are not eager to encourage any joint Western position on this issue . France already has contracted to sell the Chinese sophisticated anti-tank missiles and Super Felon and Alouette helicopters . Presumably , it wishes to retain freedom of action in this matter . On the other hand , the French want to protect their reasonably good relations with Moscow . The Chinese have approached West Germany about purchasing German Leopard tanks , but the Germans have made no decision so far . All Western governments take the position that only " defensive " weapons ? however murkily defined ? should be sold to the Chinese . But the Germans may decide against any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviets . The toughest Brezhnev letter , diplomats say , went to Prime Minister Callaghan in the light of apparent British willingness to sell vertical-take-of f - and- landing Harrier jet fighters . The Harrier is regarded by Moscow as a clearly " offensive " weapon . Even Western experts agree that it could be fitted for the delivery of nuclear weapons . Brezhnev specifically alluded to the Harrier in his letter to Callaghan . In all three cases , Brezhnev is said to have emphasized that relations between the Soviet Union and Western European governments would be seriously at stake if arms were sold to China . He has forcefully expressed his opinion that such sales would " destabilize " the world situation . American policy on this topic remains unclear . The Carter administration has taken the official stand that the United States would sell no arms of any kind to China . But it has done nothing to discourage its North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies from supplying China with " defensive " weapons . Officials here say that when National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski was in Rome last month for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he told Italian Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti that the United States does not care what the Europeans do for China . Italy is an arms producer although it has not yet been approached by the Chinese . The Carter administration faces hard decisions of its own in this area . China recently expressed interest in purchasing from Lockheed a civilian version of the troop and cargo-carrying C-130 Hercules , a four-engine turboprop transport used by the US Air Force . In order to sell this aircraft to Peking , Lockheed would need a US Government export license . It would take a significant top-level policy decision here to authorize such a sale . This question may be part of the current review of Western arms sales to China that Secretary of State Cyrus Vance ordered early in December . The Central Intelligence Agency produced a similar study in September , known as " CAT-Triad " ( CAT stands for Conventional Arms Transfers ) , but officials say it is already out of date . In the meantime , the Western Europeans must decide how to handle Brezhnev 's private threats . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affect its policies on Harrier sales to China . In any event , Callaghan is not likely to consult his allies before responding . France has indicated that all its sales would be " on merit . " But all concerned are aware that Brezhnev is seeking to divide the alliance over the China issue : thus the diplomatic secrecy covering the entire situation . Racial discrimination ? especially by the government and more especially in schools ? has been outlawed in this country for a long time . Back in 1954 , Brown v. Board of Education made clear that separate but equal public education could no longer pass constitutional muster . Ten years later Congress added Title VI of the Civil Rights Act , which banned federal assistance to private educational bigotry . So , two dozen years after Brown , it 's not exactly shocking that the Internal Revenue Service recently proposed new rules to assure that private schools set up following court-ordered desegregation for a community 's public schools are not using tax-exempt funds to continue segregated educa ? tion . A reasonable person might think that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what took the agency so long . But the IRS rulingsare facing so much opposition that it 's almost as if the whole civil rights movement had never taken place . The tax agency has received more than 100,000 letters against the proposal , and so many people wanted to speak in person that the public hearings on the subject had to be extended for two additional days . This " groundswell " of public outcry issomewhat diminished in impact by the fact that the American Conservative Union and an organization called the " National Christian Action Coalition " take credit for virtually every piece of mail . One wonders whether the Civil Rights Act of 1964 could have passed if conser ? vatives had discovered computerized mailing lists . Still , 100,000 letters is a lot ? more than the IRS has ever received on a single issue . And not all the commen ? tators were as obnoxiously direct as the woman who called asking for an hour to speak , during which time would the IRS " please clear the room of all blacks and Jews . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ segregated academies is being led by a leading exemplar of redemption through politics , Senator Strom Thurmond of South Carolina , former out ? spoken segregationist and now an alleged born-again believer in equal rights . Thurmond insists that he and the others in the fight he leads are not opposing the IRS on racial grounds . " No reasonable man would try to do that , " he points out . The ruckus involves the section of the Internal Revenue Code that gives a tax exemption to charitable , religious and educational institutions . Tax-exempt status is valuable to private schools for two reasons . It means that ( like the government itself ) they and their employees are not required to participate in the Social Security program . More important , it means that contributions to these schools are tax deductible by the donor . The effective government subsidy inherent in this tax deduction amounts to a billion dollars a year for all private schools and their benefactors . Since one of the purposes of the exemption is to encourage educational diversity , the qualifications are purposely somewhat vague @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Otherwise , as one court noted , the government might find itself subsidizing " Fagin 's school of pickpocketing . " Unfortunately , however , the IRS has n't always used much discretion to insure that exemptions are not used to protect racial discrimina ? tion . As more and more school districts were forced to desegregate in the late 1960s , there was a simultaneous burgeoning of private " white flight " schools , some loosely affiliated with churches . The IRS routinely granted the schools tax-exempt status ; even in cases where courts had ruled that schools were practicing racial discrimination , and ordered their other federal aid cut off , the IRS continued to grant a tax exemption . This lax policy soon hurtled the IRS into litigation . In 1971 a Mississippi federal court informed the agency that its tolerance violated just about every federal equal rights policy imaginable , including the Civil Rights Act and the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution . The decision was later affirmed by the Supreme Court . Chastened , the tax agency began a slow process of bringing its procedures into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had devised a set of guidelines , based on a standard of lip service . The rules provided that , in order to get a tax exemption , a school merely had to have an officially expressed policy of non ? discrimination , published in school brochures and catalogues and advertised once a year in a newspaper or on the radio . Such requirements lacked teeth , to say the least . Several schools that federal courts have found to be discriminatory and many more that communities recognize as blatantly segregationist have managed to maintain their tax exemptions merely by publishing a few magic ? and meaningless ? words . Even so , some of the allegedly " religious " schools took the IRS to court arguing that the rules interfered with their First Amendment rights to free exercise of religion . They lost in 1977 . Meanwhile , the obvious inadequacy of the IRS requirements led to new litigation by civil rights groups . President Carter 's IRS commissioner , Jerry Kurtz , also realized their defects . So the IRS came up with some new guidelines . This time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the IRS calls " reviewable schools . " Thesereas include schools that have been found by a federal court or agency to be discriminatory and other institutions that were found ed or significantly expanded soon after a public school desegregation order in their community . Other schools ' exemptions will not be questioned . To further narrow the list of " reviewable " schools , the ruling then applies an objective test , criticized as " the new despotism " by the American Conservative Union and as " too lenient " by the NAACP . This standard exempts from further review any school that has at least one-fifth the percentage of blacks that the local community has . In other words , if the community is 40 percent black , and eight percent of the students in the school are black , IRS will continue the tax exemption and not inquire further . If the community is 10 percent black , only two percent is required . Schools that do n't fall within this rather generous " safe harbor " can still prove that they are not discriminatory by showing that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minority teachers or offering minority scholarships . And schools that ca n't even manage this are given a grace period during which they can retain their exemption while they attempt to meet one of these standards . The rules seem fair enough , but the voices of supporters were overwhelmed by those of opponents at the public hearings , as Strom Thurmond , II other members of Congress and an interminable number of representatives from " Christian schools " around the country delivered their parallel diatribes against the rulings . One of these representatives was Randolph W. Thrower , IRS commissioner under President Nixon and now a Georgia lawyer . Like Thurmond , they all vehemently deny that there are any racial purposes underlying their schools ' existence . The fact that many of these schools were founded at the time of desegrega ? tion plans is irrelevant , they say . They created their schools as alternatives to the drug abuse , violence and godlessness that took over in the public schools , coinci dentally just as they were being integrated . Of course proponents of this particular line of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so pure , they can not meet the IRS 's mild standards . Some argue that denying tax exemptions to church-related schools , whatever their racial practices , violates the constitutional principle of the separation of church and state . As it happens , the American Civil Liberties Union has put forth an interesting argument to the other extreme : that the First Amendment actually precludes tax exemptions to churches or church schools . Neither extreme has survived court tests . The ACLU lost its argument in the Supreme Court in 1970 and the religious schools ' view was rejected last year . It 's possible to imagine a situation where genuine religious schools could be trapped unfairly by the proposed IRS guidelines . If part of a long-planned gradual expansion happened to coincide with a public school desegregation order in the community , a school might fall under the initial test for IRS scrutiny . A Jewish or Amish school , for example , might have a hard time meeting the alternative tests for continued exemption , because of the rarity of Jewish or Amish blacks . The American Jewish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take into account the religious community from which the school is drawing its enrollment , but even as they stand , the guidelines permit the IRS to deal with unusual circumstances on a case by case basis . The US Catholic Conference points out that during public school desegregation Catholic schools often actively recruited minorities and that most of them should n't have any trouble meeting the IRS standards . The Roman Catholic dioceses of Biloxi and Jackson have strict antidiscrimination policies , and say they will be happy to have the IRS 's help in enforcing them . Of course there are a few schools that , for from claiming that they do n't discriminate , flaunt their racist policies . One of them , Bob Jones University in Green ? ville , South Carolina , calls itself " the most unusual university in the world " because of its policy of refus ? ing to admit blacks ( which , incidentally , already has cost the university both its tax exemption and Veterans Administration benefits for its students ) . Other schools say that just to satisfy the IRS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue to hold and teach their segregationist beliefs they should not be expected to attract many blacks to their schools . The IRS is n't interested in changing people 's beliefs , however misguided . It is simply attempting ? finally ? to enforce the tax law . As a court has noted , " Perhaps those who cling to infantile and ultimately self-destructive notions of their racial superiority can not be forced to maturity . But the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments do require that such individuals not be given solace in their delusions by the Government . " Or , as one black man at the hearings succinctly put forth on a cardboard sign , " Jim Crow with your own dough . " Anne G. Witte is editor of People and Taxes , a newsletter of Ralph Nader 's Tax Reform Research Group . Advance notices for the Democrats ' midterm con- ference promised a shoot-out between the Carter administration and the liberals . Well , if you can imagine a shoot-out where both parties are concerned about behaving responsibly and not embarrassing one another unduly , the event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that each side showed up in Memphis thinking it had something to prove . What the liberals wanted to prove was that they are still a force to be reckoned with in the Democratic party . Seen by most of the country 's political press as factionalized and leaderless , many of those who found their way into politics through the antiwar campaigns of 1968 and 1972 are in a mood to believe the reviews . They watched their coalition crumble in 1976 to the benefit of a candidate without ties to the Democratic party , let alone to their own new politics constituencies . Then , in 1978 , they watched as incumbent Democratic con ? gressmen campaigned and won as tax cutters and inflation fighters . And now that the broad outlines of the Carter administration 's budget have begun to emerge , they can see that the White House campaign to eliminate government waste and cut spending will be directed primarily at the domestic social programs they hold most dear . So many liberals arrived in Memphis spoiling to have their say , but worried that when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they worried that the conference would be turned into a nationally televised gripe session dominated by the president 's harshest critics in his own party ? " a self-inflicted wound , " as one observer put it . Back when President Carter was in his pre-Camp David slump , the worst fear of his operatives was that Memphis might even as a launching pad for a dump Carter movemserveent . So the objective at the White House was to return from here with a demonstration of broad support for the president 's policies , along with a clear signal that Carterites have established some control                     