@@490809

LETTER FKOM ADDIS ABABA ILAUGHED when I found , on checldng into the Hilton Hotel in Addis Ababa , a note from another journalist saying , " Welcome to Petrograd . " But a week later that comparison with Russia in 1917 seemed not so funny . There has been a genuine social revolution in Ethiopia , a turn of the wheel that has advanced the downtrodden at the expense of the privileged , and the normal accompaniments of such sweeping change savagery , misery , and turbulence  --  are now universal . Hardly a province has not revolted , and major military operations in Eritrea and Ogaden have engaged the interests of outside powers great and small , making Ethiopia the pivot of a diplomatic realignment in the Horn of Africa  --  and even , some claim , in the whole of the Dark Continent . To be sure , there is no Lenin , running things through a well-disciplined Communist Party . But there is the Ethiopian Army and a military junta , the Dergue , led by an upstart from the ranks , Lieutenant Colonel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army , according to no less an authority than the Russian Ambassador , Anatoly Ratanov , has " played the role of the Party . " My first brush with the revolutionary atmosphere came almost immediately after I reached this capital city . I went from the Hilton directly to the Ministry of Information and National Guidance , and though I arrived there in a car from the Ministry , with a Ministry driver and a Ministry guide , soldiers armed with machine guns and bayonets stopped us as the car entered the driveway . The vehicle was thoroughly searched , and we were all frisked . The guide and I then proceeded on foot to the front door of the Ministry . There armed guards once again searched both of us . The Ministry , which I was then allowed to enter , occupies what used to be the offices maintained by the United States Information Service in Addis Ababa . The main hall is the old library , which was ( and continues to he ) one of the very best libraries in Ethiopia . Waiting for my appointment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the legend " Honor the Dead Martyr . " Closer inspection disclosed the name of Werner Lamberz , the late No. 2 man ( after Erich Honecker ) in East Germany , who , I learned , had been killed not long before in a plane crash . Just beneath the picture was a display of books specially placed to attract attention . noticed " Das Kapital " in a German edition , an English translation of selected works of Lenin , and a couple of pamphlets by Leonid Brezhnev . There were also the first three volumes of the collected works of Mao Tse-tung and a book of speeches by President Nicolae Ceausescu , of Rumania . The bookshelves lining the walls  --  to which I next turned my attention  --  contained a respectable library of Western literature . Among other books I saw were Churchill 's biography of his great ancestor the first Duke of Marlborough ; " Pragmatism , " by William James ; " The Letters of Henry Adams ; " the " Notebooks " of Albert Camus ; Macaulay 's " History of England ; " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Machiavelli , and A. Conan Doyle . Part of the Eleventh Edition of the Encyclocuedia Britannica was also there , beginning with Volume IV ( Bis to Cal ) . It suddenly struck me that I might find what is probably the best book ever written about journalism  --  Evelyn Waugh 's novel " Scoop , " a savagely anti-African satire on the Italian invasion of Ethiopia in 1935 . I did n't find the novel , but did find " When the Going Was Good , " a collection of travel pieces by Waugh which includes an account , written in the same anti-African spirit , of the time he spent in Ethiopia as a foreign correspondent . I took it down and started to read . The only other person in the room , an Ethiopian who seemed to be in charge , came up to inc and asked for the book . I handed it over . Ile did not put it back in its place but tossed it on top of a pile of books in a corner of the room . Also in the pile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I asked the man why the hooks were in the pile . " Those books , " he said , in strongly accented English , " are not revolutionary . " Shortly afterward , I was ushered into the office of the Acting Minister of Information , a pleasant middle-aged bureaucrat who balanced a wish to be helpful against an admission that he had no entree to the higher circles He did , though , arrange for me to see something indisputably  --  indeed , quintessentially  --  revolutionary : the workings of a kebele , or revolutionary council The Dergue  --  whose name derives from the Ethiopic word for " committee " took power from Emperor Haile Selassie in September , 1974 ; declared itself a So- cialist regime in December of that year ; and in subsequent months nationalized banks and insurance companies and ordered land reform in both the countryside and the cities . The urban land-reform program , proclaimed on July 26 , 1975 , limited each family to ownership of a single dwelling , and confiscated all other homes for the state . To manage the confiscated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government established a series of kebeles . The kebele is thus the basic urban unit of the Ethiopian revolution  --  what the soviet was to the Russian Revolution and the commune was to the Chinese revolution . It collects rent on the homes taken from private owners , provides police protection , metes out justice , mans educational and health institutions , and maintains various services , notably stores that are supposed to sell at fixed , low prices basic commodities such as salt , sugar , cooking oil , and grain . Each kebele is headed by a fifteen-man policy committee , which names a chairman , who , in turn , names subcommittees responsible for such matters as public safety , youth , and women 's affairs . There is supposed to be a kebele for every town of more than two thousand people . In the larger cities , every neighborhood of five hundred families or more is organized into a kebele . Each kebele nominates a representative to a superior administrative unit  --  the higher kebele , or keftanya , which oversees anywhere from six to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which , in turn , elects a mayor and a deputy mayor to run the city . In Addis Ababa , with a population of more than a million people , there are two hundred and eighty-nine kebeles and twenty-five higher kebeles , and the central council is headed by Dr. Alemu Abehe , the mayor , and Johannes Heroui , the deputy mayor . I WAS taken to visit a charity fair 1- organized by the women 's committee of Kebele No. 26 , which reports to Higher Kebele No. 18 . Kebele No. 26 comprises five hundred families in the Bole quarter  --  a relatively prosperous southeastern section of Addis Ababa , near the airport . The fair was held on an athletic field and , as was true virtually everywhere in Addis Ababa , there were armed guards at the entrance . Inside was a stage , with an orchestra blaring rock music , to which troops of boys and girls dressed in jeans did dances that looked to me mostly like variations of the Los Angeles hug . Overhead banners proclaimed " Ethiopia First , " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " In sev-eral tents , cakes and cold drinks con-tributed by the kebele women 's asso-ciations were sold . There were also booths selling chances in raffles of food , furniture , and kitchen utensils contributed by the women . I was introduced to the chairman of the kebele , a squat middle-aged man dressed in green fatigue trousers , a khaki shirt , and a blue-and-white sweater . He said he could not give me his name but would give me some biographical details . He came from I.Vollo Province , northeast of Addis Ababa , had been educated in secondary schools , and had joined the Army as an enlisted man . He had served for seven years in Eritrea , had left there two years earlier , had been promoted to lieutenant , and had been elected head of Kehele No. 26 after receiving training in a special political and ideological school . I asked him what he had been taught at the school . " We read Marx , Lenin , and Engels , " he said . " We studied Ethiopian national democracy . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was " to raise the political consciousness of the district . " That was not so difficult , because " this district supports the revolution . " Most of those in the district were government employees , many from Ethiopian Airlines . He said that the kebele had a committee of public safety , which maintained a curfew every night from midnight until 5 A.M. The committee was empowered to prevent any moves by reactionaries . " But so far , " he said , " we have only had to send four students away for reeducation . " He told inc that the kebele maintained stores where commodities were available for much less than they sold for in the central market . He said that sugar at the kebele store cost about thirty cents a pound , salt about fifteen cents a pound , soap less than twenty cents a bar , and matches less than two cents a packet . I asked him about conditions in the Army before the military takeover , in 1974 . He said that the food had been good and the pay had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why had the Army revolted against the Emperor ? " Under the old regime , the Army was repressed , " he said . " Now we have every facility . " For several minutes , as the crowd milled about us , I lost my guide , and I found two older men who were willing to talk to me , though not to give their names . One was a veterinarian . I asked him about fond supplies in the kebele . He said , " Anything you need for human life you get from the kebele . There is no food shortage . If the peasants do n't sell , the kebele sends trucks to the countryside , and they bring back grain and vegetables . Also , we do n't have to give the merchants a dollar profit for every dollar and a quarter 's worth of goods that we buy . At the kebele store , tea costs fifty per cent of what it costs in the central market . " E asked him what he thought of the lieutenant who led the kebele . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " How about his education ? " I asked . " He 's from the Army , " the man said , shrugging and walking away . The other man who spoke to me identified himself as a government agronomist . He said that , thanks to the revolution , " what used to be the privilege of a minority is now the privilege of everybody . " He said there were places in the countryside where thirty thousand acres had been owned by one man . Now there were six hundred families sharing that land . I asked him about the kebele and its stores . He said that he had been educated in France , and that the stores of Kehele No. 26 had as much for sale as the finest supermarket in Paris . But he shied away as soon as I began asking political questions , and at that point my guide found me in the crowd . The guide took me to a second charity fair , organized by Kehele No. 33 , in the grounds of the Black Lion Hospital , in the center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pass armed soldiers to enter . Once again , there was a stage , there were tents in which food was sold , and there were booths selling chances in various raffles . A speaker harangued the crowd about the need to intensify the revolution . My guide introduced me to a friend of his , who said he was an aeronautical engineer . The engineer told me he had regretted the revolution at first . He had owned two houses and had had to give up one to the kebele . Also , he said , he had not liked having to spend two days of every week undergoing political education . At the beginning , moreover , there had been much violence and many threats , especially to his children . Now life was calmer . The chief attraction at the Black Lion Hospital fair was horseback riding . There were four saddle horses , and for twenty-five cents you could take a canter across the field in front of the hospital . The riders were inexpert , and the horses were skittish , largely because the course ran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was filled with people . As I left , a small girl was knocked over by one horse and trampled by a second . She screamed with pain , and a man who T assumed was her father gathered her in his arms and , shrieking himself , ran into the hospital . Several bystanders , including my guide , shouted to the riders that they should stop , that it was dangerous to gallop the horses just in front of the main entrance . The riders only laughed and kept shuttling back and forth . I found myself thinking once again the most commonplace of white men 's thoughts about black Africans : that they care less about life . THAT thought kept recurring as occasion after occasion demonstrated that the rosy picture given me of the kebeles was  --  if not actually false  --  far from accurate . Addis Ababa is a collection of villages strung together by a couple of broad boulevards with grand titles  --  Winston Churchill Avenue , for example , and Avenue of Marshall Tito  --  and by a network of nameless roads on which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I saw in every quarter long lines outside the bakeries . Grain  --  particularly teff , which is specially fine stuff made from a prairie grass harvested only in Ethiopia  --  is in very short supply . It is not available in the kebele stores , and the bread lines in front of the commercial stores testify to the demand . The price of teff , which now averages about seventy-five cents per kilogram , has , I was told , gone up four hundred per cent in the past year . Despite all the police and military men in evidence , moreover , security is far from impressive . No doubt there has been an improvement since last winter , when a Red Terror was mounted by the regime to counter an earlier White Terror , directed against the government . During the Red Terror , every night yielded about a dozen corpses , often left in the central market with signs warning that more were to come . Hundreds of people must have been killed , and thousands sent to prison . But if there has been considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I heard shooting from my hotel every night . No European I met would venture out after curfew , on the ground that the kebele patrols shot first and asked for identification later . One merchant told me that the chairman of his kebele , a doctor , had been suddenly packed off to jail in April . A thousand young people in the district had been sent to prison during the previous month . The local Christian and Islamic leaders had both been murdered . I repeatedly saw squads of children between six and eight years old goose-stepping through the streets as a kebele official barked orders and brandished a rifle over their heads . Through friends connected with an international agency in Addis Ababa , I dined one evening with a couple who were distantly related to Haile Selassie . They had lost several houses that they had built and rented to others . They lived now on the salary earned by the wife in one of the United Nations agencies  --  the Economic Commission for Africa , which is based here . They had applied to the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many members of the husband 's family were in prison , as were all the members of the Emperor 's family who had not escaped or been executed . In the course of the evening  --  that is , between seven and eleven  --  the wife phoned her home four times to make sure that her children were safe . IHAD two opportunities to discuss -I these matters with officials of the kebele structure . First , the Information Ministry arranged for me and a Swiss journalist to interview Megete Gergerite , the chairman of Higher Kebele No. 1 , a grouping of seven kebeles controlling about eight thousand families . Mr. Megete , a voluble former schoolteacher , met us at the Ministry , and took the offensive at the start with a lecture on Western journalism . " We are doing our best to apply a revolutionary system , " he said . " We expect the Western mass media to report objectively the fight of Socialism , peace , and equality against the oppressive system of feudalism and international imperialism . But the Western mass media look for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ media present what we are doing as Fascism . However , the objective conditions are quite different from that . Since the establishment of the kebeles , the Ethiopian masses have been organized and politicized . Apart from intensifying the class struggle , the kebeles are mobilizing the masses to defend the integrity of our country by recruiting fighters for the people 's militia and sending them to the front . We establish kindergartens , and make food available , and raise funds for helping people who are suffering . " Here I managed to get in a question about the number of people who had been put in prison by the kebeles. 11,1r . Megete went right on with his lecture . " The word ' prison ' is a feudal word , " he said . " We have revolutionary education for reactionaries . In our higher kebele , maybe there are twenty-five to forty to a hundred people undergoing revolutionary education . " I asked the obvious question : " Who is a reactionary ? " He replied , " Reactionaries are those who exploit the people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members are against the revolution . If they are reactionary , we teach them Marxism-Leninism . This teaching will go on for a long time . Sometimes there will be killing . It will continue , I promise , until the reactionaries in Higher Kebele No. 1 are eliminated . " At that point , he looked at his watch , and said that he had a meeting and that we should follow him back to the headquarters of Higher Kebele No. 1 . He walked quickly from the building , entered a Volkswagen bus full of armed soldiers , and sped off . The Swiss journalist and I , with the guide assigned us by the Ministry of Information , jumped into another Volkswagen bus and asked the driver to follow . But we soon lost the quarry , and when we presented ourselves at the headquarters of Higher Kebele No. 1 we were not admitted . I protested this treatment to our guide , who relayed my complaint to his superiors at the Ministry . At the hotel that night , I was handed a telephone message from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your case , so if you are not able to keep up , you can leave the country . " The Swiss journalist and I , along with two Czech journalists , were also granted an interview with Deputy Mayor Johannes Heroui , a well-spoken thirty-seven-year-old Addis Ababa lawyer , educated in Britain , West Germany , and East Germany . We met at the city hall , in the office of Mayor Alemu , the head of the kebele structure in the city , who was educated in the Soviet Union , and who is known as the Robespierre of Ethiopia . Dr. Alemu was out of the country , and Mr. Johannes was filling in for him . He started off by explaining the roots of local violence in Addis Ababa . From the very beginning , he said , the revolution had been opposed by a left-wing intellectual group , the Ethiopian People 's Revolutionary Party , or E.P.R.P. , which objected to military rule and teamed up with the feudal interests connected with Haile Selassie in opposing land reform in the country and in the city . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ E.P.R.P. resisted them . " At first , the E.P.R.P. merely sneered that the kebeles were useless , and urged people not to join , " he said . " After the kebeles were established , the E.P.R.P. changed tactics . They began to penetrate the organization and have their own people elected to office . The E.P.R.P. made false charges  --  for example , that we were supposed to build houses for everybody but did n't . Then they began a campaign of violence  --  the White Terror  --  against kebele officials . In the White Terror , they killed a hundred and fifty people . To resist the V4Thite Terror , the leadership of the Dergue armed the kebeles , and , under Mayor Alemu , we instituted our Red Terror . Maybe the term ' Red Terror ' was a mistake . But we had to protect the revolution . " I asked him how many people had been killed under the Red Terror . He said he could n't give a figure . I asked if it was higher or lower than the figure for those killed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to keep score , " he said . He went on to affirm some of the benefits of the kebeles . He said that rent had gone down for most of the people in Addis Ababa , that eighty-five new playgrounds had been built for children in local neighborhoods , that kebeles had established twenty new kindergartens , and that the people 's shops had prevented hoarding by merchants and worked to keep prices down . He felt that hygiene and sanitation had been improved . " Four or five months ago , there was disarray in the city , " he acknowledged . " Now order is returning . The revolution , which has changed conditions chiefly in the country , is also working here in the city . " Just before leaving , I asked him whether the fairs I had seen at Kebele No. 26 and the Black Lion Hospital had been successful . " Yes , " he replied , beaming . " Thou-sands of people were mobilized , and big sums were raised . " He backed off when I asked how much . But then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been raised in the past year . I asked how that compared with the budget of Addis Ababa . The budget was only eight mil-lion , he said . Right there , I had an answer to a principal question about the kebeles . Whatever they may have provided in services and security , they were also a system for mulcting the citizens  --  a rough form of taxation for the revolution . Later , I learned that in Amharic , the official language of Ethiopia , the verb " to rule " ( negesle ) originally meant " to collect tribute . " SHORTLY thereafter , I had a chance to see the impact of the revolution on the countryside . The countryside is , in effect , Ethiopia  --  not only because ninety per cent of the nation 's population of thirty million lives there hut , more important , because the terrain is so special and its influence so pervasive . Ethiopia  --  especially the central part of the country , which formed the old kingdom of Abyssinia  --  is a high plateau , from six to eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , deep rifts , and isolated valleys . " They tell us this is a tableland , " a British soldier marching through the country is supposed to have said . " If it is , they have turned the table upside down , and we are scrambling up and down the legs . " Amhara , the name of the ethnic group that has dominated the highlands for centuries , apparently means " mountaineer , " and , like most mountain people , the Amhara tend to he proud , secretive , and independent . Communications have never been easy , and to this day something like two-thirds of the population is believed to live more than a day 's walk from the nearest road . Isolation has bred a respect for individualism if not for the individual  --  and even now the round thatched huts of the peasants tend to he widely separated rather than grouped in villages . Needless to say , the Amhara have not had an easy time scraping out a living . " Grain is king " is one of their sayings , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ' Wax &; Gold , " that " when asked what is their chief goal in life , Amhara peasants frequently respond with the expression sarto rnabliit ( having worked , to eat ' ) . " Historically , the Amhara have been a barrier against penetration of northeast Africa by the Arabs , who have repeatedly occupied the coast along the Red Sea ( Eritrea ) and the Indian Ocean ( Somalia ) . As a barrier  --  in much the way the Magyars were against the Turks  --  the Amhara clung with special force to the traditions that defined their identity : to the Ethiopian Orthodox Church , a Christian church similar to the Coptic Church of Egypt , and to an imperial line supposed to go back to the union of King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba . I had made plans to visit the countryside with representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture , but on the appointed day they were assembled in an auditorium for an examination on revolutionary principles , so I made the expedition with the agricultural attach ? of a Western embassy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the town of Debre Zeit , explaining as we drove that the land had been nationalized by decree on March 4 , 1975 . The decree confiscated all private land without compensation , and was aimed chiefly at the large estates of feudal lords and of the Church in the southern parts of the country . Families tilling the soil were allowed to retain possession of twenty-five acres of the land they cultivated . Peasants ' debts to landlords and services due them were cancelled . To operate the large estates and provide for the marketing of produce and for local administration , the government had established a rural equivalent of the kebeles peasant asso-ciations . First students and then specially trained officials from the Ministry of Agriculture were sent to the countryside to help establish the peasant associations . Given the vast differences in terrain and tenure , the attache continued , the sweeping land-reform decree inevitably had varied effects . On the northern plateau dominated by the Amhara , where the land had long since been worn out by overcultivation , tenure had been communal by tradition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule . Land reform had made comparatively little difference . The attache had recently returned from a trip through Wollo Province , In 1973 and 1974 , famine in lArollo and other northern provinces had cost the lives of around a hundred thousand people . Government handling  --  or , rather , coverup  --  of the distress had led directly to the revolt against Haile Selassie . Returning this year , the attache found conditions not markedly different . He noticed that peasants still bowed and touched their foreheads in a gesture of feudal submission . There were big pockets of drought . Some of the wheat had been attacked by ergot fungus , which causes a disease of the circulatory system called ergotism ; people who eat the poisoned wheat suffer gangrene and , occasionally , loss of limbs . He had seen several cases himself and had heard of dozens more . In one village , he had watched a starving infant fight with a chicken for a crust of bread , which , once eaten , might well have caused death from ergotism . In another vilage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the countryside in search of food . But this time there was no coverup . The peasants could make their troubles known to the government through the peasant associations , and the government had established an Ethiopian Relief Commission . There would be serious privation and some starvation , but he thought there would probably he no mass famine . In the southern part of the country , where large estates had been parcelled out by the emperors to court favorites and the Church , land reform had been an enormous success . Peasants found that they got higher prices , did not have to share crops with the landlord , and paid only a nominal rent  --  about five dollars per acre each year to the peasant association . " On the whole , " the attache said , " land reform has been a source of strength  --  maybe the most important source of strength  --  for the new government . " Our first stop in Debre Zeit was at an agricultural-training institute that had originally been established by an American aid mission . Ethiopians , and only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a varied lot  --  some from John Deere , in the United States , and others from East Germany . On one of the doors was a poster showing the new Soviet woman in various roles : cosmonaut , schoolteacher , doctor , sailor , dewy-eyed bride , peasant , mother with babe in arms . Underneath , an excerpt from a Soviet document proclaimed , " Women in the U.S.S.R. shall be accorded equal rights with men in economic , governmental , cultural , political , and other public activities . " There was also a cartoon of two Ethiopian peasants holding a landlord upside down over a cliff and shaking the money from his bulging pockets . At the training institute , we were directed to a spot where I could interview a group of peasants . We intercepted about a dozen returning from the fields , driving livestock before them . All wore hats , trousers , shirts , and coats . Most had shoes or sneakers , but some were barefoot . On being questioned by the Western attach ? , they said they were members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I asked them what they thought of the land reform . " We enjoy it very much , and there is one important reason , " an elderly man who seemed to be the spokesman said . " We own the land , and we are equal with the landlords . " He went on to explain other benefits . " We cultivate the land and choose the crops that sell best . We sow teff , barley , and field peas . We can sell them to anybody . We have no problem disposing of our produce . In fact , we have sold so much already that all we have left is enough to feed ourselves and to use as seed for the next harvest . " I asked about the militia that had been recruited and sent off to Ogaden and Eritrea . " That 's not a problem , " one of the other peasants replied . " We have a militia in the peasant association , and if there is someone who interrupts our work , then he is dealt with . " There was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , he said , and he added , " We will send as many as are required to fight . ' We help their wives and their children , and take care of their land for them . We have that obligation . " But when I asked where the fighting was , nobody knew . Nor had any body heard of either Ogaden or Eritrea . Before we left , I asked what the biggest problem was . " The worst thing is that there 's nothing to buy , " one said . " There 's no salt and no coffee . We ca n't find clothes . Sometimes we do n't even bother to send food to the market . We just eat it . " Driving back , the attache explained to me that the shortage of consumer goods was pervasive . " Debre Zeit is on the main road , only thirty-five miles from Addis Ababa , " he said . " You can imagine hnw little the peasants who live more than a day 's walk from the nearest road have to buy with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods to the countryside was caused mainly by a shortage of transport . Most trucks had been pressed into military service in Eritrea and Ogaden . The Eritrean resistance had cut off roads , and the railway from Addis Ababa to Djibouti , a former French colony that had just acquired independence , had just been reopened after virtual destruction in the Ogaden war . So the attache did n't think that the supply of goods was going to get better soon . He also felt that in other parts of the country resistance to land reform had probably boiled into secessionist activities . As a result of all this , the peasants tended more and more to hold back produce , and that caused prices to rise in Addis Ababa and elsewhere . " Even so , I 'd still rate land reform a success  --  a big success  --  for the revolution , " he said . " In many other countries  --  in Mexico , in Yugoslavia , in India  --  land reform was followed by a big drop in production . Not here . Even though many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , production has stayed relatively high . The peasants are better off , and they support the regime . " HAVING seen aspects of the revolution close up , I determined to acquire some perspective from on high . First , I turned to the Russians . They live in Addis Ababa much as I remember them living in Cairo when they played such an important role during the regime of President Garnal Abdel Nasser . They inhabit a compound , which is walled and guarded . They shop at a special market  --  a former American military PX , which is now called the Victory Department Store , where they can buy cigarettes ( including Winstons , Bents , Salems , and Marlboros ) , Revlon lipstick , Tide detergent , Hermes scarves , Carnation milk , and Moa Chandon champagne . At the airport , which is serviced by an international oil company , Russian pilots get priority treatment in refuelling . Small shopkeepers near the Soviet compound expressed distaste for the Russians , because " they look but do not buy , " and I was told that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are visible in Addis Ababa . The primary Communist presence in Ethiopia is Cuban -- some seventeen thousand troops , who were ferried in by the Russians when fighting became serious in Ogaden , in the fall of 1977 . The Cubans blend easily into the population , in part because many of them are dark-skinned . They are housed near the Cuban Embassy , in pleasant villas  --  unfenced and unguarded . They drive about in trucks , smiling and waving . Once when I was riding in a taxi , we stopped behind a truck carrying Cuban soldiers . One of the soldiers was eating a banana , and the driver said he would like one , too . I made appropriate hand signals , and the Cuban soldier climbed down from the truck and gave the driver a banana . The Soviet Ambassador , Mr. Ratanov , whom I visited at the Russian Embassy , turned out to he an agreeable middle-aged man with glasses , a crewcut , and an extremely frank manner . I asked him if he was n't concerned that the Russians would eventually be ousted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other countries to which they had furnished military assistance . He said , " Ethiopia is different from most African countries . If there were a revolution in Niger , everything would he over in one night . Political life there exists only among an elite of a hundred people . You could change the government , and the people would n't even notice . But in Ethiopia there has been a class society with well-established boundaries between classes . It has been an independent state . There was a nobility , which was a landowning class . There was an old monarchy , and an old and outworn Church . In other words , there was an organic society  --  a body with a head , trunk , arms , and legs . Here it was not possible to change the head without changing the body . It was not so different from Russia in 1917 . At the root of the revolution was a popular movement against injustice . You had explosive material for a popular uprising by students , or workers , or the Army . As it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ played the role of the Party . Not that there was a military coup , or action by the general staff . Instead , the thrust came from below  --  from the sergeants . They formed the Dergue and took control . Mengistu is a revolutionary and a patriot . He rejects mere nationalism . He is a patriot who has a class approach to problems . Right now , most of the problems arc military especially with Eritrea and Ogaden . But Mengistu still speaks of his attachment to Marxism-Leninism . He says that it explains the laws of the development of society . He says , ' I am a sincere Marxist-Leninist . ' " I later asked a Western diplomat , who did not wish to be identified by name or country , to comment on the Russian view . " The revolution here was genuine , " he said . " There was a feudal society , and the lines of status ran into the Army itself . Many of the military  --  especially Mengistu  --  shared all the resentments of the peasantry , and so they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was real , and so was the nationalization . But the soldiers never got back to their barracks . Now military problems have come to the fore . Order has to be maintained , so the regime has become less and less revolutionary , and more and more military  --  more and more , in fact , like just another African military dictatorship . " Finally , I turned to a leading Ethiopian newspaperman , Mogus Tekle Mikael , who studied at the Columbia School of Journalism . He has accepted the revolution and has become manager of the English-language paper in Addis Ababa , the Ethiopian Herald . Mogus told me , " The revolution of 1974 was spontaneous . None of us had a clear idea of what it was going to look like . There was no party in being  --  no rehearsals , so to speak . The greatest problem in Ethiopia for a generation was land tenure . Nobody knew how it could be solved . That the armed forces have been able to produce a program is a great success . But the Dergue is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the reason there is a lot of confusion  --  that is why so many mistakes have been made . Our real objective is to create social justice . We are pure and righteous , but we have no ideology . We have had to import ideology from the outside . We have also had costly wars imposed upon us from the outside , in Ogaden and Eritrea . In any revolution , the most important thing is power . At every stage , events have challenged the power of the new leadership . But we will muddle through . " THE struggle for power in Ethiopia began in 1974 , while Haile Selassie still reigned , and it is still going on . Tracing its exact course is difficult , in part because revolutionary politics is inherently clandestine , and in part because the Ethiopians , in the tradition of mountain people , tend to be secretive . " In this country , " I was repeatedly told , " even the tip of the iceberg is underwater . " But the rough outlines of what happened are clear . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the quadrupling of oil prices , provided the stuff of revolution . Thereafter , factional fighting divided the military and raged between two rival civilian groups of left-wing Marxists . The strictly internal struggles then intersected with major wars  --  in Ogaden and in Eritrea  --  which brought the superpowers and their clients into the conflict . In 1974 , drought and rising prices drove all  --  which is to say a handful  --  the semi-independent institutions that existed under Haile Selassie to raise their voices against the regime . Students at the secondary schools in Addis Ababa and at Haile Selassie I University staged violent demonstrations against the so-called King of Kings . The teachers struck for higher pay . So did the railway workers , the dockers at the Red Sea ports , and the taxi-drivers . Striking students and taxi-drivers stoned a fleet of buses owned by the Emperor and his family . Ethiopian Airlines personnel also walked out , and at one point the Confederation of Ethiopian Labor Unions , a fledgling organization that was once regarded as a kind of imperial toy , staged a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most powerful group in the country  --  the military . At that time , the armed forces were an exact replica of the decaying feudalism that pervaded Ethiopia . Rigid caste lines separated the officers from the enlisted men , most of whom came from peasant families . The highest officers were generally titled nobles related by blood or marriage to the Emperor . But the need to fight the battles of the twentieth century and to man its weapons had obliged Haile Selassie to open the officer corps , and so , just beneath the highest commanders , there were professional officers trained by the British during the Second World War . Below them were the middle-class products of the Harar Military Academy , Ethiopia 's West Point . Finally , in the lower officer grades were former enlisted men , who , after years in the ranks , had been given a chance at officer status in a training school at Holeta , about thirty miles west of Addis Ababa . The event that is now generally regarded as the beginning of the Ethiopian revolution occurred in January @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles south of Addis Ababa , near the border of Kenya The well used for drinking water by the enlisted men ran dry . The officers refused the men access to their well . The men mutinied , and took their commander prisoner . The trouble that had started at Neghele spread in fits and starts throughout the armed forces . Members of the Army 's 2nd Division , in Eritrea , mutinied , and units of the 4th Division , in Addis Ababa , followed suit . The Navy , based at Massawa , in Eritrea , went along with the soldiers . The 3rd Division , with headquarters at Harar , in Ogaden , joined in in sympathy . Air Force helicopters flew over Addis Ababa dropping leaflets urging the police to rebel . By the spring of 1974 , the rebellious officers and men had established a national group representing all the military forces in the country  --  the Armed Forces Coordinating Committee , known as the Dergue . The committee had a hundred and twenty members , most of whom were enlisted men , and who included @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of power passed quickly to the former enlisted men who had graduated from the Holeta training school . At a meeting in June , one of these emerged as the leading figure  --  Major Mengistu Haile Mariam , a thirty-two-year-old ordnance officer , who was the son of an enlisted man and a woman who had worked as a servant for a noble family . Starting that spring , the committee ran the country from behind the scenes . After a new cabinet appointed by the Emperor had refused to approve land reform , the Dergue came front and center . On September 12th  --  the second day of the Ethiopian New Year  --  the Emperor was deposed and placed under arrest . He was kept in confinement until his death , apparently from natural causes , on August 27 , 1975 , at the age of eighty-three . Most of his family and his political friends were taken into custody . The committee established itself as a Provisional Military Administrative Council but continued to be known simply as the Dergue . Two graduates of the 1960 class at Holeta  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Abate , from the 4th Division  --  became , respectively , first and second vice-chairmen of the council . As titular head of the council , they named the most distinguished professional soldier in the Ethiopian Army  --  Lieutenant General Aman Michael Andorra , former commander of the Harar Military Academy , who had most recently been Chief of Staff and Defense Minister . Despite formal announcements from the Dergue that he was merely a " spokesman , " General Aman moved quickly to assert himself as a national leader . He held a press conference at which he spoke of changing the monarchy to a republic ( with himself as President , presumably ) . An overt dash with Mengistu ensued when the Dergue moved to execute the former officials most closely identified with the Emperor . General Aman refused to sign the execution warrants . Mengistu won approval in the Dergue and , on November 22 , 1974 , reportedly led an attack against General Aman 's home . Aman was killed the next morning , and later that day fifty-nine other Ethiopians prominent in the regime of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Addis Ababa at the time recalls the announcement of the purge : " We looked at those names , and suddenly realized what had happened , " he said . " It was the end of the old regime . Everybody there had been a figure of importance . It was almost our guest list for our annual Fourth of July reception . As to Aman , the reports are that Mengistu himself shot the General . " Another general and former commander of the Harar Military Academy , Tafari Banti , was quickly hoisted into the figurehead post of chairman of the Dergue . General Tafari had too little support to run things himself . But Major Sisay Habte , an Air Force officer and a trained engineer with an advanced degree from the University of Washington in Seattle , apparently emerged as a potential threat to Mengistu inside the Dergue . He was executed , along with several other officers , in July , 1976 , on the charge of plotting a coup with the Central Intelligence Agency . The other well-educated officers in the Dergue  --  Captain Alemayu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a graduate of the Harar Military Academy  --  built a challenge to Mengistu around Tafari Band . At the end of December , 1976 , they managed a reorganization of the Dergue which clearly eroded some of Mengistu 's authority . Power was vested in a seventeen-member standing committee . Mengistu , though he was a member of the standing committee , was shunted into a relatively weak ministerial post . General Tafari was made commander-in-chief . Captain Mogus became head of a political committee within the Dergue , and Captain Alemayu took over managerial functions as secretary-general of the standing committee . In February of 1977 , Mengistu staged a shoot-out at the Dergue headquarters , in the royal palace . General Tafari and Captains Mogus and Alemayu were all killed  --  some say by Mengistu , who , according to one account , manned a machine gun himself . Nine months later , on November 11th , Mengistu 's only visible rival , Atnafu Abate , was executed . That left Mengistu holding all the reins  --  as head of state , secretary-general of the standing committee of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Once on top in the Army , Mengistu moved to deal with his rivals in the civilian world . The nonmilitary organizations that had subverted Haile Selassie in 1974 had been brought under control within a year of the formal ouster of the Emperor . The Confederation of Ethiopian Labor Unions , after it had made an abortive effort to call a second general strike , was absorbed into a government-run union . The closing of the university and the top grades of the secondary schools by the Dergue in 1974 and 1975 disrupted the organizations of teachers and students . The latter were further demoralized and disarmed by being dispatched to the country in a work program  --  called zemetch a , or " warpath " ? initiated in 1974 by the Dergue , and then continued as an instrument of land reform . But the Dergue depended upon individual members of the intelligentsia to develop programs in ministries such as agriculture and housing , and to mobilize the population on behalf of the revolution . A number ofintellectuals grouped themselves into two left-wing Marxist parties , which took different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the E.P.R.P. was made up chiefly of graduates of Ethiopian and American universities . They had opposed military rule from the beginning , and said so openly in a statement they published in August , 1975 . The other group  --  the Meieson , or All-Ethiopian Socialist Movement  --  was made up chiefly of graduates of European universities . The 14Ieieson leadership , most of which returned to Ethiopia only after the takeover , in September , 1974 , needed an entree into the national life , and elected to work with the Dergue . Members of the Meieson moved into the Ministry of Housing , where they set up the kebele program , and into the countryside , where they began organizing peasant associations . The best-known Meieson leader , a Marxist named Haile Fida , who was a veteran of fourteen years in the French university system , became head of a Provisional Office for Mass Organizational Affairs ( or POMOA ) , responsible for developing the ideology of the Ethiopian revolution , and keeping the bureaucracy and even the military in tune with it . In April , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a program of national revolution that called for " total eradication of feudalism , bureaucratic capitalism , and imperialism . through the leadership of the workers and the cooperation of the tillers . " Presumably , one reason the Dergue accepted the Meieson was to put pressure on members of the E.P.R.P. During early 1976 , the Amharic-language newspaper Addis Zeman carried an extended debate between a spokesman for the Meieson , who took the nom de plume Voice of the Masses , and one for the E.P.R.P. , under the name Democracia . The debate only deepened divisions : the Meieson denounced the E.P.R.P. as " anarchists , " and the E.P.R.P. called the Meieson members " collaborationists . " Feelings ran even higher after the execution , in July , 1976 , of Sisay Habte , who had favored a conciliatory relationship between the Dergue and the two civilian groups . In August , after a general strike called by the E.P.R.P. had failed , the government denounced the E.P.R.P. as " pseudo-reactionaries " and began a campaign to stamp out the Party . The E.P.R.P. responded with an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life of Mengistu himself on September 23 , 1976 . A few days later , one of Haile Fida 's chief lieutenants was shot dead in downtown Addis Ababa . The Dergue and the Fidaists hit back with organized violence that took the lives of scores of students in the next ten days . A year later came the turn of the Meieson . Meng-istu apparently sensed a threat to the Dergue in reports that the Meieson had penetrated the peasant associations and ideological schools for the training of bureaucratic and military cadres . In a reorganization of the ideological program , all organizations were substantially reduced and control of POMOA was taken from Haile Fida and vested in a military man . Some seventy Meieson leaders disappeared , and several  --  including Haile Fida ; the Minister of Housing , Daniel Tedesse ; and the Minister of Education and Director of Ideological Training , Teffera Woldetatik  --  were arrested and reportedly tortured . The remnants of the E.P.R.P. and the ousted Meieson then stepped up the campaign of violence against the few intellectuals who continued to collaborate with the Dergue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a candidate for mayor of Addis Abaha were killed in the flurry of action the Dergue labelled the NVhite Terror . The Dergue replied with the election of Mayor Alemu , arid with the Red Terror . WHILE many issues  --  some of them obscure -- figured in the struggle for power , one was constant and readily identifiable : Eritrea . That territory had been seized by Italy in 1882 , had been taken over by Britain during the Second World War , and had been federated with Ethiopia by a decision of the United Nations in 1952 , with the provision that it have a locally elected legislature . Despite its recent acquisition and a relatively small population , of two million , Eritrea was absolutely crucial to Ethiopia . It gave access to the Red Sea , through the ports of Assab and Massawa . Its capital , As mara , was the site of the Kagnew Station  --  an important United States military base and listening post in the Middle East . Largely because of the long Italian occupation , the Eritreans tended to be far better educated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's population included a million Muslims , who , being instinctively cool to the Christian kingdom in Addis Ababa , provided a foothold for Islamic penetration , and , it was feared , an eventual dismemberment of Haile Sclassie 's empire . The situation made the Emperor uncomfortable , and in 1962 Eritrea was formally annexed to Ethiopia . The dispossessed Eritrean leaders formed an Eritrean Liberation Front . Subsequently , the Front split into several factions , but these factions persisted in carrying on a guerrilla war against Ethiopian rule . Haile Selassie attempted to deal with the rebellion by brutal repression , which succeeded only in giving new impetus to the liberation forces . The accession of the Derguc in Addis Ababa worked in two ways to strengthen the Eritrean secessionist movement . Not only did the central government 's concentration on its own revolution divert it from military operations in the northeast but the switch from the conservative imperial regime to the left-wing military government enlisted new forces in the cause of the Eritreans . During the Emperor 's rule , the Eritreans found most of their support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iraq , Libya , and South Yemen , The end of the imperial regime dissolved the ties that bound the conservative Islamic states to Addis Abaha . After 1974 , Saudi Arabia , Kuwait , and Egypt subsidized the Eritrean separatists . The Dergue , unlike the Emperor , followed a policy that mixed moves to suppress the secession with efforts  --  or , at least , apparent efforts  --  to strike a compromise . The stepped-up military pressure  --  additional troops in 1975 , and , in 1976 , the mobilization of a peasant militia farce of forty thousand men  --  availed little . Though the fighting waxed and waned , the Eritrean secessionists hung on . From 1974 to the present , they have held most of the countryside , and since the middle of 1977 they have confined the government forces to Asmara and the port cities of Assab and 11.1assawa . But if the fighting has been indecisive , the politicking has not . Those inside the Dergue who favored conciliation have all paid the supreme price . General Aman , the first figurehead chairman of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nadew . As for the civilian politicians , both the E.P.R.P. and the Meieson had favored conciliation . In an interview in Paris with Le Monde , on September 17 , 1977 , Neguede Gobezie , Meieson leader who escaped arrest because he happened to he in Paris when Menaistu moved against his colleagues , said that his party " recognizes the right of Ethiopia 's nationalities to self-determination , including the right to secession . " As the record suggests , the soft line on Eritrea turned out the way soft lines usually do under revolutionary conditions . The hard line prevailed , and its personification was Mengistu . For example , in one of his rare speeches , on August 24 , 1977 , he told a rally in Revolution Square in Addis Ababa , " Eritrean secessionists , who are traitors , will he wiped out . " Combined with the increasing radicalization of the regime , the tough position on Eritrea effected a change in relations with the United States . Haile Selassie had been a favorite in Washington , and American Administrations from Eisenhower 's through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ African policies . In 1953 , the United States and Ethiopia signed a twenty-five-year military-assistance agreement , under which the United States stationed several thousand military and civilian technicians at the Kagnew Station , while Washington trained and equipped Ethiopian forces . By the end of 1976 , the United States had spent over two hundred million dollars on military aid to Ethiopia , and had encouraged the Ethiopians to acquire some hundred and fifty million dollars ' worth of tanks , planes , artillery , and rifles . Though perhaps not as extensive asthe military aid , economic aid to Ethiopia through the Peace Corps , Point Four , and various other programs was far greater than similar aid provided to any other African country . With the development of satellite intelligence observation in the nineteen-sixties , however , the Kagnew Station had become less and less important . Washington began phasing out the operation in the early seventies . By 1974 , personnel had been cut drastically , to around thirty people , and the final shutdown was scheduled for 1977 , a year before the end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when America 's friends among the conservative Arab states  --  notably , Egypt and Saudi Arabia  --  took a position on the side of the Eritreans , against the Ethiopian policy of repression . In the spring of 1976 , the American Ambassador , Arthur Hummel , informed the Dergue of American reservations about the use of the peasant militia in Eritrea . After Hummel was promoted to Assistant Secretary for East Asian Affairs that June , the Ethiopians did not accept the ambassador who was named to replace him . The post was then left vacant . To all these problems there was added , in 1977 , the Carter Administration 's concern with human rights . On February 24th of that year , the Administration announced that , because of human-rights violations , Ethiopia would he denied all military aid as of the fiscal year beginning July 1st . The Dergue retorted on April 23rd with an order to close down the American consulate in Asmara , the Kagnew Station , and the United States information programs . A week later , the Dergue terminated the 1953 military-assistance agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American government , which never spoke of the violation of human rights when the Fascist government of Haile Selassie was decimating thousands of the oppressed Ethiopian people , takes ever ) opportunity to create hatred against revolutionary Ethiopia by depicting her as a country where human rights are violated . " Months earlier , the Dergue had sensed the fraying of relations with Washington and had begun to take out insurance in Moscow . An Ethiopian military mission visited the Soviet Union toward the end of 1976 , and , that December , reached a military-aid agreement on equipment worth , according to Western sources , a hundred million dollars . The agreement was confirmed and expanded in May of 1977 , when Mengistu himself visited Moscow , Still , the Russians moved very slowly ( the first equipment , which was secondhand and old , did not arrive until April , 1977 ) , because they had a conflicting commitment in the area  --  a commitment to Somalia . C omALIA  --  a desert land populated by fiercely nationalist Islamic tribes which borders the Indian Ocean to the east and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the west  --  gained independence from Britain and Italy in 1960 . The Somalis then turned to the Russians for military support , and the Russians gave it in abundance , particularly after a parliamentary r , gime was replaced by a left-wing military dictatorship under General Siad Barre , in 1969 . In 1974 , General Siad signed a friendship treaty with the Russians and provided them with a naval and missile base on the Indian Ocean , at the port of Berbera . Over the years , the Russians have provided Somalia with a modern military apparatus , including sixty MIG fighters and a few Ilyushin bombers , three hundred tanks , three hundred and fifty armored personnel carriers , and some surface-to-air missiles . This force constituted a genuine threat to Ethiopia , inasmuch as the Somalis had well-advertised claims to Ogaden . While Russia had originally backed these claims , the entente with Ethiopia moved Moscow to promote harmony between Somalia and Ethiopia , and with Russia 's other friend in the area , South Yemen . In March , 1977 , Fidel Castro , apparently at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Aden , the capital of South Yemen . He proposed a federation that would link Somalia and Ethiopia , and open the way to regional autonomy for both Ogaden and Eritrea . But Siad Barre refused to go along , and , in response to the Soviet shift away from his claims on Ogaden , began looking for patrons among the anti-Soviet governments . These were not in short supply . The Saudis , the Egyptians , the Iranians , and the Pakistanis all began funnelling aid to Somalia . The United States , with President Carter in the forefront , also began to beam on Siad Barre . The President allowed himself to he overheard by writers from Time , during a day he spent with them in April , 1977 , telling Vice-President Mondale , " I want you to tell Cy Secretary of State Cyrus Vance and Zbig Zbigniew Brzezinski , of the National Security Courtcill that I want them to move in every possible way to get Somalia to he our friend . " The friendship bid reached its high point on July 26 , 1977 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had decided " in principle " to supply arms to Somalia . Three days before , though Washington did n't know it , Siad Barre had launched , with his own forces and the Western Somalia Liberation Front , what developed into an all-out move to grab Ogaden . The Somali offensive embarrassed both superpowers . The United States came under pressure from many African states  --  especially Kenya , which was another object of Somali territorial claims , and which argued that the attack on Ogaden would not only dismember Ethiopia but engulf all of Africa in border problems . On August 10th , the State Department , reversing the decision of July 26th , announced a suspension of " the agreement in principle " to supply arms to Somalia , and called for mediation of the Ogaden conflict . The . Somalis would not accept mediation , and thereafter our government sat out the war . At first , the Russians tried to keep a friendly foot in each camp . The Soviet news agency Tass said , on August 14th , " The Soviet Union hopes that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and moderation , that they will put an immediate end to the military conflict , and that they will take places around the negotiating table to engage in constructive dialogue in the interest of normalizing relations between the two neighboring Countries . " Siad Barre subsequently went to Moscow , where he was presumably given the same message . But the early going in Ogaden was good . By September , Siad 's forces controlled the whole eastern section of the region and we-re approaching the highland cities of Harar and Diredawa . So he kept his troops moving , The Ogaden offensive , together with the continuing trouble in Eritrea , threatened to force the Mengistu regime from power . The Russians were thus confronted with the spectre of double disaster . They faced the possibility of losing both the stake they had built up for so long in Somalia and the stake they were beginning to develop in Ethiopia My clear impression is that the Soviet military , because of the base in Berbera , favored trying to keep the Somali connection but that the Soviet political leaders , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the pinch , the ideological argument prevailed . At almost the last moment , in the late summer of 1977 , the Russians began moving into Ethiopia a considerable number of Soviet military advisers and some fighting units from Cuba and South Yemen . Thus fortified , the Ethiopians held off a Somali effort to take the ancient walled city of Harar in the late fall of 1977 . The Somalis tried in every way to maintain momentum . They fought desperately . They pleaded for Western assistance . They broke relations with Cuba . They expelled Russia 's military advisers and denied them the base at Berbera . But , by means of a major airlift , the Russians brought in substantial quantities of Cuban troops some seventeen thousand all told , including a motorized brigade , according to American sources  --  and an estimated billion dollars ' worth of planes , tanks , and artillery . In the last week of January , the Ethiopian-cumCuban forces launched a counterattack in Ogaden . By early March , Somali forces had been driven from Ogaden . Siad Barre had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . So , American policymakers began to fear , had the Russians and the Cubans . There was a good deal of talk in Washington at the time to the effect that international Communism had achieved a major strategic victory in the piece of geography on the southern shores of the passage-between the Red Sea and the Indian Ocean which is known as the Horn of Africa . Ethiopia and its ports on the Red Sea were apparently in Communist hands . Somalia , with its army in quasi-revolt against Siad Barre , could follow . South Yemen , on the northern coast of the passage , was already under a pro-Soviet regime , and it was only a matter of time , the worst-case theory went , before the Communists would control the waters through which precious oil cargoes from Saudi Arabia , Iran , and the sheikdoms of the Persian Gulf passed on their way to Europe end the United States . In April , the Carter Administration and several European governments issued stern warnings against the Soviet and Cuban presence in the Horn . In mid-May , these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another development the intensity of Washington 's reaction to the incursion against Zaire by forces from Angola , which had been the first African state to welcome Russian and Cuban cooperation . As it happens , matters arc far from settled in Africa , or the Horn , or even Ethiopia . At a summit meeting of African leaders in Khartoum , the Nigerian leader , Olusegun Ohasanjo , warned the Russians and the Cubans not to " overstay their welcome . " Siad Barre seems to have survived the worst , and he is taking the offensive again . In Ethiopia , the Eritrean question also remains , and since March Nleng'stu has focussed his attention there . Ethiopian troops were moved to the northern front , and the airlift of supplies was redirected from Ogaden to Asmara , while Cuban troops were stationed on the route to Eritrea . Mengistu ? sought backing for new military ventures , visiting first Moscow and then Cuba . Apparently , neither the Russians nor the Cubans had much stomach for a long and costly war , and a communique issued nn April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuba , said not one word about Eritrea . On the contrary , it made a general reference to " the major victories achieved by the popular national-liberation movements . " And in the long run , of course , no one can he sure how dependent Mengistu will want to he on the Russians and the Cubans . His own prospects look fairly solid . He still holds all the reins , and is further protected against challenge by commanding the " patriotic " high ground on Eritrea . As to his foreign connections , a Scandinavian diplomat who seems to he almost neutral in the Big Two competition says , " I think Mengistu is primarily a patriot . Though he is for the revolution , which can not now he undone , I doubt if he will want his government to depend heavily on the Communist states . Even more than most countries in Africa , Ethiopia wants no part of rule by foreigners . So I think that the Russians will eventually lose their strong position here , as they have done in so many other Third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  maybe five years , maybe ten . "                     