@@252081

The elderly are most often victims of strokes-the circulation stoppages in the brain that can cause paralysis and death . Yet for five years doctors at the University of Southern California Medical Center have been noticing an increase in young stroke victims and looking for an explanation . Now they have found one . Reporting in the journal Radiology , a U.S.C. research team has disclosed evidence that methamphetamine , or " speed , " one of the most widely used of the current " pop " drugs , can cause deterioration of the small blood vessels of the brain . <P> Dye Path . A link between amphetamines and circulatory problems was first suggested in 1970 by Dr. B. Philip Citron . He observed the signs of widespread small-vessel deterioration in 14 young drug abusers , most of whom mainlined speed . Four of them died as a result . Observation of nearly 100 other patients since then has strengthened Citron 's initial theory . <P> A controlled experiment by a second research team has provided still more proof . Dr. Calvin Rumbaugh of the hospital 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an X-ray technique in which a dye is injected into the brain 's arteries to enable doctors to follow its path through the smaller blood vessels . The tests showed most of the patients to be suffering from occlusion , or blockage , of the small arteries . To determine whether speed could cause such damage , Rumbaugh and his team injected five rhesus monkeys with methamphetamine every other day for two weeks . Then the scientists killed and autopsied the five , plus two animals that had received no drugs but had otherwise been kept under identical conditions . Neither of the drug-free monkeys showed any sign of brain damage . But all five of the others , which had received speed doses comparable to those taken by many thrill-seeking youngsters , had irreversible brain damage in the areas around the small blood vessels-similar to the damage found in humans who die from strokes .                     