@@479447

IN TIMES OF relative equilibrium , the symbols and institutions of a society provide comforting guidelines , a prescribed life cycle , for our internal experience as well as our external behavior . But in times of severe historical dislocation , these institutions and symbols ? whether having to do with worship , work , learning , punishment , or pleasure -- dose their power and psychological legitimacy . We still live in them , but they no longer live in us . Or rather we live a half-life with one another . The quest for images and symbols in new combination , for what might be called cornnmnal resyrabolization , is precarious and threatening ? so much so that it can itself be viewed as the cause for the cultural breakdown everyone senses . Whether we acknowledge it or not , feelings of disintegration and loss permeate contemporary life . Consider , for instance , the widespread inclination to name and interpret man in our present situation not in terms of what he might actually be but rather in terms of what he has been , that is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ post-modern , post-industrial , post-historic , post-identity , post-economic , post-materialist , post-technocratic , and so forth . There arc pitfalls in this way of naming the present ( or the future ) after what no longer is ( or will be ) , but the terms have an authentic source in the sense of survivorship , present or anticipated , that so pervades our deepest image of ourselves . /n other writings I have emphasized the importance of holocaust in our symbolic vocabnlary ? of the recent past ( Nazi death camps , Hiroshima and Nagasaki ) , the present ( Vietnam ) , and the future ( imagery of ultimate destruction by nuclear weapons , environmental pollution , or other means ) . Now we see the imagery of holocaust coming together with the experience of post-modern cultural breakdown : our loss of faith not so much in this symbol or that but in the entire intricate web of images , rituals , institutions , and material objects that make up any culture . The urgency of contemporary innovation stems from this sense of survival and loss at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( more or less ) rhetorical question put to me recently by a thoughtful student : " Arc four thousand years of human experience merely adding up to the capacity torepair a deficiency in a space ship several million light-years from home ? " IN RECENT WARS we have witnessed the emer- gence of a " Protean " psychological style of flux and flow of the self , or self-process ? of what the young call " goin ' through the changes " in an interminable series of experiments and explorations of varying depth , each of which may be readily abandoned in favor of still another psychological quest . The Protean style is that of a survivor of the kinds of technological and cultural holocausts , real and anticipated , that swirl around us . The Protean process is a product of a convergence of history and evolution . The two have always intertwined : Darwin 's message was that man emerged from other species in a historical process ; and there has been no lack of evolutionary interpretations of history . But we tend to view evolution as prehistorical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based upon our assumption of radically differing time scales in their impact upon man : during a historical unit of a decade or century , man was rarely changed in a fundamental way ? an evolutionary unit of a millennium or more was required for that to be accomplished . But our present revolutionary technology and unprecedented historical velocity cast doubt upon that distinction . We sense , uneasily , our capacity to eliminate man in evolution no less than in history , and short of that to alter man ? whether genetically , or through organ exchange , or mind influence ? as never before . Like so many of our boundaries , that between history and evolution is obscured rather than eradicated . As history and evolution converge , innovators embrace our new access ( made possible by technology ) to all forms ever known to human culture . Poised at a confusing and fiber-atina psychic brink , ready to plunge wildly ahead in an unknowable process devoid of clear destination , man suddenly finds , swirling about him , the total array of images created over the full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become an elusive form of psychic nutriment , to be ingested , metabolized , excreted , and , above all , built upon and recombined in a process of organic growth . Richard Sennett has observed that when a machine 's parts wear down , the machine can not operate . " But , " Sennett continues , " the essence of human development is that growth occurs when old routines break down , when old . parts are no longer enough for the needs of the new organism . This same kind of change , in a larger sphere , creates the phenomenon of history in a culture . " Death and loss can occasion profound re-search , re-creation , and renewal . But for such transformation to occur , the relationship of man to machine and of man to work must be altered in the direction of organic growth . This is Lewis Mumford 's principle of transition from mechanism to organism . But something more is involved as well : social arrangements that permit and encourage technology to become part of a larger principle of imaginative transcendence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ band to-gether to confront the pervasive sense of " living deadness " emanating from holocaust , undigested change , large feel-Eno-bureau , - racy , and above all the image of the machine . They seek new forms of connection , movement , and integrity around which to build new communities for living and working . One way to probe some of the fundamental dimensions of this process of communal resymholization is to view it within a framework of shifting modes of symbolic immortality , Symbolic immortality is an expression of man 's need for an inner sense of continuity with what has gone on before and what will go on after his own limited biological existence . The sense of immortality is thus more than mere denial of death , and grows out of compelling , life-enhancing imagery of one 's involvement in the historical process . This sense of immortality may be expressed biologically , by living on i , through one 's sons and daughters and their sons and daughters , extending out into social If dimensions ( of tribe , organization , people , nation , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a life after death or of other forms of spiritual conquest of death ; creatively , through " works " and influences persisting beyond biological death ; naturally , through identification with nature , with its infinite extension into time and space ; or transcendentally , through a feeling-state so intense that time and death disappear . Historical change itself can be understood in terms of shifts in these modes , or in combinations of these modes . Darwinism , for instance , during the latter part of the nineteenth century , became the center of a shift ( always gradual and partial ) from the theological to the biological and natural modes . Or the Chinese Revolution of the twentieth century can be understood as a shift from the biological mode ( the socioreligious principles of family continuity and filial piety ) to a form of " revolutionary immortality " that embodies aspects of all the modes . I believe that the significance of contemporary social experiments can best be grasped within this larger quest not just for change but for a change in enduring connectedness and commitment , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is at issue in the new kinds of families and family-like structures now taking shape . A wide variety of experimental communal arrangements press toward new forms of hiosocial continuity ? toward new " tribes , " a new " people , " or at least new forms of community . These groups ( sometimes but not always called communes ) concern themselves with root psychobiological matters or-ganic food , greater sexual freedom , collective child-rearing , and spontaneity of mental and physical expression . Observe the altered definitions of manhood and womanhood taking shape not only in such experimental enclaves but throughout much of society . Within a single generation we have seen the virtually exclusive American male ideal of the tough ( even brutal ) , tight-lipped , fists-ready , physically powerful , hard , anti-artistic , no-nonsense , highly competitive sexual conqueror give way to the gentle , open , noncombative , physically unimpressive , soft , aesthetic-minded , indirect and associative , noncompetitive , sexually casual self-explorer -- with a variety of types in between . Similarly , the feminine ideal of the soft , compliant , self-sacrificing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , physically and psychically strong , self-expanding , liberation-oriented feminist . Much of the original hippie and Women 's Liberation movements can be understood as explorations in broadened definitions of sex roles , so that one can be soft and tentative while still manly , hard and assertive while still womanly . This kind of experiment on the part of any of these groups must inevitably include excesses and absurdities . But in reaching for both the center and periphery of maleness and femaleness there is a groping toward fundamental alteration of the biosocial mode of immortality . There is , in other words , a biological base to Protean experimentation . And the theme of community ? of quest for biosocial continuity ? becomes fundamental to all contemporary transformation . The struggle for " community control " is often a struggle for community formation . It is an effort to reassert authority over the most fundamental aspects of life , to combine autonomy with lasting human connection . p ROTEAN EFFORTS AT TRANSFORMATION are very active in the theological ? or , more accurately , religious or spiritual ? mode @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiential-meditative forms of Christianity and Judaism , as well as with Buddhist , Hindu , and other Eastern religions . One can also point to revived interest in various premodern religious-like rituals and superstitions ? Eastern and Western astrological charts , the Chinese Book of Changes ( 1 Ching ) , and tarot cards and other forms of fortune-telling . Most commentary emphasizes the antirational nature of this embrace of seemingly primitive spirituality , which can indeed be present , especially for those who develop a preoccupation with charts and cards or feelings and vibes that excludes ideas , growth , and change . More characteristic , I believe , are the people who make forays in and out of these varied spiritual alternatives , as experiments in both knowing and feeling , in which one absorbs a fragment here , an image there , and maintains a sense of flow that is more consistent more " stable " ) than the involvement with any one of them . John S. Dunne , the distinguished Catholic theologian , posits as the new religion of our time " a phenomenon we might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over to the standpoint of another culture , another way of life , another religion ... followed by an equal and opposite process we might call ' coming back , ' coming back with new insight to one 's own culture , one 's own way of life , one 's own religion . " The process , and the new religion itself , are epitomized not by Jesus or any other founder of a world religion but by Gandhi , who followed such a trajectory from Hinduism to Christianity ( and to sonic extent to Islam ) and then hack to Pinduism . But even Gandhi , in the very focus of his faith , has a certain nostalgic ring for us . Could it be that the holy man of our time has only just begun to invent himself , that he will not merely " pass over " and " come back " in that relatively orderly sequence but will do so in a sustained , repeated , perhaps even endless process , in which spiritual depth no longer depends upon exclusive doctrine of any kind and realization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuing open search ? Whatever form our next prophet may take , we can be certain that we will be witnessing great waves of religious feeling . For what we call religion directs itself , at least at its best , to precisely the kinds of altered relationships to death and the continuity of life that occur during any historical turning point . But lest contemporary priests misunderstand the stirrings within their churches and temples ( and the much stronger religious expressions outside of them ) , this kind of renewed religious feeling presses not toward the stability of denominations and orders but toward their overthrow , not toward orderly worship within existing social arrangements but toward forms of worship ? of celebration and immortalization that subvert the numbing pseudoritual of " normal religion " in favor of newly immortalizing visions . T HE THIRD MODE of symbolic immortality , that of immortality via man 's works , has been a crucial area of social preoccupation . Involved here is the disorganized but powerful critique now under way of all major social institutions : those within which one learns , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all , finds significance . In the fundamental questions now being raised about universities and schools , political and judicial arrangements , intellectual disciplines and professional practices , there is a common overriding theme : the quest for significant work experience , both in immediate involvement and in a sense of the work 's contribution to the continuing human enterprise . For what we call work is a uniquely important boundary between self-process and social vision . Perhaps for the first time in history very large numbers of men and women are beginning to demand harmony and meaning at that boundary ; to demand a reasonable equation between work and " works . " This fundamental relationship between work and symbolic immortality is typified in the passions of the " work commune " movement ? the creation of small communities that permit pooling of professional , political , and psychobiological experiments . In these and such related groups as radical institutes and radical caucuses in all the professional disciplines , there is not only a powerful transformative element but a conservative one as well : a determination to confront and thereby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dismiss or ignore it in a spirit critical both of the tradi-tion itself and of its conventional applications . This task of resymbolization , traditionally the mission of great innovators , has now become something close to a mass experience . Large numbers of people , in one way or another , move ( in Daniel Berrigan 's phrase ) " toward the edge " of their profession or craft , not necessarily because they originally plan to but because their situation evokes altered relationships and judgments ? involving the lost ethical and hypertrophied technical components of work and profession , the separation of work and life , and the nature of the society and culture in and for which one works . All this is part of a largely inchoate yet profound quest for newly immortalizing combinations of human influence . We may suspect that the structures and institutions that emerge will have to build into their own evolving tradition the expectation of the unexpected , the capacity to engender a stability in equilibrium with periodic transformation ? which may , indeed , be the only form of true stability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ecological passions and to general fears about destruction of the envi-ronment , fears all too appropriate . But there is also a more positive impulse toward nature among many innovators , as exemplified by the rural commune movement . Many have ridiculed this movement and have looked upon it as nothing more than a pathetic form of pastoral romanticism , a regression to a discredited myth that is particularly misdirected in our present urban-technological society . There is no doubt that many of these communal efforts have been romantically envisioned and poorly planned . Moreover there is pathos and error in the claim , occasionally made , that they are the answer to our urban-technological dilemmas . But what is often missed in these exchanges is the psychological significance of reclaiming a relationship to nature as part of a more general psychic renewal . When young Americans create a rural commune in New Mexico or New Hampshire , they approach nature with contemporary sensibilities . They seek to bring nature back into a meaningful cosmology , back into the human imagination . They embrace nature in an experiment with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their way into the most urban minds . T HE FINAL MODE , that of experiential transcendence , differs from the others in being a psychic state per se . It includes various forms of ecstasy and rapture associated with the Dionysian principle of excess , and with the mystical sense of oneness with the universe Freud referred to as the " oceanic feeling . " Mystics speak of a state of awareness where , totally unencumbered by any particular idea or image , one is able to perceive the entirety of the larger universe and of one 's own being within it . This is the " high " one can get from drugs or from various forms of intense encounter ; the " trip " ; the state of being " stoned . " The terms are interesting . " High " implies elevation of psychic state in the direction of transcendence . " Trip " implies being in motion but something briefer and more temporary than , say , a " journey , " and having the implicit suggestion of return . " Stoned " implies an absolute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finality of stone ) , in this case intensity of feeling , ecstasy but also the numbness , insensitivity , or deadness of a stone ( stone blind , stone deaf , stone dumb , stone cold , stone dead ) . The duality may be appropriate : one undergoes a " small death " ( of more or less ordinary feeling ) in order to open oneself up to a " new life " ( to feeling on a different plane of intensity ) , to a sense of transcendence . One becomes impervious to the prosaic idea of mortality and feels oneself so exquisitely attuned to ? indeed merged with ? the universe as a whole that the issue of life versus death is no longer of consequence . Should the process fail , whether because of depending too much upon the technology of becoming " stoned " ( the dnigs themselves ) or for other reasons , one is left in a state of perpetual numbing ( stone dumb , stone cold , etc . ) . In a wide variety of experiments ? sexual , political , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quality of " awareness " or transcendence basic to the act . Indeed ; there is a very real sense in which experiential transcendence is the key , the baseline , for the other four modes . That is , one requires some form of ecstasy and oneness ? whether all-consuming or of a more gentle variety ? in order to experience oneself as living on in one 's children , works , spirituality , or relationship to nature . And that level of experience is also required for the inner psychological reordering necessary to individual transformation . Transformation as re-creation i RANSFORMATION IS ACHIEVED only by touchng a mythic or formative zone , very close to what Mircea Eliade speaks of as " the zone of the sacred , the zone of absolute reality . " For the seeker , it is " the road to the self , the road to the ' center ' of his being . " The principle is one of psychic action , by which I mean the genuine inner contact leading to confrontation , reordering , and renewal . As Eliade expressed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiences ' ' the presence of the dead , " the ceremonial depiction of " a death ' and a ' resurrection , ' a ' new birth , ' a ' new man , ' " and the overall principle that " life can not be restored but only re-created . " This , too , is the principle of genuine Protean transformation . Consider just a few of the psychological difficulties of individual and social transformation . For those moving into adulthood , the newness and instability of the contemporary situation is such that there can be few " formative fathers " available for them to emulate . Those who do exist are likely to be approached with a tenuous ambivalence or equally tenuous romanticism . Apart from models or leaders , there are very few existing social institutions within which fundamental transformations can be explored or developed . The result is a form of floating confusion that is in turn related to profound difficulties in connecting innovation with a sense of actuality . The innovator is thus likely to fluctuate between extreme self-doubt and a seemingly opposite but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Issues of betrayal and self-betrayal eon. front him at every point : his effort to innovate " betrays " his family and his past ; his failure to take a particular leap or his tendency to remair associated with existing society " betrays " M : new associates in innovation . More generally he experiences what I have called the guilt o social breakdown , the self-condemnation of flu man without anything to be loyal to . Most of all the Protean experimenter mus call forth dark areas of the psyche , demoni , imagery of destruction and suffering as threat ening to himself as to society . These " death sources " both reflect his dislocation and enei gize his renewal . While the ordinary perso erects protective devices to avoid confrontin them , the innovator moves toward them , sensin that his innovation depends upon them . An today that confrontation must take place withi the precarious diversity of the Protean patter ! No wonder young innovators ask the question as one did of me : " In order to make revolutic do you have to destroy yourself ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ innovators and their societ one must consider the theme of the " underground . " One thinks of underground movements , especially in the political realm , as those relegated to a secret , invisible place by their very illegitimacy ? by their unacceptability to those in control of society . For some groups such a definition undoubtedly still holds . But in broader present usage the theme of the underground may have greater importance as a psychic and social realm sought out by innovators in order to experiment with the work of transformation . Hence the word becomes almost interchangeable with " free " or " alternative " ? and we have the underground church , the underground press , underground films , free or alternative schools , the free university , etc . One should not be misled by the short life of most underground institutions or their confused and precarious relationship to , and frequent absorption by , the " overground " of proper society . We will continue to need underground themes in our society imagery of a subterranean realm of both exquisite mysteries and terrible demons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense and a land of death and continuous life in the paradigm I am suggesting . However often our social critics announce the death of the avant-garde , the counterculture , or the underground , we can expect continuous psychic experimentation in that realm , with individuals and groups periodically emerging from it renewed by insight and vision with which to confront the formative zone of the larger society . The ultimate task of transformation is the recreation of the adult self . In significant degree , an adult is one who has ceased to play and begun to work . Of course adults play too , but their play tends to be in the service of maintaining the social order , as opposed to the spontaneous subversiveness of the play of children . Adult work is the work of culture : everyday tasks are conducted under the guiding principles of the culture 's assumptions about transcendence and are subservient to the prevailing modes of immortality . Each steel girder installed , each mile driven in a taxi , each product order typed and approved contributes to a culture 's collective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structures , and sequences . Adult work is always tied in with a larger spiritual principle whether that principle is the Protestant ethic , the deification of capital , or the revolutionary vision . Indeed , one way of defining adulthood is as a state of maximum absorption in everyday tasks subsumed to transcendent cultural principles , permitting minimal awareness of the threat of individual death . This is in contrast to both old age and youth : in old age one is impinged upon by the imminence of death and becomes preoccupied with immediate evidence of continuity and integrity , while in youth one requires more intense and directmodes of transcendence rather than the more indirect workaday kind . Therefore when many of the young are accused of refusing to grow up and become adults , there is a sense in which the accusation is true ? and , indeed , must be true for innovators during any period of radical dislocation and change . What they reject is the existing version of adult existence their sense of adulthood as a locked-in , desensitized state ; one of unquestioned assumptions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and of fuzzy , nonviable , half-religious images about death , life , and " ultimate meaning . " Contemporary innovators are clear about their quest for a form of adulthood with more play in it . Play and playfulness are central ? for the kind of adulthood sought , and for the process of change itself on the way to that state . Great innovators have always been able to play and , in many cases , have come to their innovations via elaborate and disciplined forms of play . While this play is in some ways more characteristic of the child than of the average adult , it is nonetheless the play of adults , playfulness seasoned by form and accessible to insight . The innovator has always lived in exquisite equilibrium between his refusal to be an adult as ordinarily defined and his burdensome assumption of responsibility for a large segment of adult action and imagination . We sense now a demand that all , whatever their innovative talents , share in this playfulness and Proteanism until " adulthood " either disappears entirely or is renewed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " experience " our annihilation in order to prevent it that we confront and conceptualize both our immediate crises and our long-range possibilities for renewal . Joseph Campbell reminds us : " ... the idea of death and rebirth ... is an extremely ancient one in the history of culture , " frequently in the form of " a shock treatment for no longer wanted personality structure . " In our present Protean environment the principle still holds : every significant step in human existence involves some inner sense of death . As Francis Huxley puts the matter , " Where there is anxiety ? as there is in every human culture ? the imagination is called upon to destroy it by an act of reconstruction . " Destruction and reconstruction ? death and rebirth in the quest for immortalizing connectedness is at the center of man 's creation of culture . From this process alone can the urgently needed transformation of our own culture ensue . Heinrich Boll tells us that " an artist always carries death within him like n good priest his breviary . " The priest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we do no less .                     