@@314065

Francisco Franco has managed to stay on top in Spain for 31 years by adroitly balancing generals and bishops , Opus Dei technocrats and Falangists . Nonetheless , the real basis of his power has been the fidelity of the Spanish army . Last week , as the tense country awaited the outcome of the stormy trial of 16 Basque terrorists , the uniformed leaders of Franco 's praetorian guard closed ranks around the Caudillo-so tightly , in fact , that it was hard to tell whether they had actually pulled a coup . <P> Spain 's ultra-right hard-liners in and out of uniform have never been happy with Franco 's steps toward " liberalization . " They decided it was time for a showdown earlier this month , when Spain was rocked by demonstrations in support of the Basques , and other terrorists kidnapped West German Diplomat Eugen Beihl . Soon , outraged army officers were meeting to plan a counterattack . Well before Hostage Beihl 's release last week on Christmas Day , the army 's strategy became clear , as " spontaneous " pro-Franco rallies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Price . Unmistakably , the army-generated outpouring of support was not much more than a veiled warning to Franco that he could be in deep trouble if he did not publicly review his sponsorship of Spain 's neglected right . But how would he respond ? The answer came when Admiral Luis Carrero Blanco , Franco 's vice president and surrogate strongman , went to a special session of parliament . Speaking for " the Caudillo of Spain and the Generalissimo of our armies , " the admiral told the delegates that he was there " to render the homage which the armed forces of the nation deserve . " <P> The dictator 's homage to the ultraright was not the only price exacted by the army . While conceding that war with Communist invaders from Moscow or Peking was " improbable , " Carrero Blanco announced that the nation had no choice but to develop its " maximum military potential . " That means that Spain will increase its spending on its armed services and other security forces , which already command an outsized 18.6% of the gross national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly put a strain on Spain 's economy , which is in a lingering recession . But the main cost of last week 's crypto-coup will be political . The military won an informal but all-important endorsement from parliament as the chief guarantor of the regime 's " continuity " when Franco , now 78 and ill , dies and Spain reverts to a monarchy under the youthful and unseasoned king-to-be , Prince Juan Carlos . <P> The strength of that endorsement should become apparent in the next couple of months , when Franco is expected to respond to the military 's demands that he reshuffle his 19-man cabinet . Among those likely to be shuffled out are the more liberal Opus Dei ministers who have been pushing the pragmatic , outward-looking foreign policy that-as the hard-liners see it-has led to permissiveness and the emergence of troublesome dissenters at home .                     