@@494904

Recovery and Taxation Remember the Vietnam war surtax ? " Too little , too late " is the judgment of economists today , and at least in part the current inflation is the result . " Too much , too late " may be the judgment of history on a tax cut delayed until next year and enacted in the depth of a recession just when the forces of recovery may be taking hold . A real stimulus is needed now , and it is available in a tax bill reported out by the House Ways and Means Committee . To those worried that a tax cut will unduly aggravate inflation , there are two responses : first , in a depressed economy there is little opportunity for productivity gains to offset higher wages . And wage-inflation-escalator clauses and current labor contract settle ments ensure that there will be higher wages even in a deepening recession . The result will be more fuel for the inflationary fire , as the labor cost of production will continue to rise even more rapidly than wages . But if our productive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realized so that labor costs could begin to fall . Second , aqax cut now only offsets the effects of recent price increases . Taxes rise faster than income in any progressive tax system , so the US family whose earnings have managed to keep pace with the cost of living still finds itself falling behind in after-tax income . The family whose income has not kept pace is worse off , as social security taxes and other benefit costs rise in step with prices . All this adds to pressures for further wage increases at each labor negotiation , for workers covered by wage-escalator clauses find their standard . of living declining . Canada recognizes this problem , and the Canadian government now adjusts the tax structure each year to compensate for inflation . Cutting personal income taxes promptly will not jump prices more than they already will climb next year ; it will help to cut short the present economic decline ? if Congress moves quickly . To delay is to risk over-response next year when a stimulus may no longer be as necessary , and when most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Congress should likewise act promptly to set up a public employment program to ease the lot of the people who have been hardest hit . For those able to work , jobs are always preferable to relief checks , and with unemployment now expected to rise above seven percent next year an expanded public work program becomes essential . In addition , the incoming Congress should move toward setting up a system under which individual income tax rates would be automatically adjusted to eliminate distortions caused by soaring prices . This is a reform President Kennedy tried and failed to have adopted . As things stand now , a rise in money incomes moves households into higher tax brackets and forces them to pay more tax , at the very time real incomes are level or declining . The consequent penalty has squeezed the majority far too long . Some would argue that inflation also has squeezed corporate profits , which in constant dollars have been shrinking . But corporations in recent years have received significant tax credits or incentives that increased corporate cash flows and obscured true reserves . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , faster depreciation write-offs and investment tax credits ( which President Ford , with some justification , would increase ) . To illustrate the effect of such credits , Ralph Nader has computed that corporate income tax payments as a percentage of federal receipts " have been withering away over the last three decades , " from 33.6 percent in 1944 to an estimated 14.6 percent in 1974 . During that same 30-year period , the Treasury take from Social Security payroll taxes has risen from 3.9 percent of revenues to 29 percent , dramatizing the onerous burden that Social Security taxes have become to a growing number of families . It 's estimated that about half of today 's taxpayers pay more in Social Security tax than in federal income tax . Another needed reform , therefore , is one that would rebate some or all of the Social Security tax to lower-income groups . The poor already and justifiably get income tax breaks through low-income allowances . Such allowances and credits should be extended to payroll tax payments . And while doing something about the Social Security tax , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the so-called " negative income tax " system , which in effect would guarantee each household a minimum annual income . Experience has proved that certain business tax shelters have little or no economic or social benefit . Surely real estate shelters have done nothing to boost the housing supply , and the tax shelters that lead to cattle feeding investments merely give wealthy individuals a tax dodge and do little for full-time farmers and cattlemen . If anything , these shelters take capital away from possible investment in manufacturing , where more capital formation is needed . Administration officials like Treasury Secretary William E. Simon and Chairman Alan Greenspan of the Council of Economic Advisers argue that we need more restrictions on consumption so that savings can be boosted and the capital pool enlarged . But these men forget that about 70 percent of investment is financed through retained corporate earnings , and despite wailing from corporate boardrooms most companies have been able and willing to raise needed cash and debt even in these times of high interest rates and relatively scarce money . For example , in October , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second only to the $3.6 billion raised in March 1971 , as the highest monthly total on record ; new bond financing in the second half of this year is estimated to reach $18.2 billion , nearly double the first half . There is one reform in the corporate area that should be made , however : it is impossible to justify the double taxation of dividends ; dividends are paid out of after-tax profits and there is no reason General Motors , for example , should pay tax on its profits and the company 's shareholders should then be faced with another round of taxes on dividends received . Debate has intensified on reappraising capital gains taxation ; that is , the way any profits from assets are taxed upon sale . During the 93rd Congress , the Ways and Means Committee proposed that the proportion of a capital gain included in taxable income , now only 50 percent of the gain , be reduced even further , depending on the length the asset was held . The reasoning for this approach is twofold : 1 ) the longer an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gain that can be attributed to inflation , and 2 ) the declining tax rate will encourage individuals to sell appreciated assets at the lower rates . Much of the current lobbying to reduce the capital gains tax is linked to sagging stock prices , which " lock in " investors unwilling to take a loss . But in most cases investors buy assets ( stocks , bonds , real estate ) in the hope of beating inflation ; the investors take a gamble that their purchases will rise in value and thus provide a return greater than the general price rise . The gamble does n't always pay off , of course , but there is little justification for lowering the capital gains tax rate merely to help retrieve unexpected reverses in chancy investments . There is one loophole here that ought to be closed . It allows capital gains to escape all income taxation when transferred at death . While the majority of Americans regularly pay tax on wages and salaries , wealthy persons escape tax on their assets if they hold onto them during their lifetimes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for example , a person who bought 1000 shares of XYZ Corporation stock in 1920 for $1000 , and held onto those shares until they were worth one million dollars in 1974 . If that XYZ shareholder died tomorrow , his or her heirs would pay estate taxes . But the $999,000 increase in the value of the XYZ shares would escape all income tax . If the heirs then sold the shares for , let 's say , $1.1 million , their capital gains tax would be based on the $100,000 increase in stock value between the time of inheritance and time of sale , not the $1,099,000 increase between the time of original purchase and sale . Ending this indefensible practice , along with tightening the present " minimum income tax , " would generate Treasury revenues to pay for badly needed DECEMBER 21 , 1974 social programs . It would be foolish to overestimate the chances of the sort of legislation proposed here , even in the relatively more progressive Congress that convenes in January . The Ways and Means proposal ? eliminating taxes for single persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this with an increase in oil taxes ? has excellent prospects in the House , but if It reaches the Senate it will fall into the Finance Committee , whose chairman Russell Long would oppose a key section repealing the oil depletion allowance . Long would probably insist on a full committee review of the bill , and possibly hearings . And there is n't time for that . The Ways and Means bill could be modified to guarantee special treatment for small oil companies , pro- 7 tecting them against losses they might incur through repeal of the depletion allowance , which might satisfy Sen. Long and speed the plan through the Finance Committee . Or the Ways and Means tax cut could be attached to the foreign trade bill on the floor of the Senate . But here again it would have to satisfy oil-state senators or risk getting stuck in a filibuster . Even the blandest of proposals could provoke a brawl and sink the entire trade bill , which is already mired in controversy . To take another example , the sensible suggestion that automobiles ought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nowhere , though it would seem a logical response to our urgent need for conservation of fuel . In short tax adjusters have a tough job ahead of them . Clemency In about a month the President 's short-lived clemency program comes to an end . Anyone in trouble for evading the draft or deserting the military who has n't ap- plied for clemency by January 31 will not be considered . Mr. Ford is not now planning to extend the deadline . Although a final verdict is premature , there 's enough ? data for preliminary judgment on this bid for recon ciliation . It has not brought many war resisters home from abroad , nor has it reintegrated large numbers of ? draft evaders and deserters into the political sys. tern they rejected . It has given modest comfort by cutting short some prison sentences and quashing ? indictments . The President said he wanted to bind up the nation 's wounds by forgiving draft dodgers and deserters of - the Vietnam era . But the absolution was n't as gener- ous as that given Mr. Nixon : antiwar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Those accused but not convicted of any offense may report to ? ? the Department of Defense for relief ( if they were inducted into the service before getting into trouble ) or the Department of Justice ( if they were n't ) . Convicts must appeal to the White House clemency panel . In most cases , a draftee is expected to serve out a two- s. year term ? if not in the military , then in an alternative . - job . Those who 've already been in prison will be par- doned or assigned to alternative jobs , depending on the nature of the case and the length of time spent in ? jail . The program has had meager results . Its critics in the antiwar movement say this is so because returning draft dodgers must go through a humiliating process that requires , among other things , that they " reaffirm " their allegiance to the United States . Of the more than 108,000 the government says are known to be eligible for clemency , only about 3000 so far have taken advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the number eligible is conservative . ) The Justice Department reports that about 130 draft evaders have turned themselves in to US attorneys and pledged to work at alternative service jobs . About 2200 men and women who went AWOL or deserted the military between August 1964 and March 1973 have signed up with the clemency program . Only about 200 of those processed so far have come home from abroad . The President 's clemency board has received applications from more than 800 people convicted of avoiding military duty , and of these , eight have been given full pardons and 10 have been assigned alternate service penalties . The rest await judgment . Roughly 1600 people are enrolled in its alternative service plan according to Selective Service , but only 300 had actually found jobs at this writing . Officials at all three processing centers say that applications for clemency , though they are now arriving more slowly than during the initial surge , have begun to come in faster in the last few weeks . Since the program was announced only three months ago , federal agencies have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their procedures and start up the engines . Only last month the Department of Defense wrote to families of servicemen who are eligible for clemency to warn that the deadline is approaching . If the offer is cut short on January 31 , as chairman of the clemency board , former Sen. Goodell , expects it will be , little will have been accomplished . The clemency board and the Defense Department both have reported that most of the applicants are not the " stereotyped war- resister " but people who ran afoul of the bureaucracy and did n't know how to work their way back into its good graces . Many are poor , poorly educated or poorly counseled . As an officer at the military processing center said , " By far the great majority left for personal reasons . " So while the clemency program has helped many of these people and could help many more if it were given a longer life , it has n't reached the many who willfully disobeyed the government out of conviction . reminiscent of earlier days when US military men in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be , as Asp in emphasized in his speech on the floor of the House , that " the burden of proof is now on the administration " to tell the truth about US involvement in Cambodia . But the job of forcing the administration to come clean belongs to Congress . We suggest the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and its counterpart in the House investigate the present state of the US commitment to Indochina . For Congress to pass laws and then turn a blind eye to their violation is irresponsible and exposes the legislature once again to the legitimate charge that it is little more than a debating society . The Blind Eye More than a year ago Sens . Clifford Case and Frank Church sponsored legislation , approved by Congress , barring the use of American tax dollars " to finance directly or indirectly combat activities by US military forces in or over or from off the shore of North Vietnam , South Vietnam , Laos or Cambodia . " Evidence accumulated since then , however , plainly indicates that the administration is violating that prohibition in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress will now take steps to compel the Executive to enforce the law , or whether it is going to tolerate a lawless abuse of authority as it has so often done in the past . The question was raised the other day in a speech by Rep. Les Aspin ( D , Wisc. ) cataloguing various aspects of US involvement in a war that has been raging in Cambodia since the spring of 1970 . Our government is currently providing the Lon Nol regime with more than $700 million in military and economic assistance , and , according to Aspin , helping in that war effort . Among other things , US advisers are working with the Cambodian army , and the American ambassador in Pnompenh , John G. Dean , does not hesitate to give strategic or tactical advice to Lon Nol and his commanders . American pilots engage in aerial reconnaissance over Cambodia for the purpose of providing the Cambodians with bombing targets , and US aircraft are used to deploy and supply Cambodian troops . In addition the US has been training Cambodian pilots at a base @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these activities but claims that they do not transgress the law . A more telling admission that the will of Congress is being flouted is obliquely reflected in the fact that members of the US army and air force serving in Cambodia will have this year received $1.8 million in combat pay , though , we are told , they are not in combat . It is all Televising Congress Sen. Lee Metcalf of Montana , chairman of the Joint Committee on Congressional Operations , last week introduced a resolution that , if passed by the Senate , would authorize a year-long test of radio and television broadcasting of the upper chamber 's floor debates . Ironically none of the three network television news shows that night ( December 9 ) reported that fact , nor did The Washington Post or The New York Times the next morning . If Capitol Hill newsmen ignored the story because they thought Metcalf 's resolution had no chance of being approved , they have another think coming . At the last minute Metcalf picked up as cosponsors Sen. Robert Byrd , Democratic Whip of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hugh Scott , the Republican chief . Byrd and Scott are important for reasons beyond their leadership positions . Both are members of the nine-man Senate Rules Committee , which will take up the measure . For years the major networks have been requesting the Senate and House to allow live coverage of major debates and votes . The rules in both bodies prohibiting such exposure were drawn up at a time when strong leaders such as Speaker Sam Rayburn resented having legislative deliberations under the camera 's candid eye . The rules have remained untouched , though television has grown to be the prime news source for most Americans . As Presidents took to using television more and more to press their causes , Congress ? an equal branch ? was in no position to respond with equal force . Sen. Byrd has pointed out the incongruity : " Where a struggle exists over spending authority , the President can use television to veto a bill in full view of the American population ? he can take what conceivably could be a private act and make it public . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to override or sustain the veto , however , can not be seen by the general public , only by the 425 persons DECEMBER 21 , 1974 accommodated by the public gallery . " Watergate and the televised impeachment hearings of the House Judiciary Committee helped to demonstrate the power of TV to the Congress . To the surprise - and pleasure of the House leadership , most of the committee members appeared on the screen as serious , thoughtful men and women . Prior to Mr. Nixon 's resignation the House Democratic leadership ? long opposed to the introduction of television ? made final preparations to allow microphones and cameras to cover floor debate of the expected impeachment reso ? lution . On the Senate side , with the active support of Robert Byrd and Majority Leader Mike Mansfield , it was a foregone conclusion that cameras would be on hand to televise the impeachment trial . And yet an undercurrent of congressional opposition still runs against the type of coverage proposed by Metcalf . There is anxiety that the mere presence of cameras will turn Congress , as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ event . " There 's anxiety that TV ' may force members to come to the floor when they should be doing committee work , or that network news programs may distort floor action by selective use of taped debates , or that cameras will focus on embarrassing situations . Recognizing this , the Metcalf proposal sets up a test  - -  -  for one year , giving the Senate a chance to see how broadcasters use their new liberty . At first cameras in the Senate chamber would be turned on for a 60-day trial period , with receivers set up in strategic spots such as the Senate cloakroom and areas within the Capitol and senate office buildings . After 60 days continuous television coverage would be initiated and networks and local broadcasters would be permitted to use excerpts from the tapes in news shows and documentaries . Live coverage would be allowed only in special situations . In Florida and Connecticut public television broad- casts state legislative proceedings . Both states found that after a time the legislators managed to forget the cameras . No doubt when the cameras first appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For a while , the old casualness , the few impromptu outbreaks in heated debate , the delays that permit compromise will be replaced by an attempt to appear more orderly . But as a former Senate official and now a Washington lawyer , Harry McPherson , told Metcalf 's committee last spring , " I suspect that in time Senators will come to realize that their viewers , their voters , are sophisticated enough to understand that some compromise is ? necessary in public life , as it is in private life . And that will free them to be the natural political animals they are . " - A major unanswered question . was raised by Rep. Claude Pepper of Florida at the Metcalf hearings . " There might come a time that we found abuse , " he said , " that we found the networks were only putting the Democrats on , only putting the Republicans on , 9 and not giving fair coverage . " To Pepper , opening the Senate floor to television cameras is a " privilege " to be granted by Congress to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " privilege , " the networks , he believes , should be held accountable for their coverage . If there is one long-term journalistic danger in the Metcalf plan , it is precisely that network newsmen would be held accountable to Senate-approved " procedures . . to ensure that broadcast coverage is carried out in a nonpartisan manner and is fair and equitable in recording the views of members participating in floor proceedings . " Rockefeller As expected , the Senate by an overwhelming vote ( 90-7 ) last week approved the vice presidential nomination of Nelson Rockefeller . The House is expected to follow suit . There was intense questioning of Mr. Rockefeller 's many gifts and loans , but the ultimate finding was that while on occasion he had been imprudent or thoughtless , he had not used his great wealth to suborn public officials or buy favors for himself . The argument , made by Sen. Gaylord Nelson , that by virtue of the enormity of the family 's holdings , Rockefeller stood convicted of seeking to " monopolize the marketplace or conspire to control it " deserved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through as an affable , self-assured , talkative man with an honest urge to serve the country , and he has served it , though not always well . He did not serve it well by refusing to intervene personally during the worst hours of the prison riots in Attica . He did not serve it well by his never-ending support of US military action in Indochina . At issue finally , however , was not whether Nelson Rockefeller was the most qualified person to be Vice President of the United States , but whether Gerald Ford could be expected to nominate anyone more qualified . We do n't think he could .                     