@@431869

 | Mastermind of Mideast Oil A HANDSOME man in a Vandyke beard and flowing robes , he sits serenely in a spacious office in Riyadh , capital of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia . Into his presence files a caravan of distinguished callers ? Britons , Americans , Frenchmen , Japanese ? their portfolios thick with projects offering refineries , tanker fleets , petrochemical factories . He hears out each proposal before he  | speaks , punctuating his observations with an almost inaudible rattling of his worry beads , driving a hard bargain graciously . The man in the Vandyke beard is in a good position to bargain . For he is Sheik Ahmed Zaki al-Yamani , Saudi Arabia 's Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources , and he controls something that the world needs desperately . Saudi Arabia is the globe 's greatest source of oil . Yamani , probably more than any other individual , has helped make it the wealthiest country in the Third World and an essential trading partner for the industrial West . He sits at the right hand of King Faisal ibn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ render him the richest Arab in history and possibly the most powerful . Faisal partially financed Egypt and Syria in the Arab-Israeli war of last October . The Arabs did not quite win the war militarily , but they were the political victors ? in no small measure because of the oil embargo that Faisal ordered and that Yamani masterminded . The world is still groggy from its impact . Until recently , it was the leaders of the Third World who danced attendance on the potentates of the West , hoping to share in its banquet of abundance . Now , as Yamani says in quiet understatement , " The shortage in energy supply has reduced to some extent the power of the industrial nations , and is creating a new relationship between them and the owners of raw materials . " Meeting of the Twain . Yamani himself stands astride the two cultures . His French is good , his English flawless . He is fond of both Arabic folk music and Mozart . Flying from Arabia to Rome , he will discard his headdress and robes for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet part of him remains inscrutably Eastern . Sometimes he flees his air-conditioned office altogether , and repairs to a tent deep in the desert . Astrology is his secret passion : " The moon and stars do influence human behavior , " he insists . The position of the stars must have been auspicious the day Zaki Yamani was born , 44 years ago , in Mecca . Religion pervaded Zaki 's youth , and he learned the Koran by heart . But , unlike many Arab youths of that time , he also devoured books about the world beyond . " Even as a boy , " he says , " I read insatiably . " Saudi Arabia was then wretchedly poor . Its people were mostly illiterate Bedouins who wandered the desert with sheep and goats in quest of water . Their king , Abdul Aziz ibn Saud , was not much richer . The kingdom 's meager income came mainly from palm dates , and tithes paid by pilgrims visiting Mecca . In 1938 , when Zaki Yamani was  | eight years old , American prospectors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Persian Gulf . Within a decade , Abdul Aziz became one of the world 's wealthiest men . But , though he was generous in handouts to his subjects , he made little effort to build a modern state . Saudi Arabia remained largely illiterate , without a parliament , paved roads or adequate medical care for the poor . Even as a child , Yamani was distressed by these conditions , and he began to wonder if someday he might help to change them . Arabian Knight . Soon after World War II , Yamani went to Cairo to study Islamic and civil law at King Fuad University . Egypt was then suffering through the last years of King Farouk 's corrupt monarchy and seethed with revolutionary passions . " I mixed with communists and read Karl Marx , " Yamani told me recently . " But I found that lying was their favorite weapon . They said they believed in freedom ; then they demanded a blind act of faith in whatever the leadership decided . " Migrating to the opposite extreme , Yamani mingled with the Moslem Brotherhood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the Egyptian government . But the Brotherhood reminded him of the unproductive religious fanaticism he had known at home , and he turned to the middle path of social change by rational persuasion . He got his law degree with honors before he was 21 , then returned to Saudi Arabia to work in the finance ministry in Mecca . Yamani soon realized that the Arabs could never compete with Western technology unless they acquired Western expertise . Accordingly , in the early 1950s , he flew to America with a government scholarship to study comparative law at New York University . Summers , he studied psychiatry at Columbia , where he claims he acquired a practical knowledge of the human mind which he later found invaluable in his negotiations with oil companies . He then went on to Harvard Law School , where he specialized in conflict of laws between countries and the problems of international corporations . In the process , Yamani acquired the pro-American sentiments he retains today . " Participation . " In 1956 , Yamani returned to Saudi Arabia and settled in Jidda , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then , King Abdul Aziz was dead and his son , Saud , was king . Two years later , Saud installed Prince Faisal , his austere half-brother , as prime minister , and Faisal brought Yamani into the government as a legal adviser . From the beginning , Faisal was fascinated by Yamani 's brilliance and by his knowledge of how technocratic countries function . Conversely , Yamani developed a gift that is the envy of everyone in Riyadh : he seems to be able to read the mind of the notoriously untalkative Faisal , who , Yamani explains , " loves to give hints . " A murky  | phrase , a sigh or a raised eyebrow is often enough to tell Yamani precisely what his master wants . In 1962 , Yamani was appointed Minister of Petroleum and given the assignment of negotiating a new tax base with Aramco , the huge American oil consortium at Dhahran . Yamani astonished Aramco officials with his expertise , his mastery of detail and his intimate knowledge of the corporation 's true profits . After a year of negotiations , Aramco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? an immense sum at the time , but modest in comparison with what was to come . In 1964 , the royal family deposed Saud and put Faisal on the throne . Both Faisal and Yamani were resolved that Saudi Arabia should eventually control its own oil , but Yamani recognized that American companies had to play the major role in producing Saudi oil until the Saudis were ready to replace them . What he proposed , therefore , was partial Saudi ownership through a policy that he called " participation . " At first , American oil executives ridiculed it as unworkable . Yamani persisted . He had already founded Petromin ? the kingdom 's own company for developing oil resources , which gave the Saudis priceless practical experience . In a conciliatory gesture , Aramco had put Yamani on its board of directors . Now he created a petroleum college at Dhahran to train Saudis in the technology of oil and sent scores of bright proteges to study in England and America . Iron Fist , Velvet Glove . In 1967 , when three Arab countries were ignominiously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embargo against the West to punish it for supporting the Zionist n- .. tion . Instead , Yamani urged the Arabs to form their own cartel ? the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OAPEC ) ? to deal collectively and toughly with foreign oil firms . Soon OAPEC adopted participation as a general objective , and in 1971 the five Arab oil states of the Persian Gulf delegated Yamani to negotiate it with the Western oil companies . " Yamani whispered , never threatened , " recalls an American oil executive . " His deadliest tactic is to probe for holes in your argument by calmly repeating question after question until finally you 're so weary you 'd hand over your grandmother . He 's the toughest negotiator I 've ever dealt with . " A year later , most of the oil companies of the Gulf accepted participation , agreed to sell a quarter of their ownership to the Arab governments ? and agreed that majority control was eventually to pass to the Arabs . But last October , before participation could be implemented , Egypt and Syria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for $2.2 billion in arms for Israel , Faisal and the other Arab leaders imposed a total embargo on shipments to the United States and the Netherlands , and slashed oil pro- duction by 25 percent . The severe impact of these moves caused Western nations to ponder darkly their future as dependents of Arab oil . At the height of the crisis King Faisal and the OAPEC states sent Yamani all over the world to explain the Arab case . Overnight , Yamani became an international celebrity . He also clashed with the Shah of Iran and some of the Arab ministers , exhorting them to check global inflation by lowering the price of oil ? without success . He helped persuade most of the Arab states , however , to suspend the embargo at the beginning of spring . By then , the King was satisfied that Washington was working seriously for Israeli withdrawal . Besides , both Faisal and Yamani feared that an indefinite boycott would backfire on the Arabs if it provoked a recession in America and weakened the Western alliance against Russia . Liquid Gold . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barrels a day , promising to meet America 's growing needs if a just settlement was achieved with Israel . The United States promised to assist the kingdom to industrialize , the better to sustain future generations of Saudis once their oil dwindles . And Yamani returned to his first love ? negotiating with oil companies . The war and the embargo telescoped time . Now Saudi Arabia seems about to acquire total ownership of Aramco , the world 's largest oil-producing company . Yamani does not intend to expel Aramco 's management , for he still needs American technology , and he wants Aramco to survive as a profit-making corporation that extracts and refines Saudi oil . But henceforth Saudi Arabia will be in charge . When Yamani is not abroad , he lunches daily with the King . Material progress has mushroomed in every corner of Saudi Arabia ? highways , hospitals , schools , universities , factories . Still , Faisal pines for the old Bedouin glories , and he remains rigidly conservative in many ways : the Saudis are still without a parliament , a free press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argues for political progress whenever the King will listen . They also discuss oil ? and the decisions they reach will continue to reverberate around the world . This year alone , Saudi Arabia will earn at least $20 billion from oil . By 198o , if peace prevails in the Middle East , this Arab kingdom will probably be producing 20 million barrels of oil a day and could possess $200 billion in cash and foreign investments . And it will continue to amass immense wealth from oil until atomic energy is developed sufficiently as an alternative for America and the world . Until then , Zaki Yamani 's oil policies and the way the Saudi Arabs invest their wealth will touch the lives of us all .                     