@@493781

How a nation can destroy itself while pretending everything is normal . Argentina in Agony by Stephen Kinzer Buenos Aires The veneer of normality covering daily life in Argentina is very thin , but it isconvincingenough for anyone who prefers not to know the truth . This group includes most Argentines and almost all visitors . Buenos Aires lives up to its reputation as one of the most cosmopolitan , sophisticated cities in the world . Well-stocked department stores and trendy boutiques are crammed with high-fashion clothing and other expensive goods . Smartly-dressed pedestrians throng the streets , taxis are plentiful and full of prosperous Argentines in tuxedos and long gowns heading to the opera and the first-rate symphony orchestra . To all outward appearances , Buenos Aires is back to normal . Until the World Cup soccer championship series held here last June , some visitors were disturbed by heavily armed policemen on street corners and truckloads of soldiers in battle gear visible rneon busy thoroughfares . But in an effort to put on a favorable show for the thousands of foreign visitors and iournalists who came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Argentina on special assignment for The New Republte . He has written extensively on South American politics for TNR and other publications . displays of force were removed , and they have not reappeared . There are no more police visible on the streets of Buenos Aires than in any American city . But anyone whO wants to know the truth here can discover it without much difficulty . The most visible crack in the veneer is a silent procession of about 200 middle-aged women that takes place in front of the president 's office every Thursday afternoon . They are mothers of desapareridas , people who have disappeared in the past two years . Argentina today is governed by terrorists in military uniforms . They have unleashed a reign of savagery unmatched in the modern history of the western hemisphere , dwarfing in scope and intensity even the post-coup repression in Pinochet 's Chile and the terror of Duvalier 's Haiti . Since the military takeover on March 24 , 1976 , in the name of freedom and with the stated ultimate goal of returning the nation to democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being kidnapped by police from their homes or offices . Their mutilated bodies have been dumped in the River Plate or cremated late at night at the Chacarita cemetery in Buenos Aires . About 4000 corpses , most unidentifiable , have been discovered in common graves and on the river bank , Thousands more desaparmdos are still alive , held somewhere in prisons and special detention camps , the existence of which is amply documented but firmly denied by the government . There are more countries than we may care to admit where a prisoner may be beaten after his arrest , perhaps burned with a cigarette , or even shot dead and dumped in a ravine for grieving relatives to find . But that is not at all how repression works in Argentina . Here the government has consciously decided to use kidnappings , well-planned torture of specific sorts and extended imprisonment in camps whose existence is officially denied as its prime weapons against everyone it perceives as an enemy . Even the government leaders admit that they have long since found and defeated almost everyone who ever participated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early part of the 1970s . The targets of repression now include such a broad range of Argentines that almost no one can feel safe . " We have concluded the military phase of repression and we must now continue against ideologues , " a high Argentine official explained in September . " This struggle will take any years , because a person with an ideology is even more dangerous than those who carry arms . ' President Jorge Rafael Videla himself put it succinctly at a press conference last May " All the necessary persons will die in Argentina to assure the country 's security . " Four months earlier , he put the same sentiment this way : " A terrorist is not just someone with a gun or a bomb but also someone who spreads ideas that are contrary to western civilization . " The military men in power believe that they are fighting a third world war which , by a quirk of history , happened to begin in Argentina . This is the war that western , Christian culture is fighting against those who would subvert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The military government believes , therefore , that it is doing western culture a great favor by assuming the burden of this war , and remains puzzled that , far from receiving acclaim and gratitude from the nations on whose behalf it presumes to be fighting , especially the United States , it is being criticized for the methods it uses in what the government calls its " dirty war . " But the government is confident that one day Argentina will be recognized as the savior of the West . When the military seized control in 1976 from the hopelessly corrupt and incompetent Isabel Peron , it immediately implemented a pre-planned campaign against groups it considered subversive . The first targets were the two guerrilla groups whose terror tactics had disrupted national life and put much of the population in genuine fear . The government claims there were as any as 20,000 fighters in the two groups , the Montoneros and the Revolutionary People 's Army(ERP) , but the actual number of militants was less than 5000 , many of whose identities were known to authorities . Within a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; no more than 200 survive today . All suspected militants ? including many who must have been innocent ? were captured in a similar fashion . Their homes were broken into by armed men in civilian clothes , and they were taken directly to a nearby prison prepared especially to receive them There they were tortured for information about their activities and associates . Everyone they named , plus everyone whose name appeared in their personal address books or notes found in their homes , was immediately arrested as well and subjected to the same treatment . Prisoners suspected of having committed or having known about acts of violence were killed after their jailers were convinced that they had extracted all the information in the prisoners ' possession . In most cases , they were injected with a knockout drug , shot in the head while unconscious and dumped in the River Plate atl night after their stomachs were slit open so they would not rise to the surface . But the work did not stop after what the government calls " subversive terrorism " was defeated . Like widen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued to expand . First it was those believed to have committed terrorist acts , then those thought to have supported those acts ; then those who had legal contacts with people who may have supported them , such as doctors and lawyers ; then friends and colleagues of those who had such contact , and so on . In recent months , those who had anything to do with one of the many organized Peronist groups , such as summer camps , labor unions or student federations , are falling victim ? in many cases , people who never thought that the reign of terror would reach their doorstep . The system in use today has been slightly refined from what it was just after the coup . Instead of a dozen armed thugs crashing through the door at midnight , two well-dressed men ? backed by more outside in the unmarked Ford Falcons that are the trademark of the security forces ? knock on the door and ask for the intended victim by name . They either ask him tocome to the station for " routine questioning " or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a motor vehicle violation " In 90 percent of these cases , " explained one observer who monitors these patterns closely , " the guys they 're getting now are law-abiding citizens who. if you sent them a postcard in the mail asking them to be at the police station at a certain hour , would willingly show up . " The victim may put on a fresh suit , kiss his wife , and promise to be home for dinner . He is then never heanl from again , then when distraught relatives call at the police station or barracks , they are told firmly that the police never heard of the supposed victim , that they know nothing of his whereabouts and that the que , sinners would be wise not to pursue their inquiries . Patterns emerge from repeated stories of people who have been released from prison and from letters smuggled out of jails . Most prisoners are badly beaten upon their capture . When the victim is only a casual target ? say , the mother of a suspected offender ? a beating and a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be enough Many of these people are then released and told to remain silent about what happened . But they are in a small , relatively fortunate minority . For the rest , daily life begins to revolve around the pi ? ana , the electric cattle prod that is the basic weapon of torture in Argentina . Patricia Erb , a 19-year-old American resident of Buenos Aires was arrested in 1976 and later released due to international pressure and her status as an American citizen . The apparent reason for her abduction was her field work as a sociology student in Buenos Aires slums . " This torture took various forms , " she wrote after her release , " beating with clubs and fists , kicks , immersion in water or fecal substance almost to the point of drowning , and use of M picana , which was applied to the most sensitive parts of the body . In order to cause greater pain , they would tie us down to a wire bed which carried an electric current and entangle wire between our fingers and toes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Again , torture , even in these extremes , exists in many countries of varied ideology . But Argentina is special because the veritable torture has been bureaucratized and made routine to the point where identical stories are told of prisons separated by thousands of miles and operated by different branches of the security forces and military . It is difficult to understand how Argentina , by most standards the most advanced nation in Latin America , could have fallen into its present agony . It has the highest literacy rate in South America 195 percent ) , an elite of US-trained technicians , virtually no unemployment or starvation , until recently more doctors per capita than even the US and Canada , and a capital city known as one of the world 's cultural centers . Argentina was never a British colony , but for many decades it was dominated by England . It is bountifully endowed with rich agricultural land that makes it the breadbasket of the continent . From the middle of the 19th century until 1930 , Argentina held regular elections and was considered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Canada , Australia and New Zealand . Until about 1910 , as in most incipient democracies of the period , the electoral process was dominated by a European-oriented aristocracy and an equally European military establishment . With the dawn of the new century and the rise of a middle class , suffrage was extended and power shifted gradually to the moderate Radical party , which embodied the aspirations of the newer Argentines , the merchants and smaller farmers . But the institutions of democracy apparently never took firm root , and in 1930 , when a senile president proved unable to deal with the domestic effects of the world economic crisis , the military moved into direct ontrol . During the 1930s , a profound social change came over Argentina . The rich land attracted many European immigrants , especially from Italy and Spain . They began to establish new industries to use the skills they brought from Europe , industries that were needed in Argentina because the outside world was preoccupied with preparations for war : chemicals , metal fabricating and textile manufacture . By the time the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The new working class was ripe for a leader who would give it access to the political system . The man who recognized that enormous potential and used it to dominate Argentina for 30 years was Juan Domingo Peron . Peron led a group of younger military men calling themselves the United Officers Group , who were dissatisfied with the unequal distribution of wealth in Argentina . Peron assumed the role of hero of the Argentine masses , and was elected president in Feb- ruary 1946 . During the height of his power in the early 19505 , Peron totally dominated Argentina and became a model for raudillos in other parts of Latin America . With the help of his tireless and spellbinding wife Eva , he won an almost fanatic popular following by embarking on major public works and social welfare programs , nationalizing foreign monopolies and embracing the cause of the doscamisados , the " shirtless ones . " A great admirer of Italian fascism and the way it organized every segment of society , Peron forged various sectors of the Argentine people into what amounted to tightly-woven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and social welfare agencies . With Eva 's death in 1952 and his increasing inability to placate the many powerful groups he had alienated , including businessmen , traditional military leaders and the Catholic hierarchy , Peron was overthrown in September 1955 . For the next 18 years , until 1973 , Peron lived in exile-in Madrid while Argentina went through a succession of military dictatorships and elected governments . But Peron 's followers remained loyal , and he retained an effective stranglehold on his country from foreign exile . An amazing range of political ideologies , from communism to social democracy to reaction to outright Nazism , came to group themselves under the Peronist banner . Peron 's unique brand of populist fascism , fed by his cryptic directives from Madrid , attracted so any Argentines to his cause that the breakup of the Peronist coalition was inevitable once he returned to power . When Peron finally was permitted to return in June 1973 , a demonstration of three million jubilant Argentines turned ugly as right-wing Peronists attacked left-wing Peronists , including Montonero guerrillas who had laid down arms to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inviting him back was to split the guerillas off from Peron , and it worked . Peron immediately threw his lot with the right wing of his movement after being elected president in 1974 , and the guerillas turned increasingly to terror tactics . The guerrilla movement in Argentina had begun to take on strength in 1909 . But terrorist violence only became common after the guerrillas were denounced by Peron . " This was a desperate , murderous situation , " one liberal Argentine recalls . " Anyone and everyone was fair game . You could send your child to school and not know whether the bus was going to explode . These were serious terrorists , not your fuzzy-cheeked altruistic university youth . " The terrorism reached its peak during the presidency of Peron 's widow , Isabel . Two judges were killed , two dozen businessmen kidnapped and , according to official figures , 158 policemen were shot down , some only because they happened to be wearing uniforms . These events , coupled with growing economic chaos , led to the military coup of March 24 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by General Videla . One Argentine expressed the universally held view here : " The coup was an absolute necessity and was backed by the entire Argentine people . " Whether the methods used by the Videla regime to suppress terrorism and , later , to impose its own brand of ideological purity on Argentina were then foreseen is much less certain . The immediate goal of Videla 's junta was to wipe out the terrorists . In the absence of even a semblance of due process , it is impossible to say how many of those arrested , tortured and often killed were guilty , but within a few months after the coup , active terrorism had ceased , to reappear only sporadically at increasingly long intervals . But the demise of guerrilla terrorism did not end the government terror . On the contrary , the security forces , once liberated from the constraints of law and morality , have applied these same methods t , their perceived war against " ideological criminals . " ' , long the first targets were the professions of psychiatry , psychology and psychoanalysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws against inciting others to mistrust the government have perished ; 53 are believed dead and almost as many more have disappeared . During a recent medical congress in Buenos Aires , visiting cancer researchers produced a list of 189 doctors and nurses who have been kidnapped and not heard from since . Anyone who ever had contact with a Peronist organization is now considered a fair target . Since Peron won 62 percent of the vote in his last election , a majority of the Argentine population is at least theoretically in danger , even though many of the present military leaders once considered themselves Peronists . Half a million Argentines have left their country since the coup , most of them high-level professionals Anyone involved in medicine , sociology , the social sciences or political activity or study is in great danger many of those who foresaw their vulnerability fled to Madrid , Rome , Mexico and Caracas , where communities of highly-trained Argentine exiles have sprung up . At the end of November , a telegram arrived for a brilliant young Argentine physicist named Daniel Bendersky , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he had been accepted with a full scholarship for advanced study . But the news was no cause for rejoicing ; on September 16 , Bendersky was taken from his home by armed men and his family has been able to learn nothing of him since . Last year , the Argentine ambassador to Venezuela , whom some thought of as a future civilian leader for Argentina , was called home to Buenos Aires for consultations . He was kidnapped off the street and has not been heard from since . Last December , two French nuns met with a dozen mothers of disappeared people in a private home . The meeting was invaded by armed men in civilian clothes who took all present prisoner . Neither the nuns nor most of the mothers have been heard from since . Within the group of mothers who have come together to protest the disappearances and to petition authorities for information has now emerged another coalition calling itself " Grandmothers of Prisoner , " These are mothers of the estimated 1000 women who were kidnapped while pregnant , some of whom would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is evidence that those children who survive prison birth are sold or given up for adoption anonymously . This policy has not prevented the Argentine government from supporting the UNICEF Christmas card campaign by plastering train stations with posters carrying the slogan " A future for every child . " The declared aim of the Videla regime is " a transition to a stable democracy in which the role of the armed forces will be guaranteed , " a political process open to " all sectors except the subversive and the corrupt , " a " union of all representative groups of citizens . " Videla has referred obliquely to " the so sad reality " of contemporary Argentina , but when pressed on the subject of disappearances , he responds only that the supposed victims must actually have left the country without telling anyone . Economics Minister Martinez de Hoz , the most powerful civilian in the government , says that " we have used with the terrorists the same drastic methods that they used . " The squads responsible for administering the present terror are drawn from regular internal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces " often work with contract hoodlums who do much of the kidnapping and who are paid by being allowed to pillage the homes of the victims . During last March and April , in preparation for the World Cup series , the number of kidnappings was reduced , only to increase again immediately following the games . But apparently the number of kidnappings in 1978 is down to about three or four a week . A few prisoners have been released or allowed to leave the country lately . And a few months ago , 24 " disappeared " prisoners held at the supposedly nonexistent camps in the countryside turned up in an official jail at La Plata . Among the mothers and other human rights activists here , the US government is considered a strong ally . The embassy in Buenos Aires receives and follows up complaints of disappearances , though without great success , and consular offices have been allowed to visit some of those held in officially acknowledged prisons . Within the State Department itself , there are two distinct currents of thought on how to confront @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ambassador Raul Castro , a former Arizona governor who worked in the Carter campaign , favors the " carrot " approach of offering new incentives to the Argentine government as it gradually improves conditions , reopening aid programs , and curbing public criticism of the regime . Some members of this faction believe that the domestic policies of the Argentine regime , no matter how harsh , are not really our business and that the US should not allow " the human rights tail to wag the foreign policy dog . " The other faction is personified by State Department human rights chief Patricia Derian , who is the most hated person in the world among Latin American dictators . President Carter is left to mediate this difference of approach . He recently acceded to Ambassador Castro 's request to lift a ban on a $280 million Export-Import Bank loan to Argentina for the purchase of electrical equipment from the Allis-Chalmers Corporation of Milwaukee . There are also divisions within the Argentine regime . President Videla is perceived as a relative moderate and is known to have restrained some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with neighboring Chile over three desolate Antarctic islands claimed by both countries , and in their feeling that he has been too soft on subversives . Indeed , there are some generals who feel that Videla , by putting some groups of former politicians off limits for abduction , has lost an historic opportunity to wipe out forever all wrong-thinking Argentines ? and thereby , in their view , so completely purge the nation of undesirable elements that democracy could return without the fear that it would be tainted by " subversive , " Videla seems to many Argentines to be in quite a weak position now , though his critics always focus on the disastrous economy rather than on other taboo subjects . Despite two years of conservative economic policies and considerable sacrifice , especially by lower-and middle-class Argentines , the economy shows no sign of improving . Real wages have tumbled . The world 's worst inflation continues at about 170 percent annually ; prices rise literally daily . An Argentine who bought a car for 30,000 pesos five years ago spent more than that last month for two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was during the last days of Isabel Peron 's regime , when inflation reached an annual rate of 17,000 percent , but with no improvement in sight ? today a railroad conductor with 20 years ' seniority makes 25 dollars a week ? many Argentines are dissatisfied . Various officers and even some civilians are already jockeying for position in a post-Videla junta . Any new military leaders probably would unleash domestic repression even more extensive than what exists today . The Spanish-language press here is quite timid in reporting daily events , its editors explaining that their readers are not interested " in hearing about dis- appearance and torture . This posture is understandable , considering how many journalists have met unknown fates at the hands of the government . One leading journalist whose fate is known is Jacobo Timmerman , founder of the daily is ( ) polio , which he modeled after Le Monde . Timmerman has been under arrest for 18 months after being tortured and forced to sign a petition that he was a - left- wing Zionist , " indicating that anti-Semitism may be a factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been devastated in Argentina . Totally innocuous books and artists are banned , the new math- is suspect as " Marxist " because it allegedly emphasizes relativity over absolutes , and discussion in social science and humanities courses is necessarily sterile . Because of the poverty overcoming the lower classes , the primary school dropout rate is now 50 percent ? something previously unheard of in Argentina . The Videla regime has succeeded in emasculating society , while liberating and encouraging the most base forces within it . But casual tourists who come to Argentina will never notice that anything is amiss . Driving through Buenos Aires with a native can be a revelation , because only natives can point out the unmarked police cars and plainclothes officers on streetcorners . And yet even for most Argentines , life is almost as normal as it seems to visitors . Just as many of them preferred to ignore the terrorism of a few years ago , many now argue against all reason that such things as kidnapping and torture do not happen in Argentina today . Even the great Argentine writer Jorge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " officers and gentlemen . " 