@@488031

DEAR SIRS : The aim of Jim Castelli 's " The Wounded Wait in Line " The Nation , Sept. 6 appears to be the same as mine and the 170,000 other employees of the Veterans Administration  --  to insure that Vietnam veterans  --  and all veterans  --  get the best possible medical care . Noble as Mr. Casteill 's aims may be , however , I believe sincerely that he is hurting this cause rather than helping it . . Contrary to the impressions fostered by Castelli 's article , there is absolutely no waiting list in any VA facility for any veteran with a service-connected medical condition . . . VA medical facilities are treating more patients and getting them home faster than at any time in history . The ratio of staff to patients is better than it has ever been before . ... If Vietnam veterans are to take full advantage ' of the ever improving medical care and other benefits available to them , they must be assured that these benefits are good , and their parents , wives and friends must likewise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ care is second rate and that veterans are being shortchanged on other benefits is adding to a problem that is all too prevalent among young veterans and young people in general . I 'm referring to their lack of confidence in social institutions .... Mr. Castelli has done a very thorough job of summarizing one side of the numbers game that has been presented in regard to Veterans Administration programs . Unfortunately , he did not present the information that ' put these numbers and allegations in proper perspective . This caused him to : IIMix " apples and oranges " when he compared staffing ratios in . VA and community hospitals and to grossly understate VA staffing ratios ; lila to perceive that a reduction in average daily patient loads of the type achieved during the past ten years in VA hospitals is largely the result of better and more specialized care ; gall to understand that a modest waiting list for treatment of noncritical conditions that have no relation to military service  --  in a hospital system where more than half of the beneficiaries are being treated for nonservice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition will ever have to wait ; ( misinterpret the intent of postoperative and rehabilitation programs designed to restore the ill and injured as functioning members of society as soon as possible ; ilmisinterpret Congressional negotiations on funding as cuts in funding when , in fact , funding was being increased dramatically ; ' iraise the fear of " phasing out the system " when the VA medical system is treating more beneficiaries from all wars than at any time in history ; perpetuate allegations completely refuted months before the article was written about mistreatment and even death due to poor care . Donald E. Johnson , Administrator Mount Vernon , N. Y. DEAR SIRS ? Since I can agree with Mr. Johnson on two of his criticisms , I 'll get to them first . I did not , as was implied , perpetuate allegations about deaths to patients in VA hospitals which I knew to be false ; the allegations were refuted before the article was published , but not before it was written . Second , I wrote of waiting lists , but nowhere stated that war-connected injuries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impression , but it was written by the editors . . . As for mixing apples and oranges , if there is a different way of computing staff-patient ratios in VA hospitals than ( Continued on page 340 ) EDITORIALS U.N . Patterns for 1971 Political suspense and the feeling that new patterns are finally emerging in international relations characterize the ? I ' twenty-sixth session of the United Nations General Assembly now meeting in New York . The main element of suspense is provided by the last-ditch fight waged by the 411 United States to prevent the expulsion of Nationalist China , , a fight which , if successful , would prevent the entry of Peking for at least one more year . Despite an 4 ( apparent contradiction between Washington 's solicitude for Taiwan and the new China policy of President Nixon , ' diplomats have come to realize that the United ' States will spare no effort to keep a seat for the Nationalists . The Administration probably believes that a show of soli-4 darity with Chiang Kai-shek at this stage will not , in the long rUn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be launched with the President 's visit to Peking . Besides , there is a strong possibility that the United States may lose the United Nations -A " , battle , and Washington could then bow gracefully , if 41 sadly , to the will of the majority . The American delegation has lost the first procedural fight and is now on the defensive . It can no longer argue , as Ambassador Bush did , that it just wants to be " fair " as between " single representation " ( Peking ) and " dual representation " ( Peking and Taiwan ) for China . The only argument left for Mr. Bush to use on lukewarm diplomats will be that expulsiOn of a loyal member ( Taiwan ) is a dangerous precedent . The United States will find most Western nations standing in the way of its efforts , as well as many countries of the Third World , which have begun to think in terms of talk and trade with mainland China . By its drastic attack on foreign aid and foreign imports , the Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the developing countries have already raised a cry against the consequences of the present monetary crisis , which not only pits the , United States against other-industrial countries but endangers the whole structure of postwar international monetary agreements , leaving the task of elaborating a new system to the ten richest nations in the world . Paradoxically , the United States will not be hampered by its old opponent , the Soviet Union , which is less than enthusiastic at the prospect of sitting in the U , N. with the People 's Republic of China , and which would vote the straight American ticket if it dared . With the war in Vietnam waning , the German problem largely settled , the SALT talks and cooperation in space promising , and proposals for a conference on European security and troop reduction well received , the USSR can afford to bask in the rays of a d  --  tente with the United States . It is in Moscow 's interest to advertise this trend in order to minimize the Washington-Peking rapprochement , : Wash- ington is equally eager to reassure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first weeks of the U.N . General Assembly , were said to have been marked by an unusual cordiality . An American-Soviet confrontation over the Middle East seems less likely than ever , even though no overall settlement is in sight . Moscow still throws verbal barbs - 1-  at Israel and still voices ardent support for the Arab 0. , claims , but recent events in the Sudan and anti-Communist statements in Cairo have led to a moderation of Soviet zeal . And the well-publicized contacts between American and Egyptian diplomats have caused Moscow to hint that it may some day renew some ties with Israel . For the moment , the initiative for moving toward a 1 , partial settlement in the Middle East , in the form of an agreement allowing the reopening of the Suez Canal , remains with the United States , which declares that both ' 7 . Egypt and Israel want it to continue in this role . Recent r meetings of the Security Council on Jerusalem have demonstrated anew the harmful and inflammatory effect of public debates on this subject . Similar exchanges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious diplomatic moves will take place in the wings . , Private talks will also characterize the search for a new an Secretary-General to replace U Thant at the end of the year . Of the candidates under consideration , no name t has emerged with particular strength up to now , but the I fourth Secretary-General of the United Nations will not , I " , unlike his predecessors , be elected in a period of cold war . Neither is the Soviet Union likely to revive Khrushchev 's " P proposal for a " troika , " which could conceivably produce a Chinese or pro-Chinese as the third horse . Whether Peking is already in , or waiting to enter in  - -  Pt 1972 , the new man will have to gain the approval of the People 's Republic of China . No responsible statesman -1 would want it otherwise , since the organization he inherits A , will , one way or another , be deeply transformed by China . That is not to say that the mere presence of China would automatically return the United Nations to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fulfill . But whether it chooses to wage a triangular battle against the 1 , " imperialists " and " revisionists , " or concentrates on trying to win the developing countries over to its side , whether it brandishes revolutionary spirit , or uses the United Nations for an apprenticeship in multilateral diplomacy , ? , China will instill a new dimension in a body that was al slipping more and more away from reality and into the contemplation of its own image . ANNE TUCKEPMAN , # fr Illinois Gerrymander Congress is apparently about to lose one of its most promising and certainly one of its most courageous members ? Rep. Abner Mikva of Chicago . He is being greased out of office via partisan redistricting by a three-judge federal panel . ? Because the Illinois legislature could not agree on a redistricting plan , the judges were given a choice of four inaps  --  tWo drawn by independent parties , one drawn by Republicans and one by Democrats : The three-judge Panel voted 2 to 1 along party lines for the Republican map ( that is , two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ redistricting map was drawn under the supervision of Robert Blair , speaker of the Illinois House of Representatives . It is interesting that one of the two new districts surrounds his home and thereby gives him a dandy excuse to run for Congress . The other new district embraces the home of Donald Rumsfeld , the slickster who briefly served in Congress before becoming director of the Office of Economic Opportunity ( almost dismantling that agency ) and then moving on to become one of Nixon 's chamberlains at the White House . The Republican redistricting gets rid of Mikva by putting him in a district with Rep. Ralph H. Metcalfe , a black . The district is 90 per cent black : exit Mikva . Setting aside the nation 's loss if Mikva leaves Washington , the judicial partisanship has wrought other inequities . For example , it reduces the number of Chicago districts from nine to seven , and it does this in such a way as to get rid of one of Chicago 's black Congressmen ? leaving the city 's black population , which is considerably more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one seat in the U.S. House of Representatives . In fact , he will be the only black in the entire Illinois House delegation of twenty-four . In addition to Metcalfe , Chicago is now-represented by George W. Collins , a black . The redistricting puts Collins in a predominantly white district with Frank Annunzio . Exit Collins . Democrats anticipate that the political face of Illinois will be changed overall ; instead of there being twelve Democrats and twelve Republicans in the House , they expect the numbers to shift to fifteen Republicans and nine Democrats , with tremors of that change being felt all the way down to the office of dogcatcher . The Second District , which Mikva now represents , has been one of the nation 's ideal urban political conglomerates : part city , part suburb , part white , part black , part working class , part uppercrust , part lowbrow , part professorial . It contains Hyde Park , site of the University of Chicago , and from this area many notables , including Paul Douglas , have entered politics . It has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Second District is now being torn apart , and the well-organized Hyde Park reform group will be swallowed by a district that has tended to go along with the Daley machine . There are still options to preserve Mikva in politics , but none of them will be easy to bring off . He could run for Congress from one of the other districts . Or he might even try to unseat Sen. Charles Percy , who is up for re-election next year . Mikva 's followers concede that they think of making the effort . If it were fought strictly on a head-to-head basis , Percy would probably beat Mikva , but the latter could con- , ceivably be carried to victory if he were on a ticket with an especially strong Democratic candidate for governor . Republican Gov . Richard Ogilvie has been running hard against himself , so to speak ; he put in the income tax , a highly ' unpopular action , and the hostility it aroused is still very much alive . Mikva would go into that race with a solid , if not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislature for ten years . He has a following that reaches far beyond Chicago . The last time he ran for the state legislature was in an at-large election in 1964 . He finished fifth in a field of 236 . Adlai Stevenson III led the field with 2.377 million votes , but Mikva drew only 40,000 less than that . It was his only statewide test exposure , but it was encouraging enough , we hope , to keep him running . 324 Texas Does It Big The collapse of the Frank W. Sharp banking and insurance empire has been aired before but , with its usual thoroughness , The Wall Street Journal assigned two of its reporters to view it in perspective and assemble the facts for the busy reader . The story ( in the Journgl of September 28 ) is a shocker . The central figure " has been accused of masterminding a stock fraud described as the biggest swindle since the Billie Sol Estes case . " Estes , however , served time . Sharp got off with a $5,000 fine and three years on probation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ramifications . The bank through which Sharp carried on his operations was a Texas state bank , but since it had federal deposit bank insurance it came under the jurisdiction of the FDIC , which was astonishingly lenient in its investigations . When the bank crashed , two insurance companies which Sharp controlled went down with it . The national aspects go up to the higher levels of the Department of Justice , whose chief criminal prosecutor , Will Wilson , a former Texas attorney general , served as general counsel for six years for three of Sharp 's companies . " Much of it was legal help , " the Journal men write , " but some of it was n't . " Sharp was a self-made man in the American tradition , although he deviated from its precepts as he became richer . The first big money he made was as a government building contractor in World War II ; later he prospered in the postwar housing boom . By then he had important political connections not only in Texas but in Washington ; which helped him when he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and one of the most bizarre , started with a gift of 85 acres of land and 20,000 shares of his Sharpstown bank stock , to help a group of Jesuit fathers finance a private school in Houston . He per , suaded these clergymen to borrow $3 million from his bank , which they then lent to a company Sharp controlled , which in turn used the $3 million to purchase stock newly issued by the bank . With this species of feedback , the bank 's capitalization was increased proportionately , and thus Sharp borrowed his way into control of the National Bankers Life Insurance Co. and Olympic Life Insurance Co. , both now in " conservatorship . " A curious feature of Sharp 's transactions is that the FDIC did not break the case . The Securities and Exchange Commission , checking the books of a small Dallas brokerage house , discovered a scheme whereby Sharp and his associates , including former Texas state officials , had violated federal securities laws . The operation enabled Sharp and his associates to " systematically loot " the companies they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the SEC , did not cover themselves with glory in this case . The FD/C 's excuse is that when dubious banking practices are brought to light it is best to avoid public disclosure , lest a run on the bank make the situation worse . In the case of the Sharpstown bank the situation finally became worse than the FDIC had anticipated . Texas regulation of financial institutions is incredibly loose . The Journal writers explain that " in the government of a state like Texas , dominated by business interests and conservative politicians , the pressures against strict regulation can be enormous , especially in any case in which the state 's top officeholders have an interest . " Asst . Atty . Gen. Will Wilson may be forced to resign , the story says . Since he was Texas attorney general at the time of the Billie Sol Estes case , he should have known enough to keep his skirts glean . He became involved through such favors to Sharp , his client , as allowing a third party to use Wilson 's brokerage account to buy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sharp company . The third party turned out to be the FDIC 'S chief bank examiner in Houston . Wilson says he did n't know that and we can take his word for it , but why did n't he inquire at the time ? Such oversights scarcely qualify a lawyer for the post of Assistant U.S. Attorney General . Verbal Disarmament Readers of " The Budget Gives the Game Away " on page 337 of this issue may decide that there is less than meets the eye in the draft proposal to outlaw biological weapons that was submitted last month by the United States and the Soviet Union to the Geneva disarmament conference . ' In the first place , this proposal , which has the effect of divorcing the ban on germ warfare from the ban on chemical warfare , will no doubt lull world opinion into supposing that the latter is relatively benign  --  just as the ban on atmospheric testing of atomic bombs has largely reconciled the nations to the underground testing of such devices . Further , the proposed language does not prohibit the use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Mr : Kanegis and Mrs. Richards point out in the above-mentioned article , existing techniques for producing large quantities of lethal biological material from small samples of gernis make stockpiling unnecessary . ? Finally , these authors ' findings that the United States , despite Mr. Nixon 's public renunciation of biological warfare , will continue to budget huge sums for research in this field expose the hypocrisy in the promise made by the American representative at Geneva to notify the conference when the destruction of biological stockpiles at Pine Bluff , ' Ark. , is completed . The theory that half a loaf is better than none does not apply to disarmament . Indeed : the jockeying at Geneva more and more assumes the aspect of an arms race in reverse  --  the idea being to look piously nonbelligerent while maintaining or improving a lethal advantage over one 's possible enemies .                     