@@479796

IN A WAY , William Kotzwinkle 's latest novel is a further refutation of the claim , advanced during the Sixties , that the novel has survived its reason for being . The autopsists of the novel found it incapable of rendering contemporary reality , which they chose to see as unique in human experience . The world , it was said , had been shook up , turned on , and customized but fiction remained the creature of literal-minded beards who owed their perspective to Thomas Hardy and went around thinking they were in Paris and it 117 ? ; 1925 . Popular journalists , among whom were some very good writers , began to insist that their own work had obviated all that ; they themselves offered primary process . Instead of suffering some drone to make up phony stories that never happened to anyone , you could get encapsulated moments of reality ? actual happenings to actual folks , delivered with all the insightful frissons your New Journalist could summon to his pen . Since the idea of progress was enjoying its very last days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The War Between the Tates. offered as a technological advance ; the New Journalist provided the subjective authority of the novelist to communicate the essence of event and character combined with the objective , real-life authority of the working press . The real , as Aquinas had long before established , was superior to the imagined and thus constituted the only virile and worthwhile reading experience for busy contemporary minds . While New Journalists struggled to resolve the groovy with the factual , novelists like Kotzwinkle were keeping the novel about its proper business . There is a close dependency between the human moral faculty and the human imagination ; good fiction serves that faculty in the worst of times . The examination and reinvention of experience that occurs in myth is irreplaceable . The telling of stories that are meant to reverberate in the reader 's inner life is a primary process of its own , an act against human isolation in a word-cheap , hype-happy world . Doctor Rat is a very contemporary novel by a writer who knows what the contemporary novel is for , and it tries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society and a little conscience-forging for the race . It 's an unashamed moral statement which upends yerismo to get at basic truths . Although it 's often funny , it 's a very serious work which demands to be taken seriously . In spite of the respect for the author 's talent that reading it inspires in me , taking it seriously in. volves me in a fundamental quarrel with the validity of its posture . IT 'S A NOVEL about the Revolt of the Animals . Its principal character is a laboratory rat who has been castrated and driven mad by rat-running vivisectionists . ( The experiments described in the book are reportedly real ? let the busy contemporary mind take note ? and they leave the scientists who experiment with live animals some gruesome cruelty to answer for . ) He has totally identified with his faceless human tormentors and records their work with demented glee . Presently his adjustment is threatened by a mystical development in the outside world . Animals everywhere are in the grip of a cosmic impulse which wills the unity of all sentient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in forests , in the depths of the sea , to form the One Great Animal . Pets desert their households , cattle in the stockyard stampede . In the lab , where oppression is most acute and the rat population highly socialized , something like a classical Marxist uprising takes place ? and Kotzwinkle has a good time making some amusing comic analogies as the rats transform themselves into rodent fidelistas to smash the unspeakable status quo . All this throws the insane and embittered Doctor Rat into paroxysms of antisocial reactionary rage , and he singlehandedly sets out to crush the life-affirming struggle of his fellow victims , with considerable energy and resourcefulness . Within the lab , he has the counterrevolution all to himself . Kotzwinkle is what would ordinarily be called a humanist and he does not want a full-scale horror story on his hands , so The Man never shows his hated face . Significantly , throughout the course of this universal mutiny of the brutes , not a single human is eaten , bitten , scratched . or stung . In part , Doctor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say it bears the same relationship to the revolt of the animals that Man 's Fate does to the rise of People 's China . Inside Doctor Rat 's lab everything is quasipolitical and armed revolution is sympathetically parodied ; outside it 's the consciousness revolution . Each animal is transformed into a pacifist poet by the Oneness Beneath All and the beasts gather as though to the Ark , transcending the need for a speciesist Noah or an anthropomorphic God . What I find particularly irritating about Doctor Rat is the way it seeks to gather to itself every loose piece of more or less revolutionary sympathy left lying about the ruins of Consciousness III . The book has a lot of humor , and the doctor himself is a good , funny creation , but there 's no irony in its aggressively ingratiating point of view . Come on out there , you bien-pensants , it says . You cheered the mental patients , the prisoners , peasants , blacks , Indians . You cheer all that is intuitive , liberating , spontaneous and trippy in its heroic struggle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amerika . Now it 's time to climb down on all fours and cheer the very beasts of the field as they get their shit together . In Styles of Radical Will , written back in 1969 , Susan Sontag called the white race " a cancer on human history . " Doctor Rat follows through with the ultimate reductio , the final payoff on the same number ? every prospect pleases and only man is vile . Because humans are oppressors by their very nature , right ? The cruelty inflicted by vivisectionists is only one aspect of the arrogance with which the humanoid colossus squats astride the fair face of biology , enslaving and destroying life forms older and finer than itself . Our very languages are oozing with injustice . Terms like " lower animals . " the " evolutionary scale , " " bestial , " " varmint , " " pest " all betray the cunning with which we have deadened our sensibilities to our own tyranny . If this is not the moral that I 'm meant to take , I find myself led toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artifact of man 's inhumanity to man ? from cyclon-B gas to tactical air strikes ? for service as reference points . And even though I know I 'm not supposed to , I object to the way all the animals are equipped with human emotions , human speech , and human mystic speculations to demonstrate their superiority to people . In the sections set outside the lab , there are fanciful descriptions of animals which are often genuinely poetic and sometimes moving , but their cumulative effect is sentimental in the extreme . For one thing , they are anthropomorphized to a degree beyond anything Thornton W. Burgess or Ernest Thompson Scion ever attempted . These animals , as has been noted , talk ? and when they talk , they sometimes sound like characters out of Pearl Buck . ( " May I drink beside you ? " " Please , Limping Bull . I 'm honored . . . honored. " )                     