@@488030

And what if one judges that the pluralist vision is a trap , a mere recycling of powerlessness ? Can one then convey that sense to the organized and yet couple it with practical here-and-now action that will settle for less than total change , without either manufacturing impossible expectations or postponing the dream ? Alinsky brushes the problem aside , but the New Left organizer must learn to live with the immediately practical without discarding the transcendent vision : must somehow make his political vision plain without letting it excuse him from bread-and-butter responsibilities . It is a central problem , and Alinsky does not help much . In practice , his method seems to be to eliminate organizers who want to express , if not insist on , their total point of view . In some organizations under Alinsky 's wing , organizers have been , purged for introducing " irrelevant " concerns , e.g. , the war in Indochina or socialism . But there are ' often ways to broach such transcendent matters without interrupting the rhythm of local organization , yet without discrediting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saying only that " far-out " concerns may be introduced when the organizer establishes an intimate relationship with community people , But the " far-out " concern he adduces is birth control in a Catholic neighborhood . To a would-be organizer interested in conveying or proposing a radical world view without cutting himself off from those he would organize , Alinsky has little to say . Finally , Alinsky does not at all discuss the particular problems of the organizer whose ' class and consciousness are different from those of the people to be organized , except to say that the organizer should acquire credentials by being invited by ' a " significant sector " of the local population . " Significant sector " turns out to mean the local clergy or union or " community leaders " ? those very groups whose failures conceal the community from its own reality , and whose upward mobility most closely . matches the organizer 's own prejudices . Yet in the end Alinsky confesses : " Those out of their local communities who were trained on the job achieved certain levels and were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an organizer as a highly . imaginative and creative architect and engineer then the best we have been able to train on the job were skilled plumbers , electricians , and carpenters . . . " He does not seem to entertain the possibility that this failure is embedded in his method ; that the organizer 's dependency on local , organizations freezes out the potentially more imaginative ( and disaffected , and usually younger ) individuals , those who have been betrayed by the organizations and are awaiting some more vital vision . For whatever reasons , Alinsky has now turned his attention from the poor to the " middle class . " He proposes a new variety of " middle-class " organizing , the proxy fight within corporations . He declares that " this could be one of the single most important breakthroughs in the revolutions of our times . " The objective is to keep the " middle class " out of the hands of Wallace and Nixon ; yet for what ? To achieve some influence over the quality and prices of consumer goods ? To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ? This is no more than to repeat the CIO experience of achieving recognition without power , and influence only within the matrix of capitalist prerogatives . One can not flatly oppose a consumer revolt any more than one can oppose trade unionism , yet without understanding the centrality of profits for the corporate system , it is hard to see how Nader-style consumer revolt generates a more transcendent vision of a society worth living in . Indeed , the myth of " people 's capitalism " and the corporate manufacture of consumer needs conceal the reality of our common subjugation to the institutions of production and communication . Moreover , the very stake of stockholders in a corporation is of doubtful legitimacy , and the ownership of stock is not central to an individual 's existence , like work or neighborhood ; therefore stockholding is a poor basis on which to erect organization . The most to be said is that conceivably a stockholders ' revolt whose failure would teach the insurgents how much is at stake in corporate control would be an educational boon ; and that stockholders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers could be politically interesting . But Alinsky has not proposed it . For all his reputation as an alliance maker , he seems to shy away from alliance across the frontiers of the community at hand , whether it be the physical community of the neighborhood or the fictitious community of stockholders . His successes are therefore fragmented . Thus the book skirts the hardest questions and covers them with vague generalization . Still , there is much that is admirable about the man . It is that spirited and very Chicagoan , persona ,                     