@@277991

The New York Times has no reputation for sudden innovation , so it came as something of a surprise when , last September , the paper introduced an " Op-Ed " page , journalist 's jargon for an opinion page opposite the editorials . The addition was a notable change for the Times . Since then , it has not only become one of the most closely watched and sought-after forums for comment in U.S. daily journalism but probably the best Op-Ed page anywhere . <P> The Op-Ed format was first popularized by Editor Herbert Bayard Swope on the Pulitzers ' old New York World in the early 1920s . It is now used by many U.S. papers , which usually fill it with syndicated columns . At the Times , that particular page had for decades been the repository of the obituaries . To begin the new feature , the death notices were banished to the second section , making room for a dizzying diversity of views and opinions that perhaps only the Times , with its great prestige , could bring together . Regular Columnists James @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ share the space with outside contributors , who differ widely in political philosophy ( from New Leftist Herbert Marcuse to Right Wing Libertarian Murray Rothbard ) and in personality ( from Burma 's ascetic rebel U Nu to baseball 's syntax-smashing Casey Stengel ) . <P> Stick to Necking . Controversy has been a prime objective of Op-Ed since its inception , and the page now draws nearly as many letters to the Times as the paper 's editorials . Although some of the political contributions have been a bit pedantic , other offerings have produced delight , drama and deliberate outrage . The most inflammatory essay to date was an open letter to his college-bound son by a Southern physician , Dr. Paul Williamson . Stick to studying and necking and avoid revolution , wrote the father , or " expect to get shot . Mother and I will grieve , but we will gladly buy a dinner for the National Guardsman who shot you . " More than 300 letters poured in to the Times , most of them attacking the doctor . Not far behind in reader response @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who provoked an outburst by arguing that birth control and abortion reduced sex to mutual masturbation . <P> By a judicious juxtaposition of contributions , Op-Ed has been able to create a contrapuntal dialogue of ideas . West German Chancellor Willy Brandt defended his treaty with the Soviet Union as a necessary forerunner of general East-West dtente ; Arthur Goldberg subsequently scolded Brandt 's U.S. critics , notably George Ball , for endangering the Ostpolitik effort , and got scolded in turn by Ball for trying to foreclose discussion of Brandt 's policies . The Times became the first major paper to pinpoint an ideological split within the ranks of American conservatives when Op-Ed allowed Economist Rothbard , a onetime contributor to William Buckley 's National Review , to criticize Buckley for abandoning the individualistic concept that the best government is the least government . In a subsequent solicited rebuttal , Buckley retorted that Rothbard failed to make a moral distinction between Nikita Khrushchev and Dwight Eisenhower .                     