@@493619

Attention : Jimmy Carter An Inaugural Address by John Hersey We are all agreed that the time has come for a fresh start in our national life . The task I have set myself on this occasion , which I hope will mark that start , is to probe beneath the rhetoric that has always been thought acceptable , or even requisite , in inaugural addresses . I shall not speak of sacrifice , pride , decency , honor , courage ? though we shall need all of those treasures in plenty . I have looked back to find the reasons for the need for national renewal . I have searched the administrations of my predecessors , not for political blunders , not for failures , not for crimes , but for moments of desperate honesty that by their very intensity might give clues to our need . One such moment haunts me . Honesty from Presidents is more apt to be heard at the end than at the beginning of their terms , and it was just before the expiration of Dwight Eisenhower 's time in office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming from him . In his farewell TV and radio address to the American people , President Eisenhower said , " In the councils of government we must guard against the acquisition of John Hersey 's most recent book is My Petition for More Space ( Knopf ) . unwarranted influence , whether sought or unsought , by the military-industrial complex . . . . We must never let the weight of this combination endanger our liberties or democratic processes . . . . " The more I have thought about this warning ? so uncharacteristic of that dull , fair-minded President ? the louder it has sounded in my ears . It was like a wild cry of pain , for he was a lifetime soldier , a golf and bridge crony of powerful businessmen , a Republican not famous for startling and unorthodox insights . The danger must have stared him in the eye so starkly that he was forced to blurt out the alarm . The course our history has taken since that time shows , alas , that the warning has not been adequately heeded . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great bog of Vietnam , the struggles in the Middle East , and two administrations that have been , to say the least , business-oriented have led to just what Eisenhower feared ? the domination of our polity by the web of forces he had had to deal with , as general and as President . In 1953 Charles E. Wilson , president of General Motors , was widely misquoted as having said , in testimony before a Senate committee holding a closed confirmation hearing on his appointment as Eisenhower 's Secretary of Defense : " What 's good for General Motors is good for the country . " An outcry arose , and the aphorism was taken as having been a horrendous Butz-like slip of the psyche . What Wilson had actually said was scandalous enough , in those days : the he had long felt that what was good for the country was good for GM , and vice versa . In 1976 any such vice versa from a high government official would cause little surprise , because in the intervening years the influence of big business ? of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penetrated far deeper into our structures than Eisenhower , in that late flash of realization , had come to fear it might . The dominion of large corporations reaches now into every aspect of our lives : into the daily choices and decisions of national and foreign policy , into the growing alienation of the populace from " Washington , " into public and private morality ? into the entire tone of our culture . Inaugural weather usually brings a rain of promises . I make only one promise today ? into which many others , however , are locked . My pledge to the American people is that I will do all I can to free their government from the domination I have described . I say " do all I can . " I am only the President . I am well aware that I am largely powerless , in this contest with entities deeply embedded in all the processes of the Republic , to do much more than ferret out and speak the truth . How does this domination make itself felt ? First of all , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ multinational corporations ? General Motors , Exxon , IBM , General Electric , ITT , to give a few random examples ? each of which has an annual budget far larger than that of any but a handful of nations in the UN . To conjure up prime sticky wickets of the White House , the State Department , the CIA and the Pentagon , I need only mention the interests of multinationals in such resources as the gold , chrome and asbestos of Rhodesia ; the manganese , copper , chrome , antimony , nickel , tin and uranium of South Africa ; the nitrates and copper of Chile ; the oil of Iran , Saudi Arabia , Nigeria and Venezuela . These business interests have directly affected our policies on apartheid , the Palestinians , Israel , Latin American dictatorships . Congress guaranteed lifeblood loans of $250 million to the Lockheed Corporation at the very time when the company was bribing Japanese and other foreign and domestic fixers , to the tune of $202 million . Wheat sales to the Soviet Union and other countries were rigged , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grain dealers . Interminable delays in the SALT negotiations have been only partly caused by Russian foot-dragging ; our own military-industrial complex has covertly ? and successfully ? resisted them . Because the interests of our government have become so intertwined with those of the multinationals , our country 's ideals and hopes have been played false by its actual policies and methods . Business morality , if it can be called morality , has tainted our pretensions to concern for racial and economic justice and for peace . Bribery , assassination and influence-peddling have brought results where compassion , concern for the consent of the governed , care for the poor and hungry of the earth , and even prudent self-interest have not . Here at home , again , I need only tick off a few key phrases to suggest areas in which business influence has managed to keep the government from taking effective action for the safety and well-being of the citizenry : Kepone in the James River , PCB in the Hudson ; slowdown of controls of automotive pollutants ; inadequate safety precautions in nuclear plants ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wastes ; headlong sale to private companies of leases for oil-drilling on the Atlantic shelf ; a bill to limit strip-mining vetoed ; influenza vaccine dangerously delayed because of insurance companies , then even more dangerously hurried ; sale of arms to Saudi Arabia , among many other countries ; handguns a glut on an open market ; computer networks building up data banks of private information about citizens ; the recent drift of health insurance back toward the private sector while hospital costs skyrocket ; first-class postage rates at 13 cents and probably going up again while junk-mail rates are kept down and delivery service is a farce ; prices and profits both on the wing ; federal consumer protection nonexistent ; regulatory agencies acting as advocates and protectors of the businesses they are supposed to regulate , their personnel ridden with conflicts of interest ; the Pentagon budget going up and up ; the tax structure articulated in favor of specific corporations ; antitrust laws halfheartedly observed .. . If we are to deal with the urgent problems of our society before they cross over into the panic zone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ racism , crime , education , health services ? we do need a healthy economy . Our industries do need raw materials from abroad . Under our system we do need viable corporations . But as government must be the servant of our public , not its master , so too must the business community be subservient to government , and not its manager ? else the warnings of Dwight Eisenhower will have come home in all too bitter a way . We have already reached the unhealthy stage at which business influence ? and the immorality of greed that goes with it ? have thoroughly permeated the " Washington " that turns the public off . The essence of Nixonism was the corporate mentality . Where war and peace are at stake , this mentality is placed under an almost intolerable strain . Three times as many tons of aerial munitions were dropped during the Vietnam War as were dropped on Europe , Africa , and Asia in all of World War II . This kept many factories humming , and not far under the surface of the rhetoric justifying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more horrifying than that archaic one about General Motors . This one would run : war is good for business ? and therefore good for our people . My one pledge is that I will do my best to free your government from business domination . I believe that this freeing , if we can accomplish it , will enable us to plan , not simply to blunder into , our future . It will enable us , in our efforts for peace in the nuclear age , to speak to the world with a fresh candor and conviction . And it will help us , here at home ; to turn around what has more and more seemed a corrupt and decadent society and to work for a stable prosperity based on a new kind of public trust and confidence .                     