@@494922

THE YEAR 'S BOOKS ( Part II ) Frank E. Manuel on History A great 18th-century cliometrician named Voltaire , anonymously writing a work entitled God and Men , had occasion to list what he called " Christian barbarities " in page after page of massacres , recorded by centuries , from the time of Christ until his own day . It was his conclusion that in Coto Christianity was accountable for 9,468,800 deaths . I have never had reason to doubt his figures , and my faith in his method is so strong that I am prepared to accept any sophisticated numerical analysis of past phenomena . I approach mathematicohistorical studies such as Robert William Fogel and Stanley L. Engerman 's work on American slavery dramatically labeled Time on the Cross ( Little , Brown ; Vol.l , $4.95 ; Vol. 11 , $6.95 paper ) , or the equally provocative The Rebellious Century 1830-1930 , ( Harvard Univ . Press ; $15 ) an account of violence in France , Italy and Germany by the three Tillys ( Charles , Louise and Richard ) , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of technique in their estimates of these books . I am overwhelmed by the quantity of new data unearthed from archives and am appreciative whenever new kinds of source materials enlarge the historians ' vision . I share the mathematician Poincare 's suspicion of sciences that are bogged down in methodological considerations and produce paltry results . In the last decade , quantitative history has lived up to its name . Starting with some halting attempts in the 1950s in the United States , it is reaching the proportions of an avalanche . An international conference was held on " History and the Computer " at Uppsala in Sweden in June 1973 . The Princeton University Press has recently published a volume on The New Urban History : Quantitative Explorations by American Historians ( 1975 ; $17.50 ) , which covers subjects as varied as " Urbanization and Slavery : The Issue of Compatibility , " by Claudia Dale Gordon , and " Urbanization and Inventiveness in the United States , 1870-1920 , " by Robert Higgs . A Historical Methods Newsletter regularly reports on triumphs in the field . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in history . The proponents of the numerical dimension of things are making a serious attack on the flabby form of Clio . Many general historians are unaware of the full force of the onslaught , because the cliometric discipline has begun to separate itself off , to publish special journals , to prefer the article to the book , and to develop a private language of neologisms . But there is every reason to believe that in a scientific-technical civilization this truly new history with its mathematicalequations may soon shove into oblivion the history that abides by the Gospel according to St. John and still holds that in the beginning was the word . Impressionistic , evocative , subjective , emotive history may go down the drain . If the cliometricians prevail , the pregnant ambiguities of Gibbon , the moving resurrections of Michelet , the empathy of Dilthey , the urbanity of Burckhardt will be sicklied over with the pale cast of tables and graphs . I have chosen to concentrate on the works of Fogel and Engerman and the Tillys because they are outstanding exemplars of this new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those who would destroy novel historical methods by selecting as their victims the weaker and more fragile reeds . These are respectworthy antagonists the power of whose weaponry demands that they be taken seriously . The fact that their science is likely to triumph over human , personalized , " eventual " history can be looked upon as a symptom of the victory of techniques over historiography as a bastion of verbal culture . In this piece I shall be acting primarily as a reporter telling what I have learned from these two books and leaving to the reader to answer for himself the overriding question as to whether the monumental technological apparatus , involving whole teams of workers , is justified by the products . I shall be staying close to the formulations of the authors themselves . In both books the overt rebelliousness of men is an issue ? remarkable for its absence in one case , for its presence in the other . Fogel and Engerman demonstrate that slavery was not a system irrationally preserved by plantation owners who failed to perceive or were indifferent to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it seems , ideal " economic men " acting with perfect consciousness of their interests . Southern slave agriculture was 35 percent more efficient than the Northern style of family farming . Buying a slave compared favorably with the most outstanding investment opportunities in manufacturing . Moreover our views of slave punishment should be radically revised . On one plantation where figures were kept , " an average of 0.7 whippings per hand per year " were administered . The slave family was a nuclear institution , not very different from the white one . As for the material conditions of slave life , if measured in terms of dietary intake they compared positively with those of the free industrial worker . ( The energy value of a slave 's diet exceeded that of a free man of 1879 by 10 percent . ) Slaves were exploited , to be sure , but not as much , statistically , as has been imagined . ( " On average , 12 percent of the value of the income produced by slaves was expropriated by their masters . " ) The authors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irksome " psychological factor . " Their reduction of controls in the slave system to a delicately balanced mixture of whipping and pecuniary rewards , both amenable to counting , purports to explain the absence of rebellion . The intricate fabric of psychological factors operating on all sides is eliminated a priori because it can not be treated numerically . Here lies the fatal flaw of this new history . Some of us would rather have intuitive understanding of a relationship than this economist 's pat formula for human motivation , however complex the equations that buttress it . Unlike the American Negro slaves , who had no opportunity for rebellious self-expression in terms that could be subjected to Fogel and Engerman 's statistical apparatus , the Tilly 's 19th-century Frenchmen were frequent participants in measurable acts of collective violence . ( Of course the low figure for public violence among the slaves in America may have ultimately been compensated in the divine order by that one great bloodbath of the Civil war , but that has no intrinsic relationship with an objective mathematical study of pre-war Negro slavery . ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encounter after encounter , " the Tillys inform us , " the data make it appear possible that as many as one Frenchman out of a hundred took part in a collective action producing violence at some time during the average decade . " The Tillys are actively engaged in fighting two substantial bogies : one is the Durkheim thesis that the condition of rootlessness is conducive to collective violence ; the other , that Marxist solidarity and class-consciousness engendered periodic collective violence in the form of bread riots in the 18th century , Ludditism in the early 19th , and revolutionary strikes later in the century . Instead of these two competitive theses explanatory of public violence , which are not borne out by the graphs , the Tillys reach the unexceptionable political conclusion that " Throughout the two centuries the struggle to acquire or maintain established places in the structure of power , and thus gain control over their own existence , brought different groups of Frenchmen into violent conflict with one another . " The data on which the Tillys base their conclusions for Italy and Germany are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There are periods of violence in which the lines on the graphs go up and periods of relative calm when they descend . These do not correlate with wholesale price indices , criminal convictions , migration or changes in national income . As might be expected , " the curves of incidents , participants , and arrests resemble one another . " Charles Tilly explains to his idiotic reader : " there can be no participants without incidents , and the number of participants limits the number of arrests . " The book abounds in insights that may at first glance be puzzling : " A France with a more independent military might well resemble Spain or Argentina . " One is reminded of the equally valid generalization that if grandmother had four wheels she would be a carriage . Sometimes the Tillys level with their readers and confide doubts and perplexity about their own data . During the period of the Paris Commune the curve of participants in violent actions shows the substantial upswing one might anticipate , but the number of incidents and the volume of arrests are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let baffling counter-indications of this sort remain unexamined . They dig further until they discover that the bulk of the arrests growing out of the Commune were made after the fighting had stopped and thus they do not appear statistically in their proper place . The Tillys are well aware that in this new history the phenomenology of an event is effaced , but they have made peace with their choice . " Practically speaking , it is hard to find a mind or method capable of dealing both with the richness of the individual case and with the common properties of many cases . " This leads me back to the truly impressive work of Fogel and Engerman . As with the Tillys , their capital is the exposure of what they conceive to be ignorant beliefs , wrongheaded , biased historical perceptions , which they controvert under the glaring spotlight of hard facts . But what do the facts illuminate ? Not a particular historical experience , only a statistically manipulated one , not a phenomenon with a name and place , only a generalized condition that is measurable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the method , but when it can yield nothing more than a formula or a ratio , a relationship , a comparison of incomparables , are we getting the stuff of history ? The terrible Civil war in the United States is not made one whit more understandable by the figures of plantation economy when the numbers are abstracted from a whole culture that was not only a material one . The Lockian position that the historian or the philosopher should cast his plumb line near shore where he can readily take soundings and not risk the unfathomable depths ends up in the impoverishment of the historical imagination . In isolating and treating measurable data , the cliometricians are attempting to imitate real honest-to-goodness scientists . They are using refined technical instruments to measure historical experiences that can not be boxed off . Their discrete tests can not be added one to another . In Fogel and Engerman 's work I see no feeling for historical process , merely an attempt to solve a puzzle in which the authors have defined the terms and set up the rules of the game @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lunching with Charles Tilly and listening to his plans for a quantitative study of French strikes in the 19th century . Back in the 1930s I had written a monograph about a textile strike in Lod'eve , and I jestingly inquired how Tilly would reduce " my strike " for one of his computer cards . At precisely that moment , the present editor of The New Republic burst into the Harvard Faculty Club to tell us that Kennedy had been assassinated . That was an event , the primal stuff of history . De-personalized quantitative history is merely doing to the past what we are doing to ourselves in the present .                     