@@488027

Mrs. Held , a member of the Philosophy Department at Hunter College , is the author of The Public Interest and Individual Interests ( Basic Books ) , and an editor of the forthcoming Philosophy and Political Action ( Oxford University Press ) . The following article is adapted from her essay in the Futter book . In the current language of political argument , the term " strike " is frequently used in distinctly unordinary ways . Students in recent years have claimed to be " striking " against their universities , " striking " against a political system that has continued to engage in a war they consider evil , and even " striking " against a corrupt society . For some years Women Strike for Peace has been urging housewives and other women to " strike " against U.S. foreign policy in Southeast Asia . In the spring of 1970 , whole universities were sometimes described as being " on strike " against the American political system or the wider society to protest the United States ' invasion of Cambodia and the shooting of students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There has been talk of rent " strikes " and welfare " strikes , " and in New York City an independent board of mediation , has been established to deal with the " community disputes " that have become almost more noticeable than labor-management disputes . The Mayday and some other anti-war demonstrations in the spring of 1971 were aimed at interrupting the work of government in somewhat the same way that a strike interrupts the work of industry. , That further sit-ins and obstructions of various kinds can be expected , along with refusals of students and others to " work , " is ' now generally acknowledged ; whether some of these activities may themselves constitute " strikes " is a possibility to be examined . All sides have certainly become more sophisticated in their predictions of just what it may or may not be possible to accomplish by student and other comparable " strikes . " But as the history of labor disturbances makes evident , a strike does not have to be successful to , merit description as such , and , in the early days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undoubtedly as confused and uncertain about the nature , the.justification and the effectiveness of their actions as were students and other protesters in the 1960s . Before 1842 , American courts generally held all labor organizations to be illegal per se , indictable as criminal conspiracies no matter what their aims or activities . And it was almost a century after that before the rights of workers to organize and defend themselves against corporate tyranny were clearly established . We seem not yet to have developed a clear idea of what can best be meant by " striking against the political system , " or a unit of it , for political and social rather than , for primarily economic reasons . But actions are occurring , and others are foreseeable , which seem to call for just such an idea . When the primary objects of protest arethe decisions and conditions provided by the political arrangements within ' which people live , can " strikes " be directed against political institutions , and can they perhaps achieve good ' results ? Such strikes may be among the actions called for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " the strategic concept I am proposing is that of using any device , short of open rebellion or revolution , to bring pressure to bear in support of liberal aims . " Would they be in line with the dominant intent of mass protest in recent years : to redress grievances through political action ? The study directed by Jerome Skolnick , published as The Politics of Protest , conchides that " almost uniformly , the participants in mass protest today see their grievances as rooted in the existing arrangements of power and authority in contemporary society , and they view their- own activity as political action  --  on a direct or symbolic level  --  aimed at altering those arrangements . " Would political strikes be , appropriate forms of such action ? Would such strikes have to consist in the usual withholding of the striker 's own work ; or could there be other , and perhaps more effective forms of political strikes ? What would citizens ' strikes for better political conditions look like ? Historically , there have been political strikes , in the sense that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as for more narrow economic reasons ; in- Europe such strikes are still fairly common . In the United States , however , since the ascendancy of the tactics and policies of Samuel Gompers in the 1890s , labor strikes have been almost entirely confined to economic issues , and even those have been narrowly construed to include workers ' wages and direct working conditions rather than questions of industrial organization and control . Even were the model of ' the general labor strike for political objectives capable of adaptation at some level in this , country , it would probably be unsuited to large-scale participation in furthering , the purposes of the Left : the " essential workers " would be likely to line up on the other side . Labor strikes with more limited political objectives should not be ruled out , and one can certainly hope that workers will eventually democratize somewhat their own highly authoritarian corporate structures . But the attitudes of labor at the present time are not such as to promise fundamental political reforms through the ' united action of workers . Those with more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way of work to withhold . Students , however united they might become and no matter how many professors joined them , could hardly shut down the society or starve the bourgeoisie by refusing to open their books . Women walking off their unpaid or poorly paid " jobs " could cause vast inconvenience , to those who benefit most from their labor , but the independent resources of women are thin indeed , and they are ' the group least likely to risk the welfare of their children for political goals . Many blacks , the poor , the recipients of welfare , are similarly apt to be in non-essential jobs , or unemployed , and again can seldom exert much pressure by refusing to work . In short , those who might be expected to be most inclined to favor large-scale citizens ' strikes against the present political system or units of it are those who can ' wield the least power by " stoppages of work " in the normal sense of the term . The analogies must be rethought from the foundations . The government of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant respects , rather like a super-corpora-tion , and in some ways not much more subject to electoral control than are business corporations . There has been a vast increase in the importance and numbers of governmental decisions that are relatively unaffected by the electoral process . This follows the earlier trend in industry , discernible by the 1930s , in which power shifted from the owners of stock to the managers of large corporations . Today , in the sphere of super-government , politicians may win or lose , but , effectively insulated , the managers of ' the military-industrial complex hardly notice . And there is a large managerial bureaucracy for nonmilitary activities , including regulatory agencies which serve the interests regulated more effectively than they 4 ' do those of the I public , and layers of " professionals " and " civil servants , " who increase the distance between ti the citizen and the source of the decisions made for and about and upon him . Perhaps , in the cases of both industry and government , the key relation now is between the managers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our usual conceptions may be radically revised . To tell a citizen who is profoundly dissatisfied with his political conditions to go out and work for better candidates may seem not utterly unlike telling a workingman , profoundly resentful of his working conditions , to try , to persuade the stockholders that they should select a new management . Formally , stockholders " control " the corporation , and it might be suggested that to get the corporation 's management to change its policies , the worker could organize rallies , circulate petitions , leave literature at appropriate doorsteps , and have students with fresh haircutS confront stockholders ( sometimes including , their fathers ) with the arguments for higher wages . Of course that 's not how workers ' act . To meet the power of corporate management they have developed the strike as their weapon , and those who control the conditions of work have learned to bargain with workers ' groups . A question many who wish to change present tendencies in the political system may now ask is : Can the politically discontented develop a form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Bargaining has of course been at the heart of politics from the beginning of time , but political bargaining now seems comparable to the stage of economic bargaining between one group of stockholders and another , or one faction of management and another . That kind of bargaining was not what brought workers decent wages , hours and conditions of employment , and it is clear that bargaining between management and workers would never have developed as it did if workers had not fashioned the technique of the strike . If the object of protest is a governmental policy or law , and if electoral and interest group politics are inadequate to meet the requirements of conscientious action , we are accustomed to thinking of the possibilities ' of civil disobedience , resistance or revolution , rather than of striking . But perhaps the techniques of the economic strike could be imported into the political sector of the society with good results , although the action might ' no longer consist merely in a refusal to work . Even industrial strikes can often be limited to a simple withdrawal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been achieved . The first characteristic of a strike that must be noted is that it is a collective action . An individual acting alone can not conduct a strike . A strike must involve significant numbers of persons acting together . If a nonviolent protest involving civil disobedience and directed specifically at a political target is a collective action , that may distinguish it from civil disobedience , or even resistance , as frequently understood . Civil disobedience is a violation of law on grounds of conscience ; resistance is a refusal to accept the legal penalties of such violation . Both are associated with individual action and individual conscience . Of course , many persons can together perform such actions , but they are each acting as individuals , and the participation of others is in no way required for the acts in question to be defined as civil disobedience or resistance . Nonviolent collective protests , on the other hand , may well be such that their collective nature is esssential to them . After the multiplicity of nondisruptive demonstrations in recent years , demonstrations have come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be , frequently , of little significance and less effect . Violent revolution continues , to appear to most of its potential recruits as either unnecessary or impossible , and isolated acts of civil disobedience or resistance , however justifiable , too often seem futile . What may now be in the proceSs of development are intermediate forms of action : collective , he- quently but not necessarily in violation of law , and capable of exerting real pressure on the political managers the way strikes exert real pressure on the managers of corporations . Perhaps the term " citizens ' strike " could appropriately be used for such collective interferences with normal activities of the political system , even though a withholding of the participant 's own work is no longer a dominant feature of such strikes . The political system , like the economy , is broken up into units or subsystems of varying dimension : there is this city agency , that federal department , this armed forces unit , that County office . A political system is that which authoritatively makes rules , decides policies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which this is done may be formal  --  such as that possessed by officials with governmental titles  --  or effective  --  such as that possessed by a commercial interest group which turns out to have the power to get a policy accepted . Formal authority approximates previously established effective authority and allows for predictions on the basis of who occupies what offices . Effective authority approximates future power which can only be guessed at until after the fact . In a cohesive system , many persons translate the sentence " X has authority " into " What X commands ought to be done " ; but for political decisions to be authoritative in almost any sense , they must be accepted at least grudgingly by those affected by them . And just as the corporation can not turn out products unless the workers put up with the working conditions offered them , so a political system can not turn out authoritative decisions unless its members put up with the social conditions it provides . If groups of members of a political system or subsystem refuse to accept the conditions they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an appropriate description of the situation might seem to be : the citizens are on strike . As such occurrences become more and more frequent , and they appear to be doing so , the political managers , to avoid them , may begin to bargain in earnest with those whose grievances can not be met by a suggestion that they take their problems to the ballot box . All too often , the voting Public reveals itself to be a reflection of the selfish interests of the regnant majority rather than a collectivity concerned that many obvious requirements for social justice are still glaringly outstanding in the richest nation , or aware of the minimal responsibilities a political system must meet to assure its own future and the possibilities of international peace . With the development of political strikes , citizens of conscience may perhaps not remain at the mercy of electoral largesse or judicial innovation . To the extent that their actions may be coercive upon those in power , this coercion should be no less justifiable than that already employed by the political system . But evaluations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to immobility . Which sorts of political strike activities may be justifiably coercive and which sorts may not will have to be worked out in detail , just as the lines between acceptable and unacceptable union " coercion " have had to be worked out . The lines for labor have obviously shifted from pre-1914 conceptions that allowed injunctions to be issued forbidding even attempts to persuade , and from later days when a single picket for " communication and persuasion " was allowed at each gate , but mass picketing was prohibited . The uses made of injunctions in the 1920s , when any union action which intentionally interfered with interstate . commerce could be interpreted as an illegal " restraint of trade , " belong to the past. , Similar shifts may be appropriate in our conceptions with regard to political or citizens ' strikes . Familiar forms of protest which may be used in citizens ' strikes could be the blocking of entrances to governmental buildings , the deliberate interference with military or defense-industrial activities , the nonpayment of kinds or percentages of taxes , the refusal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on . Certainly new forms may be imagined and developed , but with the growing awareness of the purposes , and of the grounds for justifying such strikes , the particular form adopted may be less important than the organization of large numbers of persons to go on strike against a unit of the political system , or against the system as a whole , when in their opinion such action is appropriate to bring about specific benefits . In that context , the political or citizens ' strike will not be thought of as a rare and extreme response , appropriate only for the most outrageous or tyrannical of governments or laws , or the most blatant violations of fundamental rights . It will be directed toward decisions and policies which the political managers chosen as targets have the authority to change , and may come to be thought of , by participants and observers alike , as no more outlandish than a labor union strike . To be out on bail or in jail as a result of such activities may come to seem rather like refusing to work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause for much more righteous fury than a banker now expends on a striking hard-hat . Most Americans today take it for granted that in order to gain a wage he can live with a worker may be justified in going on strike against a corporation . It is not much more difficult to argue that , under present conditions , in order to gain a political decision he or she can live with , a conscientious citizen may be justified in going on strike against a political system or a unit of it . Unless forms of political action that exceed the present bounds of electoral and interest group politics are developed , and in time given legal scope , discontent among conscientious citizens with their political conditions may well reach flood proportions . ? .                     