@@485208

Great Britain is facing a period of racial confrontation and protest which may rival the American urban unrest of the 1960s in intensity if not in scope . That is the prevailing forecast of community workers , policemen , government officials , trade unionists , journalists and black , Asian and white residents of this city who were interviewed in the past month . There is general agreement that , barring a dramatic economic recovery which most believe to be impossible , black protest and white resistance will become increasingly militant in London , Birmingham , Manchester and other cities where thenation 's 1.5 million West Indians and Asians cluster . Roughly , they are now 2 per cent of the population . At the center of this growing clash is a situation that can not be resolved quietly : a first generation of blacks is maturing in Britain at a time when the country is least able or willing to accept them . They and their parents , who left the West Indies and the Asian subcontinent with immigrant dreams , are discovering that the combination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them at the bottom of the British working class , scapegoats of the nation 's decline . Andrew Silk is a Thomas I. Watson Foundation Fellow studying race in England and Africa . It has been a violent year . On June 6 a 19-year-old Indian was murdered in the London suburb of Southall , allegedly by a gang of four whites and a West Indian . At the funeral , young Asians stoned whites in passing cars . On August 30 , at a West Indian carnival in Notting Hill , near the center of London , young blacks battled police with stones and bottles for five hours . In October , a 76-year-old Asian woman was murdered in her Southall apartment , allegedly by a young white . The Asian community was also outraged last fall by the death during labor of a baby whose mother , having flown to England to join her husband , was waiting to be deported at Heathrow Airport . It is being said that , as the woman struggled to give birth , immigration officers stood by laughing . The racial factor in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their wake , new Asian protest organizations have been formed , relations between young blacks and police have collapsed and the already strained myth of British tolerance has been further called into question . Whites are alarmed at an apparent rise in street crime by young West Indians . While extraordinarily mild compared to what occurs in American cities , the capacity of these incidents  --  usually unarmed attacks  --  to excite the country is remarkable . At a recent trial , members of a black gang were sentenced to five and seven years for a series of assaults on white women in London . In his decision the judge suggested the possible need for vigilante groups to protect the city . West Indians reply that sensationalized press coverage of black crime has led to police harassment of their communities . There are constant reports of blacks being stopped at random , and of large numbers of young West Indians being framed on " sus " charges  --  on the basis of which a man may be convicted of intent to violate the law . The police dismiss the cries of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the streets . The Fascist parties have provoked and capitalized on the national distress . At Blackburn last spring , agitation by the small National Party led to street fights and the stoning of Asian shop windows . The National Front , a larger organization with roots in the pro-Nazi movements of the 1930s , has made itself felt in multiracial areas for the first time and is making small inroads into the unions . In the United Postal Workers , a union of largely Communist leadership and with heavy black membership , the entire executive of one branch was composed of Front members . A member was found also in the Heathrow immigration service  --  an unnerving conflict of interest , since the Front has called for the repatriation of all West Indians and Asians . ( This demand has in recent months been given a taint of respectability . Enoch Powell , ' the rebel Conservative M.P . who has spent much of the last several years campaigning against immigration , announced his own repatriation scheme  --  sending them home with ? 1,000 yer person . ) Few people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created a reluctance within the government to act boldly on racial matters . Most of the new Front members come from Labour : in fact in the last Parliamentary by-election in Walsall , the combined efforts ofthree anti-immigration candidates prevented a Labour victory . Black community leaders are skeptical about a new Race Relations bill , soon to become law . Its wording is tough , and calls for sterner prosecution of discrimination , but they doubt that it will be carefuUy enforced . No West Indian or Asian has been appointed to the top executive committee which will administer the law . Some have likened the mood here to that in America in the early 1960s  --  a new generation of protest , a new awareness of race in the population at large , a nation going through a complex period of transition . But here the scale is smaller and the goal is different . The struggle is not for power but to belong ? West Indians and Asians increasingly fear that they are becoming England 's " permanent immigrants . " On the other side , whites do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as one community worker put it , " most people treat the idea of Britain being a multiracial society as a bad joke . " Race and immigration will be a central issue of the next general election , coming probably this spring . The Front has pledged to run a large slate of candidates , covering much of the country , and although in most cases they will not get enough votes to save the deposits they must make to run , more street fighting is expected . The party may pick up a few local posts , and its pressure in the race will again push the major parties to the Right , particularly on immigration policy . If the Conservatives win , as is widely expected , the Race Relations Act , to which the Tories give only lukewarm support , will probably not get off the ground . However , the Asians see a more direct threat in a Conservative victory . The party wants to register every Asian in Britain , and to place in their dossiers lists of all dependents still in the home countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide an accurate tally of the number of dependents yet to come . ( All other immigration from the Asian subcontinent has ceased . ) Moreover , the implications of such a register are ominous . The English wife of a Pakistani would not be on the " immigrants list , " but a British-born child of Asian descent would . Few Asians would need further confirmation that they have in fact become " permanent immigrants . " This issue of black status will be further dramatized when Rhodesian whites begin to arrive here in force . It is estimated that 50,000 or more will arrive during a period when only 5,000 Asian families from East Africa will be allowed in and those awaiting visas from Pakistan , Bangladesh and India face eighteen-month delays . Unlike the Asians , who need entrance visas , even though many of them hold British passports , large numbers of white Rhodesians may enter freely because they are " partial " citizens  --  that is , citizens by English descent . About 1,000 Rhodesians arrived here in 1976 ? the number has doubled in each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that when they settle , they will join the Front , and there are unsubstantiated charges that Rhodesians are helping to finance , the party . However the major effect of the influx may be symbolic : it will be seen that the English racists who got scared and fled Rhodesia are treated as kith and kin , whereas those West Indians and Asians who are already living here are second-class citizens . The facts of disadvantage and discrimination are alarming . Pay and opportunity differentials between blacks and whites in white-collar jobs are so large that , according to one study , " academic qualifications are of little value to minorities in obtaining better wages and positions . " Housing discrimination is also acute : the same study reported that 71 per cent of Pakistani men applying for apartments were turned away by white landlords . In general , West Indians and Asians pay more than do whites for housing , and for worse housing at that . Cases of labor exploitation come up frequently , particularly in the industrial Midlands where many Asian women who speak little or no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become interested in the specific problems of black workers , despite the fact that 61 per cent of all blacks are union members . Asians are often called " the new Jews " ? people who have moved into London and other cities and quickly taken over candy stores , supermarkets , restaurants and other retail businesses . But these merchants are a small minority , coming for the most part from East Africa , where they were already merchants . Among the West Indians there are especially serious signs of long-term disadvantage . Unemployment among black youth is at 14 per cent  --  double the national average . Large numbers of students are leaving school with no qualifications , many after having been put in " subnormal " classes . In the London borough of Brixton , where the concentration of West Indians is the highest in all England , shops are moving out , large redevelopment programs are scattering the community and whites , who are still in the majority , are also leaving . As yet , there are no national organizations of West Indians or of Asians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And it is most doubtful that any of these will come into existence . The two groups , each of whom numbers about 800,000 , are at present closer to the whites than they are to each other . And within the groups there are sharp divisions of religion and nationality , particularly among the Asians . The black Britons are also aware that , being an exceedingly small fraction of the population , their political significance is at best marginal , and that in the words of one activist , no matter what happens , " the pace of justice will always be controlled by the whites . " The immigrant groups have made some attempt to assert themselves in local communities , where in some instances more than 20 per cent of the residents are black , but these efforts also have been ineffective . The West Indians have in the past been reluctant to organize because they wanted to slip into British society without anyone , noticing ; the Asians have established scores of organizations , but they were for the most part immigrant associations designed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have in part failed because , according to Jenny Lo , a Malayasian immigrant , " people discovered there is no British Dream . " For the West Indians , who called themselves British even before they began coming here in large numbers during the 1950s , this realization has led to wide demoralization . " When we arrived here , we thought we were coming home to Mama , " said John Franklin , a Jamaican who reached England twenty-five years ago . " We had left a Crown Colony that was 300 years old , where there was little awareness of color . We had fought in Britain 's wars , and had felt that her Queen was our Queen . . . . Once we began to see that we were n't going to become English , many of us lost our purpose here . " The vision most West Indians had of Britain was colonial and imperial  --  the working class they found themselves in had not been exported to the Caribbean . Now the talk has shifted from coming home to England to going home to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leave ? " a Jamaican woman squatting in a London council flat said . " Because I just do n't like it here . I do n't know anyone who wants to stay . " But very few will leave  --  they lack money to take home . The Asian vision was simpler . Britain was a place where one could work and send money home . More than 95 per cent of the immigrants were peasants who could have little thought of becoming British . " We may have fared better than the West Indians because we have wanted less , " one Indian commented . " Also we have been accustomed to class and caste structures , so we have been able to maintain our own system of status and authority independent of British society . " The new black protest that is growing in Notting Hill , Southall and other multiracial communities is in part an attack on the colonialism and conservatism of the immigrant generation . Last summer an Indian student challenged his uncle for a post in a community organization . " You are nothing more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " You do n't understand how this country works . " In South London black organizers of a weekend school became furious when parents were reluctant to send their children because no white students had enrolled . Among young Asians and West Indians there is a common awareness that , in the words of one activist , " We will not get anywhere until we understand the deep racism of British society . " Yet beneath such talk is a deep uncertainty . " We do not know who we are , what we want or how to get it , " admitted Roy Frances , a teacher in a school for blacks . " We have rejected calling ourselves black Britons , because we never knew what that meant . Now we have to start thinking about that term again , because we are not going anywhere else . " For the Asians , the uncertainty is as deep , but of a different sort . The new militance expressed toward whites is at the same time a resistance to the strict faiths of Islam , Hinduism and Sikhism of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struggle to break into a British society which may not accept them , if in that process they become cut off from the protection of the community . Some people hope that , as a result of these parallel struggles , a common black British identity may come into being ; it is highly unlikely . A more probable development would be the coming together of different groups of West Indians and Asians in leftist movements . Some suggestion of this was seen in November when an array of black and white parties and organizations held an " anti-racist " rally in Trafalgar Square . If this coalition does in fact occur , race may become the catalyst for a much more fundamental confrontation in British society . For few blacks feel that strong white support will be available to them until whites on the Left are themselves directly threatened . But such rumors of revolution may be alarmist : if the cleavages in British society prove in fact less severe than people here increasingly believe them to be , Britain 's blacks may be able to live in relative peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being , the calls to action will be heard with rising insistence and greater frequency . Black Britons discover themselves to be deep in this country 's crisis of will and spirit . ?                     