@@490782

DESPITE the argument , so pop- ular in some quarters last year , that New York is a dying enterprise best abandoned by all Americans elsewhere , sixteen million out-oftowners stayed at least one night in New York hotels in 1975 , spending a billion and a half dollars in the city and giving the local tourism industry one of its best years in history . Nearly a quarter of the visitors were drawn here by eight hundred and twenty-one conventions , of which about one every other month brought as many as or more visitors than the twenty to twenty-five thousand expected for the big Democratic gathering at Madison Square Garden this month , The eleven thousand who were here last year for the meeting of the American Bankers Association are especially remembered , since their arrival coincided with a hectic week  --  the first of many  --  when the city was threatened with financial collapse in a matter of days , and the visiting bankers were frequently asked for their view of this prospect . Most of those interviewed said that , yes , they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , yes , they thought it should be allowed to go bankrupt . Many of this month 's visiting Democrats will probably share that view of what the city has coming to it , but , fortunately for local spirits , most of the talk in the lobbies of the twenty hotels in which the Democratic delegates will be billeted  --  all of them within thirty blocks of the Garden  --  will be of roll calls rather than fiscal rollovers . Although the city obviously regards its first major national political convention in fifty-two years as an event of extraordinary interest ( " Spruce Up New York  --  Company 's Coming ! " reads a big sign in Times Square ) , there will be plenty of space left over for ordinary tourists . In fact , the Democrats coming here to make political history will occupy only a fifth of the city 's available hotel rooms . The news that some of the Republicans attending their party 's Convention in Kansas City next month will have to be quartered at hotels in Topeka , sixty-four miles away , is mentioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notorious for being short on home-town boosterism . New York politicians from the clubhouse to the statewide level are so well known for their organized sodebility , at an ante of anything from five to five hundred dollars a head for party or individual campaign treas-uries , that politics often seems to be a major industry in itself , and the sight of formal and informal caucuses in the corridors will be nothing unusual for most of the hotels that are putting up Democratic Convention delegates . Re-cently , party leaders have tended to move their headquarters into office buildings and to pass out their banquet trade rather evenhandedly among the brassy new hotels on the West Side , but for decades , beginning in the nine-teen-twenties , the city had two major political watering holes . The Republi-cans generally congregated at the Ho-tel Roosevelt , at Forty-fifth Street and Madison Avenue , which opened in 1924 . The Wisconsin , Arizona , and Colorado delegations , as well as Ari-zona Representative Morris Udall and his staff , who will stay there during the upcoming Convention , will find themselves mingling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which still has its offices there . ( The hotel 's name presented an awkward problem in 1944 , when New York 's Governor Thomas E. Dewey was running for President against F.D.R. The Republican National Committee solved the matter by an-nouncing that its quarters were " on the tenth floor of the Hotel Theodore Roosevelt . " E. B. White 's comment in this magazine was " You know , that little old inn on James Madi-son Avenue . " ) The Demo-cratic counterpart of the Roo-sevelt has been the sixty-three-year-old Biltmore , on East Forty-third Street , where for-mer Oklahoma Senator Fred Harris and the Connecticut , Puerto Rico , Minnesota , New Hampshire , and Montana delegations will be staying . Nominee-presumptive Jimmy Carter , whom many local Democrats associate with political fu-ture shock , will be at the **25;5286;TOOLONG Americana , on Seventh Avenue , during the Convention , but late in June , when he came to town to address the Foreign Policy Association , he stayed at the Biltmore . New York Democratic leaders  --  district and coun-ty , incumbent and retired  --  are still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has had a Biltmore office for thirty years , including the seven-teen months , ending in December of 1972 , that he served in a federal penitentiary for conspiracy to bribe in connection with a city permit . ( Defenders of the local criminal-justice system , who tend to be especially defensive these days , like to point out that he was sent there by a Democratic United States Attorney , Robert Morgenthau . ) During the twelve years he served as his party 's New York county chairman , which was the title of the Tammany bosses , DeSapio , of course , symbolized entrenched old-style clubhouse politics to local Democratic reformers , and they finally ousted him in 1961 . The reformers , many of whom are now members of the alliance known as the New Democratic Coalition , continue today as the most active force in Manhattan politics . On the morning last month after eighty-eight-year-old James Farley died ( in his suite at the nonpartisan Waldorf-Astoria , where Herbert Hoover also died , after spending his last years there ) , much of the talk in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N.D.C. , whose record in recent years of winning the Democratic primary for its candidate , who then lost the election , often to a Republican , has led its critics to claim that its initials stand for " November Do n't Count . " Lobby-sitters in the Biltmore 's red plush chairs on the morning after Farley 's death could read in his Times obituary of how , beginning in 1930 at his Biltmore office , Farley , who was then State Democratic Chairman , had masterminded the national campaign that two years later won the Presidential nomination for Franklin D. Roosevelt . At Farley 's funeral , at St. Patrick 's on June 12th , the Reverend Robert Gannon , the former president of Fordham , who delivered the funeral sermon to a crowd of fifteen hundred that was studded with leading politicians of all parties and several political generations , dwelt on the marvels of Farley 's campaign for Roosevelt , and finally , for those present who were too young to remember , put it in eon-temporary terms . " He did a Jimmy Carter , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's formal appearance before the delegates from this state , whose April primary gave him only thirty-three delegates , to a hundred and three for Senator Henry Jackson , seventy-three for Udall , and sixty-five uncommitted but generally in favor of Senator Hubert Humphrey , Carter made it clear that he welcomed any parallels between his political history and that of Roosevelt , the only New York politician he mentioned . After referring to the special problems that the Northeastern states have today , and to the difference that the policies of President Roosevelt , " who had been your governor , " had made to the Carter family and to other Southern families in the Depression years , he said , with more fervor than is his custom , " I hope if I become President that I can do as much to unify our nation to be sensitive to the needs of all those who live in your area as Franklin Roosevelt was when he changed my life . " WHEN , at the Biltmore on the day after Farley 's death , former United Nations Ambassador Daniel Patrick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic nomination for United States senator to run against the Republican incumbent , James Buckley , Moynihan did not mention Roosevelt . Instead , he referred to two fellow-Irishmen , Al Smith and John F. Kennedy , and noted that , except for Robert Kennedy , New York State , where registered Democrats outnumber registered Republicans almost three to two , had not elected a Democratic senator since Herbert Lehman won , in 1950 . Said Moynihan , " The case for my running is , first of all , that I can he elected " ? a remark that was taken as a gibe at Manhattan Representative Bella Abzug , who has the overwhelming endorsement of the N.D.C. as the Party 's candidate for senator . ( The fact that it is November that counts was a big political point that week . The day before , President Ford had told reporters at the White House that , in contrast to his major rival , " I am electable , " and Ronald Reagan 's staff people had countered that their candidate was the electable one . ) Moynihan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everyday thing for us Democrats " ? a complaint that James Fade ) / would have understood : in the period stretching back from 1932 to before the Civil ? Var , only two Democrats ( Grover Cleveland and Woodrow Wilson ) were elected to the Presidency , and from 1864 until Al Smith came along Republicans were almost twice as likely as Democrats to be elected to the New York governorship . As for New York Democrats in the United States Senate , the situation was even worse , and it has persisted . Of the thirty senators who represented this state from the Civil War years until today , only nine have been Democrats . For generations , there has seemed to be a conviction in this state , as in most of the nation outside the South , that Democratic candidates , who have tended to be products of the cities and big-city bosses  --  with their " evil , immigrant rule , " as the Nebraskan William Jennings Bryan once described them  --  were best restricted to municipal offices or an occasional term in the House of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate race ( he was the last to announce , and there arc three other contenders besides Ms. Abzug ) undoubtedly believe their candidate to possess two big advantages having to do with geography : he is associated in the voters ' minds with national and international affairs rather than with those of this city , in which he grew up , and , despite his extensive service in Washington and New Delhi and as a tenured professor at Harvard , he has a voting residence in Oneonta , in upstate New York , while all four of his rivals for the senatorial nomination are from Manhattan . At his Biltmore press conference , Moynihan , who has run for only one other political office  --  an unsuccessful race for the Democratic nomination for New York City Council president in 1965 , before he considered himself an upstater  --  said , " I expect to draw support from all over the country . " He then said quickly , " I mean , of course , the city . " And then , " That is , the state . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning of the Moynihan announcement was primarily of legal significance , but it also had its political implications . The lawyers for the sons of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg distributed to reporters copies of documents concerning the 1951 Rosenberg spy trial which had recently been released to them by the Justice Department under the Freedom of Information Act  --  documents that , according to the lawyers , should lead to a special inquiry into the case , on the ground that the presiding judge , Irving Kaufman , had allegedly consulted about the appropriate sentence with members of the prosecution staff , headed by United States Attorney Irving Saypol . News accounts of this development noted that Saypol , who has been a State Supreme Court Justice since 1952 , was now under indictment himself  --  one more unwelcome reminder to local Democratic leaders of the number of prominent members of their party who are in trouble with the law . However , Russell Baker 's recent homemade-dictionary definition of a New York Democrat as " a person in danger of indictment " is hardly fair . Of the forty-two members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not counting Matthew Troy , chairman of the Council 's Finance Committee and former Queens Democratic county leader , who last week announced his intention of waiving indictment and pleading guilty to having filed a fraudulent tax return . In the State Assembly the ratio is even better  --  only two are under indictment out of a hundred and fifty . Indeed , even these figures can give a misleading impression , since two of the four indicted officeholders are members of the same family . Assembly Speaker Stanley Steingut has been charged with " corrupt use of position or authority " in arranging a campaign contribution for his son , Councilman Robert Steingut , whose indictment is based on the same incident . Nor can all the legal travail of these four Democrats he attributed to former Special State Prosecutor Maurice Nadjari , whom one politically well-connected defendant indicted last month by a Nadjari grand jury described as " the Torquemada of the twentieth century , " and whose efforts in the last months to retain his office have generated far more local controversy than any overtly political contest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the Republican prosecutor who was appointed in 1972 by Governor Nelson Rockefeller to root out corruption in the city 's heavily Democratic criminal-justice system  --  a crusade that has so far cost nearly fourteen million dollars . ( The possibility that the Albany Legislature would vote funds for a special Democratic state prosecutor appointed by the present Democratic Governor , Hugh Carey , to root out corruption in the state 's largely Republican criminal-justice system outside the city is considered remote . ) The indictment against Justice Saypol was , however , Nadjari 's work . Saypol was charged , along with Manhattan Surrogate S. Samuel DiFalco , with having " disregarded a long-standing policy " of the Surrogate Court by allowing Saypol 's son Roger to auction off certain property under the court 's jurisdiction which the younger Saypol had already appraised . Surrogate DiFalco is also well known for his paternal solicitude , directed in his case toward State Assemblyman Anthony DiFalco . ( Young DiFalco is not running for reelection to the Assembly this year , which may be just as well . During a roll call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his name and the names of two other members noted for poor attendance records , the other legislators shouted , " Who ? Who ? Who ? " ) The Surrogate Court , which deals with the probate of estates , is considered the richest in patronage of all local courts , and in 1973 , when Anthony DiFalco was engaged in a well-financed campaign for the presidency of the City Council , it was popularly reported that his campaign slogan was " Where There 's a Will , There 's a Way . " The successful candidate in that contest was Paul O'Dwyer , who is among those now running for the Democratic nomination for United States senator . After the indictment of Surrogate DiFalco , O'Dwyer was asked about the 1973 campaign . " There was a lot of talk about Sam telling people it would be nice to contribute to his son , but I put that aside , " O'Dwyer said , adding generously , " After all , what kind of a father would he be if he did n't want to help a son ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and replace him with Manhattan District Attorney Robert Morgenthau , saying that there had been " a perceptible decline in public confidence " in Nadjari 's investigaeons , caused by " a series of adverse court decisions and rulings . " A considerable number of Nadjari 's cases had been dismissed or overturned on appeal  --  a process that has continued . Some of the Biltmore habitues who were long-faced last month as they read the Farley obituary were all smiles the next day . The Court of Appeals , the state 's highest court , had refused to reinstate a Nadjari indictment against former Queens District Attorney Thomas Mackell , the only really significant figure in the local criminal-justice system whom the Special Prosecutor had convicted in his nearly four years in office . Of eleven judges indicted , none have been convicted ; two have been acquitted , two have had their cases dismissed , and seven have not yet been brought to trial . Mackell 's conviction , on the charge that he had failed to prosecute a Ponzi-like scheme in which his son-in-law was involved , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court , which accused Nadjari of engaging in dubious prosecutorial tactics and showing " basic disregard of the rules of evidence . " Carey 's attempt to remove Nadjari was blocked by the state 's Republican Attorney General , Louis Lefkowitz , who had held this post throughout the regime of Nelson Rockefeller , and who , through a technicality , had actually appointed Nadjari . Lefkowitz gave Nadjari months more to pursue his investigations . In the past two months , the eleven Nadjari grand juries  --  indicting against deadline , as those named claim bitterly  --  have sent up a volley of formal charges against Democrats , including one naming DeSapio , who is accused of lying under oath as a witness in a case involving the Surrogate Court . The theory that the prosecutor 's office might view an indictment as a weapon was encouraged by an affidavit submitted to the court reporting that a member of Nadjari 's staff had told a local hank president that if he did not cooperate with an investigation Nadjari would get an indictment against him , and had then said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in two months ? Your bank and reputation would he ruined . " Two weeks ago , after a four-month investigation , a report was issued by former State Supreme Court Justice Jacob Grumet  --  a Republican appointed by Lefkowitz in January to look into Nadjari 's charge that Carey had tried to remove him in order to protect the Governor 's handpicked State Democratic Chairman , Patrick Cunningharn , who M late May and early June was indicted on a number of counts involving alleged corruption in his home county of the Bronx . Grumet 's verdict was that there was no evidence that Carey had had any idea Cunningham was under investigation at the time he made the decision to remove Nadjari . The charges in Nadjari 's recent indictments are far less sensational than they were rumored to be in accounts that , one way or another , found their way out of the Special Prosecutor 's office and onto the front pages , and some of these , like earlier Nadjari indictments , may not stand tip in court . Whatever happens , the damage to Cunningham @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's political position has been great . On the other side of the aisle , the benefit to the Republican opposition in the state has been considerable . Last month , as Carey and Lefkowitz were negotiating over whether Nadjari should continue in office , Vice-President Rockefeller , who keeps in touch with politics back home , publicly commended Nadjari for a job well done . Lefkowitz 's position was understood to be that the Special Prosecutor should be allowed to early all existing indictments and active investigations through to conclusion . However , Nadjari 's angry response to the Grumet report absolving Carey of improper motives was to repeat his charges against the Governor , to threaten to interrogate him on the matter before a grand jury , and to denounce Justice Grumet  --  Lefkowitz 's friend since the days when the Attorney General was a young Republican assemblyman , nearly half a cm-tiny ago  --  for having conducted " no investigation . " Four days before Nadjari 's extended term ran out , Lefkowitz and Carey announced that he would be replaced by John Keenan , District Attorney Morgenthau @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ registered Republican . Most Democrats are convinced that Lefkowitz consulted with his former chief before he originally extended Nadjari 's term last winter , but the Attorney General denies this . Until earl ) 1975 , Lefkowitz 's son Stephen had been general counsel to the State Urban Development Corporation , a two-billion-dollar Rockefeller project that Carey , shortly before he took office , in January of 1975 , discovered was in severe financial difficulties . Two months later , it defaulted on some of its debts and had to he refinanced by the state . The younger Lefkowitz was known to be indignant at Carey 's suggestion that the U.D.C. might have been poorly managed  --  an opinion later supported by a special state investigating commission . Attorney General Lefkowitz , explaining his continuation of Nadjari 's tenure last winter , which thus insured Carey of so much political embarrassment , said that the only person who had known about his decision ahead of time was his son Stephen . IT was suspected in some quarters that the persistence of the father-son motif in New York political life , along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was not always nice to former California Governor Edmund Brown , Sr. , might have had something to do with the fact that the local response to Jerry Brown 's visit here in search of political support on June 1st was , as Newsday de-scribed it , " tepid . " By the time Jerry Brown , along with Udall and Carter , returned to the city to address the state 's Convention delegates two weeks later , however , New York Democrats had other things on their minds . The rush of Democrats in most parts of the country to switch their votes to Carter had become a stampede , but the Any-body-but-Carter movement was still in almost full bloom here . At a meeting of the delegates , in the grand ballroom of the Statler Hilton Hotel , on Seventh Avenue across from Madison Square Garden , Udall came in second ( one more time on the applause meter . As between the two other men , the ma-jority of the delegates from New York  --  congenital dissidents , stubborn as ever about facing reality , as some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even by Carter 's grateful words about Franklin Roosevelt , and gave only what the Tinscs called a " lukewarm " reception to the candidate , who spoke in an even voice and smiled constantly , and who will almost certainly head their na-tional ticket . To the California Gov-ernor , who almost certainly will not , and whose voice frequently rose to a shout as he assured them that the nation 's problems could not be solved by " an invitation to love , " and who spoke dramatically of the problems of the South Bronx ( but not of Watts ) , and who did not smile once , they gave a series of foot-stamping ovations . A band of Jackson delegates started a chant of " We want Brown ! " The delegates for Jackson , the state 's big primary winner , have particularly resisted the rush to Carter . The previous week , more than a hundred Jackson delegates , alternates , and supporters had held a closed meeting in Forest Hills , Queens , with their chosen candidate . Through the doors , reporters could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Let 's go down like men ! " and " Let 's go down in flames ! " One Jackson delegate who felt differently was Mayor Beanie , who endorsed Carter on May 26th ; this put Brame one up on Cares ' , whose endorsement came on June 12th . Th , Mayor ( whose aides like to point out that the last political contest for which Jim Farley served as campaign chairman was a Beanie mayoral race , although , unfortunately , it was the one in 1965 , which he lost to John Lindsay ) had to give up his scheme of trying to persuade New York 's regular Democratic leaders to swing their delegates to Carter in a body early in June and thus win points for the city and perhaps a more receptive ear from its prospective new banker by putting the winner over the top . As it is , even if a few local delegates insist on going down in flames at the Convention this month , no one may even notice . November , however , is another matter , in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of the last Presidential election . A few weeks ago , Carter hired as his local public-relations consultant Howard Rubenstein , the son of an old Brooklyn friend of Beame 's . Rubenstein handled publicity for the Mayor 's successful 1973 race and has been a power at City Hall ever since . Carter 's theory may be that a man who is being paid to improve New Yorkers ' impression of the Uniformed Sanitation-men 's Association and a large number of the city 's prominent landlords ( who are also Rubenstein clients ) might do marvels for a Georgia Baptist who plans to be the next President . THE Presidential race went virtually unmentioned at another meeting last month  --  also at the Statler Hilton  --  at which members of the Democratic State Committee chose the Party 's designee for the senatorial nomination . It is hard to understand why the designation was much sought after , since the Democratic candidate on the November ballot will be the winner of the September 14th primary , and the pattern has been that the June choices of the Party leaders are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party designated Syracuse Mayor Lee Alexander for senator and Howard Samuels for governor , both of whom were defeated that September by rivals who accused them of running on the ticket of the bosses . Of this ear 's five senatorial contenders , only one , Abraham Hirschfeld , emerged from last month 's meeting without Party backing of some sort . The Party designation went to O'Dwyer , reportedly at the urging of Mayor Hearne  --  who would no doubt he happy to avoid geriatric jokes by getting O'Dwyer , now sixty-nine , off the ticket as a candidate for reelection as City Council president when Beame runs for reelection as mayor next year , at the age of seventy-one . As had been planned , Moynihan and Bella Abzug both received enough committee votes so that they will automatically be on the ballot , and wo n't have to comply with Party rules consigning those shut out at the state convention to the costly and time-consuming chore of gathering twenty thousand signatures on petitions in twenty counties . As had not been in the original plan , the Moynihan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Ramsey Clark on the ballot also  --  a move reflecting not generosity but self-interest , since the comparatively conservative Moynihan would benefit by having the liberal vote split three ways , among Abzug , Clark , and O'Dwyer . Shortly afterward , however , the ungrateful Clark announced that during the next few weeks he would help gather petitions for the left-out Hirschfeld , who is also a comparative conservative ( " Let a businessman run the city 's business " ) and could give Moynihan some competition . A popular view is that the chief gladiators in the Senate race will be Moynihan and Abzug , assuming that the congresswoman does n't back out at the last moment and decide to settle for certain reelection to the House . " It would be hard to imagine ... two more contrasting characters than the articulate , impish Moynihan and the brassy , irrepressible Ms. Abzug , " the News commented . " Those two alone should provide enough color and controversy to give the campaign a zip and zest New Yorkers have n't seen for years . " Hirschfeld came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1968 O'Dwyer lost the election for senator to Jacob Javits by over a million votes . The practice is to dismiss as if they had never happened the events of 1974 , when Clark was virtually ignored at the Democratic state convention , getting only one per cent of the committee vote , but then took the primary and , although he lost in November , got almost one million seven hundred and fifty thousand votes , to two million for Javits . Javits , who traditionally re .. ceives the votes of many Democrats , won that year only by approximately the margin of the votes he got as the result of also being the candidate of the Liberal Party , which this year will surely endorse the Democratic nominee over Buckley . Clark is continuing his 1974 policy of accepting no more than a hundred dollars from each contributor , and has so far raised nearly a quarter of a million dollars that way . The former Attorney General , who is regarded as being somewhat unworldly , has another resource . Before his father , former Supreme Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the elder Clark was a respected figure in regular Democratic politics , not only in his native Texas but in other parts of the country as well . Some reporters who covered Ramsey Clark 's campaign his last time out took bets on how long it would be at a stop before some veteran of the political wars would come up to the candidate , touch his arm , and ask , " How 's your dad ? " One of Justice Clark 's friends from the old days is United States Customs Court Judge Paul Rao , of Manhattan . The judge was indicted by a Nadjari grand jury in 1974 on two counts of perjury , one count being that he had falsely denied having urged a defendant in another court to hire his lawyer son , Paul Rao , Jr. , who was also indicted . The judge had been appointed to the bench in 1948 on the recommendation of Tammany Hall and was described at the time the charges were brought against him as a " patriarch " of local Democratic politics . The Raos , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the first to sponsor a fund-raising affair for Ramsey Clark in his Senate race two years ago . They arc helping him again this year as New York Democrats prepare for a summer of rutting each other up until after school starts , just as many of the rest of the nation 's Democrats get ready , in some astonishment , to celebrate the net Party unity at the Garden .                     