@@292042

In the last few rounds , those watching felt a growing and almost unreasonable pathos . It was an emotional force considerably larger than the spectacle-a heavyweight champion losing his title-might be expected to generate . The moment carried an accumulation of memories and meanings that are involved in the drama of great athletes aging and failing . <P> Even when performed amid the Naugahyde and flash of Las Vegas , sport can serve a kind of liturgical function . It becomes a parable : those few athletes who are gifted with a certain magic become proof of the splendors that the body can achieve-the feats of grace , strength , speed , skill , stamina . But the athlete 's half-life is so short ; his decline and failure become a model of the mortality in everyone . <P> Muhammad Ali has caused inflammations of metaphysical prose in a number of writers ; perhaps the urge ought to be resisted . But sport and play can lend themselves to extravagant speculations , and Ali is one of the most abundantly complicated figures in the history of games @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entangled with his celebrity-Ali may be the most famous man in the world . Since he took the heavyweight title from Sonny Listen in Miami Beach 14 years ago , " the Greatest " has been the protagonist of a vast popular psychodrama in which sport was only a part . But more vivid than his conversion to Islam , his anti-Viet Nam politics or his famous mouth is the memory of his sweet dancing vitality in the ring . That recollection played in the back of people 's minds , almost in their subconscious , last week as they watched a 36-year-old man too tired and slow to hit the boy who was taking everything away from him . <P> Such a ritual transfer of the championship can touch deep , unarticulated feelings . If men dread death , they also look nervously behind them as they age to see what younger people are hurrying up to replace them , not only on the job but on the planet . The passing of champions can be cathartic ; it is part of the large , primitive theatrics that sports perform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declines seem to acquire an emotional importance . Quarterback Joe Namath , who retired several weeks ago after 13 years in pro football , is one . In his early years with the New York Jets , Namath 's popular image had more to do with booze and stewardesses than football . His feats alone brought the upstart American Football League into parity with the National Football League . But like Ali , Namath 's lasting imprint in memory involves certain splendidly perfect moves : his flickingly fast release of passes , his clairvoyant readings of defenses and where his receivers would be . Like Ali , Namath could be an arrogant gamesman : he preposterously predicted that his 17-point underdog Jets would beat the Baltimore Colts in the 1969 Super Bowl-and they did , 16 to 7.                     