@@281485

Diplomatic wags have dubbed it Henry Kissinger 's reverse Middle East shuttle . Instead of commuting almost daily by air between Cairo , Jerusalem and Damascus , as he did earlier this year to work out an Arab-Israeli ceasefire , the Secretary of State has switched the procedure . Since July he has been standing still in Washington while a procession of Middle Eastern diplomats shuttles in to see him . So far , the roster has included Israeli Foreign Minister Yigal Allon , Prime Minister Zaid Rifai of Jordan , Foreign Minister Ismail Fahmy of Egypt , Jordan 's King Hussein , Foreign Ministers Abdel Halim Khaddam of Syria and Omar Saqqaf of Saudi Arabia . This week the latest shuttler , Israeli Premier Yitzhak Rabin , arrives to spend four days conferring with Kissinger and President Ford . <P> No Agreement . Like those who preceded him on the transatlantic shuttle , Rabin comes to Washington primarily to determine what can be done to restore momentum to Middle East peacemaking , which has sagged noticeably since Kissinger 's earlier efforts . The estimate until recently was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Geneva before year 's end to conclude a peace pact . But nothing substantive has happened since May , when Syria and Israel agreed to disengagement on the Golan Heights . The revised estimate , as a result , is that it will be at least six months before any of the parties reach Geneva . <P> The problem is that none of the participants can agree on what the next step ought to be . Israel 's willingness to negotiate is linked to U.S. assurances of continued military support , and one of Rabin 's aims this week will be to pin down a long-term assistance program with large U.S. credits that may amount to $4.5 billion over a five-year period . The Israeli preference is to begin second-stage negotiations with Egypt 's President Anwar Sadat , but not until Egypt demonstrates more willingness to make concessions . Israel feels that it received nothing in return for its withdrawal in Sinai last February . If there is no Egyptian give , Israel feels , the situation could deteriorate . Explained one Foreign Ministry official : " If they want no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tangible for any further withdrawals . " Among such tangibles might be an arrangement for direct tourist travel between the two countries or the passage of Israeli cargoes through the Suez Canal , which is expected to reopen in March . <P> The logical move , the Arabs feel , would be an agreement for Israel to disengage from Jordan . But a bitter controversy has broken out over who has the right to negotiate for the Palestinians on Jordan 's occupied West Bank . At summit meetings in Algiers and Lahore most Arab leaders jointly decided that the militant Palestine Liberation Organization was the proper authority rather than King Hussein . But Sadat and Hussein later agreed that the King is " a legitimate spokesman " for the Palestinians . A compromise , which is expected to be ratified at an Arab summit called for Oct. 26 in Rabat , would let both Hussein and the P.L.O . speak for Jordan 's Palestinians .                     