@@315466

WHILE Moscow was celebrating Lenin 's centennial with pomp and rhetoric , the Soviet military marked the occasion in a more dramatic way . Fanning out across three oceans and nine seas , more than 200 Soviet warships staged the greatest naval maneuvers in the world 's history . At the same time , hundreds of medium-and long-range Russian bombers ventured far beyond the borders of the Soviet Union . The U.S. reported 500 separate sightings as far apart as Japan and Iceland . <P> It was an impressive display . As part of Operation Okean ( for ocean ) , an attack force of eight vessels built around the new 18,000-ton helicopter carrier Leningrad moved through the North Atlantic toward the Norwegian Sea . There , two larger Soviet task forces lay in Wait to conduct a mock defense near the straits of Skagerrak and Kattegat , the approaches to the Baltic . In the Mediterranean , 45 ships conducted antisubmarine exercises . From the icy Barents and Okhotsk seas to the warmer reaches of the Indian and Pacific oceans , sleek Russian cruisers and black-hulled submarines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , the Soviets have been engaged in a massive and costly military buildup . They have been motivated both by a desire to overtake the U.S. and by deep fear of a possible war with China , an anxiety that is certain to intensify with the launching of Peking 's first satellite ( see story , page 47 ) . At home and abroad , the Russian military has become an increasingly important factor . In foreign policy , the Soviets are relying ever more on military presence and displays of armed might to tighten their control over East Europe or to influence uncommitted countries farther afield . Within Russia , the military 's immense influence has been greatly enhanced by the threat of war with China and the Czechoslovak invasion . The importance of the military was only underscored when Communist Party Boss Leonid Brezhnev flew to Minsk recently for the massive Dvina maneuvers , and stood on the reviewing stand alongside Defense Minister Marshal Andrei Grechko , 66 . The unmistakable message for Soviet televiewers was that all was harmonious between the chiefs of the Communist Party and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , erect , onetime cavalry commander , Grechko has become the Kremlin 's most effective enforcer . As Soviet commander in East Germany in 1953 , he put down the first East bloc revolt against Communism . In 1968 his forces put an end to Czechoslovakia 's " Springtime of Freedom , " and he personally visited Prague the following year to oversee the removal of Reformer Alexander Dubcek from the leadership of the party . Czechoslovaks bitterly refer to the bullet-pocked facade of Prague 's National Museum as " a fresco a la Grechko. "                     