@@487970

DEAR SIRS : How prescient , in some ways , was Penny Lernoux , reviewing Alistair Home 's book , Small Earthquake in Chile The Nation , Aug. 27 . She realized that there was going to be a breach of the Constitution , and that , the Right would do the breaching . She also foresaw a civil war , but did not understand that imperialism would assure the junta victory by supplying tanks , planes , etc. , nor that Chile 's economic woes were brought about chiefly by the imperialist powers that denied Allende credits and brought down the price of copper on the international market . The " free world " once again shows whom it supports when military dictatorships seize power . Leonard Boyer question'of orthotroaiy New York City DEAR Slits : In the Sept. 24th Nation , in your Letters column , Arthur M. Schlesinger , Jr . complains that I dis  --  torted his 1967 Foreign Affairs article in my review of R. J. Maddox 's The New Left and the Origins of the Cold War in The Nation of July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the origins of the cold war to him . It is ironic that I did so after reading ' Robert J Maddox 's introduction to The New Left and the Origins of the Cold War in which Maddox wrote that " the orthodox explana  --  tion of how the ' cold war began has been stated most suc  --  cinctly by Arthur Schlesinger , Jr. : it was ' the brave and essential response of free men to Communist aggression ' at the close of World War IL " The rest of Maddox 's paragraph , which sums up arguments used by Schlesinger in his article makes it clear that Maddox views him as a his  --  torian in the " orthodox " camp . Schlesinger has endorsed Maddox 's book as a " meticulous examination of the cold war controversy . " It is anything but that , as my review indicated , but Maddox is correct to place Schlesinger in the orthodox group . The main point of his 1967 piece was that a more flexible approach toward Russia  --  such as granting it credits in 1946 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intransigence of Leninist ideology , the sinister dynamics of a totalitarian society and the madness of Stalin . " The real question is why Mr. Schlesinger has failed to take up the specific points made by various reviewers who have all pointed to Maddox 's blatant distortions of the views of revisionist ( i e , " New Left " ) historians . One can not but wonder whether Mr. Schlesinger has endorsed Maddox in order to rescue the 1:rikruptcy of his own interpretation of the cold war . . . . Ronald Radosh EDITORIALS The Big Trophy So Vice President Agnew was Henry Petersen 's " big trophy " after all . So all that huffing and puffing about- " leaks " was purely diversionary ; in fact the leaks may well have come from Agnew 's office . All that brash rhet  --  oric , adorned with alliterative phrases that glittered like , Safires , must now and forever have a hollow and ludicrous ring to them . What ignominy to resign after boldly an  --  nouncing  --  and repeating for emphasis  --  that he would not resign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those in  --  dignant words about plea bargaining ! It was announced in the Baltimore court on Wed  --  nesday that newsmen need not appear to answer the subpoenas issued under Judge Hoffman 's unprecedented order giving Agnew 's attorneys the right to dig for " leaks . " Presumably , the subpoenas have by now been quashed , but Judge Hoffman still owes the newsmen. an apology and the public an explanation . Of course , there is a certain irony in the fact that Mr. Agnew was unhorsed by the IRS . For if the IRS could only muster the courage to audit the President 's returns from 1968 to the present , it might be found that he too owes ' the government unpaid taxes . The astonishing denouement in Baltimore confirms , in full measure , Milton Viorst 's reading ( p. 398 this issue ) of the strange change that took place in the Nixon-Agnew relationship over the last year or so . When did the Presi  --  dent first learn of Agnew 's deep involvement ? Melvin Laird , it will be recalled , warned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limb in their defense of Agnew . And just what was the message that those two Department of Justice officials took to Phoenix for the enlightenment of Senator Goldwater ? No doubt the Middle East crisis has a bearing on Agnew 's sudden resignation . In a crisis of this magnitude the President , if he knew , how strong the case against Agnew was , would not want an Agnew indictment in the headlines at a time when he might sorely need maximum public support , the more so as his own standing in the eyes of the public is still precarious . And Agnew , after exhaustive cogitation , may well have con  --  cluded that the time had come to get out with whatever perquisites he has been able to salvage . If it were not an integral part of the worst political scandal in our history which has now coalesced with a major international crisis , Agnew 's stepping down would be almost pure black humor . But it is not surprising that he should have failed to pay income taxes , not at least to those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Makes Spiro Run ? ( 1972 ) . What a cruel comedown , however , for a proud and arrogant apostle of law and order who once denounced student protesters as " garbage . " His is not a rags-to-riches story but a fable about a mediocrity who made it big , who became a political  --  cal celebrity for reasons that had nothing much to do with character or capacity . He was tapped for the Vice Presi  --  dency for reasons of purest political expediency ; indeed Nixon can only blame himself for whatever embarrassment Agnew has caused him . It may be assumed that we have not heard the end of the Nixon-Agnew story ; perhaps the former Vice President will , at some more tranquil time , enlighten us . In the meantime he will no doubt hie himself . off to Frank Sinatra 's Palm Springs compound where the sun is warm and security against the press is airtight . Agnew may have thought , once notified of the grand jury investigation , that he might be left twisting slowly in the wind but , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was hanging was suddenly severed and he plunged into the limbo reserved for politicians who had it made for a time , and then lost it . The President , responsible for Agnew 's rise and fall , was all shook up by Agnew 's resignation . The Vice Presi  --  dent 's departure has left him with a sense of " deep personal loss . " So farewell to you , Spiro ; you will be remembered as the flashiest dresser to serve as Vice , Presi  --  dent since Lyndon Johnson . The President should feel a " deep personal loss " ; after all , Agnew has served him loyally and well , first as the hatchet man assigned to work over the media and also as emissary of the political Right . More recently Agnew 's legal difficulties , cleverly exploited by the White House , provided the President with a little surcease from his own troubles . Now Agnew 's resignation will give Mr. Nixon an opportunity to play politics with the Vice Presidency . He has a chance to redress the mistake he ' made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people to be worthy of the office . But if he names John Connally , then the Democrats should muster whatever reserves of courage they possess and say " no , " not now or ever . Nelson Rockefeller would probably be more acceptable to the , Democrats even if he decided to run in 1976 , for he would be defeatable for age and other reasons . But with Agnew out , the spotlight centers exclusively on the President . Were it not for the Middle East crisis , he would be left there all alone , twisting slowly . Years ago George Jean Nathan said of a certain play that it was so bad that there was simply nothing to be said about it . Then , after a moment 's reflection , he decided there was something that could be said about it , in one word , " Godalmighty ! " That might be said of the incredible antics of Richard M. Nixon and his lackeys in the White House . The Twenty-Five-Year War The latest eruption of violence in the Middle East , initiated by Egypt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War  --  to distinguish it , presumably , from the Six , Day War . But it is merely the fourth round in a war that has raged intermittently for the last quarter century . The fighting has gone on so long that responses to the latest outburst have been almost reflexive . Dele  --  gates at the U.N . are girding for twenty-one day and night sessions of the-Security Council over a period of as many days , as happened with round three . At this writing , neither combatant wants the U.N . to take action just yet . Each wants to see how much territory it can grab , and hold , before the other shows some willingness to accept a cease-fire . Meanwhile , representatives of the big powers at the U.N . are described as tense observers waiting for the opposed armies " to fight themselves out . " The war has been waged in this way since it began ; it is war on the installment plan . Because the latest action seems to be unfolding in a familiar , pattern , the mood at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restrained non-urgency " ( Michael J. Berlin , New York Post , Oc  --  tober 9 ) . ? But while the war is the same , each installment of fight  --  ing has been more violent than the one that preceded it . The fourth round will not be another " six day war . " The fighting has escalated to a new level of violence . More troops , planes , missiles and tanks are involved ; the scope of the action is broader . Damascus has been bombed . Missiles have crashed in Israeli territory . The Egyptians have penetrated 10 miles or more in4the south  --  ern Sinai , troops are pouring across the canal and their morale is reported to be excellent . The Syrian offensive has been stalled in the north but savage fighting continues . Both in the Sinai and in Syria , EgyptianSyrian troops are making a much better showing than in the past . The Iraqis have announced that they intend to throw their 244 combat aircraft into the battle and Hussein has called up reserves , in response to Arab pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arab world . Obviously the situation is ominous . It is nonsense to say that the United States and Russia are not directly involved . This country 's commitment to Israel is not a paper commit  --  ment ; it rests on the facts of political life . As sponsors , we are largely responsible for the existence of a sovereign state of Israel . With the Russians , it is a question of how deeply they are or may become involved ; their direct in  --  terest is obvious . The so-called detente is no assurance that a major confrontation between the two great powers will not occur . The level of fighting already threatens the detente and heavier strains are foreseeable . Neither great power can fully control , the course of events and hence can not avoid direct involvement under all circumstances . Each round of the fighting has probably taught some lessons to both sides  --  their rhetoric now is more re  --  strained , their mood more somber  --  and as they fight on they may show a greater willingness to compromise . But since each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be folly to let this process of education-by  --  disaster continue . For a quarter century each round has merely set the stage for the next and when the guns have been silent , world opinion has slept . Back in April , Sadat warned of " the resumption of the battle which is now inevitable . Everyone has fallen asleep over the Mid  --  east crisis . . . . The time has come for a shock " ( News  --  week , October 14 ) . That is what happens in the course of a long war , when each of its battles is characterized as a separate war and the intervals between battles are thought of as " peace . " Ambrose Bierce once defined " peace " as " a period of cheating between two periods of fighting " ; that is the kind of " peace " that has recurred at intervals in the Middle East . So the mood of " restrained non-urgency " at the U.N . should be quickly dispelled . This war has been a con  --  stant threat to world peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the danger . At some point this disastrous alternation of fighting and resting must be stopped or the great powers will eventually be drawn in . The Middle East is not remote or peripheral ; it is a cockpit of history . The place smells of oil and the price has jumped as demands have soared . This isno time , as Ambassador Scali has said , to engage in " a war of . there is indeed more than enough blame to go around . And of course it is difficult , as he also ' said , to separate " proximate from underlying causes , " but the effort must be made . The world community can not , at its peril , permit this round to end without a political settlement , or at least the initiation of serious negotia  --  tions to that end . The parties must disenthrall them  --  selves . They must acknowledge the existence of new realities . History can not be forgotten , but it need not make captives of those who have lived it . Nor need it repeat itself ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  sure of world opinion must bring the parties to serious direct negotiations within a framework of security which the great powers can pfovide through the U.N . if they will . And new forms , new relationships , new arrange  --  ments must be explored ; political invention did not end with the nation-state as we know , it . Federated states , binational entities , interim U.N.-sponsored agencies can be created so that the occupied areas  --  which both sides , and Israeli in particular , regard as vital to their security ? can become buffer zones . Means must be found by which all parties , including the Palestinians , can partici  --  pate in the administration of those territories . It is folly to think that peace can be achieved by permitting one side to exclude the other from territory to which both have valid claims . There can be no military solution to this war it must be settled by political means . And soon . I ' United Nations Day Every year as October 24 rolls around editorial writers join in a chant which goes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would have to be invented ; it may not be able to keep the peace but it provides a forum which permits belligerents to sound off ; the Charter embodies our highest ideals but should be reformed if only the great powers could agree ; the specialized agencies carry on important activities and the flow of splendid studies and reports continues . There is nothing wrong with this per  --  fectly accurate recital , but it does little to help the U.N. ; in fact it may have the opposite effect , since it diverts attention from realities that should be faced . This year the annual ritual may be suspended , not merely because of the crisis in the Middle East but because the crisis of the U.N . has become acute . The New York Times ( Sep  --  tember 10 ) cites Gallup surveys showing a sharp drop in popular support for the organization over the last twelve years . This attitude reflects not so much an in  --  formed judgment as the fact that successive administra  --  tions in Washington have chosen to by-pass the U.N @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is no longer the cornerstone of U.S. policy . Against this background of eroding public support , Henry Kissinger 's debut at the U.N . was disappointing . He said some good things and made a couple of sound proposals . But something more was needed . The U.N . approaches a universal representation which it has lacked . China is now an active member . The two Germanys have been admitted ; if they can tolerate each other , so can the two Koreas , as Mr. Kissinger proposed . Vietnam presents a special problem , but a formula will doubtless be found whereby the peoples of Indochina can be repre  --  sented . The global dimension of so many acute problems gives renewed emphasis to the necessity of world action aimed at their mitigation . The emergence of a world economy more interrelated than in the past should under  --  score the same consideration . Genuine public concern should replace pious affirmations and annual ritualistic exhortations . U.S. policy should be affirmatively based on the need for strengthening the U.N . A better oppor  --  tunity than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasis in U.S. policy is not likely to occur . The . alternative , next year and the next and the next , as the " elderly orphan " grows older and feebler , is a rehash of dejected optimism or reluctant approval " in principle " of ideas which deserve to be regarded as practical , vital and inescapable . Shirley Hazzard 's article in this issue ( p. 391 ) provides a timely corrective to the annual repe  --  tition of cheerful sentiment unaccompanied by intelligent criticism and genuine concern . Six Reasons One may not agree with the resolution unanimously adopted by the National Executive Board of the American Civil Liberties Union on October 4 , calling on Congress to initiate impeachment. , proceedings against President Nixon , or concur in all the six reasons cited for it , but the action was courageous and timely . The resolution is the first action of its kind by an organization with the status and prestige of the ACLU , which has an influential national membership of 200,000 . Initiative for the resolution came  --  not surprisingly  --  from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1971 had called for the impeachment of Nixon because of his continued efforts to wage war illegally in Indochina . Sixty-five of the eighty-five-member board of directors attended the meeting and adopted the resolution by a vote that some reports say was " unanimous " and others " virtually unanimous . " The resolution 's six reasons for impeachment are all related to civil liberties , including violations of the right of dissent ; usurpation of Congres  --  sional war-making powers ; establishment of a personal secret police which attempted interference in the trial of Daniel Ellsberg ; distortion of the system of justice and perversion of other federal agencies . One valuable aspect of the resolution is that it bases the base for impeachment not alone on the President 's refusal to deliver the tapes but on broader and more substantial grounds . Although it was given out at simultaneoUs press conferences in Los Angeles , New York , Chicago and San Francisco , press coverage was spotty and the resolution did not receive the attention it deserves . Until recently , the public has been reluctant to think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By 51-to-34 per cent , according to the latest Harris poll , a majority now feels that Congress would be justified in bringing impeachment proceedings if the President failed to deliver the tapes . " The public , " , reports Mr. Harris , " previously reluctant to contemplate im  --  peachment of the President , now is actively considering this a real prospect . " The same poll indicates that , by a 50-to-39 per cent margin ; the public feels the Presidentshould resign if it can be established that he knew about White House involVement in Watergate. ? IWhat this poll and the ACLU action indicate is that Vatergate is not receding as Nixon had hoped it would . This trend may now be arrested , at least for the time being , by the latest crisis in the Middle East , and the President 's crisis may be protracted . But by taking a forthright posi  --  tion and citing the specific reasons for it , the ACLU has challenged other organizations , the Congress , press and public to face the issue that all would like to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first announced that President Nixon had selected Charles Alan Wright as chief defense counsel the editors of The Nation were somewhat surprised . Historical , political and journalistic amnesia is all too common nowadays , so it is perhaps not remarkable that press and public seem ' to have forgotten Mr. Wright 's interesting views on the trial of Alger Hiss . Well known for his conservative political convictions , ' Wright attended most of the second Hiss trial and commented on it for the Minnesota Law Review and other publications . He also reviewed Witness by Whittaker Chambers when it was first published ( Saturday Review , May 24 , 1952 ) . In that review he stated some interesting conclusions , the chief of which was that Hiss was innocent . " And I am sure , " he added , " that if the verdict was right and he is guilty , it is the purest chance that the jury guessed the , correct answer . " Here are some additional observations : After reading this book I am convinced that Mr. Chambers is the author of one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The tip-off about the book is that it is too persuasive  --  on close , examination it becomes obvious that the.author is not a detached teller of truth but rather a pitchman seeking to put across a bill of , goods . .. . It is a tod-well-scrubbed Chambers who is depicted here . Many of the lies , eccentricities and immo  --  ralities in his past are forgotten , which hardly fits in with the air of complete candor the book tries so hard to convey . At the same time his " enemies " ? i.e. , anyone who does n't believe his story  --  are pictured as either snobs or Communists . . . . ' Another giveaway about this book is that Chambers , like the queen in Hamlet 's play , protests his innocence too much . In doing so he displays a remarkable attitude toward evidence . . . . Whittaker Chambers ' does give in this book a very moving and heartening account of his return to religion , and of the comfort he has found in his new faith . Perhaps , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would do well to study the Ninth Commandment : " Thou shalt not bear false witness . " For further evidence of Mr. Wright 's views on the Hiss case , see his review of Earl Jowitt 's The Strange Case of Alger Hiss ( The Nation , July 18 , 1953 ) . In view of this record one might infer that President Nixon was not familiar with Mr. Wright 's interest in the Hiss case and that his selection as chief defense counsel may reflect careless staff work . But that can not be so , for the issue of Saturday Review that contained Mr. Wright 's review of the Chambers book also carried an ecstatic comment about Chambers by Richard M. Nixon , a comment that can not possibly be reconciled with Mr. Wright 's shrewd assessment of Chambers as a " pitchman . " Is it too much to hope that before Mr. Wright exits as the President 's defense counsel , he will sit down with his client and discuss the case of Alger Hiss in which both men have such a deep and long-standing interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President that he too had been something of a " pitchman " in the persecution of Hiss and that he should , in fairness , now instruct the Attorney General to order the director , of the FBI to make , its complete file on the Hiss case available for study by scholars and newsmen with a legitimate interest in inspect  --  ing it . Dr. Allen Weinstein of Smith College is plaintiff in a pending court action brought on his behalf and that of other scholars by the American Civil Liberties Union to force release of the FBI file . It may be assumed that the President 's views on pretrial publicity and " trial by exposure " have undergone a considerable change since the two trials of Alger Hiss . As for Mr. Wright , he must recognize that as a matter of fairness and in the hope of redressing a miscarriage of justice even at this late date , the file should be released . Against Peonage Increasingly , stockholder groups in this country have been petitioning to enjoin corporations in which they hold interests from engaging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or politically undesirable . Some of these actions have stimulated a degree , of publicity , but they have had little effect on the operations of the companies cited , since the law and the courts take a narrow view of stockholder grievances . Briefly , unless the complainant can show financial damage , he has no ground for objecting to corporate policy . Against this background , a suit of national importance is now being pressed in the Superior Court of California by stockholder 's of American Metal Climax , Inc . ( Amax ) . From a human point of view , it is interesting that the complainants in this suit are all descendants , or spouses of descendents , of Max Schott ) founder of Climax Molybdenum Co. , which in 1957 merged with American Metal Co. to become American Metal Climax . What makes the suit significant , however , is the formidable case the group has drawn up against the corporation . Amax , through its 29 per cent ownership of Tsumeb Corp. , is engaged in exploiting the copper resources of Namibia ( in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mining Corp. , which owns another 29 per cent of Tsumeb ) . Before World War I , Namibia was the Ger  --  man colony of South West Africa . In 1920 , the area was placed under the League of Nations Mandate system and the mandate was conferred on Great Britain , to be , ad  --  ministered by South Africa . When the United Nations was formed , it assumed the mandate responsibilities , of the League and in 1966 the General Assembly , by a vote of 114 to 2 ( South Africa and Portugal voting no ) , terminated the mandate for South Africa and itself as  --  sumed that trust . The reason for this action , of course , was that South Africa , by applying its apartheid policy to Namibia , was not honoring the League covenant that " the Mandatory shall promote to the utmost the moral well-being and social progress of the inhabitants of theterritory . " South Africa , however , has defied the U.N. , re  --  fusing to recognize it as a successor to the League ; it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States Ambassador to the U.N . stated that henceforth it would be his country 's policy to discourage investments by its nationals in Namibia , and to that end announced that Export-Import Bank credit guarantees would not be made available for trade with Namibia and that U.S. nationals who invest there on the basis of rights acquired through the South African Gov  --  ernment since the General Assembly Resolution of 1966 , will receive no U.S. Government assistance in protection of such investments against claims of any future lawful government of Namibia . In 1971 , the International Court of Justice handed down an advisory opinion that South Africa 's presence in Namibia was illegal and that member nations of the U.N . are obliged to recognize that illegality . Meanwhile , Amax , through Tsumeb , continues to pay South Africa taxes on its exceedingly profitable operation in Namibia , and refuses to pay those taxes to the U.N . ' s Council for Namibia . Accordingly , the shareholders ' suit charges the directors of the corporation with having " il  --  legally wasted , dissipated and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by causing and permitting Tsumeb to pay patently illegal taxes .. . , " and of having " will  --  fully subjected . . . the assets and property of Amax to future penalties , fines , expropriation or nationalization without compensation by the legally constituted author  --  ities of Namibia . " They charge ' further that the value of Amax shares has been depressed by the growing unwill  --  ingness of concerned groups to invest in the company . They are suing for a sum " in excess of $1 million , " and to enjoin the defendants from paying further taxes to South Africa . The Motive of these complainants , as they make abundantly clear , is not fear for their pocketbooks  --  for one thing , Amax 's investment in Namibia is only a small part of its worldwide interests . What alarms and pain them is that a company in which they have a substantial and long interest should be profiting from the abominable conditions imposed on workers by the policies of apart  --  heid . However , putting the moral issue aside , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their com  --  pany is behaving recklessly by its continued activity in Namibia . Indignation among the member nations of the U.N . against South Africa 's defiance of the world body 's order that it quit the mandate is steadily growing , and within Namibia itself resistance to the present arrange  --  ments is expressing itself . In December 1971 , and January 1972 , , 15,000 workers went on strike in Namibia , and wrested ' from their employers , including Tsumeb , certain concessions , the most important of which were the limita  --  tion of the term of contract to six months and the agree  --  ment that , of the contract was , breached , the ' employer would not invoke criminal sanctions against the worker . However , the system of peonage which permits such sanctions is still the law in South Africa , the Namibian miners are still separated from their families for the dura  --  tion of the contract and the wage levels are still intoler  --  ably low . ( Tsuineb 's total payroll for its native workers is half its tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mining activities in Namibia present a direct threat to the rising aspirations for inde  --  pendence in that land . The mineral deposits are rich , and . are making the foreign investors ( and the South African treasury ) very rich indeed . But they are also limited ; a spokesman for Amax told representatives of the disaffect  --  ed stockholders that the company expects the ore to be exhausted in twelve to fifteen years . That time range holds for virtually all the mining now in progress in Namibia , which means that the main source of the yet  --  to-be-born nation 's wealth is being siphoned off ( for the benefit of absentee owners operating under the protection of an absentee , and illegal , government . Under such conditions the existing move for self-government will grow more pressing most rapidly , and when sovereignty is gained , expropriation of what mineral resources remain ' is virtually inevitable . A stockholder in Amax , however callous to the sufferings of those who coin his wealth , might be troubled by the myopia of his company 's direc  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue for the complainants in this suit , but it is fortunate that they have so clear a case of corporate greed riding for a fall to present before the Superior Court of California , The United Nations : Elderly Orphan SHIRLEY HAllARD " I believed then , " John Maynard Keynes wrote in 1929 , of the formation of the League of Nations exactly ten years earlier , " and I believe now , that it was a situation where an investment in political courage would have been marvelously repaid in the end . " There was no such in  --  vestment . As the postwar powers intended in 1919 , and as Keynes himself had predicted at the time , the League became " a body merely for wasting time . . . an un  --  wieldy ' polyglot debating society . " Extinguished in all but name by the Second World War , it resurfaced in - 1945 as the United Nations , with analogous defects again im  --  planted , by its sponsoring gOvernments : " A moderate parody of the League , " as Sir Alexander Cadogan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the failings and no advantages , that I can see . " The extent to which public trust was thus betrayed has been little considered . Officialdom , unable to con  --  ceive , except in after-dinner speeches , of any coincidence between public will and national policy , has consistently taken the view that both the League and the United Na  --  tions were the initiative of politicians , unrelated to public desire and imposed by governments on apathetic peoples still locked in rigid traditions of nationalism . Thus , in a recent issue of The Observer , the public information di  --  rector of the International Bank sums up : The U.N . was not conceived by the peoples of the world and is not answerable to them . It was conceived by . . . governments , many of them  --  such as Stalin 's  --  pretty far from representing their people . So much for the opening words of the United Nations Charter : " We the Peoples " ? not " We the governments " or " We the civil servants " ? and the subsequent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Albert Hall rallies that urged the League 's creation , and the New York Post exulting in 1945 that the San Francisco Conference was " the most important human gathering Shirley Hazzard , novelist , worked for ten years at the United Nations and is the author of Defeat of an Ideal , a recently published study of the United Nations experience . since The Last Supper . " So much for the individual and group action that formulated , during the First World War , the concept and principles of international peace  --  keeping while , as Wheeler-Bennett and Nicholls point out in The Semblance of Peace ; " in governmental circles there was little activity until 1918 . " But , while it is evident from their very impotence that the forms and procedures established by governments for the United Nations were remote from public influence , it is incon  --  ceivable that so novel , comprehensive and hugely publi  --  cized an undertaking as a world organization could have got under way without the impetus of public approval , or could have been other than an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both of the powerless incarnations of internationalism were in fact short-sighted official devices to appease and short-circuit an evolving public pressure for treating on a global scale ills that were increasingly global . " One sus  --  pects now , " Senator Fulbright wrote in 1972 , " that , like the League of Nations before it , the United Nations was orphaned at birth . " Despite their disclaimers of the public role , United Nations circles have continually found it necessary to as  --  sert that mankind  --  in Mr. Waldheim 's words  --  expected too much of the United Nations at the beginning . The public , however " unrealistic , " was in truth only taking its leaders ' solemn pronouncements seriously when in 1945 it placed its brief hopes in the United Nations Organization . Vastly more advantage might have been taken of the interest implicit in those uneducated " illu  --  sions " than was ever attempted by governments or U.N . officials ; and the mere necessity of having for decades to depreciate them as exaggerated suggests the original degree of public involvement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not one of the organ  --  ization 's problems . While it is indisputable that Stalin 's role in formulating the United Nations was " pretty far from representing his people , " the U.N . concept as officially proclaimed was not . We know that even under Stalin 's heel , in conditions where information and discussion were brutally re  --  stricted , there were high expectations for the new institu  --  tion : " A quarter of a century ago , amidst the great hopes                     