@@493198

Antonin Artaud : Selected Writings ( Farrar , Straus &; Giroux ; $20 ) Until now , only one of Antonin Artaud 's books , The Theater and Its Double , and a few pieces in The Drama Review were available in English translation . We filed him away in the lower categories , knew him as an " influence , " a footnote to Genh ; a minor Surrealist ; a " figure " rather than an artist . Susan Sontag has selected excerpts From the 13 volumes of his work in the complete French edition for this historic , 600-page collection . It Throws open startling vistas of a radically original mind . Whether readers and critics will accept him as a gifted writer of lasting December 25 , 1976 significance or as an aberrant genius will depend on their willingness to accept a madman 's visionary flashes as well as his shrill protests , his artistry as well as his obsessive drive to make his anguish public . His life was one of almost unrelieved physical and mental suffering . Meningitis struck when he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led to a lifelong addiction to opiates . He was cursed with mental crises and periodic confinements in mental hospitals . The last and longest confinement lasted for nine continuous years . A few months after his release , and about a year before he died of cancer in 1948 at the age of 52 , he made a rare public appearance in Paris , reading his work and describing his travels to an audience of friends that included Andre Gide , Albert Camus , Adrienne Monnier and Andre Breton . A biographical note summarizes Artaud 's performance as " talking , trembling , screaming , humming , singing , chanting . By all accounts , this spectacle of Artaud 's Passion was terribly painful to watch . " The comment also pertains to much of what he wrote . The first statement that Susan Sontag makes in her long introductory essay is that the usual distinction between the experiences of a writer 's life and his work becomes , in the case of Artaud , void . The format of the book makes this assertion hold , for the creative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and essays ? are counterpoised with long sections of his letters . His poetic essay Van Gogh , the Man Suicided by Society , subsumes many of the private concerns articulated ( the meaning of this word must be compromised ) in his letters . Artaud deliberately and fiercely identifies with the painter . He writes lovely evocations of the paintings and re-creates the rare colors and movement of the last one , Wheatfield with Crows , finished two days before van Gogh 's suicide , with clarity , compassion , and those noble insights that only artists can bring to art . His writing then takes sudden flights to the remotest regions of his mind , frenzied , hypnotic , lucid and inscrutable . He defends the mad artist who sees " farther , infinitely and dangerously farther " ; he flings charges of insanity back to a society that thinks itself rational and shrilly denounces van Gogh 's physician and his own psychiatrists . In comparison with tire lucidity of van Gogh . . . psychiatry is no better than a den of apes wino are themselves obsessed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states of anguish and Truman suffocation but a ridiculous terminology . There is an excerpt from Heliogabalus , or The Anarchist Crowned , Artaud 's curious novel about the youthful Roman emperor who ruled for only four years in the early third century , and who stands out as outrageous even in the milieu of late imperial Rome . His coronation festivities lasted a year . He ordered banquets , games , rites of a " monstrous sumptuosity , " appeared in public dressed as Venus , tried to impose the rites of Baal on Jews , Christians , all manner of pagans , and appointed a dancer to head the Praetorian Guard . These , his tamer activities , are central to Artaud 's narrative , for he reverses the damning verdict of history and sees Heliogabalus as a hero : he made theater of life , he applied the myths , carrying " to paroxysm the pursuit of art , the pursuit of ritual and poetry " and " undertook a systematic and ioyous demoralization of the Latin mind . " His reign is a metaphor for Artaud 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intense , ritualistic involvement of actor and spectator . The two theaters he founded , The Alfred tarry Theater and The Theater of Cruelty , failed . But his notes and essays written in the early " 30s have directly shaped , in concrete ways , the most successful innovative performances in Europe and the United States in the past 15 years . Before turning to theater , he defined a mission for film that the technology of the time could not encompass . " Do n't you think this might be the time , " he wrote in a letter , " to connect the Cinema with the intimate reality of the brain ? " His 1925 screenplay , Eighteen Seconds , never filmed and not even published in France until 1449 , is a private phantasmagoria that becomes coherent in the context of this volume because its images are so many fused fragments of his life and art . " Where others present their works , I claim to do nothing more than show my mind . " The Umbilicus of Limbo , a series of texts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example of the ecstasies of his Surrealist phase . The last selection , The Spurt of Blood , is a parody of Surrealist drama . Since so much literature of this school goes beyond exaggeration and reads like self-parody to begin with , this screamingly funny playlet is a patch of brilliance and sanity , and can be read as Artaud 's break with the movement after a clash with its members . Artaud became increasingly absorbed in magic , alchemy , the Cabala , tarot , astrology and obscure occult traditions . He travelled to Mexico , exhorting the citizens of Mexico City to restore the humanistic values of their Mayan past . He visited a remote village in the Sierras to seek a cure in the Tarahumara peyote rites , which he describes in one of his Finest pieces . The last letters are the most difficult , and the most compelling and painful . The real humiliation of mental asylums and the horror of electric shock treatments become confused with the demons and alien powers that terrorized him ; intricate allusions to the religious and magical systems that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the radio play To Have Done With the judgment of God , recorded under Artaud 's supervision but banned the day before the broadcast in 1947 . The reader who makes the effort to read closely will be rewarded with glimpses into the private logic of an extraordinary mind . The introductory essay and the long but uneven notes , which include biographical information , are helpful but often silent guides . With the complexity of Artaud , the skill , intelligence and empathy of a translator are severely tested . Helen Weaver 's English flows as if Artaud , like Beckett , simultaneously made his own translations.                     