@@487993

Mr. Woodcock is a historian , biographer and literary critic . He has recently published a study of Aldous Huxley . I am , as Theophile Gautier once described himself , " un homme pour qui le monde exterieui existe , " and it is for this reason that I am disturbed , when I read most aestheticians  --  and most art critics ? by their remoteness from art as it concretely is and from one 's real perceptions of it . Hoir often does one get a sense , on reading such writers , of the emotions which their confrontations with actual physical works of art might . be supposed to have induced ? How far do ' they seem experiencing lovers of art ? I suppose it is the presence of this sense of actual confrontation that makes Ruskin , for all his Victorian shortcomings , more readable today than most of his successors . Ruskin did not lack moral axes to grind , and one does not come to the end even of his treatises most directly concerned with the visual arts , such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoroughly aware of them . Yet we are always also aware of Ruskin as a perceiver , of the actual visual experiences that came to him when he looked at Turner 's paintings or studied with obsessive yet careful eye the great Venetian palazzi which the sea- is now inexorably consuming . But Ruskin , one realizes after decades of reading aesthetic philosophers and art critics , was a rare example of his kind . Perhaps Baudtlaire had something of the same power to transmit the actual aesthetic experience . Occasionally Apollinaire also . And certainly Proust , Ruskin 's finest disciple , who displayed it in many passages of his great novel . But for the most part , ' reading them in retrospect , one realizes that the celebrated writers on painting are either , like Pater and Aldous Huxley , transmuting a , . visual into a literary experience  --  as Pater does in his hackneyed rhapsody on the " Mona Lisa " and Huxley in his eloquent tribute to Piero della Francesca ? or , like Andre Malraux , they treat works of art , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pseudo-philosophic statement about the human condition . Even Herbert Read , to whom the discipline of Imagist poetry gave a certain power of evoking for us the actual feeling of the artifacts he discussed , was not content until he had transmuted his theorizings on art and the artist not merely into an aesthetic , but also into an ethic based on the view that an education in the arts would induce in men a harmonious rhythm of living and bring about a world of anarchy and peace . It was in the frame of mind these remarks suggest that I approached James K. Feibleman 's The Quiet Rebellion : The Making and Meaning of the Arts . Would I find here the art critic who would transmit  --  as after all so many literary critics do  --  a sense of his experience of actual works of art ? Or would I encounter yet another example of the theoretician who seems to pass through the world of art enclosed in a kind of transparent egg like those which figure in the paintings of Hieronymus Bosch , interested yet remote , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a concrete entity ? With regret , but not with surprise , I was led to the conclusion that the only artifact with which I would make contact in The Quiet Rebellion was the glib and abstract net of words and theories which the book itself constituted . Mr. Feibleman writes with an extraordinary , but for me quite hollow , eloquence on the theory of art and its significance in the pattern of the universe , and on its meaning for man ; but one never has the feeling that he has really known the spine-chilling shock on reading or hearing good poetry , or sunk himself with total acceptance in the real and autonomous world of a living painting . The very tone of the bobk , indeed , is to be found in the key sentence , which echoes the title : " By means of art the artist engineers a quiet rebellion which liberates us from the tyranny of our times , and enables us to glimpse that cosmic sublimity which lies above the more hostile aspects of our existence . " This does not sound like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the voice of a man who thinks about art , and though there is a certain amusement to be gained from following Feibleman 's attempts to arrange the achievements of artists into a comforting theory of art 's role in human existence , one remains unconvinced because the feeling of art as a conglomerate of the experiential realities of works of art , is not there . There is abstraction all right , but abstraction from what ? One thinks of Roy Campbell 's thoughts on certain authors : You use the snaffle and the bit all right , But where 's the bloody horse ? I suppose the escape of that bloody horse is , essentially , the flaw of aesthetics as a branch of philosophy . It is an ' attempt to put into abstract terms a mass of sensory experiences of concrete objects . Man is not content with experience itself . He has to build something more upon it , to extend it into a theory of universal meaning , as Plato did , and if he can not do that , and finds the absurdity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endure , then he will try , like Malraux , to use art in order to give man 's existence a meaning that stands out in contrast to the meaninglessness of everything else . Feibleman is obviously a Platonist of a kind , though his scanty references to Plato might not lead one to suppose it . Indeed , one of the interesting facts about his book ( which is a series of essays united by his rather simplistic philosophy ) is that until almost the end he writes as if no other aestheticians and art critics had existed  --  though indeed he is often saying things that others have said before  --  and this gives the experience of reading him a strange . reverberative quality , as though one were listening to the author talking in an empty room , a room denuded of people and objects alike : All this may seem curious , since he is constantly stressing the concrete and material nature of the work of art , and even extending these qualities to the poem and the musical composition . He goes farther , and insists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been there before him ) that the artist is not really a creator , as some of the more head-in-the-air aestheticians had argued ( not to mention the artists posing as the philosopher of art : cheerful news indeed , but not much to do with those works of art that display the darkness of the human condition , man 's ultimate aloneness . I suppose such efforts as The Quiet Rebellion are gallant in the way all forlorn hopes are . For I would suggest that we have to regard critically the double facts , that all aestheticians have failed to present a convincing philosophy of the meaning of art , and that their efforts to find such a philosophy have always led them away from all apparent contact with the work of art as an immediate and concrete object , as a focus of experience . Perhaps this should lead us to admit at last that art and philosophy belong in different realms of human consciousness , and that the philosopher 's attempt to trap art in a net of reason is as ultimately futile as the artist 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mirror of an artifact . Perhaps , after all , those are correct who see the work of art as sui generis , meaningless beyond itself and the experience it projects and induces , and certainly no kindly light to lead through the encircling gloom . ? AT THE CENTER OF NIGHT Great boulders drift into the moon giving their messages in whispers Love is giving up everything love is your death when you least expect it Of all the night birds the owl is counting the loudest his yellow eyes scratch words into the lifeless stars In the garden the body of a man wears the spirit of the river his white linens set fire to the smallest flowers Tom McKeown                     