@@431794

 | Toward a Livable Environment I. VICTORY IN THE EVERGLADES The concrete had already been poured for the first runway of a mammoth jetport that would doom this fabled wilderness . But then an enlightened citizenry began to fight LAST January 15 , Walter J. Hickel , Secretary of the Interior , J John A. Volpe , Secretary of Transportation , and Gov . Claude R. Kirk , of Florida , made a memorable announcement to newsmen gathered in the White House . An agreement had been reached , they said , with state and local authorities in Florida forbidding the completion of an international jetport ? already under construction ? eight miles north of Everglades National Park . The federal government , Volpe added , would foot the bill for " burying " the one runway already completed . President Nixon hailed this WEEKLY decision as " an outstanding victory for conservation . " The dramatic disclosure concluded a nine-month battle between the Dade County Port Authority and thousands of Americans who had banded together to save the Everglades and preserve southern Florida . Their victory , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant instance of an aroused citizenry defeating a coalition of business and political interests bent on commercial gain regardless of what damage might be done to a unique environment . The great Glades are a shimmer- ing , sun-dominated Eden that stretches from Lake Okeechobee south to Florida Bay and harbors the richest collection of wildlife and plants on this continent . But ? for decades the people of Florida had watched their paradise being dynamited , bulldozed , drained and polluted ? and perforce they became students of ecology , the science of relationships between man , plants and animals . Southern Florida 's plants , animals and men are particularly closely interrelated because the region has a delicately balanced ecosystem of wet and dry seasons , with everything held together by interacting layers of fresh water above and below ground . Animals Do n't Protest . The battle to save the Glades was joined a year ago last May 2 , when Port Authority Director Alan Stewart announced at a public hearing that a gigantic jetport was going to be built just north of the Everglades . It would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 39 square miles , an area more than half as large as Washington , D.C. ! By 1985 it would be able to handle 65 million passengers a year , three times the capacity of Kennedy International today . Eventually , a new industrial center could be created around the jetport . And , as Miami expanded toward it , millions of Floridians would probably make their homes in the vicinity . To understand the implication of Stewart 's announcement , it is necessary to grasp the most important fact about the Everglades : namely , that it is not a great swamp , as it appears but actually a free-flowing ti moving from south-central I it down through a sawgrass country into the Gulf of Mexico . The w ecological balance ? literally the revival ? of southern Florida as it known today depends on the put and quantity of the water flown down from the north . The jetport , Stewart announced , was to be set the mainstream ( known mislea ingly as Big Cypress Swamp ) of this unique river , three miles above the Park 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sites had been considered . All but Big Cypress were deemed to close to urban populations : they would bring protests from landowners . So the uninhabited area was chosen , and the Port Authority left the problem of air and water poll u tion in the neighboring Park area to the Park Service . Objections from this body were many but ineffectual , and permission to go ahead was quietly obtained from local representatives of the Department of the Interior in May 1967 . The Sight That Could n't Be . Floridians were in a quandary : they knew that a jetport was badly needed ? but what would it do to the Glades ? Seven months before Stewart 's public statement , Robert Padrick , an auto dealer in Fort Pierce and then chairman of the Central and Southern Florida Flood Control District , had got wind of the proposed jetport and called Dade County Port Authority commission- ers asking to see their plans . He as shown a tiny line on a map . This , he was told , would be the only road to the jetport @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the wall of a State Road Department office in Fort Lauderdale . " There was that tiny road , " he told me . " Eighty square miles of roadway right in the middle of my water-conservation area ! " Padrick also worried lest one of the pipelines bringing fuel to the jetport from the coast should burst , and the entire water system be polluted . He wrote loo letters protesting the plan to presidents of leading conservation organizations ? the Audubon Society , the Sierra Club and the Bureau of Outdoor Recreat ion , to name a few . Meanwhile , the Port Authority , assuring everyone that the jetport would not harm the Everglades , floated $14 million worth of revenue certificates to finance initial construction . On September 18 , 1968 , with a minimum of fanfare , they broke ground . When , in January 1969 , Padrick informed Nathaniel Reed , conservation aide to Governor Kirk , that the jetport was under construction , Reed was incredulous . He and Padrick flew over the Big Cypress site to see a three-mile gash in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Reed said . " But there it was ! " The following month , Reed joined Padrick 's group of conservationists at a meeting with the Port Authority in Miami . Also present was a consortium of local politicians and airlines personnel . " I shall never forget that meeting , " says Reed . " Here were 150 of the best brains in conservation ? state and federal , private and scientific . Yet almost all our previously submitted questions were rebuffed . I was screamed at and asked , Are we really holding up progress for a bunch of yellowbellied sapsuckers ? ' " Public interest was aroused , and protest letters poured in from all over the world ? 24,000 of them to Governor Kirk in Florida and Secretary Hickel in Washington . The gist of the letters was : the Everglades must be saved . In August , Kirk , Hickel and Volpe stopped all work on the jetport until ecological studies could be conducted . The Vital Food Chain . Three research teams moved in . One was a group from the National Academy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee , " led by Dr. Luna B. Leopold of the Geological Survey , Department of the Interior . The third was a committee organized by former Interior Secretary Stewart L. Udall , and funded by $75,000 from the Dade County Commissioners , the Port Authority and the airline companies . The National Academy of Sciences group saw danger in the proposed jetport , but suggested that perhaps a mere " training strip " ? the two runways already under construction ? would not threaten the Park . The Leopold Committee found that any development above 76 THE READER 'S DIGEST August  | the Everglades was a distinct threat to southern Florida . The Udall group declared that a jetport could be safely developed there . They said that the Everglades could be " protected " if the port was built as a " clean enclave " ? no hangars , terminals or parking lots , just runways ? connected to Miami International Airport by " aeromobiles " ( air-cushion vehicles ) or some other type of mass transit . A sophisticated and expensive sewage system would be installed to protect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by conservationists . For one thing , a jetliner on takeoff consumes 4000 pounds of fuel below 3000 feet . Emitted in the fuel burn are carbon monoxide , unburned hydrocarbons , carbon and nitrogen oxides . This accumulated exhaust could dangerously pollute the Park . The damage would probably occur at the lowest level of the food chain ? the algae . Dr. James Ferguson-Wood of the Institute of Marine Sciences , Miami , had discovered that those algae are the beginning of both the plant and animal food chain ; to keep the Glades filled with tiny animals , fish , birds , alligators , sawgrass and trees , this community must have absolutely pure water . Pollution by nitrates , some of which are thrown out in jet exhaust , would kill it . And if the annual crop of algae failed , all the rest of the food chain would go with it . The Everglades could be destroyed in to to 15 years . Now business and professional people joined the conservationist crusade , armed with publicity and organizational skills . Their entrance into the fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the decision ? to build or not to build ? ended up on the desks of the secretaries of Transportation and Interior . In December 1969 , Volpe , Hickel and Kirk began the series of conferences with state and local officials that resulted in the defeat of the jetport . Lessons for All . Today , there are highways , dams , housing projects and jetports threatening hundreds of areas of ecological importance throughout the United States . The Florida experience will be instructive to environment defenders everywhere . Basically , the Floridians won their fight by means and agencies available to all citizens . First , they called upon scientists expert in certain aspects of the local ecology , including the personnel of the U.S. Geological Survey and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service . Then citizens ' committees were set up to keep the government ? both local and federal ? informed of their findings . These findings were widely publicized through organizations already set up to disseminate information ? the Izaak Walton League , the Florida Audubon Society and the Florida Federation of Garden Clubs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ college students distributed fliers and knocked on doors .  | Possibly the most important lesson that can be learned from teh Floridians is that many of the people who helped stop the jetport are precisely the ones who , had they not recieved accurate infomration , would ahve supported it . As one scientist put it succinctly for me : Man is an intelligent animal -- if you show him that he is destroying his environment , he will not persist .                     