@@287057

Jewish physicians are no strangers to the Arab world ; during the Middle Ages , they were highly esteemed in the courts of Arab caliphs and sultans . For obvious political reasons , Israel 's Arab neighbors have been unable to take advantage of the Jewish state 's abundant medical talent ; with 2.5 doctors for every 1,000 people , that nation has one of the world 's highest concentrations of physicians . Now , though , in a number of limited ways , the ancient relationship between Arab patient and Jewish healer is quietly being revived across the Middle East 's bristling frontiers . <P> Unable to get help from their own overwhelmed doctors after 15 months of civil war , as many as 100 injured and ill Lebanese a week are slipping across the border to get aid from Israeli doctors . One Lebanese cabby even conducts a regular ambulance run to the frontier . Signs on the Lebanese side direct the sick and wounded to nearby Israeli towns where special first-aid stations have been set up . So far , the Jewish physicians have treated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospitals . Initially , most of the patients were Christians , apparently because they were not as fearful of reprisals from their countrymen as were others . But these anxieties have diminished as medical needs increased . The Israelis recently let it be known that they would minister to Moslems as well . <P> Scientific contacts between Jew and Arab have taken place at international medical meetings . The most extraordinary medical dialogue , however , has occurred not face to face but over the air waves . For the past five years , Israeli radio has broadcast to the Arab world a program called Tabib warn al microphone ( Doctor Behind the Microphone ) . Originated by an Iraqi-born Israeli woman named Ilana Basri and broadcast every Friday ( the Moslem day of worship ) , it features a kind of " Dear Abby . " During the 30-min. program , Israeli doctors reply directly to Arab correspondents who write in with their complaints . <P> The program appears to have millions of listeners in many Arab countries ; Basri says taxi drivers from Jordan to Abu Dhabi are implored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regularly gather round radios in coffee houses in such places as Syria , Egypt and Kuwait . Even though there are no postal links between Israel and Arab nations , Doctor has received some 15,000 letters in the past five years ; they are either brought into the Israeli-occupied West Bank by Arab visitors or mailed through neutral third countries . In a typical note , a Jordanian named Kasim Abu Abas complained of dizziness and a pain near his eyes . " I 'm afraid it 's cancer , " he wrote . The Israeli specialist disagreed , explaining the trouble was probably a benign growth pressing on nerves ; it could be treated simply with hormones or by surgery . The doctor added that he was prepared to give even more specific advice and care- " if you wish to come to Israel . "                     