@@479506

AMONG SOME DOZEN MAJOR firms in America 's vast culinary-industrial complex , the rise of simulated meats is regarded as the biggest opportunity for the triumph of an ersatz product since margarine took over two-thirds of the nation 's butter trays . Already , by employing new and revived technologies for creating meat-like texture and tenderness in extracts of the celebrated soybean , the companies are bypassing slow-growing meat on the hoof . On fast-moving production lines , they are manufacturing credible and edible highly nutritious " engineered " simulations of ham , chicken , beef chunks , pork sausage , bacon bits , hamburger , and other products . The flavors are wholly man-made or are extracted from the real thing . The present-day consumption of these products ? which bear the unpalatable generic name of " textured vegetable protein " ? is still relatively small . But no longer are sales concentrated in health food stores , where the stuff attracted an initial following . Hundreds of supermarkets throughout the country are now selling ground meat " extended " approximately 25 percent with textured vegetable protein @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as such , and that generally seems to be the case , but the opportunities for deception are obviously inviting . Numerous regional hamburger chains now serve mass-produced " extended " hamburger patties , and all-vegetable simulations of breakfast sausage and patties are routinely available in supermarkets . Finally , the institutional market ? factory cafeterias , hospitals , schools , and so forth ? is slowly yielding to the use of simulated ham and chicken chunks that defy detection . Figures are closely held by the manufacturers , but sales curves are reported to be sharply upward . Aided by food prices that are dislodging shoppers from deeply set habits , and by popular concern over cholesterol ( which is abundant in red meat but absent from the protein-rich soybean ) , big-league companies like General Mills and Miles Laboratories are selling these new products in big and ever-growing quantities . Sales this year are estimated at 100 million pounds ; government projections for the market run as high as 3.7 billion pounds in 1980 . ( The latter figure is about one-fifth of the current annual consumption of ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Daniel S. Greenberg is the publisher of Science and Government Report , a TFashingtonbased newsletter , and the author of The Polities of Pure Science . X L THIS ARISES from new techniques that give the new soy-foods a meaty texture . The process starts with the soybean , of which American farmers will produce some 1.5 billion bushels this year . Most of this output is put through giant presses to squeeze out oil for margarine , shortening , paint , and other products . What 's left behind is soybean meal of approximately 50 per . cent protein content : golden stuff for animal feed , since protein is the essential ingredient for producing meat on the hoof , and the soybean contains more of it than any other high-volume crop . Soybean meal can also be processed for direct human consumption . Asians have been doing this for years . However , in the bygone era of relatively cheap and plentiful meat , soy preparations fared poorly in penetrating the American diet , outside of their use as invisible protein " fortifiers " for pasta products . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protein were also thwarted by soy flour 's tendency to become a soggy , non-rising mush when moistened . What was needed to make it conform to traditional American food preferences was some means of giving it " chew . " Research on the texturizing process began in the 1930s , when the elder Henry Ford became fascinated with the soybean and assigned a team of researchers to transform it into products ranging from fenders to upholstery material . Following laboratory successes that were not economical enough for the production line , the team eventually split up , but two of the researchers , Robert A. Boyer and William T. Atkinson , maintained an interest in rendering the soybean palatable to American tastes . In 1954 , Boyer patented a process for isolating protein from soybean meal and spinning it into resilient threads that could he fabricated into simulated meat products , known in the trade as " analogs . " In other words , they look and taste like the real thing . The process , however , was relatively expensive , and beyond the vegetarian market there was little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1970 , when Atkinson patented a cheap and comparatively simple process for imparting " chew " to soybean flour by moistening it into a - plasticized " mass , bringing it to a high temperature , and rapidly forcing it through perforated dies into a chamber of lower temperature and pressure . The result is a neutral-tasting granular material of any desired size and shape , depending on the dies , which contains about five percent moisture . When these granules are mixed with water , they retain their structural integrity , and in feel and texture resemble moist bits of hamburger . Rather than being analogs of whole products , they are employed as " extenders " ? i.e. , they 're mixed in with hamburger or other ground meat preparations and they soak up the flavor of the surrounding material . The product is close to meat in protein quality , the main deficiency being one amino acid , methionine , which , after long supplication from the manufacturers , was recently certified for addition by the Food and Drug Administration . Another difference is that , while the product @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 31 percent carbohydrates . Meat has none . The manufacturers point out that the carbohydrates reaching the consumer are relatively small in amount , since the end product must be heavily diluted with water for use and is usually mixed with two parts of real meat to make a table-ready preparation . The analogs of real meat are far richer in protein than the extenders and are relatively low in carbohydrates . The arithmetic of producing meat on the hoof or " meat " in the factory is simple . Feed a steer on the meal extracted from the 1440 pounds of soybeans yielded by the average acre and you 'll end up with roughly 58 pounds of protein . Process that same soybean meal into textured vegetable protein and the result is approximately 500 pounds of material that in laboratory and feeding tests approximates the protein content of meat . As for price , it turns SLAUGHTERHOUSE ZERO out to be almost dirt cheap for extenders . The factory price has been about 40 cents a pound in recent months , but to make the material usable for extending other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pounds of water , which brings the cost down to about 13 or 14 cents a pound . Even as the price of soybeans goes higher , the price of textured vegetable protein necessarily remains substantially below the price of meat for the simple reason that it takes a lot more soybeans to make meat than it takes to make textured vegetable protein . While a number of consumer groups and public-nutrition officials arc skeptically eyeing what they suspect may be still another industrial raid on the nutritional welfare and pocketbooks of the American public , the firms involved are exuding both economic optimism and nutritional righteousness . " Margarine was the last big one to invade a national market , " explained Cy L. Ducharme , a General Mills executive . " Now we 're next , " he said , motioning to a platter of " ham " and " chicken " chunks that had never resonated to an oink or cackle . " Nutritionally , it 's fine , too , since we take the position that if it 's a replacement , it must be the equivalent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a matter of some dispute . D R. MICHAEL F. JACOBSON , a mi-crobiologist from MIT who is co-director of the Washington-based Center for Science in the Public Interest , questions the need for all the factory processes : " Why do n't the concerned companies and governmental agencies tell people about tempting sauces and recipes that allow natural soybeans to be made part of delicious meals ? " The answer , says Dr. Jacobson , is that " the companies are salivating at the prospects of enormous profits that can be reaped from fabricated foods . " Opposition has also been expressed by the Bureau of Nutrition of the New York City Department of Health , whose director , Catherine Cowell , stated last May in a letter to the U.S. Department of Agriculture : " Since both textured vegetable protein and enriched macaroni products do not have a balance of the known essential amino acids , these products would not contribute toward efficient utilization of essential nutrients that growing children need to meet their increased demands . " In response to these criticisms , the industry replies that experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the amino acid methionine now certified by the FDA for addition to textured vegetable protein , the product is nutritionally comparable to meat . While consumer groups have not yet had time to evaluate these claims fully , the industry 's arguments have been supported by a number of scientists in the field , Dr. Jean Mayer , the well-known Harvard nutritionist , acknowledged that soybean proteins are nutritionally inferior to animal proteins in a pure scientific sense , but his conclusion appears favorable to the simulated products : " In actual practice , the textured vegetable protein is used in a mixture that has 70 percent meat , fish , or poultry . When you put the various proteins together , the whole is nutritionally better than the sum of its parts . Proteins have a way of ' boosting ' each other when you combine them in the right way . " Dr. Aaron M. Altschul , head of the nutrition program at the Georgetown University School of Medicine , is more outspoken : " The ability to produce texture out of soy flour will probably rank with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inventions of food . It is possible to allow people the enjoyment they expect from meat-like compounds and vet avoid the excesses in calories , fat , and a high proportion of saturated fat that ordinarily come from such consumption . " N UTRITION IS ONE THING , but taste iis another , and the companies know that they must at least win the battle of the palate . While it is doubtful that three-star pantries are about to be invaded by textured vegetable protein , many of the products I sampled could easily slip into the typical American diet without much ? if any ? notice . The General Mills test kitchen served up a long succession of dishes that were described as containing the company 's own " extenders , " plus several with ham and chicken analogs , and a few " controls " made wholly of the real stuff . Unsauced , and thawed directly from the cartons in which they come frozen , the " ham " chunks were ? to my astonishment ? indistinguishable from the animal-grown version . They were chewy , moist , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and noodles , however , they seemed a bit watery , a conclusion that my fellow diner , a General Mills executive , said he found hard to understand . But when I asked the cook whether the " ham " was inclined to pick up exces- sive moisture , he replied , " Yeah , ' - that 's a problem we have n't licked yet . " His superior emitted a slight groan . The unsauced " chicken " was slightly less credible than the " ham " ? it seemed to be a bit pulpier than the barnyard variety . But mixed into " chicken " chow mein , it was indistinguishable from the real thing . The dishes presented as real tuna salad and extended tuna salad ? the latter containing about 30 percent textured vegetable protein ? defied my telling them apart , as was the case with ham and " ham " salad . As fur hamburgers , two platters were presented , one described as pure ground meat , the other as pure ground meat extended 30 percent . I got the impression that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was n't certain . In any case , the two became indistinguishable when covered with a thick " mushroom " sauce containing , I was later told , manmade " mushrooms . " In the test kitchens of Archer Daniels Midland , another pioneering firm in textured foods , my impressions of the ground meat preparations were identical to those I got at General Mills . ADM , however , is venturing beyond the hamburger market . Its subsidiary , Gooch Foods , Inc. , of Lincoln , Nebraska , is marketing " Noodles Stroganoff with Beef-flavored Vegetable Protein Chunks , " as well as other dishes containing simulated beef . The " beef " pieces were small but could easily have passed for overcooked , heavily sauced hits of meat . ( Big chunks of " beef " turn out to be something of a problem for the simulated " meat " makers . Requesting a sample of a big chunk , I was presented with something that looked and tasted like a mahogany-colored marshmallow that had eot mixed into last week 's beef stew . 54 ' My ensuing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " model that had been in a can for three years . ) Given the variety of flavors and SLAUGHTERHOUSE ZERO textures employed by the breakfast sausage industry , Miles Laboratories ' " Breakfast Links " could probably pass muster at any roadside diner . In fact , they tasted quite good , as did the " sausage " patties . The ham analogs , sold under the name of " Breakfast Slices , " gave the impression of something that was trying hard to resemble ham but was n't quite making it . Nevertheless , they were extremely tasty , and I downed more than a sample slice simply because I liked them . ri ? HE INDUSTRY IS CLEARLY plug- . ging away on all its problems ? taste , cost , nutrition , government regulations . Though predictions of factory-made , mile-long " beefsteaks " turn out to have been no more than technological braggadocio , the industry has come much further in making and selling textured meat substitutes than most people realize . In February 1971 , after years of badgering by the industry , the Food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the use of extenders for the meat portion of the school diet to a maximum of 30 percent . The enabling document ? FNS Notice 219 is generally regarded as the Magna Carta of textured vegetable protein . During the first year of certification , the schools used 23 million pounds of the stuff ; this year they 're up to 40 million pounds , and with meat prices soaring , no one thinks it unreasonable to expect at least a doubling of that amount in the next year or two . " Now we 've got a whole genera . tion coming through the school lunch program and experiencing this product , " said General Mills ' Ducharme , who directs the company 's commercial protein operations . " It was 219 , " he said , " that really put this on the map . " Ducharme noted that the Red Owl supermarket chain , some 130 stores in the Midwest , had recently introduced ground meat extended 25 percent with textured vegetable protein , labeled " Juicy Blend II " to conform with a Minnesota ban on using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 20 cents a pound below the undiluted version , and is said to he outselling the all-meat counterpart by three and four to one . " Red Owl , " said Ducharme. " was courageous to try this . There is nothing more sacred to a supermarket manager than the red-meat counter . People relate to supermarkets through the red-meat counter , and most managers would rather have you fool around with their wives than do anything that might hurt the image of the red-meat counter . But now we 've got the stuff in there , side by side with the regular ground meat , and it 's outselling the ground meat . " If you cat in a company cafeteria , there is more than a slight chance that you 've encountered simulated ham or chicken in heavily sauced dishes . General Mills is " spinning " ham and chicken analogs for the institutional market at a Cedar Rapids , Iowa , plant and is selling them frozen and diced in five-pound cartons , six to a case , waste-free , in readyto-use form . The price , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to purveyors of low-price meals . Miles Laboratories , best known for Alka-Seltzer , is pursuing the general market under its Morningstar Farms brand name . " What we 're aiming for with Morningstar is the general grocery trade , " said Miles ' president , George Orr . " We want people to like these products enough to eat them in preference to other things . We 'll make it the Alka-Seltzer of the food business , " he predicted a metaphor that made his public-relations assistant wince . Miles ' Morningstar lineup currently includes analogs of sausage links , sausage patties , and thinly sliced ham , all of which , after extensive market testing . are available in the Southeast and a few other places , with marketing scheduled to expand as production increases . Like all analogs , they 're just as perishable as real meat , and so they 're marketed in frozen form to cut down the chance of spoilage . The label on the package says the " sausages " are free of cholesterol , whereas the amount in two real pork sausages of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ count in two of the analog sausages is listed at 175 , compared with 260 for pork sausages . The protein content of the analogs is rated at 10.5 milligrams. compared with 9.8 for the real thing . ? pBESE BREAKFAST MEATS cur- 1 rently cost about the same as the foods they simulate . but Miles executives say prices should come downwhen the production lines are automated . A sales advantage is now sought in the proclamation of " No cholesterol , no animal fat . " And for those who seek to harmonize religious dietary laws with a liking for " sausage-like " or " ham-like " flavor , there 's a " K " on the packages , signifying " kosher . " Meanwhile , at Archer Daniels Midland , in Decatur , Illinois , " soy capital of the world , " Richard Burket , president of protein specialties , looks back on recent meat boycotts and rising prices " as the best thing that ever happened to us . " ADM , one of the giants of the soybean processing industry , holds Atkinson 's patent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " TVP . " ADM is solidly booked up for every granule of the 2,000 tons a month coining from its own plant and is expanding facilities to raise production to 4,000 tons a month . " We could sell that amount right now , " Burket said . " You 'd be surprised at how much of this stuff is going into the hamburger business . " He noted , however , that as far as he knew , no manufacturer had yet penetrated beyond regional hamburger chains . " People have approached McDonald 's , " he said , " but they 've made it on their ' pure beef ' reputation and they 're not interested . But if they ever make the move , then the sky 's the limit for TVP . " Perhaps the biggest problem the manufacturers have faced since rising meat prices opened the market for them involves legalities of labeling , which accounts for the early concentration on the institutional market , where the ultimate consumer never sees the label . But even that problem has been tossed aside by the FDA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rewriting the rules governing the use of the word " imitation " . in a fashion reminiscent of Humpty Dumpty 's dictum , " When I use a word , it means just what I choose it to mean ? neither more nor less . " The old rules specified that " A food shall be deemed to be misbranded " if it is an " imitation " of another food and does not bear the word " imitation " on the label . The new rules simply say that " nutritional inferiority " shall he the only criterion for evaluating the difference between reality and verisimilitude . The manmade version , if it 's nutritionally equal , need not bear the pejorative " imitation , " though it may not be labeled as the real thing either . What 's needed is some sort of made-up name , such as Miles employs when it calls its sausage imitations " Breakfast links ; Sausage-like flavor ; Textured protein links . " State and local authorities are similarly reluctant to allow the nomenclature of the real stuff to be applied to simulated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of names that come close to hamburger but semantically shy off . Thus , in El Paso , it 's Patti-Mix ; in Colorado , Sooper Blend ; in Tucson , Better Burger ; in Virginia , Protein Plus ; in Albany . Blend-O-Beef . What next for textured vegetable protein 's invasion of the meat market ? The answer is that the major companies are rapidly expanding their research programs . Miles raised its soybean research budget from about 81 million to $3 million in a year or two , and General Mills plans to double its present expenditure of about $1 million a year . At General Mills , they 're talking about whole shrimp and scallop analogs " within five years . " And bacon , now amounting to about 1.5 billion pounds a year from the on-the-hoof variety , is also being looked into . Further down the research trail are more exotic projects . Dr. John Luck , who directs a staff of 280 researchers at General Mills ' Minneapolis research staff , noted simply that " we give vegetable protein a very high priority and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goals ? - Well , " he explained , " you could take scrap meat that now goes into sausage , and you could mix it with vegetable protein and lexturize the mix into , let 's say , sandwich steaks . " What about factory-made " beefsteaks " ? " Oh , " said Dr. Luck , " there was some interest in that years ago , but we 're a long way off . Too difficult a problem with what we know 110W . " Whatever the consequences for our stomachs or our taste buds , there seems to be little reason to doubt the determination of the plucky food companies . The transformation of food has a momentum of its own , striving for every possibility . As Miles board chairman Walter A. Compton puts it : " If you can do it in a cow 's stomach , there 's no reason you ca n't do it in a factory . "                     