@@493685

. That 's Ian Smith , but he 's still the man to talk to . The Devil Himself What happened at Chimoio and Ternbue on Saturday , November 27 ? reported by the Rhodesian government as a raid on a " guerrilla camp " that killed 1200 " guerrillas " ? was not an act of war : it was a cold-blooded massacre of black Rhodesian men , women and children . The names of these two villages in Mozambique belong in a list with Lidice , Katyn , Babi Yar , My Lai and other horrors of our time . The disciplined Rhodesian forces of Ian Smith 's regime had total military control over the two camps near Chimoio and Tembue , occupied mainly by refugees , but they made no effort to distinguish between guerrillas and civilians : all were indiscriminately raked by automatic fire , including children in classrooms and at home with their mothers . Imagine the effect on white Rhodesians ( and on white Americans , for that matter ) if the situation had been reversed : if it were black guerrillas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men , women and children . It might have been supposed that at a time when power is fast slipping from the hands of white Rhodesians , they would be concerned to avoid any action that might cause permanent embitterment of the black majority . But Rhodesia 's white leadership seems to have learned nothing at all from the misfortunes of the past 12 years they have spent fruitlessly trying to impose permanent minority rule . In fact there is a brutal logic in Ian Smith 's decision to strike his murderous blow on the very eve of his negotiations to achieve an internal settlement of the Rhodesian crisis . Having persuaded a number of by no means unimportant black Rhodesian leaders to negotiate directly with him ? thereby bypassing the channels opened up by the Anglo-American initiative ? he needs to achieve two quick results . He must show that he is still capable of negotiating from a position of some strength ; and he must weaken the military capability of the Patriotic Front in order to minimize any challenge they could offer to whatever settlement might be reached without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ black Rhodesian ) still be willing to sit around the same table with Smith ? The answer to this question also has a brutal logic about it : it is the only way some Zimbabwean leaders see of bringing a quick end to white rule and of cutting short the violent struggle . To achieve this result they are willing to talk to the devil himself . There also is a second reason : the moderate blacks who have agreed to negotiate see the negotiations as art opportunity to get ahead in the bitter power struggle among the black nationalists which characterizes the end of the era of white Rhodesia and the coming of an independent Zimbabwe . This power struggle has not yet degenerated into open civil war , but the conditions for such a fateful conflict already exist . Those black leaders who have agreed to negotiate with Smith seem to be sincerely convinced that the only way of averting a civil war is to create conditions for free elections based on one-man , one-vote ? the concession they have already wrung from Smith as the prerequisite for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they believe , the power struggle could be finally settled through the ballot box . This view is totally rejected by the Zimbabwe Patriotic Front , which controls most of the guerrillas . This group believes that an internal settlement , reached without themselves , would only widen the conflict in the black camp . They completely mistrust the Smith regime and also look upon the negotiators as " opportunistic stooges " seeking to obstruct the struggle for genuine independence . And they stand ready to fight a " stooge black government " as resolutely as they fight the Smith regime . Let me try to clarify some of the issues raised by these arguments . First , is Ian Smith to be trusted : ' Nothing in his past record suggests that he should be believed . But Smith is becoming increasingly irrelevant . He still retains enough military power to delay independence , but he already has lost the political initiative ? hence his abdication over the vital principle of majority rule . Having led white Rhodesians to the brink of disaster , he is now mainly concerned with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guarantees for their minority rights in an independent Zimbabwe . Despite all that has happened ? and perhaps because of it ? nobody can seriously question the need for white Rhodesians to safeguard their future under majority rule . But no guarantees will be worth the paper they are written on unless the Zimbabwe leaders who provide them will be in a position to command majority support after independence . Are the men who have agreed to negotiate with Smith likely to win in the end ? Of those who are involved in the negotiations , it is easy to dismiss Chief Chirau and his fellow chiefs in the Zimbabwe United People 's Organisation . But it is not possible simply to write off committed men like Bishop Abel Muzorewa , James Chikerema , George Nyandoro ( all From the United African National Council ) , or the Reverend Ndabaningi Sithole , who leads one wing of the Zimbabwe African National Union ( ZANU ) . The last three helped to launch the armed struggle . Do theyin any sense represent the majority of their people today ? This question can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elections will be convincing unless they also include the external Forces of the Patriotic Front . In the end , the only test of success of any settlement ? whether achieved internally or through external pressures ? will be whether it is approved through free elections open to all political elements . Any other method will almost certainly lead to a civil war . The Patriotic Front insists that no free elections are possible so long as the Smith regime retains any semblance of power . That is why they insist on his complete abdication as a precondition for any settlement . But even if he did abdicate , would the Patriotic Front agree to holding free elections before independence ? The failure of the Front to provide an unequivocal answer to this question has seriously obstructed the progress of the Anglo-American initiative , and is a major factor in the decision of Bishop Mu zorewa 's group to attempt an internal settlement . Both Britain and the United States insist that they will not be parties to any settlement that does not provide for free elections before independence . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also has the support of the front-line African states ( Tanzania , Zambia , Mozambique , Botswana and Angola ) . President Kaunda of Zambia at one time doubted the practicability of holding free elections before independence , but he has now come around to accepting the position of his fellow front-line presidents . Everything therefore seems to hinge on the intentions of the leaders of the Patriotic Front ? Joshua Nkomo and Robert Mugabe . Yet the Front never has been united , except in its commitment to armed struggle to achieve genuine independence . Nkomo and Mugabe are themselves the keenest rivals for power . It is only the power struggle among the nationalists that still prevents a quick end to the Smith regime . Smith has been sufficiently intelligent to exploit this weakness , to divide his black opposition by negotiating with one side only . It is merely pious to hold up one 's hands in horror and to say that the black leaders , for the sake of their freedom . ought to stop quarreling among themselves and to unite on the eve of their victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For example , it was the case with the Jews in Israel . The late Ben Gurion went so far as to order his troops to open fire against a munitions ship belonging to Menachem Begin 's lrgun . There are , in fact , very few examples of a liberation movement achieving a unified leadership before independence . So the Zimbabwean leadership is simply following a well-trod path . There is no reason to think they will come together to deliver Rhodesia from its impasse by designating any one of their number as the accepted leader . Either they will fight it out violently among themselves , or they will fight it out in an election campaign . That is why the only sensible policy is to encourage any form of negotiations that offers a chance of free elections . If the present negotiations for an internal settlement produce early results , it is by no means unlikely that Joshua Nkomo might be drawn into the talks at a later stage . In fact , there are some signs thatsecret negotiations may already be going on in London to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruled out . But nor can the danger of a cruel civil war be ignored .                     