@@494885

The argument that I had to torture out of Roger Morris ' first article he now makes openly and explicitly , and it is clear that I disagree far more with him than with Mr. Bell . This is what his position comes to : we are all participants in the crimes of Vietnam ; we have no right , then , to condemn contemporary terrorism , but must seek instead to " understand " the desperation and outrage from which it springs . In the name of sensitivity , complexity and guilt ? guilt above all , for this is a doctrine for masochists ? we must accept terror as the legitimate weapon of the weak . The major difficulty with this argument , aside from its sackcloth and ashes tone , is that terrorism , the random murder of innocent people , is a new weapon while outrage and desperation are very old . For many years , leftist and nationalist groups rejected terror , and even today the question whether or not to kill the innocent is an issue in every radical group ( except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ record shows , no opposition to terror on a principled basis has ever arisen ) . The issue is angrily debated , on both moral and political grounds . Morris ' position gives us no access to these debates . He is endlessly eager to understand the terrorists , but he does not even see their opponents . I do n't mean the " ruling elites , " but the men and women inside the Algerian FLN and the IRA and other similar groups who try to say no to murder . And he simply ignores the distinction that revolutionary militants once made between aiming at political targets and the deliberate premeditated killings of innocents . There are two traditional leftist arguments against terrorism . The first is simple and direct : we do n't kill innocent people ; that 's what they do , the forces of privilege and reaction ; indeed , that 's one of the ways we know who they are . The second argument is more political in character , though it also has moral implications : terrorism is not and can not be a mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of militants ; inevitably it enhances the self-regard and power of an elite and undercuts the possibility of democratic government . The alternative path is mass organization , strikes , demonstrations , guerrilla war . These methods " work " when there is broad popular support , and do n't work when there is n't ? and surely that 's what one wants to say of leftist politics generally , that it ought to succeed only insofar as it can mobilize masses of people . Roger Morris is " sensitive " to oppression , but he has no interest in the politics of the oppressed . He is ready with an a priori endorsement of anything they do ; he holds them to no standards , and that is finally to patronize them . They do n't require that kind of understanding . They need to be supported when they act rightly , and to be criticized when they act wrongly ? exactly as with the rest of us . It was indeed no loss of nerve to attack the Pentagon at the time of the Cambodian invasion ; then Morris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of power . But it is a loss of nerve to endorse terror : now Morris is refusing to apply those same limits , or for that matter any limits at all . To assuage his own guilt , he is willing to accept murder . If you believe what you read , you probably think that the Supreme Court will soon be confronted by the ultimate clash of constitutional absolutes . The Sixth Amendment to the Constitution guarantees to anyone charged in a criminal prosecution a trial " by an impartial jury . " The First Amendment secures " freedom of speech , or of the press " against governmental infringe ? ment . What happens if the press , in seeking to report the news , jeopardizes a criminal defendant 's chances of being tried by an unprejudiced jury ? Should " Free Press " win out over " Fair Trial " because the public 's right to know is more impoftant than punctilious fairness in criminal prosecutions ? Or is the principle that no one is to be criminally punished without a demonstrably fair trial so much a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacrificed at any cost ? even if preserving it means chipping away at the constitu ? tional license enjoyed by the press ? This apparent collision of constitutional rights is presented in a publicized case that relates to a mass murder committed in mid-October in Sutherland , Nebraska . An elderly couple , their son and their three grandchildren were found dead of gunshot wounds on a Saturday . Some were also sexually assaulted . On the following day a suspect named Erwin Simants was arrested and charged by the local prosecutor with the six murders . Monday 's community papers ? The North Platte Telegraph and The Lincoln Star ? featured articles on the sensational case . The stories included tidbits of information that , as later described by the Nebraska Supreme Court , " tended clearly to connect the accused with the slayings . " Subsequent court orders have blocked any specific description of this " information , " but it appears to concern a confession taken from Simants . A later court order referred , as well , to statements he had made to relatives and a note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various radio stations , as well as The Denver Post , which is circulated in western Nebraska , gave the story broad coverage on both Monday and Tuesday . n Tuesday evening , the prosecutor asked the judge of the local county court for a " restrictive order setting forth the matters that may or may not be publicly reported or disclosed to the public with reference to " the case . A public hearing ? at which the county judge was to decide whether there was enough evidence to keep Simants in custody ? had been scheduled for Wednesday morning , and it was certain that evidence presented at that hearing by the prosecutor would tend to show that Simants was guilty . The prosecutor 's request for a " restrictive order " explicitly covered evidence that he would present at the public hearing . The county judge convened an unusual court session Monday evening , during which Simants ' lawyer expressed agreement with the prosecutor 's request . In fact , he went even further than the prosecutor , asking that the entire preliminary hearing be held in private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there should be no restrictions . Early on Wednesday morning the county judge issued an order in which he said that " the power and persuasive ? ness of the news media are of such significance that courts must at times take strong actions to insure that both parties in a criminal law suit start equally . " He concluded that " there is a reasonable likelihood of prejudicial news which would make difficult , if not impossible , the impaneling of an impartial jury " if Simants were tried . As a result the county judge ordered everyone in sight ? lawyers , court officers , law enforcement personnel , the defendant , any witnesses and " any other person present in Court " ? not to disclose any evidence presented at the hearing . His order also prohibited anyone , including " witnesses or news media , " from disseminating " any information concerning this matter " except the few facts that are characterized as " appropriate for disclosure " under the voluntary " Nebraska Bar-Press Guidelines " announcedby a committee of lawyers and media representatives in June @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limited objective facts describing a suspect , the victims , the offense , the arrest and bail terms . Evidence that might be presented at trial is classified as " not appropriate for disclosure . " After entering the order , . the judge held the preliminary hearing in public ? but with all participants bound to silence . He decided that the evidence was enough to keep Simants in custody , and to transfer him to the next highest rung on Nebraska 's judicial ladder ? the District Court of Lincoln County . On the following day local media representatives , as well as the Associated Press and United Press International , asked the judge of that court to lift the county judge 's restrictions on the grounds that they violated the constitutional guarantees of the First Amendment . The district court held another hearing and found " a clear and present danger that pre-trial publicity could infringe upon the defendant 's right to a fair trial . " The district judge replaced the county judge 's order with one of his own . It , too , directed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preceding the swearing of a jury in Simants ' criminal trial ) " shall be in accordance with " the Nebraska Bar-Press Guidelines ? but it did not specify to whom the order was to apply . With the confidential record of the preliminary hearing before him , the district judge was also able to specify certain subjects that could not be discussed . In separate paragraphs of his order he directed that there be no public mention of the existence or contents of Simants ' confession , of the other incriminatory state ? ments he had made and the note he had left , of the " tests or investigations " performed by a doctor who was probably the county coroner , or of the identity of any victims who had been sexually assaulted and the details of such assaults . Peculiar lines were drawn as to the last two subjects : the " non-technical aspects " of the doctor 's testimony could be reported " within the guidelines and at the careful discretion of the press . " The same caution was expressed as to " general physical facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though the gruesome details of the sexual assaults were specifically forbidden . The order concluded with a ban on the reporting of the " exact nature of the limitations of publicity . " In other words , as the judge explained , . the press could report that an order limiting pre-trial publicity had been entered , but it could not refer specifically to the confessions , incriminatory statements , witnesses or type of evidence that was under the ban . What was obviously of concern to the judge was that the public would learn indirectly , through reports that no confession or incriminatory statement or note could be disclosed , that Simants had , in fact , confessed , made incriminatory statements and written a damaging note . It followed logically that the details of the order had to be embargoed along with the specific information subject to the decree . The case moved quickly to the Nebraska Supreme Court , which was asked by the press representatives three days later to lift the restriction on constitutional grounds . By the first of November the press ' applica ? tion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replied that no hearing could be held before December 1 . So the lawyers filed a request shortly before midnight on November 5 with Justice Harry Blackmun of the Supreme Court of the United States . Blackmun is assigned to the Eighth Federal Judicial Circuit ( which includes Nebraska ) , and unusual interim requests of this kind ? seeking to delay the implementation of a court order while appeals judges decide whether it is valid ? are ordinarily decided first by the particular Supreme Court justice in whose circuit the question arises . Blackmun 's first response was to nudge the Nebraska Supreme Court . On November 13 , he issued an opinion in which he said that he would take no action on the press ' application if the Nebraska court decided on the validity of the order " forthwith and without delay . " His opinion warned that the press ' position could not be ignored because the issue presented had " profound constitutional implications , demanding immediate res ? olution . " By one week later the Nebraska Supreme Court had done nothing beyond announcing that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returned to Justice Blackmun , who then issued a second opinion . He concluded that action was needed because " the suppressed information grows older " and " other events crowd upon it . " With " each passing day , " he said , there is " a separate and cognizable infringement of the First Amendment . " The Blackmun order erased much of what the Nebraska district judge had done , but it left enough to catapult the case to the national notoriety it began receiving with a front-page story in The New York Times . The story carried the headline " Blackmun Backs a Curb on Press in Nebraska Case . " In fact much more was removed from the curb on the press than was left , but what remained is enough to present a serious ? if not cataclysmic ? constitutional issue . Justice Blackmun made short shrift of the wholesale incorporation of the Nebraska Bar-Press Guidelines . They were , he said , far too vague and indefinite to be the basis of a court order that might carry with it imprisonment for contempt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crimes , the identities of the victims or the testimony of the pathologist at the preliminary hearing . This informa ? tion , he said , might excite or inflame those who read it , but it did not implicate any particular suspect . The rub was that he left in force the part of the Nebraska district judge 's order that related to Simants ' confession and other incriminatory statements . He flatly ruled that " facts that strongly implicate an accused may be restrained from publication by the media prior to his trial . " The ultimate question was whether the publication of particular facts . would " irreparably impair the ability of those exposed to them to reach an independent and impartial judgment as to guilt . " Justice Blackmun also reasoned that if word got around that a confession could not be disclosed , it would be the same as disclosure of the existence of a confession , and so he let stand the limitation on reporting of the restrictive order 's terms . The Nebraska Supreme Court finally got to the case after Justice Blackmun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided that publication could be restricted only as to Simants ' confessions and incriminatory state ? ments or " other information strongly implicative of the accused as the perpetrator of the slayings . " It also reached another conclusion that makes possible the publication in The New Republic of the detail presented in this article . It decided that the only parties over whom the district court had jurisdiction were the newspapers and media representatives who voluntarily intervened in the criminal case . Anyone else , the court said , " could have ignored the order " because neither the county court nor the district court had any " general power in any kind of case to enjoin or restrain ' everybody . ' " With this final word from the highest court of Nebraska , the press returned to the full Supreme Court with a request that the case be expedited ( so that the legality of the ban can be ruled on before Simants ' trial , scheduled for January ) and that the order , even as modified , be lifted in the interim . Justices Brennan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Justice White would have provided interim modification and permitted the press freely to report only what had happened during the public preliminary hearing . But the four most recent Court appointees rejected both parts of the application . So the case is now set for argument in February , may not be decided until June , and appears to hinge on the vote of the soon-to-be Justice John Paul Stevens . it is hard , at first blush , to get too excited over the press ' right to print an accused 's confession or to report that he has left incriminatory notes or told his sister that he has committed a crime . How badly will society suffer if the public 's right to know is deferred mewhat , so that these details appear in The North Platte Telegraph or The Lincoln Star in January , when Simants is tried , rather than in October , when he is arrested ? After the first wave of outrage over Justice Blackmun 's willingness to permit a " gag order , " some sober columnists who otherwise support broad applications of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its exaggerated response to the Nebraska case . The real question of principle , however , is not whether newspapers should print confessions or otherwise inflame potential jurors . With occasional exceptions , the press has learned the lesson of the famous case of Dr. Sam Sheppard , whose trial and conviction were set aside by the Supreme Court almost 10 years after he was jailed because of " virulent publicity . " The wholesale dissemination of both accurate and false details regarding Lee Harvey Oswald 's guilt during the three frenzied days in Dallas that followed the assassination of President Kennedy produced discussion by journalists and resolution to exercise self-discipline in such matters in order to protect the rights of defendants to fair trials . The " guidelines " that the Nebraska courts tried to incorpor ? ate into their orders are the fruit of studies by bar associations , judges ' groups and other interested parties ? virtually all of whom have agreed that responsible journalism requires consideration of the effects of news stories on potential jurors and others involved in the judicial process . The issue that exercises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advocates is not whether this kind of information should be printed , but whether courts should have the power to order the press not to print it . Almost five years ago , the same question of judicial authority arose with more interna ? tionally celebrated participants . It was The New York Times , not The North Platte Telegraph , that wanted to publish . The secret messages of Robert McNamara , Walt Rostow and Lyndon Johnson were subjects rather than notes left by Erwin Simants . And then Attorney General John Mitchell , rather than the prosecutor of Lincoln County , Nebraska , sought a court order to prevent publication . The interest cited was national security , not one individual 's fair trial . To some justices on the Supreme Court , the collision between First Amendment interests and other compelling govern ? ment concerns was as direct there as in the Nebraska gag case . Chief Justice Burger said , at the time of the Pentagon Papers ruling , that whether or not the Times and The Washington Post could print the Papers presented a conflict of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfet ? tered press " against " the effective functioning of a complex modern government and specifically the effective exercise of certain constitutional powers of the Executive . " Among the foremost rights of a " free and unfettered press " is the right not to be told what may and whatmay not be printed . Writing for the Court in the Florida " right-to-reply " case decided in 1974 , Chief Justice Burger himself approved that general proposition , even to the extent of quoting from an opinion by Justice William Douglas the observation that " no governmen ? tal agency ? local , state , or federal ? can tell a newspap ? er in advance what it can print and what it can not . " The constitutional rule against " prior restraint " is , in many respects , puzzling . It rests on a difference between punishment or remedy after publication for what the press has done and a court order issued before publication . Three justices in the Pentagon Papers case indicated , for example , that they might find criminal punishment of the Times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not , on the facts of the case before them , approve an order entered before publication preventing the Times from printing . But it takes little legal sophistication to recognize that a court order preventing publication is enforced the same way as is a criminal law ? by punishing those who disobey . Why , then , is there a constitutional difference between a fine or jail sentence afterwards and an order , enforceable by fine or jail sentence afterwards , which has the same objective ? There is , to be sure , a historical explanation . Censorship , in its most extreme form , prevents the printing of anything unless and until it has the official approval of the censor . That form of prior restraint was the subject of John Milton 's classic Areopagitica . It endured in England to 1695 , and it is most clearly what the draftsmen of the First Amendment had in mind . Even Blackstone 's Commentaries on the Laws of England recognized that the " liberty of the press . . . consists in laying no previous restraints upon publications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ censorship , it is hard to see much difference ? other than some procedures sur ? rounding the trial which precedes punishment ? between a " prior restraint " and an after-the-fact restraint . Nor is the rule against prior restraints on the press total and unexceptional . Former CIA agent Victor Marchetti discovered that a federal court was ready to enjoin him from disclosing confidential information in his book on the Agency notwithstanding the doctrine of prior restraint . And only two of the Supreme Court 's justices ? Black and Douglas , who had absolutist positions on the First Amendment ? were willing to say in the Pentagon Papers case that , regardless of the harm resulting from publication , no court injunction could ever issue . Of the remainder of the Court , Justice Brennan gave the broadest reading to the First Amendment , and even he indicated a readiness to enjoin if publication would " inevitably , directly and immediately cause the occurrence of an event kindred to imperiling the safety of a transport already at sea . " Justice Stewart announced a more modest standard ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that publication " will surely result in direct , immediate and irreparable damage to our Nation or its people . " Although the Pentagon Papers case was trumpeted as a collision between national security and free press , the deciding votes on the Court found , from their own examination , that the danger to national security was overstated and the conflict was not , in that sense , a real one . In the pretrial publicity area , one suspects , the same approach may lead to the same result . How " clear and present " is the danger to Simants ' fair trial if the press is free to report what it chooses ? There are many procedural steps which courts may take to promote fair trials even where publicity has been heavy . Continu ? ances , changes of the site of the trial , careful examina ? tion of potential jurors and even waiver of jury trial are some of the remedies . Moreover courts are far too ready to assume that jurors read crime stories with the same close attention and memory for relevant detail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To the ordinary reader the damage to Erwin Simants has only been increased by a miniscule degree if the existence of a confession is disclosed in a story describing the gruesome details of the crime with which he has been charged and the circumstances of his arrest on the following day . One wonders , finally , how the existence of " inculpa ? tive " information such as a confession came to the attention of the press before Simants ' public preliminary hearing . Those who participate in the criminal justice process are , after all , the sources of any details printed by the press , and it seems more just ? as well as more constitutional ? to gag the participants than to silence those whose job it is to watch , listen and report . It is temptingly easy to prevent prejudicial publicity by restricting the media ; a prosecutor 's release of a confession can not influence a jury if no reporter dare print it . But prosecutors and law enforcement person ? nel have their own constitutional duties to insure the fairness of trials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any violation of those obligations . Defense lawyers , too , are limited by rules of the bar to which they belong , most of which now prohibit inflammatory public statements . When courts go beyond these participants , as they have increasingly done in recent months , and gag witnesses or even the defendant himself , serious constitutional questions arise . And when they impose the restraint directly on the media ? often a general public admonition directed to no one actually before the court ? they go well beyond the remedy that the disease requires . Few sentiments seem more characteristic of political life today than a widespread irritation with the works and scale of government . That irritation , abundantly evident in popular feeling and political rhetoric , and even in serious thought and research on the efficacy of government programs , has now been deepened by financial stringency . A peculiar conjunction of mood and necessity , of political culture and political economy , has encouraged the conviction among many in public life that there is no better politics today than a politics against government . Unlike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expression during the ' 60s , the current disaffection seems to be shared by both the left and the right , and by people with no clear political allegiance at all . The hostility is directed not at specific policies and decisions , but at the bureaucracies themselves . However , while the left and right seem equally dissatisfied with government , they tend to have different parts of it in mind . On one side the characteristic targets are the CIA and FBI ; on the other , HEW and the regulatory agencies . The criticism is nearly the same : the bureaucracies are out of control , they 're obedient only to their own internal urges . One voice warns that government is destructive of private interests ; the other says it jeopardizes the interests of privacy . The left wants the government out of spying , infiltration , political machinations at home and abroad . The right                     