@@431895

 | ? In Duluth , Minn. , they are drinking water laden with asbestos ? a substance known to cause cancer . ? In Stamford , Conn. , and in Niles and Dekoto , Calif. , the drinking water is at times so discolored by iron and other metals that residents can not bathe in it or use it for washing dishes or clothes . ? In Danville , Vt. , residents periodically fall ill with diarrhea ? including a dangerous type known as giardiasis , caused by microscopic one-celled animals which have been found in Danville 's drinking water . ? In Asheville , N.C. , Gulfport , Miss. , and Haverhill , Mass. , the drinking water has at times been so contaminated with bacteria that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency refuses to permit its use aboard interstate planes , trains or buses . Yet local residents continue to drink it . ? In a number of other cities and towns , water heavily contaminated with bacteria is made reasonably safe to drink by means of chlorination ; but the amount of chlorine required gives the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fish in home aquariums . Is the water piped into your town any better ? Perhaps the chart below will help you to find out . It 's based on a  | survey , made by state and Federal agencies , of locations that supply drinking water to interstate carriers . Although GH 's selections of 105 localities ca n't pretend to cover the entire country , they do pinpoint some of the most worrisome communities . USE PROHIBITED means that when water was last tested it was declared unsafe and banned from planes , trains and buses . IMPROVEMENT NEEDED refers to serious shortcomings found during previous inspection ; and PASSABLE asserts that minimum standards have been met , although improvement may be desirable . You can , of course , run your own safety test by drawing a glassful of water from the faucet and holding it up to the light to see whether it is sparkling clear and free of floating particles or sediment . You can sniff it for offodors and sip it for off-flavors . But you yourself can not determine whether it is free of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ viruses Heavy metals ( such as lead , mercury , and cadmium ) Hazardous chemicals ( industrial wastes , insecticides , herbicides , etc . ) Only your state , county , and local health departments can guard against such contaminants . But therein lies the rub . Not a single state health department in the country is adequately staffed , equipped or funded to ensure safe drinking water throughout the state . County and local health departments are also inadequately staffed to fulfill their drinking-water responsibilities . As a result , potential drinking-water hazards which could be spotted and corrected in advance are neglected until a large-scale outbreak of illness focuses attention on them . This news may come as a surprise , for as everyone knows , our country is spending vast funds and effort in a long-term campaign against water pollution . The goal is to clean up our rivers , lakes and coastal waters , perhaps within the next ten or 15 years . But meanwhile , the most important water of all ? the water all of us are drinking right now ? is being shamefully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Delaware , the District of Columbia , Indiana , Kentucky , Minnesota , Louisiana and Texas currently have less manpower available for ensuring drinking-water safety than they had back in 1960 . The horrifying results of letting down our defenses are fully documented in reports from three Federal agencies : the U.S. Public Health Service ( PHS ) , the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) and the General Accounting Office ( GAO ) . In 1969 , a PHS study revealed that more than 100 out of 969 public water systems checked were polluted with bacteria . Subsequent EPA studies confirmed this sorry state of affairs , and a 1973 GAO study also indicated no improvement . Nearly one- fifth of the systems surveyed by GAO were polluted with bacteria for two or more months during the year , and an additional ten percent were polluted one month in the year . Residents of 125 out of 446 communities were drinking water known to be contaminated with bacteria during at least a part of the year . Nor is that the worst of it . Both Federal and state standards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contamination and how many samples must be involved . Large urban water systems are required to test many samples daily ; small suburban and village systems need test only two samples a month . These testing requirements , however , are simply ignored by most water systems . Thus 85 percent of the communities studied by PHS and 71 percent by GAO had failed to test the required number of samples . No one really knows how safe the water supplies in these towns are . When it comes to metal and chemical contamination , water need be tested only once or twice a year , but few water systems , the Federal studies showed , are thoroughly tested even this often . Two water systems in Tennessee went untested for 31 years . Some systems have never been adequately tested . ( Do you know when your water system was last tested for lead , mercury , cadmium , organic contaminants , and other metals and chemi-cals ? ) Most of us are aware of our decaying inner cities , with their inferior public services for the poor and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the situation is strangely reversed . On almost every index of quality , many of the country 's rapidly growing suburbs rank worse than the inner cities . Miami , Fla. , is the classic case in point . Miami 's own water remains reasonably good . But the growth of the  | Miami suburbs has been so rapid that many of its suburban drinking-water systems are strained to the utmost just to keep pace with demand . Under such circumstances , water quality tends to be neglected . During the 1972 Republican and Democratic conventions , for example , Federal officials were so worried about the drinking water in the Miami Beach portion of the Greater Miami area that they flew in emergency chlorinating equipment to safeguard visiting politicians . After the conventions , they flew it out again . Miami Beach residents continued to drink the suspect water for another eight months . Then in March 1973 they were warned to boil the water before drinking it , brushing their teeth in it , or making ice with it . Because of the high bacteria content , the EPA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipment was flown back in . Meanwhile , at a migrant labor camp just south of Miami , polluted water caused more than 200 reported cases of typhoid fever . In April 1974 , in yet another Miami suburb , Richmond Heights , 1,400 residents out of 6,500 fell ill with shigellosis , a form of diarrhea caused by drinking water contaminated with bacteria called shigellae . These problems have now been solved ? but new ones continue to arise in other Miami suburbs . When water pressure is low during peak demand periods and the flow becomes merely a trickle at dinnertime , it can mean either that a community is outgrowing its water system or that old mains have become so encrusted with mineral deposits that little water can flow through . Low pressure from either cause is a health hazard , because it increases the likelihood that polluted water will seep unnoticed into the drinking-water system . For safety 's sake , a water system should keep at least a full day 's supply of fully treated pure water in storage at all times . Last summer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this precaution when someone dumped a large quantity of a poisonous pesticide into the All-American Canal , from which Yuma draws its water . Immediately thereafter , dead fish were seen floating in the canal ? an estimated 10,000 of them . Informed of the situation by alert fishermen , water officials managed to shut off the valves before the poisoned water entered the treatment plant , and were able to shift the city onto its five-million-gallon reserve supply . Thus , disaster was averted , but the reserve lasted only a few hours , and for half a day Yuma was without any water at all . Normal water service was not restored for another day or two . A full day 's water in reserve is also a must if essential equipment in a water treatment plant fails to function ? as Voorheesville , N.Y. , learned to its sorrow in 1970 when its chlorinator broke down . Lacking a storage reservoir , the water plant was forced to pump unchlorinated water into the distribution pipes . The result was 1,500 cases of gastrointestinal infection in a town of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your state or county health department should thoroughly inspect your community water system at least once a year . Such a " sanitary survey " is designed to spot shortcomings before they cause trouble and should answer all of the following questions : Is there enough chlorine on hand to minimize the likelihood that supplies will run out ? Is all of the water being adequately chlorinated ? If the water comes from wells , are septic tanks or other sources of pollution too near the wells ? If water is drawn from a lake or river is the source adequately protected from contamination by sewage outfalls ? What happens to contaminants removed from the water during treatment ? ( One Cleveland water plant simply dumps its sludge into a nearby stream . ) Is there a full day 's supply of pure water in storage ? Are storage reservoirs sealed tight against contamination ? ( Riverside , Calif. , suffered 16,000 cases of salmonellosis , a form of diarrhea caused by salmonella bacteria , when its reservoir became contaminated . ) Obviously , no one citizen can check on technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the civic organizations to which you belong can make sure that your health department is doing the checking . And you or a local civic organization can also make sure that tests of your drinking water are being run in a certified laboratory which is competent to make the necessary tests . ( An EPA survey of 85 public water supplies in Tennessee revealed that only seven were having their water tested in certified laboratories ; the others sent their water to labs using unacceptable testing procedures . " These laboratories have created a false sense of security , " the EPA report noted . ) Results of sanitary surveys should be promptly reported , both to the water system and the health department . The public , too , should be promptly informed if the tests show contamination , and firm corrective action should be taken promptly . ( The public was not notified and remedial action was not taken for more than two months after bacterial contamination was found in the Miami Beach water . ) Safe water also depends on having a trained operator in charge of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barbers , beauty-parlor operators , plumbers , electricians and taxi drivers ? yet a man with no training whatever , sometimes lacking even a high school education , may be in full charge of a community water system . Wyoming , until recently , was a horrible example of this . Of 23 Wyoming water systems surveyed by the EPA , only one had a trained operator in charge . Seventeen small Wyoming systems had no one in charge , even on a part-time basis . " Generally , the mayor , town clerk or policeman looked after the system , resulting in a very low level of maintenance and quality control . " Some small towns had one untrained man in charge of the streets , sewage disposal , garbage disposal ? and drinkingwater supply ! To its credit , Wyoming has since taken steps to correct this situation . Whenever a new area is opened for a housing subdivision , a new water system must be installed or an existing system expanded . In either case , to make sure the drinking water will be up to standard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water department . And when the system is actually built , it should be inspected to see that the plans have been properly carried out . Unfortunately , few states have the necessary manpower for these jobs . Ohio , for example , has only one health department employee to check on plans submitted for approval from all over the state . Since he must review roughly 250 plans per year , he has less than a day to devote to each ? a job which should take several days ? and no time whatever to make sure that the systems , as built , conform to the plans he has approved . It is hardly surprising that several new Ohio suburbs find themselves drinking dangerously substandard water . In other states , too , health officials must shirk a part of their responsibilities because of understaffing . They just do n't have the manpower for adequate training programs , plan review , inspection and testing . If they keep their eyes on the big cities , the suburbs go unwatched . And no matter how they divide their time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water-system improvements ? something which is urgently needed almost everywhere . Most drinking water today , for example , is still being filtered through ordinary sand , just as it was a century ago . But sand filtration and other kinds of water treatment now in common use are inadequate for removing the many pesticides , industrial wastes and other organic pollutants that plague modern industrial societies . Repeated studies have shown that if the water is filtered through activated carbon granules , a wide range of chemical  | pollutants can be eliminated more effectively . Chemicals that pass right through sand stick to the surfaces of the carbon granules . ) Some 40 U.S. community water systems are currently using activatedcarbon filtration successfully ? but 40,000 are not . New Orleans and Cincinnati are typical of the many cities relying on polluted river water which could be purified ( but is n't ) by this more efficient filtration system . Many states recommend or demand that waste waters be filtered through activated carbon before they are dumped into lakes or riviers . Yet not a single state health department today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ filtration be installed in drinking-water plants ! Safeguarding drinking water against disease viruses is another sadly neglected health measure . Today most public water supplies are chlorinated to kill bacteria . Unfortunately , chlorination , as it is commonly used , ca n't be counted on to destroy tough diseaseproducing viruses . The result : water borne outbreaks of infectious hepatitis have been reported in recent years from 19 states , including Massachusetts , New Jersey , Maryland , Illinois , Indiana , Kentucky and California . It is not practical to test drinking water routinely for the presence of viruses no simple method is available ) , but it is possible to chlorinate the water sufficiently to destroy most kinds of disease-producing viruses should they be present . After chlorine has done its work it can then be removed from the water , but when this last step is neglected water may stink of chlorine and kill tropical fish in home aquariums . Alternatively , water can be treated with ozone ? a stronger disinfectant than chlorine ? to destroy both bacteria and viruses . To date , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adequate to ensure virus destruction . Some defects ? such as water discolored by iron and manganese ? are a serious nuisance to live with but are not health hazards : hence , state health departments often ignore them . That is why towns like Stamford , Conn .. and Niles and Dekota . Calif .. as noted before . must at times use water which is so murky that bathing in it and washing clothes with it are impossible . In addition to safeguarding the water piped into homes and places of business , state health departments are responsible for seeing that the water supplied travelers at roadside restaurants , taverns , motels , trailer camps , and filling stations meets acceptable standards . Often this water comes from private wells unprotected from pollution . Lacking enough manpower to supervise urban and suburban water systems , few states make more than a token effort to safeguard what travelers drink . Thus you might be running a risk whenever you take a drink of water while on the road . Although the EPA checks water supplies used aboard interstate buses , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improvements in a substandard system . All it can do is order interstate vehicles not to use the water . That is why , as already noted , cities like Asheville , N.C. , Gulfport , Miss. , and Haverhill , Mass. , go right on supplying water which has been rated unfit for human consumption aboard interstate vehicles . If enormous sums of money were required to supervise water systems , the failure of the states to do so might be understandable . But the amounts involved are trivial . The EPA estimated in 1973 that a typical state could provide sound supervision and advice to its public water systems at a cost of only 20 cents per state resident per year . Inflation may by now have increased this to 25 cents . The average actually being spent is about a nickel per person per year ? and some states are spending less than two cents . The amounts spent to fight pollution of riv-139  | ers , streams and lakes are far larger in every state . Once a state or local health depart-. ment has found something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be taken . Responsibility for making the necessary improvements does not rest with the state , but with the city water department or the private company which actually supplies the water . The cost of the improvements are added to the users ' water bills , which is why it is often consumers themselves who block action . Many of them vigorously oppose any improvements which will increase their bills . Essex Junction and Danville , Vt. , are cases in point . In 1973 , residents of both towns learned that their local water supplies were infected with the microscopic animals which cause giardiasis . Essex Junction took immediate action , abandoning its old water source and connecting its water mains to a nearby , cleaner supply within a day or two . Danville , however , is still drinking polluted water . Some of the younger residents want to make a change , but the old-timers who run the New England village insist that they 've drunk that water all their lives ? as did their fathers before them ? and see no reason to spend more money on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bellyache once in a while . Similarly , New Orleans and Cleveland have been warned repeatedly that their drinking water is substandard , but lethargy and resistance to higher water bills have been blocking improvements . And Duluth , Minn. , has yet to install the filters needed to remove the cancerimplicated asbestos from its water . Since costs are so often a stumbling block , let 's take a close look at just how much people are now paying for water . Rates vary from community to community ; some cities provide as much as 50 gallons for a penny , delivered clean and fresh to the consumers ' faucets , while others charge a penny for seven or eight gallons . Even that , of course , is amazingly cheap compared to the cost of a gallon of bottled water at the store . The monthly water bill for a family of four can run anywhere from $4 to $15 , but the average is around $6 . And even at $15 , the bill is less than what is being paid for electricity or fuel . Garbage and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs half again as much as water . Thus , although rates have been going up , it is still one of the country 's few real bargains ? provided the water is pure . Polluted water , in contrast , is no bargain at any price . Let 's suppose that you live in a moderate-sized city of 25,000 families who are now paying an average of $6 a month for water ? and complaining periodically about it . Let 's suppose that a sanitary survey reveals the need for $1,000,000 worth of water-system improvements . Your neighbors rise up in arms , shouting no , no , a thousand times no ! ? not realizing that a million dollars ' worth of improvements , financed over a ten-year period , will only increase the average water bill from $6 to $6.50 per month . Surely , that 's a small price to pay for the switch from polluted to pure water . Remember this simple arithmetic next time someone proposes that money be spent to improve your water supply . The questions to ask before you vote are simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much will it add to your own monthly bill ? Not all proposed water-rate increases deserve support , of course . Albuquerque , for example , recently increased its water rates ? not to improve the water but to make more money available for garbage disposal . Elsewhere , a rate increase may simply mean more profit for a privately owned water company . But where a rate increase is proposed for necessary improvements in your water system , it deserves your active support . Whenever people begin to mistrust a city 's water supply , there is a run on bottled water at local supermarkets . But bottled water , too , has its hazards . The EPA recently surveyed 25 bottling plants in Connecticut , California , Ohio and Texas . It found that nearly half of them were running substandard tests for bacteria and that almost all of them were omitting adequate chem ical tests . Sanitary deficiencies showed up in every plant . As for the water itself , immediately after testing , seven samples out of 70 contained excessive bacteria . When the bottles were stored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ samples showed bacteria " too numerous to count . " One sample also contained excessive lead . A recent report by the GAO noted that " neither the Federal nor the state agencies included in our review had effective programs for ensuring that , bottled water was pure , safe and free of potential health hazards . " It even came upon one bottled-water sample that contained several millions of bacteria per teaspoonful . New York State has since launched a new program for certifying bottled water but it is toe early to report results . When public water supplies are polluted , some families resort to water softeners or sink-top water filters . Wha they do n't know is that water softenerdo not prevent bacterial contamination and sink-top filters may actually become breeding places for germs . Fa : better , then , to join with your neighbors in demanding that your pub ! water supply be made safe . Here are four criteria that should be met an that civic organizations should insis-upon : ? Your state , county or local healt : . department should be adequatel ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on your local water system ? and on the purity of the water it distributes . ? All health department reports of sanitary surveys as well as of bacterial and chemical tests should be public documents , available to all citizens . ? The finding of bacteria or other pollutants in the water should be promptly announced to the public via local newspapers , radio and TV . ? Where improvements are urgently needed ? and that means almost everywhere ? the costs should be explained to the public in terms of how muck they will add to a family 's monthl. water bill . Once the facts have been convincingly explained , consumers should noonly agree but should enthusiastically demand that all necessary improvements be made ? even though this may add a quarter , a half-dollar or , in extreme cases , a dollar to their monthly water bills .                     