@@487921

From October 27 through October 30 a symposium on the Middle East will be held in Washington , under the aegis of the respected Israeli magazine New Outlook . What lifts this conference out of the ordinary is the presence among the participants of a number of Israelis and Palestinians . Although similar meetings have occurred in Paris and elsewhere , this is the first time that representatives of the two sides ? along with Americans , Europeans and Arabs  --  have been brought together publicly in this'country , The stated intention is to advance " awareness of the centrality of the Palestinian problem " to " genuine peace in the Middle East . " In August , when fifteen members of the Knesset announced their intention to attend the symposium , a furor was touched off in Israel , and there were kindred incidents of opposition among Palestinians . As the aftermath of the Andrew Young resignation proved , private diplomacy can unleash storms of emotions . There are deep-set fears on both sides that even unofficial overtures , in which the intention is only to talk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is framed in stereotypical terms . Reality is , of course , much more complex  --  as the heated debates in the Knesset and factiousness in the P.L.O . demonstrate . After weeks of the headlined adventures of an opportunistic Rev. Jesse Jackson , emotional rhetoric blanketing all Palestinians as " terrorists " and Fidel Castro 's comparison of Zionism to Nazism , it is time to listen to a sampling of the voices of the people of the region who are most directly affected . New Outlook 's symposium could ' provide an instructive microcosm of both the dialogue that is , and the dialogue that must be , if peace is to be achieved . RUSH TO DEATH SPENKELINKS LAST APPEAL This week Jesse Bishop is scheduled to did in the gas chamber in Nevada . He has pleaded guilty and refused to authorize appeals . The twelveL year unofficial moratorium on capital punishment in this country  --  a moratorium interrupted only by the death by firing squad of Gary Gilmore , who demanded to die  --  was ended by the electrocution of John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Spenkehnk 's death , a last-ditch appeal was mounted by two Georgia lawyers , Margie Pitts Hames and Millard Farmer , and former U.S. Attorney General Ramsey Clark , ' a longtime opponent of capital punishment . The following is Clark 's account of that appeal , excerpted from a longer version . The issue Clark and his colleagues raised had not been previously considered in the six years of appeals in Spenkelink 's case : did he have adequate representation by his court-appointed counsel as required by the Sixth Amendment ? The question was a grave one , but beyond that , Clark shows how the judicial system brushed it aside , brooking no further delays in the State ' of Florida 's implacable drive to activate the death penalty . ? The Editors RAMSEY CLARK John Spenkelink was scheduled to die at 7:00 A.M. Wednesday , May 23 , at Raiford Prison in Florida . Tuesday morning I flew , from my home in New York City to Jacksonville , where I was met by Henry Schwarzschild , director of the American Civil Liberties Union 's Capital Punishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near Raiford Prison to protest the execution and to bear witness . After a late-morning press conference outside ( Continued on Page 400 ) Trade-Off Time T f we want to enjoy full employment , we shall have to sacrifice price stability and if we want price stability , we shill have to sacrifice full employment  --  that is the trade-off theory we were all taught in Economics 101 by the man who wrote the text , Paul Samuelson . More recently , the economics establishment has amended the lat- . ter part of the proposition to read : If we want to reduce the rate of inflation from 14 to , say , 9 percent  --  we must pay . the price of a recession . As a tried-and-trusty addition to economic jargon , " trade-off " has a semantic multiplier effect : it propagates myths that can cloud men 's minds . The term reduces prob-lems of choice to an either-this-or-that formulation=a situation that rarely exists in the real world . We do not ' choose between going to a Broadway show or eating out at a restaurant exclusively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in  --  including paying the rent , medical bills , ' buying a new dress , saving up for a vacation or subscribing to our favorite magazine . Even more mischievously , the term , as it is used , assumes a world of trade-offs without traders . It is as though Wall Street savants talked about the market without reference to buyers and sellers ; it is like talking about speculation without speculators  --  the market as the interplay of impersonal economic forces rather than volatile human beings and institutions exhibiting the whole panoply of human psychology from greed to altruism . In the abstract world of establishment economics only two corporeal bodies are recognized . One is the vile OPEC cartel , to which is attrib CJ uted the power to impose administered prices without the slightest brotherly help of our own Seven Sisters . The other , equally villainous , is American labor , which is always upsetting " our " apple cart by demanding that its wages at least keep pace with the rising cost of life , Yet even Arthur Burns and Milton Friedman know in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pushed up by well-organized corporate price-setters , usually- acting with the direct or indirect blessing of Federal , state and local government bodies . Knowing this central fact of , modern capitalism , however , is different from writing it down . That task is left to the radical economists , whose prose is usually too arcane to be understood by the intelligent layman , or to the likes of Jp/in K. Galbraith and Robert Lekachman , whose remarkable literary skills practically disqualify them as economists . Galbraith , Lekachman , Bertram M. Gross and a few other infidels actually suggest that the way out of the jobs-or-sound-dollars dilemma is public price controls imposed on the largest corporate price-setters . To this prescription we would add a generously measured dose of selective credit controls to replace the Federal Reserve Board 's drastic emetics  --  and also some major restructuring of the institutions that now control energy , food , housing , medical costs and interest rates , the key items in the consumer 's inflation package . ( See Bertram M. Gross , " Anti-Inflation for Progressives , " The Nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brings the actors back into the drama . It removes the blinkers of monetarism and enables us to see through the synecdoche the official economists have constructed , by which the corporate establishment stands for the interests of all , to the enormous variety of people and groups  --  middle-class , working-class and poor  --  who are designated to make the major sacrifices . With this in Mind , we should further understand that there are three presumed objectives in our economy=uncontrolled corporate power , reasonable price stability and high growth and employment . But we can not have all three at the same time . If the first objective is regarded as sacrosanct , as it is now , given the balance of political forces , then America can not realize the other objectives , and the majority of Americans will be whipsawed during the coming years by the double-misery combination of stagnation and inflation  --  in other words , stagflation . But if the first objective would be sacrificed , then it would be possible to bring inflation and unemployment down to the levels prevalent in West Germany , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting human needs , the taming of the business cycle could be achieved , along with reductions in war spending and a crimping of the power of the military-industrial complex . But first , the people must be made to Understand ' the real trade-off . It is the trade-off between uncontrolled corporate power and relief from stagflation . One or the other but not both . If America is to have both price stability and full employment ( in the sense of guaranteed jobs ) , then corporate power must be controlled by a democratic planning system which includes both selective price controls and major expansions in public investment . But if such a system itself is not to be taken over by a new corporate state , then the new planning system must be widely decentralized and the power of bureaucrats countervailed by citizen and political action at all levels . These ideas might well be dramatized by incorporating the best principles of the early versions of the full employment acts of 1946 and 1978 into a new Anti-Inflation and Job-Guarantee Planning Act of 1980 . Any Mai &; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executed ; Jesse Bishop of Nevada is merely willing ; John Spenkelink of Florida fought against it until the current hit him . These distinctions are unimportant . The issue of the death penalty is simply whether the state is entitled to kill human beings . If the answer is yes , the state cares not one whit about the victim 's preference ; if the answer is no , the victim 's consent can not ratify a lethal social ritual . Utah 's volunteer firing squad did in 1977 what Gilmore had demanded . Spenkelink went , bound and gagged over his desperate opposition , to the electric chair in May ( see Ramsey Clark 's cover article ) . Bishop 's conflict between his desire to live and his refusal to act to save his life has been resolved against him by the U.S. , Supreme Court , and he will most probably go to the gas chamber , still denouncing the lawyers , the American Civil Liberties Union and the church people who have been trying to stop the State of Nevada from committing the third court-ordered homicide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penitentiary in Starke , Florida , late in May , it was awesome  --  indeed , terrifying  --  to realize that the authorities of the state had the courage to do what they thought they ought to do . Not even shame stayed their hand . Proclaiming themselves responsible Christians to the end , they pulled the switch on that Friday morning and , with design and ceremony , killed a human being . In the era of deadly governmental violence to millions , one could hardly reckon the execution of John Spenkelink to have been the worst , the most repugnant act of official bloodshed in one 's consciousness . After all , he had killed another per-.son ( perhaps in self-defense  --  we 'll never be sure ) ; he had a battery of appeals lawyers working for him without pay for six years , and many thoughtful and passionate people had offered comfort to him and to his family before his mean end . ? / . , . Yet there may be a special horror , a repulsion quite its own , about the carrying out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and face one knew , who was alive one moment and was to be killed the next , by our agents , under the eyes of our surrogates . That horror derived not from his dying , for he shared that experience with every mortal , nor from any affection or respect , for him , for little in his life suggested that he was fit to be liked as a friend , much less celebrated as a saint or hero . The horror came , rather , from a Moloch-state 's methodical perseverance in destroying the life of a human being , its almost impersonal eagerness to kill some one person in order once again to establish its own ultimate power to do SO . There was a special horror in the ceremoniousness of the killing ; there was a horror in the disinterestedness professed by the state in the process of designating the person to be killed , in the gratification taken by the public in retributive brutality , in the smugness of , public officials as they usurped life-and death judgments about human beings , in the obscene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Attorney General , in the banal devotion to civil duty of the , warden . There was a horror in our having the United States back in the company of countries such as the Republic of SoUth Africa and the Soviet Union , those nations that kill their citizens in the ordinary practice of their criminal-justice system . We now have more than 500 people on death row in the United States and are adding over 100 more each year . There will be no immediate bloodbath , because our legal procedures are more protracted than the Ayatollah Khomeini 's . But we have American executioners again , leather hoods and all , and we can expect their schedules to be filling up next spring . We presume to be a beacon of human rights to the nations of the world . We should like to think of ourselves as a humane and enlightened civilization . But we insist that the way to solve a social problem is to kill people . In time , we shall look back upon this , as we now look back upon chattel slavery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . HENRY SCHWARZSCHILD Henry Schwarzschild is director of the Capital Punishment Project of the American Civil Liberties Union . The Bi-Presidency " We are wearing people out with politics . We 'll wear out The public , wear out the committees , wear the candidate out and wear out the press . " ? Nancy Reagan , in The New York Times , April 13 , 1979 " The Carter campaign has unexpectedly put the draft Kennedy movement on the defensive fin Florida with an all-out push over the last two weeks . . . . So frantic have some of the logistical tactics become that . . . a pro-Carter leader in Miami boasted that her side had cornered all the available public buses for that region on October 13th , thus hobbling the Kennedy efforts to bus supporters to the one caucus site in Miami . But a Kennedy backer said with a smirk , ' We lined up 60 buses from a guy who operates them for the private schools . Our people will be there . ' " ? The New York Times , September 27 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not one to perform ceremonial functions  --  the post of United Nations Ambassador was set up expressly for this  --  but a President to run the country while the other one runs for office . I am not speaking personally here . The need for a new President did not begin with Jimmy Carter 's Presidency ; it is an institutional requirement that has been developing for some time and can only continue to grow in the future . Twenty  --  no , even ten  --  years ago there used to be some time between election campaigns . In the early 1960s candidates would  --  give the President as much as three years before they began to challenge him , and it was often January ofelection year before they formally announced their candidacies . Even the darkest of horses would decently wait until the primaries before incurring a campaign debt . But in the early 1970s all this began to change . George McGovern decided to run for the 1972 election in mid-1970 and ' spent a full two years building a grass-roots organization that would take him victoriously through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laid plans to run in - the 1976 election before the 1972 inaugural ; he began his campaign in New Hampshire a year before the first primary and went on to spend the rest of 1975 shaking hands in Iowa and other key states . McGovern and Carter were not , of course , personally to blame for this . They were merely showing an intelligent grasp of the newly evolving system whereby delegates to the nominating conventions are chosen not by party bosses but by primaries or democratically elected party caucuses in almost all states . It was only a matter of years before the Republicans grasped this too . For the 1980 election Lowell Weicker began his campaign in March 1978 ; others were not long in joining him . By April 1979 , eight declared and two undeclared Republican candidates were campaigning full-tilt through the primary states ; John Connally had raised $1.3 million , George Bush had raised $663,000 and Philip Crane had already gotten himself $880,222 in debt . That same April , ten months before the first primary and nineteen months before the election , President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conceded defeat . If this trend to earlier campaign kickoffs continues  --  and there.is no reason why it should not  --  we will , by the year 2000 , have Presidential election campaigns coterminous with the Presidential term in office  --  which is to say , perpetually . In theory , the virtue of a lot of primaries and a long campaign is that they create a dialogue between candidates and voters : the candidates have the time to test their ideas , policies and programs on the voters and the voters have the , time to evaluate them . In practice , the new system does nothing of the sort . Indeed , from the past few campaigns there would seem to be an inverse ratio at work : the more time candidates spend campaigning , the less they . talk about issues . With the 1980 election campaign already half over , chronologically speaking , there are thirteen candidates in the field  --  including Gov . Jerry Brown , Gerald Ford and Senator Edward Kennedy  --  and no issues to speak of . Jimmy Carter took no stands on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1972 . In fact , George McGovern was the last Presidential nominee to talk about the issues  --  and look where that got him . ( Jerry Brown 's first issue  --  his proposal for a constitutional amendment to create a Federal debt ceiling  --  may have ended ' his campaign before it even began . ) What substitutes for issues in campaign rhetoric , is a lot of talk about " leadership . " This talk is of course ironic since the more there is of it , the less candidates seem to have anywhere to lead anyone . The vacuity of campaign rhetoric is not in itself the problem : the Republic has survived a great deal of that in the past . The problem is a parallel development in the Government itself . That is , the more candidates have advanced the campaign schedule , the more Presidents have seemed to delay getting on with governing the country . Increasingly , it is the tendency of all Administrations to put off the major issues to the next Administration . President Kennedy , for instance , put off making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that war but then held off paying for it  --  with the result that we are now paying for it ' in inflation . President Nixon tried to defer defeat in Vietnam until he was out of office , and though he was n't successful in that , he did succeed with southern Africa and the Middle East . President Carter has thus far not dealt with the energy crisis and inflation  --  though if his current campaign is successful he may end by having to do something about them . . In the future the tendency to postpone governing can only become more pronounced . Obviously , the more time an incumbent spends campaigning for re-election , the less time he has for government . ( And in times like these , when the major issues are nearly intractable , campaigning is much more fun than trying to deal with them . ) But , then , even if the incumbent is not a candidate , the campaigning of others distracts the Congress , the press and the public from what he says and does  --  thus making it far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things off . Finally , of course , the longer the campaigns , the , more the electoral process will favor candidates who are good at campaigning rather than ones who would be good at being President . There is thus much to be said for creating a second Presidency . In addition to , giving the President some time to govern , a second Presidency would solve the whole problem of campaign financing since the President running the country would not be the one who received large campaign donations from special-interest groups . Then , too , because the President not running would supply leadership , the candidates would gain nothing by talking about it : they would have to talk about issues . On second thought , though , one might achieve something of the same effect by simply shortening the length of Presidential campaigns by law . FRANCES FITZGERALD Frances FitzGerald , a member of The Nation 's Editorial Board , is author of Fire in the Lake and America Revised . Banning . Books W hen the Island Trees , Long Island , Board of Education banned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - and other prominent writers in 1975 , many thought that this was an isolated example of buffoonery that would be quickly squelched . This August , the banning was upheld by a Federal court . Although the New York Civil Liberties Union is appealing the decision , the United States Supreme Court 's current hostility to First Amendment freedoms makes many librarians fear that a nationwide precedent will be set , leaving them at the mercy of book-banning yahoos . The Island Trees story began when the school board 's president , Richard Ahrens , and two fellow board members attended a 1975 conference at Watkins Glen , New York , sponsored by a right-wing organization , People of New York United ( PONY-U ) . There they obtained a list of thirty-two " objectionable " books and , on their return to Island Trees , discovered that nine were on the shelves of the district 's high school library . They turned up a tenth book at a junior high school and an , eleventh on the reading list for a literature course for high school seniors . The school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Malamud 's The Fixer ( an account of the persecution of the Jews in czarist Russia which was apparently banned because the school board members or their ideological mentors thought it was anti-Semitic ! ) ; Hughes 's collection of Best Short Stories by Negro Writers ; The Naked Ape by Desmond Morris ; Down These Mean Streets by Piri Thomas ; Go Ask Alice , anonymous ; Laughing Boy by Oliver La Farge ; Black Boy by Richard Wright ; A Hero Ai n't Nothing but a Sandwich by Alice Childress ; Soul on Ice by Eldridge Cleaver , and A Reader for Writers edited by Jerome Archer ( banned because the board did n't see the humor in Jonathan Swift 's classic essay , " A Modest Proposal " ) . These books , the Island Trees board said when it banned them , are " anti-American , anti-Christian , anti-Semitic and just plain filthy . " Eventually , Laughing Boy and Black Boy were restored to the library , , though the latter may be seen by students only " on a restricted basis . " Book-bannings have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention . Some librarians , fearful for their jobs , simply acquiesce and remove books when objections are raised . On those occasions when the book-banning has attracted public notice and litigation has followed , judicial decisions have generally restored the books to library shelves . The Island Trees litigation started under a cloud , however , because in 1972 the U.S. Supreme Court had refused to review a decision by the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit that upheld a New York City local school board 's restriction of ' student access to Thomas 's Down These Mean Streets . In his AUgust decision , Judge George C. Pratt went far beyond the reasoning in the earlier case . " While removal of such books from a school library may , indeed in this Court 's view does , reflect a misguided educational philosophy , " the board had a right to remove the books because , according to the judge , " One of the principal functions of public education is indoctrinative , to transmit the basic values ' of the community . . . . A constitutionally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elected school board 's discretion in determining what community values were to be transmitted . " It would be folly to deny that education indoctrinates . Judge Pratt 's decision , however , transforms " is " into " ought " : it is tantamount to saying that because American society is corrupt and racist , therefore schools should foster corruption or racism . Whichever group gains power , as he sees it , is entitled to indoctrinate students according to its own , ideology and to cut off students ' access to differing ideas or information . Extending this principle , the school board could ban speakers whose views it dislikes . Judge Pratt 's disparaging " book tenure " analogy could be applied to teachers , implying that academic freedom derives from a contractual relationship to a school board . The Island Trees Board of Education , or any other , would be free to interrogate teachers on their political views before hiring them and give tenure only to those whom the board believes would indoctrinate students correctly . A few weeks after Judge Pratt 's decision , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from small towns made it clear to me that they are regularly harassed for stocking books like those at issue in the Island Trees case . If they ca n't count on the Federal courts to protect them , they feel defenseless . Like Laetitia in Henry Fielding 's picaresque novel Jonathan Wild , who prevented ravishment by timely compliance , they may avoid unpleasantness by self-censorship . The prospects for overturning Judge Pratt 's decision in the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit are far from good because of its decision in the Down These Mean Streets case . The next appeal would go to the Supreme Court . If it is heard there , educational organizations must take responsibility for helping to avert a disastrous result . They should start now by making it clear that they reject Judge Pratt 's view that a purpose of public education is to indoctrinate students with the ideology of those elected to ' serve on school boards . ARYEH NEIER " I Aryeh Neier , a member of The Nation 's Editorial Board , is a visiting professor of law at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institute for the Humanities . SALT II RICHARD FALK T here was a time that I shared the rather cavalier attitude of one editorial observer : " The SALT initiative ca n't lose . If it goes through , it Will set a good mood for what needs to be done internation-ally . If it flops , it will emphasize that what needs to be done needs to be done . " Now I take a far more concernedand pessimistic view of the situation . If SALT II passes , the price will be so high on several different counts that it will make no net contrihntion to the safety of the world or the security of the , nation . If SALT II is defeated , however , it will almost certainly contribute to increased international tensions and to an even greater investment in the arms race . As an American . citizen long concerned with the subject matter of international security , I find the drift of national debate on the , SALT II treaty to be of far more disturbing consequence than the various pros and cons about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SALT II offers a marginal achievement from an arms control point of view , Richard Falk , a member of The Nation ' s Editorial Board , is Albert G. Milbank Professor of international law and practice at Princeton University . Hels the author of A Study of Future Worlds ( Free Press ) and A Global Approach to National Policy ( Harvard University Press ) .                     