@@494915

There 's Only So Much a Doctor Can Do Poverty and Health by Peter Isacson When it first became apparent that the United States ? lagged behind other developed countries in major health indices , a defensive reaction set in . An initial attempt was made to discredit the data by pointing out different countries have different reporting systems , but competent demographers quickly demonstrated that this effect was insignificant . A closer look at death rates by income class then showed that the high rates were strongly associated with the poor . This led to what seemed to be a rational chain of thought : because health care is expensive , it does n't reach the poor who therefore get sicker and die at a higher rate . It is now standard thinking that medical technology and skills in this country are superb , but we lack a system of health capable of delivering care to everybody . Therefore we need different methods of financing , more innovative manpower utilization , national health insurance or a variety of other means to alter the situation , and our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be questioned . The statistical association between lack of medical care and poor health is clear enough , but as with all statistical associations , cause and effect ca n't be proven . To rephrase the question , is there a straightforward relationship of poverty leading to poor medical care which causes illness , or does poverty exert its own independent effect on state of health irrespective of the type of medical care that may be available ? In the latter case the reason for a statistical association would be clear , since both medical care and infant death are related to poverty ; yet the automatic assumption that lack of medical care causes illness would not be valid . In the continuing debate over our system of medical care , the statistic most widely quoted is that the US has an infant death rate higher than 14 other countries . But there are many causes of infant death . In earlier times infections were the most prominent and it was probably true that the availability of medical care increased the likelihood of survival . Now infections are no longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of causes , some of which can be influenced directly by a physician , but the majority of which are not under the control of health care as we PETER ISACSON , MD , heads the department of preventive medicine and environmental health at the University of Iowa College of Medicine . customarily use the term . In looking at factors associated with infant mortality , low socioeconomic status and prematurity stand out . Infants born after shorter pregnancy or born at low birth weights have a much greater risk of dying in the first year of life . This then raises the question of what influences prematurity . It is surprisingly difficult to get a sure answer to what sounds like a simple question . The reason is that whenever any given disease is clearly associated with low socioeconomic status , there are automatically a host of factors that could be causally responsible , and it is difficult to sort them out . It is true that the poor do not have as great an access to medical care , but consider the other phenomena to which they are subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequent pregnancies , higher rates of venereal and other diseases , inadequate housing , inadequate sanitation , inadequate rodent control and even inadequate clothing . Do none of these factors have any relationship to infant mortality ? They probably do , but it is a very difficult thing to study . Epidemiologists ( those who study the distribution of disease in large population groups ) have particular difficulty with this kind of situation because a single variable can not be isolated . It is hard , for example , to find a population existing on a barely livable income , but whose children are adequately fed . Poverty has a set of associated characteristics , and they travel together . Much the same type of problem has come up in trying to evaluate the effects of air pollution on health . A person living near a steel plant who sees paint being peeled off houses and holes being eaten in nylon stockings has a reasonably clear idea that air pollution is hazardous to health . But there may be a number of other factors responsible for the death rates other than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of how much prenatal or other forms of health care influence nationwide levels of infant mortality , it would be necessary to do a manipulative experiment . A group of childbearing-age women would be selected , randomly divided into two groups of which one would receive prenatal care after becoming pregnant and the other would not . The life span of the children would then he followed . For good reasons there is no likelihood at all of such an experiment ever being done in this country . Epidemiologists have had to look for existing groups of people comparable in as many respects as possible except for amount of prenatal care . Such groups are hard to find , and results have been mixed . Some studies , such as those of the Health Insurance Plan ( HIP ) of New York City recipients , indicated that prenatal care lowered infant mortality . Other studies have shown no effect , but all studies have been open to the criticism that the comparison groups , because they were not randomly selected , were significantly different in other respects than amount of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were not profound . It is not surprising that good prenatal care should prevent some problems relating to delivery and early infant life . On the other hand it is not surprising that correctable conditions do not occur often enough to cause a major alteration in infant mortality rates . A woman raised in poverty since birth has accumulated a variety of preconditions leading to the complex of prematurity and infant mortality . It is hard to imagine their being adequately corrected in the relatively short time span covered by prenatal visits . It has been noted that in Scotland the depression of the early ' 30s was every bit as severe as seen in this country . Women who were raised in these circumstances but who later in life graduated to a better economic status at the time of pregnancy , were still found to deliver premature infants at a high rate . Modem obstetrics can not undo the experiences of a lifetime . Another example in the long , disheartening list of associations between poverty and disease is lead poisoning in children . This happens in children living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paint used on the inside begins to peel off . Culturally deprived children often develop the syndrome of pica , the eating of nonfood items . They will then pick at walls or bannisters and ingest enough lead to develop abnormally high blood levels . Lead in these amounts easily damages the brain , producing symptoms ranging from simple irritability and lack of attention span to convulsions , coma and death . Surveys have shown rates of elevated blood leads as high as 25 percent in children living in old urban ghettoes . The public health response to this has been to develop screening programs to test for the early stages of lead poisoning . Children picked up are then taken to a hospital , de-leaded and some sort of effort is made to change the home environment so that they do n't return to the same sources of lead exposure . This is needed but it does n't get at the question of how much damage has already been done by the time the child is brought in with a high level of blood lead . Epidemiologists are now seriously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen in our inner cities may be the result of chronic low-level lead intoxication . The point is that the most sensitive health measures we know of may already be too late . The only true prevention of this problem is to alter the conditions under which the poor are forced to live . Again , it is a problem of society , not of the health care team . The list of diseases associated with poverty is a long one . The usual medical response is that of secondary prevention , that is , to wait until early signs of illness appear or are detected by some screening process , then r- to take some biological action to minimize future pro-gression . This is in sharp contrast to primary preven-tion , in which the disease is kept from starting . There - are disappointingly few examples of primary preven-tion that can he applied in the usual medical setting . ' ' Immunization is , of course , the classic one , but after I. this the chances diminish sharply . Furthermore the attempts at secondary prevention do not always pan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that when a disease is diagnosed early , it can be more easily cured . This does n't happen as often as supposed . In fact most forms of heart disease and cancer can not be cured , regardless of 1- how early they are detected . The physician 's role is to L . prolong life and make it more bearable . This is an enormously important function , the point being that it should not be confused with preventing disease . In this sense the Health Maintenance Organization ( HMO ) concept being pushed by the administration is ? being oversold in terms of prevention . Because HMOs , . are a form of prepaid practice , they logically can be expected to reduce costs , since the tendency to unnecessary hospitalization will be blunted . To assume , however , that illness will be prevented is to place more faith in medical aspects of prevention than can be jus ? tified.Maureen Henderson , president of the Association of Teachers of Preventive Medicine , says , " Data from one highly developed country after another ( some with HMO-like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delivery originally designed to cope with episodic acute infections do not provide P mechanisms to change contemporary mortality and morbidity from chronic diseases . " There is no question that a certain amount of greed exists in the medi ? cal profession , but to think that doctors would prevent disease if only it would work to their financial advantage is unwarranted fantasy . Measures that work , such - as immunization and fluoridation , are , in fact , widely used . HMOs can attack one aspect of the economics of health care , that of financing treatment , but there is nothing in their design that will alter the balance of rich and poor in this country . henever a discussion of poverty and health comes up , sooner or later the remote tribe in Africa or some-where else will be mentioned . They have no money at - all and they live to startling old ages , and where is the supposed relation between health and income ? This misses the main point that richness and poorness are ? terms useful only in the relative sense . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tribe can just as well be considered rich as poor . In this country being poor means much more than just not having all the things . the rich have . The poor are the ones forced to live in the middle of the pollution and wastes created by our - affluent culture . Wide disparity in life-styles in itself creates a less healthy environment for those at the lower end . The idea that health status is largely independent of medical care is not a new one , but it has been surprisingly difficult to get across . In The Mirage of Health Rene Dubos finally resorts to the analogy of the classic Western script : the lone rider who cleans up the town by shooting the villains , then rides off into the sunset as the appreciative townspeople wave goodbye . The only problem is that our hero has not fundamentally altered anything , and the unchanging social conditions will allow a new group of villains to appear . Modem leaders in the field of health emphasize that same idea from different vantage points . Warren Winkelstein of Berkeley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environment on health and clearly distinguish health care and disease care . Epidemiologist Milton Ten-is of New York looks closely at the data on relation of prenatal care to prematurity and is dubious about any clear-cut relation between the two . There is some evidence that these voices are being heard . It is reported that an internal HEW working paper for a forward health plan notes that changes in socioeconomic and cultural environment could have a greater impact on health status than all the preventive and acute health care services combined . It comes down to the attitude that health is too important to be left to doctors . The trouble is that our politicians do n't seem to get the message , or at least do n't want to talk about it . Ask any candidate running for office why this country ranks so badly in life expectancy and infant mortality and what you will get is a recitation of their ideas on national health insurance , distribution of health manpower , creation of neighborhood clinics and so on . The system of paying for sick care in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but this must be kept conceptually separate from the problem of keeping a society healthy . An opportunity is being missed . Poor health is one of the consequences of wide income disparity and there is a direct and logical method of correction . This is not unique to health . The Coleman Report shocked the academic world with data strongly suggesting that a child 's academic achievement depended primarily on the home environment , not the school . Every group of distinguished citizens ever asked to be on a crime commission has come solidly to the conclusion that no amount of police , judges , courts or laws will alter crime rates if the environment of poverty persists . Health should be added to this list . Education , crime and health make an imposing array . We can continue the patchwork approach , hoping that our " system " will not need much alteration . We can exist with the lazy wish that more police will stop crime , more school buildings and teachers will make our children smarter , and more hospitals and doctors will make our society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of primary prevention and focus on some means to reduce the class distinctions in this country .                     