@@494820

Apart from private ownership , the central feature of the American economy is concentration , the blindingly obvious fact that several hundred great corporations dominate the economic scene . More and more , industries tend to be led by one megagiant . IBM , GM , GE , US Steel , DuPont . This leader engages in restrained . nonprice competition with two , three or five other sizable followers , some more efficient and some less th ,  --  ' 1 , e leader , but all enjoying a relati anquil , protected life . of these large concerns has considerable discretion over prices and output , each must take into account the moves of other , lesser corporate powers engaged in similar product lines . For a variety of reasons , mostly bound up with the bureaucratic urge for stability , the largest corporations , do not seek to maximize profits , the motor of classical economics . Instead , they aim , and with remarkable success , at a constant or tarra at " satisficing " rather , itzing . Any skeptic about the ability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blair . He has looked at the 1953 through 1968 performance of five crucial companies with known target profit rates . General Motc ? - . Is at a 20 percent return , after . ? n stockholder investment , and averaged 20.2 percent ; US Steel seeks eight percent and recorded 8.4 percent ; Alco lect to stiffer foreign competition , ' s for 10 percent and achieved 9.5 percent ; Standard Oil ( New Jersey ) wants 12 percent and got 12.6 percent ; DuPont 's target is 20 percent and it averaged 22.2 percent . These were years of boom , recession and stability but none made much difference to profits . In the 80 reporting periods ( five companies multiplied by 16 years ) , at least three-fourths of the target rate was reached 65 times , a score of 81 percent . Taken together , the five firms came within three-fourths of their average profit objective in every one of the 16 years . This is economic power . Concentration is not only pervasive , but growing . Between 1947 and 1968 , the 200 largest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 47 percent to 60 percent . From 1947 to 1967 , the leading 200 increased their share of value added by their efforts ( total sales minus materials costs ) from 30 percent to 41 percent . Out of deference to corporate sensibilities , the Census Bureau does not publish sales , assets and other pertinent data for a single company in an industry but hides their identity by grouping them in quartets . Thus measures of concentration are typically expressed in terms of the share of a market held by the four or eight largest concerns . In the 1947-67 period , the four largest companies expanded their share of output in 95 industries while declines for the top four were recorded in only 75 . The largest concerns , moreover , are linked by many bonds across as well as within industry lines . There are the familiar ties of interlocking directorates , with the same select few sitting on the boards of a variety of corporate giants . The trust departments of the biggest banks own significant shareholdings all across the corporate spectrum and have no incentive to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are interested . The modern giant , moreover , is rarely confined to a single industry . Jersey Standard is consequential in plastics ; GM is decisive in refrigerators and locomotives . The big corporations deal with each other as privileged suppliers and customers . Single families ? DuPonts , Rockefellers , Mellons ? own important stock interests in industries outside the oil and chemicals associated with their names . In sum , the major firms are welded together by a concatenation of interests that insure a community of action . Because the behavior of concentrated firms fits classical expectations so poorly , most economists have ignored its existence . Oligopoly theory almost begins and ends with Edward Chamberlin and Joan Robinson . A few economists , frequently on retainer from the largest corporations , have devoted their skills to denying either the concentration 's existence or growth . John M. Blair is one of the handful who have insisted on the crucial importance of concentration . He came to Washington during the New Deal , rose to assistant chief economist for the Federal Trade Commission , wrote a definitive study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the Eisenhower administration . Blair then became chief economist to the Senate antitrust and monopoly subcommittee , sheltering under its remarkable chairman , Estes Kefauver of Tennessee . The Blair- Kefauver team took as their starting point the neglected study by Gardiner C. Means of administered prices . During the depression , Means had discovered that prices in concentrated industries were held more or less constant despite a drastic plunge in demand . Instead of the price mechanism acting as a self-correcting force , declining demand in these sectors was reflected in a steep fall in output ( and employment ) . The classical model could not allow this . But Means ' work , known to Washington two years before Keynes , justified intervention in the economy by practical if untutored politicians . Twenty years later , Blair and Kefauver set out to demonstrate that the administered prices of the concentrated industries were still plaguing the economy . They did so in an extraordinary and contentious set of inquiries into steel , autos , electrical machinery , drugs and other lines . After Kefauver 's death , Phillip Hart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for combat , took over the subcommittee . He permitted Blair to direct an academic climax to the hearings , the collection of expert testimony on the implications of and possible solutions for the phenomena Blair and Kefauver had uncovered . Hart 's cautious staff then persuaded him to fire Blair . Now teaching at the University of South Florida , Blair has drawn on the subcommittee 's more venturesome 41 volumes of hearings to produce a masterful synthesis of the theory and practice of concentration . His work must now stand as the single most important on the extent and consequences of a concentrated economy ? yet , since its publication last June it has not received the attention it deserves . In the postwar years , with their relatively shallow slumps , the megagiants have altered their price behavior Instead of the inflexible prices discovered by Means , Blair reports that the large corporations are now engaged in " perverse " price flexibility . When demand falls , prices are raised , not merely held constant . This is the logical consequence of a strategy aimed at constant returns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , regardless of the volume of sales . Blair has invented an ingenious test to make the point . He compares the price behavior of 16 pairs of products from 1953 to 1958 , years of two recessions and one brief boom . Each member of the pair confronts roughly the same demand , but one product is in a concentrated and the other in an tin-concentrated or competitive industry . Thus , pig iron , product of the concentrated steel industry , is contrasted with steel scrap , a sector of many suppliers ; competitive natural rubber is compared with concentrated synthetic rubber and the like . During the first of the two slumps , price rises were recorded for 15 of the concentrated partners while decreases were registered by eight of the 13 competitive products . ( No data was available for three . ) In the second recession , 13 of the concentrated products again repealed the laws of conventional economics and increased prices . All 16 of their partners in competitive industries behaved by the book and registered declines . It is this behavior that helps explain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off inflation by the Keynesian device of curbing demand , by restricting federal outlays and curbing the money supply . Both succeeded in bringing about more or less planned recessions , Eisenhower in 1957-58 and Nixon in 1969-70 . But prices continued to rise because of the strategy and power of the concentrated industries . Their role in the economy outweighed the price decreases that took place in the competitive sectors . Unlike sonic of his economic advisors , Nixon is little troubled by ideology . As a result , he did an astonishing about-turn in August 1971 , recognized the destruction of theory by facts and imposed controls . His attempt at an across-the-board freeze reflected an imperfect understanding of the facts ; the prices that needed controlling were those in the concentrated sector alone . But policy is even now drawing closer to the real world and controls over smaller firms are being abandoned . For popular commentators , this is a triumph of Calbraithian economics . In his widely read The New Industrial State , Galbraith underlined the inflationary propensities of a concentrated economy . He argued , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technological advance . They alone , he insisted , enjoy the security and resources to invent and exploit invention . Therefore , if we want the fruits of technology we must leave the giants intact . Proper public policy consists of directly controlling their prices . While Galbraith wrote , the stock market was taking his logic to new and absurd heights . Any combination was pronounced better than its separate parts . The merger of firms in aircraft , steel , meat packing , auto rentals , publishing , insurance , anything was regarded as a positive good . Hard-headed men talked exuberantly of " synergism " and the heroes of the day were apostles of conglomerate merger , Ling , Bluhdom and Harold Geneen . That bubble , of course , soon burst and even Wall Street discovered that peculiar accounting practices ? notably , deflating the cost of new acquisitions , the reciprocal of J. P. Morgan 's watered stock ? had created glowing if unreal earnings reports . The transferability of management , systems analysis . synergism and the rest of the hocus-pocus now bemuses only business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the established conglomerates like GM or GE ? Are not AT &T.; IBM and the others , as Galbraith insists , the inevitable product of technology ? Blair 's most striking contribution is undermining the notion that efficiency and innovation are a function of corporate size . If modern technology dictated size then one should expect the large corporations to operate giant plants . each enjoying economies of scale . In fact , a US Steel , a GM runs many comparatively modest-sized plants and the contemporary watchword for management is " decentralization . " In the concentrated sector of manufacturing , among industries in which four or fewer firms control half or more of the output , Blair finds only one --  ; eventh of the production coming from factories that match their parent company in size . Here alone can it be said that the " imperatives of technology " dictate concentration . Elsewhere , the top firms ' share of output is considerably greater than the share of an equal number of top plants . This implies that the concentration of companies could be reduced without harming the efficiency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of bulk purchasing ? Even if a mega-giant runs many plants , wo n't its wise managers produce better results than individual companies operating each plant ? The simplest measure of efficiency is profits and size . General Motors and IBM are more profitable than their competitors . But US Steel and Alcoa are not . Blair looks at the link between profits and size for 30 industries during 1966 . In six ? autos , textiles , business machines . paperboard boxes , brewing and iron and steel foundries ? the relationship is clear and Galbraithian . But for eight others ? steel , distilleries , aluminum , meat packing , plumbing fixtures , nonferrous metals ( apart from aluminum ) , paper and bearings ? the reverse holds true . The smaller the corporation , the bigger its profit rate . For the other 16 industries , there is simply no discernible pattern . Still , the notion persists that the largest corporations , if nothing else , are the source of technological advance . Think of those glittering laboratories promoted in so much literature by AT &T.; IBM @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence because inventions are not numerically comparable . Once again , however , the studies do not give any comfort to the worshipers of size . Perhaps the best known , by John Jewkes and others , traced the history of 61 important 20th-century inventions , each a major commercial or military success . Only 16 can be attributed directly to the organized research of large corporations . Jacob M. Schmookler found that firms with less than 1000 workers must spend only half as much on research and development for each pending patent as firms with 5000 or more workers . Frederick Scherer looked at the 500 biggest industrial corporations and similarly concluded that size and invention are not linked . The four largest companies , for example , accounted for 18.2 percent of the total sales but only 9.9 percent of the patents ; the eight largest recorded 25.2 percent of the sales but held only 15.9 percent of the patents . Indeed , the hostility of large firms to major breakthroughs is well known . Thus , IBM rejected xerography not once but twice ; AT &T; saw little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frontiers of modern industry ? new materials like the high performance composites , high energy batteries , electronics ? typically require neither vast outlays of capital nor vast hordes of workers to exploit . They are intelligence-intensive rather than capital- or labor-intensive . Blair even argues that they are the harbingers of a second industrial revolution , containing " the seeds of destruction for concentrated industrial structures . " This seems a trifle over-exuberant . Jersey Standard and the other oil giants still control the raw material from which the new plastics derive ; GM is likely to absorb any new car maker attempting to harness new energy sources ; and IBM eventually gets around to exploiting many electronic advances made by others . There is nothing inevitable about this ; it is rather a question of power . If concentration imparts an inflationary bias to the economy . stifles innovation and distorts the allocation of resources , what shall public policy be ? Shall we suffer the giants ' existence , either regulating their prices or nationalizing them , stripping away their private property character ? Or should we break @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy ? Blair , something of a romantic and very much of a classically trained economist , comes down firmly on the side of competition : enforce the antitrust laws to inhibit mergers . to break up GM , GE and the others into their constituent parts . The existing laws are an excellent vehicle ; they simply rust from disuse or misuse . Stand the regulatory agencies on their heads and make them perform in the public interest rather than as guardians for a privileged few . Thus , a CAB ought to encourage instead of discourage new airlines ; an ICC must stop protecting rails from trucks and trucking firms from each other ; the ETC must pursue steel manufacturers and stop worrying about misleading advertising in the pickle industry . Government is now a powerful force promoting concentration ; it must change its ways . Instead of inventing quotas to prop up the price and market shares of steel , oil and other producers . it should welcome foreign competition . Instead of distributing its largess to a selected few , the Pentagon should seek out firms that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even if atomism were desirable , Blair 's program strains belief . He appeals to history to demonstrate that every regulatory agency , after an initial burst of reforming enthusiasm , becomes the creature of those it is supposed to regulate . Why should we expect the Justice Department 's Antitrust Division to behave differently ? The Sherman Act has been law for 82 years ; concentration , nevertheless , has increased . Surely this says something about the limitations of enforcement . It is futile to expect many FCC commissioners to damage the three networks ; to expect FPC commissioners to treat utilities unkindly ; to expect that Pentagon generals and civilian officials will place orders with the best rather than the biggest aerospace firms . This is not simply because commissioners , generals and lawyers look forward to post-government jobs from the industries over whom they nominally exercise power ? although this is something Blair dismisses too quickly . Nor is it because they can be bought in office , although money in Washington is usually available for such purposes . At bottom , commissioners , lawyers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? routine , comfort , security . None of these is likely to be attained by breaking up trusts and replacing them with disorderly competition . It is not even clear that a competitive society , for all of its theoretical rationality in allocating resources , is that desirable , particularly in a country that already produces more than enough to satisfy a wide range of material needs . A briskly competitive order tends to nourish a destructive egoism. ruthlessness and other values that can make life even more unpleasant than it is . It is far from certain that people behave better when they are confronted with unemployment or bankruptcy because they have not worked as hard as others or guessed wrong about what a market will demand . Indeed , the struggle to escape from competition is so strong that in industries where concentration does not exist ? construction , stevedoring , trucking , ladies ' garments ? employers have depended on unions to impose " rationality " and the unions have often turned to unsanctioned purveyors of violence to enforce the rules . Although concentration may , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it does seem probable that it is a permanent feature of the economic landscape . Blair quite properly dismisses state ownership as a solution . Nationalization is now reserved for industries whose private owners can no longer extract enough from them ? railroads in the United States and steel in Britain . ' The examples from Eastern Europe are plain . State ownership is useful for transforming backward economies into industrialized states , but then all the bureaucratic debits of the large private corporation set in , with few of their compensating advantages . Czechoslovakia , an advanced industrial state before the Communists came to power , is the prime case . As Ota Sik has shown , the country has experienced a steady decline in the marginal efficiency of capital since the takeover . Which leaves regulation from a central government source , as opposed to the conventional regulatory agency , responsive to a single industry . As a second best , Blair is not unsympathetic to voluntary suasion , the guideposts or " jawboning " technique practiced by the Democrats in the 1960s . Aimed at a particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suasion can impose a measure of price restraint . Largely as a result of Means ' testimony before Kefauver 's subcommittee , the Kennedy-Johnson economists concluded that rising steel prices were the fulcrum of inflation in the ' 50s and White House suasion was chiefly directed at them . Between 1959 and 1968 ( surely 1961 would have been a more appropriate base ) , Blair finds steel prices rose less than one-tenth as rapidly as they did in the five preceding years . But even this record does not wholly convince Blair and rightly so , In the ' 60s , steel prices had already risen so high that foreign imports began carving out a significant share of the market . So did competing materials like fiberglass and prestressed concrete . These restraints buttressed the White House effort . Finally , the technique seems to depend on the rare but impressive use of presidential appeal . This is self-limiting . The more it is invoked , the quicker the magic rubs off . In private conversation , Blair has talked of directly controlling the price of leaders in a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with one outstanding firm . General Motors , with twice the sales of its nearest auto competitor , is the leader of an asymmetrical oligopoly . The tire industry , with several more or less equally large competitors , is a syrnmetrical oligopoly . The point is neat . If I control prices for GM , US Steel or DuPont , none of their sizable but considerably smaller competitors will be able to charge more . in his hook , however , Blair does not discuss this approach and makes clear his distaste for direct controls , even over a selected few . They raise , he says , all the problems of utility regulation ? determining what is a proper rate of return ; whether to allow or disallow " wasteful " costs like advertising or annual model changes ; determining the appropriate capital base on which return is to be calculated : translating a profit ceiling for a conglomerate corporation into appropriate prices for its many product lines ; and , finally , the susceptibility of all regulators to the blandishments of the regulated . These are valid objections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standard , just as the competitive ideal he holds out is somewhat quixotic . None of the technical objections he raises pose an insurmountable problem ; workable if not elegant answers could probably be found , at least for the comparative handful of corporations whose prices it would be necessary to regulate . As for his political objection , - is at least one good reply . In a world in which government openly acknowledges that inflation or its absence depends on the behavior of a limited group of corporations , one in which the government assumes responsibility for holding this group 's appetite in check , an electorate would have no difficulty in fixing accountability . If prices continued to rise , with or without high levels of employment , those in office would have trouble pretending they were powerless . In responding to the siren calls of large corporations seeking to ease controls , elected officials would have to weigh future enjoyments in private life against the loss of office . This is precisely the calculation that is now absent from either government or corporate decision-making , an irresponsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blair has performed a task of monumental importance with great care and skill . He has explored , as no one before him , the major problems created by the economic power of the large corporation . From now on , it will be difficult to discuss these questions seriously without reference to his encyclopedic work . 