@@491565

Returning to the country of his birth and childhood after more than a quarter century , Desmond Leigh-Hunt surveys the changes that have taken place in South Africa . Great grandson of the noted English poet and essayist , James Henry Leigh-Hunt , whose father was a friend of Benjamin Franklin in Philadelphia , Desmond Leigh-Hunt became a naturalized American citizen in 1951 and considers Southern California his home . South Africa 's 3.8 million whites control the political and economic destinies of the country 's 19 million " nonwhites , " including two million " coloureds " ( of mixed racial descent ) living mostly in Cape Province , and 620,000 Indians concentrated almost entirely in Natal . As stark statistics , these figures are enough to send a great many well-meaning people in distant lands into paroxysms of humanitarian indignation . The nonwhites can not vote , they are subjected to total racial segregation , and their per capita income is a miserable fraction of that earned by the country 's whites ( $225 a year compared with $2,908 ) in 1970 . What is it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million blacks leave the newly and so proudly independent neighboring countries and enter South Africa illegally ? The answer is that , in spite of apartheid and everything else for which South Africa is criticized , economic opportunity is so much better here in the Republic than in the neighboring territories that its lure is enough to make these illegal immigrants risk arrest , imprisonment and eventual deportation  --  a fate which sooner or later overtakes almost all of them . There are additional thousands of blacks , of course , who come in lawfully each year on temporary work permits and are returned to their home countries at the end of their contracts . One thing that should always be borne in mind is that biased , slanted and otherwise incorrect reporting has made it virtually impossible for anyone overseas to put together an even halfway accurate mental image of the way things are here in South Africa . I had read in the United States that any African found on the street after dark these days was likely to be pushed into a paddy wagon and taken off to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Durban 1 sat on the balcony of my hotel room high on the residential Berea and listened to rhythmic clapping and the throb of Zulu drums in a nearby park where domestic servants gather in the evening to sing and dance . Another example of gross distortion was the unfortunate instance of the visiting photographer who not so long ago threw a handful of pennies into some trash bins in full view of several black children . His picture of the youngsters digging frantically into the bins , ostensibly for food , was later published in England as illustrating the " starvation level " of life in one of the sprawling African townships ( where conditions are indeed grim , but no one is starving ) . These huge housing areas , incidentally , represent the government 's determination to get the African out of the city at night . Most private homes still have a kia ( servants ' quarters ) in the back yard , but permission to keep servants on the premises is becoming increasingly difficult to obtain . The townships , on which the government has spent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a month for a brick cottage ) and they do help to keep the family unit intact , but the incidence of crime in them is ap . palling ( in the several-square-mile Soweto township outside Johannesburg police described as " unusually quiet " a recent holiday weekend during which 16 people were killed and 500 beaten up ) , and commuting to and from them on overcrowded trains and buses can add several hours to an already long working day . The much-criticized " pass " laws are an important part of the government 's program to keep the cities " white by night . " Every African must carry a pass book ( 1 . D. cards are issued to white South Africans , too ) , and this must be produced on demand . In a recent editorial , Durban 's Natal Mercury charged : " Every year ( these pass laws ) cause the imprisonment of 150,000 people for offences amounting to no more in most cases than being in the wrong place at the wrong time without the right piece of paper . " The government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the migration of Africans the country 's cities would soon be flooded with jobless and hungry blacks  --  and there is possibly some justification for this claim . The image rather widely held overseas of South Africa as a somewhat backward country is not exactly confirmed by the facts and figures . Quite apart from maintaining its important role as the free world 's leading producer of gold and diamonds , the Republic ( which covers an area the size of Texas , Oklahoma and New Mexico ) has become an industrial power in its own right . Production since 1945 has increased from $850 million to approximately $5 billion a year , and the economic lot of the nonwhite worker has improved in direct ratio ( with the South African subsidiaries of American firms in the forefront of a concerted drive toward equal pay for equal work ) . Although the government is holding firm in its resolve not to allow blacks to join labor unions ( in many cases over the objections of the unions themselves ) , a fact worthy of mention here is that , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inhabitants of South Africa now own cars as do people in the Soviet Union . Equally significant was the recent opening in Johannesburg of a travel agency for black Africans . Another rather interesting statistic ( and one seldom quoted by the country 's detractors in other lands ) is that free all-black hospitals in South Africa , equipped with sophisticated diagnostic and treatment facilities , provide 7.41 beds per 1,000 of the black population  --  which is considerably better than the internationally accepted standard of 5 beds per 1,000 . None of this , of course , alters or conceals the fact that the human beings who comprise five-sixths of South Africa 's population have no say whatsoever in the running of the country . Nor does it erase from the record the unhappy figures which reveal that , with only one-tenth of 1 percent of the world 's population , South Africa has been chalking up 50 percent ( more than 100 per year ) of the world 's hangings . And then , of course , there is the infamous business of its being perfectly legal ( under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only to detain a person for 180 days without trial but even to rearrest that same person for additional and successive 180-day periods . A black skin , however , is no longer the absolute guarantee of total anonymity here in South Africa that it was three decades ago - and I think I would have to list this as the single biggest change I have observed . At times it has , in fact , seemed almost as if the country 's relations with its nonwhites , perhaps because of worldwide censure , have become a sort of national neurosis . Within an hour of my arrival in Cape Town , a young South African executive whom I had never met before took me aside and spent twenty minutes telling me how the government is " running the country right into the ground " by steadfastly refusing to allow South Africa 's abundant black labor force to be used for anything but unskilled work . And during subsequent evenings in the homes of typical white South Africans I have time and again listened in on heated debates concerning the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On almost every one of these occasions , however , the consensus has been that something 's got to give so far as South Africa 's racial problems are concerned , and that it is the government that will sooner or later have to do the giving . No one has gone so far as to suggest that the blacks be enfranchised en masse , but many have been adamant that apartheid , as a law of the land , should be abolished . In the light of recent projections of the Republic 's population growth , though , discussions such as these somehow assume the dimension of people debating the relative merits of bare hands or a shovel to stem an avalanche . At the present rate of growth , South Africa will have fifty million people by the end of the century , only six million of whom will be whites . And current government policies firmly decree that these whites will continue , as now , to own 87 percent of the country 's land . Student unrest is a fact of life in almost all Western countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When the government in 1972 planned elaborate celebrations to commemorate the tenth anniversary of South Africa becoming a republic , there was a notable lack of enthusiasm among the country 's university students , who outspokenly charged that apartheid had made South Africa the pariah of the free world , and that there was nothing to celebrate . Student activity , however , is relatively restrained , and the government has made it abundantly clear that U.S.-style demonstrations will never be tolerated here . Meanwhile , I have seen few overt signs of genuine unrest among the country 's black masses , and my opinion is that Cassandra-like predictions of a major uprising are simplynot valid . It is the white employer , chronically short of skilled white workers , who is most often heard expressing dissatisfaction , even exasperation , with the status quo . He berates the government because it permits black men to mix cement but not to lay bricks , to prepare a wall for painting but not to apply the paint , and to drive a bus but only if the passengers , too , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influenced by the imperatives of economics , and with increasing frequency there are small concessions here , minor relaxations there . A case in point was the decision not too long ago to use blacks for the first time as forklift truck operators on harbor docks . More recently the government-run railways announced that blacks would replace whites as baggage handlers at major railroad stations . The railways , in fact , claim that more than 15,000 white jobs have been reclassified as nonwhite in recent years . As far as day-to-day apartheid is concerned , however , official government policy is precisely as it was when I lived here as a child . Every post office in the country , for example , has separate sections , and often separate entrances , for " Europeans " and " Non-Europeans , " as do many other public businesses such as some banks and all liquor stores . ( The day I arrived in Cape Town , an American who was on the ship with me accidentally wandered into the wrong section of a liquor store to buy some wine , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are over there , sir . " " Thank you , " said my friend naively , " but I 'm looking for a South African wine , not a European . " ) But while no enlightened person would deny that a disfranchised majority represents an unstable as well as an inherently distasteful situation , those visionaries in the United States and elsewhere who press for a oneman-one-vote rule in South Africa ( and the consequent handing over of the country to the black majority ) should temper their demands with a little realism . Among the major points they would be well advised to ponder is the fact that South Africa 's seventeen million Africans ( an almost unbelievable increase of more than 50 percent since 1960 ) consist of ten totally separate and distinct ethnic groups . Each of these groups is further fragmented into innumerable tribes which , despite the constant , costly and courageous vigilance of the white South African police , persist in staging bloody faction fights at the drop of a panga . ( A housewife who has three African servants living on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me that they insist on cooking their meals individually and eating apart because each is convinced that the other two would seize the first opportunity to poison him . ) By far the most controversial step taken by the government in recent years was the turning of the Transkei ( a section of the country about the size of Denmark ) into a very nearly autonomous black state , and plans are well under way for the establishment of seven more Bantu " homelands , " or Bantustans , within the next few years , each with its own black prime minister and legislative assembly , its own flag , national anthem , and so on . A sort of reverse segregation in that all whites will ultimately be displaced from these areas , it represents the government 's idea of apartheid ( separateness ) in its purest form . While some liberal South Africans are calling the Bantustans " dumping grounds , " others charge that the country is being carved up and handed over to the blacks . Meanwhile , the government itself appeared to have been takencompletely by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Buthelezi of Zululand ( the next area scheduled for Bantustan status ) almost simultaneously made unexpected demands for additional territory . Despite the rather striking points of similarity in the early histories of South Africa and the United States , there is little basis for comparison between the racial difficulties that confront the two countries now . In the United States the question of what to do with the Indians was resolved a long time ago , and in a way not to the country 's credit . American blacks , meanwhile , comprise only I I percent of the population . Most important , everyone in the United States at least speaks the same language . White South Africans themselves , on the other hand , speak two entirely different languages ( English and Afrikaans ) , and the blacks speak a total of ten , each of which has evolved into innumerable dialects . Viewed in this light , the uniqueness of the South African dilemma springs into dramatic focus . In a land of mixed national origins there perhaps is no alternative to bilingualism , but an unfortunate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeming perpetuation of the gulf that has separated English-and Afrikaans-speaking South Africans almost throughout the country 's history . This gulf is as wide now as it ever was , and the government itself was recently charged with deliberately fanning the flames of prejudice when it organized what one critic called an " extravaganza " at which the bodies of Afrikaners who had died in British prisoner-of-war camps during the South African ( Boer ) War some seventy years ago were ceremoniously disinterred and reburied . Equally divisive was the speech made by Dr. Wentzel du Plessis , former administrator of South West Africa , during which he complained bitterly of the " suffering " inflicted on the Afrikaners by the British ever since their takeover of the Cape back in 1806 , and attacked those English-speaking South Africans " who are too stuck in their Britishness to join a new nation . " The speech was made at the Voortrekker Monument near Pretoria on the Day of the Covenant , which commemorates the December 16 , 1838 , Battle of Blood River , when 3,000 Zulus were slain at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would he for the general good of the country if South Africa 's opposition United Party were in a position to offer more in the way of political challenge to the Nationalists ? who seem unlikely to be defeated at the polls Continued on page 133 // continued from page 127 any time soon unless the increasingly divergent political paths of the Verkramptes ( hard liners ) and the Verligtes ( enlightened ones ) cause a party schism . To a large extent , the United Party has the money of industry behind it , but it simply does not have the votes . Not too long ago , however , the party put forward its new " federal " policy , considered by many South Africans to be perhaps the most significant political development in the country 's recent history . Although the United Party has traditionally been no more innovative than the Nationalists when it comes to viable schemes for handling the Republic 's racial problems , its new policy , while it does not dictate that it should , does accept that it could lead to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of talk is startling . There is one place in South Africa , though , where not even a semblance of discipline and regimentation exists , and this is on the country 's roads and highways . Driving here is still a competitive sport , a whole new experience for an American , and exposure to it would give any U.S. highway patrolman instant apoplexy . The net result is a staggering annual death toll on the Republic 's roads that , in terms of passenger-vehicle miles traveled , is on average more than eight times the comparable figure in the United States . But despite its quirks and foibles ( and what country in the world has none ? ) the Republic of South Africa remains a fascinating land of vivid and unexpected contrasts . It would be a jaded and jaundiced tourist who could shrug off the impact of a first-time visit . There is contrast everywhere . Step out of an elegant and air-conditioned department store into the street , and it is perfectly possible that you might see , padding barefoot along the sidewalk through the jostling crowds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decked out in tribal beads , her hair decorated with inflated goats ' bladders bobbing up and down like little ornamental balloons . And while South African miniskirts and bikinis make girl-watching every bit as rewarding as it is in Los Angeles or at Ipanema , a reproduction of the statue of David purchased recently by the municipality of a small Transvaal town raised such a hullabaloo that the town fathers were obliged to have the statue 's nether regions discreetly draped with a small apron . Meanwhile , railroad buffs in the United States who travel hundreds of miles to hear the nostalgic sounds of a steam locomotive will be happy to hear that great numbers of them are alive and well here in South Africa , though the mournful woo-woo of their whistles is slowly being drowned by the blatant blare of electric units and the ubiquitous high-frequency shriek of Boeing 727 's and 737 's . This , then , is South Africa in the Seventies-a land of great beauty and undeniable charm , but locked in the potentially mortal grip of a monstrous racial impasse . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose political skies are more heavily overcast than are South Africa 's , but I submit that the resultant half-light , rather than a twilight , will more likely prove to be the first glimmer of an eventual dawn . Sunrise itself , in my opinion , will inevitably come with the rapidly increasing demands for skilled manpower as the country 's industry and technology continue to expand-for it will be the African and no one else who ultimately will he called upon to fill those needs . rt                     