@@479749

eight-hour workdays . Compassion for the common man ? Listen to this : Brown says that people who have dull , messy jobs ( like collecting n. garbage ) ought to be paid more than people who have exciting clean jobs ( like being governor ) . Professional politicians loathe him , but he has an 89 percent approval rating with the people of California . Should he decide to run for President , Brown has this kind of outside chance : he could finesse all the primaries but California 's , the last and biggest of them all , and still pick up 100 , maybe 200 delegates . He could do a national media campaign in June and show the country a fresh face after most of the other entries have gone stale . He might excite enough people to make himself look like a winner ? and that would make him a contender . A long , long shot , but every forecast ought to have one . Now for the favorite . Hubert Humphrey has a bye , or nine-tenths of a bye , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's a veteran , the only candidate with Super Bowl experience . The other candidates are untested , but the party knows Hubert wo n't fall apart in a national race . Item : everybody knows where Hubert stands . He stands in the dead center of the majority , wherever it is . And if it moves an inch , Hubert will move with it . Item : Hubert will make a deal with almost anyone , promise him almost anything , and deliver . In short . Hubert Humphrey is an all-pro politician , with everything , good and bad , the term implies . Unless somebody wraps it up before convention time , gets enough delegates in the primaries and caucuses to win on the first ballot and , at this writing . that does n't seem likely ? Hubert will be in contention down to the wire . ' The convention finalists , then , will be Humphrey , Carter , Jackson , and either Bayh , Udall , or Harris ? probably Bayh . And since if I did n't have chutzpah I would n't even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take a shot at the ticket : Humphrey and Carter . Or Bayh and Carter . Or Carter and Bayh . See you in the Garden July 11 . E R. M. Koster , author of The Dissertation ( Harper 's Magazine Press ) is a member of the Democratic National Committee . THE SENATE HAS designated the bill S.1 , which is a measure of its status . A revision of the federal criminal code that has been a decade in the drafting , the bill is 753 pages long , and its thousands of sections range from " sports bribery " to " juvenile delinquency " to the " transportation of dentures . " No consistent philosophy runs through the hill , the individual sections reflecting instead the diverse opinions of politicians , legal scholars , bureaucrats , lobbyists , and cops . But if enacted in anything like its present version , it will surely be remembered as Nixon 's revenge . One of the bill 's original purposes was to reduce existing inequities in the criminal-justice system . Some say it does the opposite : it reaffirms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mandatory for a wide variety of offenses . It weakens guarantees established by the Supreme Court in the Miranda decision against confessions obtained by coercion . It increases fines tenfold for marijuana and pornography offenses . It facilitates conviction in cases of police entrapment , and significantly narrows the use of insanity as a defense . At the same time , it conspicuously avoids legal changes I that might impinge upon organized racketeering , gun control , and white-collar crime . But the provisions attributed to Nixon go beyond such presumed concern for law and order to the assertion of new principles of federal supremacy over individual rights . The bill would preclude publication of any information that government employees put in two broadly defined categories : " national defense " or " classified . " Circumventing the Supreme Court 's limitations on the Smith Act , it would make advocacy of the overthrow of government a criminal act . It could be used to suppress all political demonstrations . It broadens government powers to install wiretaps , and it immunizes officials from prosecution for illegal acts authorized by superiors . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practices which the country came to know so well under the name of Watergate . y ET 5,1 BEGAN quite innocently , even idealistically. long-standing and thorIt was a response to the oughly justified complaint of lawyers , judges , and law-enforce 17 ment officials that the federal criminal code was an evil and incomprehensible maze . In 1966 President Johnson 's Crime Commission announced that the existing code was actually an obstacle to law enforcement . Congress , at the President 's request , established a hotly " to make a full and complete review and study of the statutory and case law of the United States . . . for the purpose of formulating and recommending .. . legislation which would improve the federal system of criminal justice . " The chairman of the body was Edmund G. ( " Pat " ) Brown , a liberal Democrat who had served two terms as Governor of California , and who had a reputation for honesty and legal competence . The average layman would have no reason to know of the magnitude of the Brown commission 's problems . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of which Title 18 , the commission 's assignment , concerns criminal laws and procedures . Theoretically , in order to find out what constitutes a crime against the United States , as well as its attendant penalties , a lawyer should be able to go directly to Title 18 . But there are crimes against the United States in almost every other title , too . What appears to be lawful in one title may be criminal in another ; common crimes such as theft may be variously defined from title to title , and variously punished . The reason for these incongruities is that there is no office in either the legislative or executive branch that is responsible for keeping the criminal code in order . A few laws , when enacted , are placed in a title either by Congressional direction or the decision of some Congressional clerk . But others wind up being shoved arbitrarily into a convenient title by the inordinately influential editors of commercially published lawbooks . In the course of this process , some statutes get lost . Others which ought to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choose to put them to . Congress sometimes does not know it is passing a law which , in whole or in part , was enacted before . A law may slumber undiscovered ; it may be in force and unregistered . Though the Brown commission 's mandate seemed simple enough ? in effect , to tidy up the house ? both liberals and conservatives in the legal community were sensitive to its implications . Whoever dominated the study could , in the name of judicial efficiency , enact legal changes wholesale . Three of the commission members were appointed by the President and three by the Chief Justice , and all six had records of competence . The remaining six were provided by the idiosyncrasies of the Congressional seniority system . From the House came Robert Kastenmeier of Wisconsin and Abner Mikva of Illinois , both very liberal Democrats , and Richard Poff of Virginia , a conservative Republican . From the Senate came John McClellan of Arkansas and Sam Ervin of North Carolina , both Democrats , and Roman Hrusica of Nebraska , a Republican , all three extremely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberal reform , but with a majority whose overriding concern was for the integrity of the law . From the start the commission 's operations were impaired by the absence of McClellan , Ervin , and Ilruska . Whether they were as busy as they claimed , or uninterested in being regularly outvoted , they left Poff to carry the conservative cause . He was aided by a young assistant , John Dean . Assigned by the three Senators to represent them in the deliberations was a Senate staff lawyer named Robert Blakey . Most of the nuts-and-bolts work was done by the staff Brown appointed , lawyers known not as ideologues but as technicians . When the staff finished its work in 1969 , it presented a draft which was , on balance , liberal , especially in dealing with such matters as the death penalty , guns , marijuana , obscenity , and sentencing procedures . The commission had a majority ready to approve it , but took into account the objections of the three Senators and Poff . The reformers reasoned that they could enact some of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So when the final report of the Brown commission was issued unanimously in January 1971 , the conservatives had won major concessions on a few big issues , and an acknowledgment that on others no consensus could be reached . B Y THIS TIME Johnson was long gone , and the legal watchword of the Nixon years was " law and order . " The House Judiciary Committee , overburdened with other legacies of the Johnson years , let its Senate counterpart start work on the report . McClellan , who was chairman of the subcommittee on criminal laws and procedures , immediately began hearings , with the faithful Hruska , the ranking Republican , at his side . Having boycotted the Brown commission 's debates , the two of them were now in command of its recommendations , and were able to find endless hours to devote to them , No one would dispute McClellan 's claim that his hearings were balanced . For two years he invited testimony from whomever chose to appear , including the American Civil Liberties Union , the NAACP , . and Ralph Nader . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a superb exploration , from right to left , of the criminal law . But McClellan and Hruska paid no-attention . What emerged from their deliberations was a bill that looked not like the Brown report but like the conservative objections that Robert Blakey , along with Poff , had promoted within the commission . In January 1973 McClellan introduced this bill in the Senate . It was designated S.1 . Two months later , the newly reelected Richard Nixon decided to annex S.I . In a radio address on March 10 , he proclaimed : " I will propose a revision of the entire federal criminal code , modernizing it and strengthening it , to close the loopholes and tailor our laws to present-day needs . When I say ' modernize , ' incidentally , I do not mean to be soft on crime ; I mean exactly the opposite . Our new code will give us tougher penalties and stronger weapons . . . - It will rationalize the present patchwork quilt of punishment for crime . " Nixon did not say that the code would also contain a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conduct . Although successful at the polls , Nixon had failed ignominiously in the courtroom , Ile had been trounced by the Black Panthers , Angela Davis , the Berrigans , Jerry Rubin and his friends , the New York Times and the Washington Post , Daniel Ellsberg , Jack .. nderson , and Dr. Spock . He was angry , and desperately wanted to use his power to write his politics into law . John Dean , now the White House counsel , understood from his experience with the Brown commission the potential of its work . A former assistant to Attorney General John Mitchell , lie acted as intermediary between Nixon and the Justice- Department , whose staff was drawing up still another revision of the criminal code . The revision took a hard line on criminal matters and made it virtually certain that the government would never again lose a political prosecution . In March of 1973 , McClellan and Hruska accommodatingly introduced the Justice Department bill , tempo rarily designated S.1400 , and proceeded to reopen hearings . As for Ervin , he was preoccupied with running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberals ' hero while still supporting legislation which would legalize most of the Watergate abuses . That summer , Ervin 's hearings were the great theatrical event , so thoroughly captivating the press and the public that McClellan and Hruska were left to pursue their codification work free of scrutiny . Seven more volumes of testimony resulted in a bill which incorporated the most repressive features of all the previous versions . In due course , the merged bill took its predecessor 's name , S.I . Because of the bill 's extreme length and complexity , few people pretend to understand more than a fraction of it . Opposition has been growing , from both liberal and bar organizations , but since the target covers so much of the legal landscape attacks have been scattered , contradictory , and ineffective . Thus McClellan retains his tactical advantage , and the betting is that the bill will reach the Senate floor few restraints on those who they are concerned with the justness of the case , but because they want to win . Even if they are found out , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     