@@250688

No qualms vexed John Kaplan eight years ago when , as an assistant U.S. attorney in San Francisco , he put drug pushers behind bars . A nonsmoking teetotaler , he had little sympathy for drug users of any kind . Later he became a law professor at Stanford University , and the California legislature hired him to help revise the state 's drug laws . Then a surprising thing happened : the legislature fired Kaplan and four other professors working on the project because , after three years of exhaustive research , they reluctantly concluded that marijuana should be legalized . <P> Now Kaplan , 41 , has turned his provocative findings into a thoughtful book , Marijuana-The New Prohibition ( World ; $8.50 ) . After weighing the medical and sociological aspects of marijuana , Kaplan uses the cold analysis of a corporate controller to conclude that the financial and social costs of trying to outlaw marijuana are far greater than the benefits . As a rough equivalent to alcohol , Kaplan says , marijuana should be handled in ways that profit from the nation 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law enforcement now costs California alone more than $72 million worth of police and court time each year , Kaplan notes that the busts have not decreased use of the drug . The law has little effect on the unstable and heedless users who are most likely to become serious marijuana abusers or go on to hard drugs . By lumping marijuana with hallucinogens , amphetamines , barbiturates and heroin , in fact , the law encourages young people to distrust warnings about those far more perilous substances . Pot prohibition gives sporadic users the stigma of criminal records and makes young people cynical about law in general . <P> What might work better ? Twenty-three states have eased the penalties for possession of marijuana , partially to concentrate on those who deal in it . The Nixon Administration is now proposing the same strategy for federal law . Kaplan is dubious . When pushers are caught , he argues , the supply becomes restricted and the price goes up , enticing more pushers into the field and encouraging pot smokers to try more dangerous substitutes or to grow their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capable of producing 400 tons of cattle food per year in a space the size of a garage ; Kaplan claims that a similar device could be adapted to pot cultivation . Bathtub grass , he suggests , is as inevitable as bathtub gin . <P> No Advertising . Kaplan predicts that the U.S. will repeal pot prohibition within ten years . Even so , he opposes the irresponsible strategy of making marijuana as available as candy . He advocates a regulatory scheme roughly similar to - but tougher than-those now used for tobacco and alcohol . Either private manufacturers or a Government monopoly would grow marijuana and package it in uniform grades and strengths . Government-licensed marijuana stores would sell the drug , imposing high taxes to price it out of many young people 's reach . Sales to those under 18 would be illegal , as would the driving of a car under the influence of pot .                     