@@320222

Resentment and delinquency among China 's urban youth <P> " Go all out to fight the battle of crash reaping and sowing . " There were two reasons for that bellicose injunction , broadcast to peasants in Guangxi and Hubei provinces . One was that after several years of mediocre harvests China 's fertile southern provinces are now blessed with bumper crops . The other is that the area 's farms and communes are desperately short of labor , because hundreds of thousands of Chinese youths have illegally migrated to big cities in search of better jobs and a more exciting way of life . <P> Ironically , many of these young men and women were originally dispatched to rural communes because there were not enough jobs for them in the cities . But last year , encouraged by the new liberalization policies of senior Vice Premier Deng Xiaoping , venturesome youths began drifting back to the cities . In an attempt to stem the tide , the Shanghai government announced that no youths working on its 35 state farms would be allowed to return home for three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farms in Anhui province reportedly committed suicide in despair . Meanwhile , others have descended on China 's largest city illegally . In Shanghai alone there are now an estimated 300,000 youthful returnees , along with 200,000 younger middle-school graduates who have yet to receive job assignments . After a visit to Shanghai and four other cities in eastern China , TIME Hong Kong Correspondent David DeVoss filed the following report on the country 's restless , unemployed youth : <P> For many young people , the day usually starts with a leisurely coffee at the Dong Hai ( Eastern Sea ) restaurant close to the Bund , Shanghai 's main waterfront road . Others start with exercises on parallel bars in the People 's Park . By midday boredom sets in . The unemployed pace the banks of the Huangpu ( Whangpoo ) River or just wander about aimlessly . There is a lot of window-shopping : by men at the new Jinxing television store on Nanjing Avenue , by women at the First Department Store 's display of pleated skirts . In neither location are the displayed goods in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gazing at goldfish from the deck of the Yu Gardens Tea House . <P> The only real diversion is provided by Shanghai 's 65 movie theaters , most of which open at 6:30 a.m . City authorities have allowed that unusually early opening time to draw some of the jobless young people off the streets . The city 's current favorite movie star is Charlie Chaplin . When Limelight opened in June , it was to S.R.O . crowds . The film appeared only because Shanghai 's Chaplin fans reluctantly allowed Modern Times to close after a six-month run . Another top attraction is Awara , an Indian melodrama about a disaffected youth who becomes a vagabond after being spurned by society . The film is something of a cult classic , particularly for former members of Chairman Mao Tse-tung 's rampaging Red Guards , millions of whom were assigned to communes for re-education during the 1966-69 Cultural Revolution .                     