@@283288

THERE are 102 million men in the U.S. and 106.8 million women , and for a great many of them the most important thing in life is each other - how they live together , or apart , and how they treat one another in the family , in the bedroom , on the job , in society . It is the oldest topic in the world and in some respects the newest . <P> The President and others rail against permissiveness , and yet the courts increasingly permit all varieties of sexual behavior and expression . The falling birth rate and the proliferating variety of mating arrangements may signify a new enlightenment , or the end of the old morality , depending upon one 's point of view . Whether Eve was culprit or victim in the forced evacuation of Paradise is now an issue raised by some feminists . The female orgasm and male impotence are the serious , not to say solemn objects of growing scientific studies . Equality between men and women in all fields is an agitated cause . <P> All of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , The Sexes . TIME 'S system of organizing the news by subject has always been flexible . We have started new departments in response to trends or mounting concern ( for example , Environment ) and on occasion phased out others . The Behavior section , only four years old , has been covering many facets of the male-female relationship , but we decided that the field deserved its own section . It will appear in alternation with Behavior . We expect to treat the subject seriously , scientifically when possible , but humanly and at times , we hope , with humor . Says Senior Editor Leon Jaroff : " Obviously some new male-female patterns are evolving at different rates and in different guises round the world . It 's a wide range of territory that will let us talk about the Pill one week and , who knows , love poetry the next . " One sign of how topical the subject has become is the number of cover stories and other major articles that have already run in TIME . Kate Millett appeared on the cover in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ March we devoted an entire special issue to The American Woman . We have also had cover stories on the plight of the homosexual in America , on sex and the teenager , Sex Researchers Masters and Johnson and on the sex explosion in the arts . <P> The new section begins with three stories by Contributing Editor Virginia Adams , a veteran Behavior writer . One piece examines some new thinking about learning sex roles and describes the surprising case histories of children who have undergone sex change . Another is a report on British Biologist Alexander Comfort and his predictions for the future of unconventional sexual arrangements . The last article is a series of short communiques from the battle for equality between the sexes . One of these briefs makes clear that the contest is not always one-sided ; a bank that had been providing free transportation to women employees found itself challenged by men workers .                     