@@319325

Willie Julian Usery could easily lay claim to holding the most impossible job in Washington . His chief title is Secretary of Labor , but he is also a Special Assistant to the President and the Ford Administration 's top labor-management mediator . As such , he is supposed to make sure that neither long strikes nor inflationary wage settlements slow the nation 's economic recovery-in a year when contracts covering no fewer than 4.5 million workers expire and rising corporate profits are emboldening unions to demand fat increases in order to catch up with past inflation . <P> If current experience is any guide , the nation can expect labor peace - at a stiff price . Last month Usery produced a settlement that ended a Teamsters strike after only two days but will oblige trucking companies to raise drivers ' wages and benefits by nearly 33% over three years . His next job will be to settle the month-old walkout of rubber workers ( negotiations resume this week ) before shortages of tires begin closing down auto plants . After that come tricky negotiations in the construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bluff , barrel-chested Usery faces the challenge with the respect of both labor and management as " the best mediator in the country , " to quote Bill Dempsey , the railroads ' chief negotiator . Usery rose from welder to become a top negotiator for the International Association of Machinists . So impressive was he at the bargaining table that George Shultz , President Nixon 's first Labor Secretary , asked him in 1969 to put aside party loyalties ( he is a Democrat ) and become an assistant secretary for labor-management relations . That job led to a 1973 appointment as head of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service . Along the way , Usery honed his skills as a peacemaker in dozens of bitter disputes , including the 1970 postal workers ' strike , the 1972 teachers ' strike in Philadelphia , last September 's walkout at National Airlines and even the wildcat strike of players in the National Football League . <P> Usery typically begins a negotiation with an unabashedly patriotic appeal to both sides about the moral obligations of making collective bargaining work . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his meerschaum pipe and keep everyone together for a session of stories and jokes . " We might spend an entire day talking about women , " he says . " It is n't bargaining , but it 's something everyone can agree on . " <P> Once he has created a reasonably cooperative atmosphere , Usery gets down to business . " He 's got an uncanny ability to grasp the issues , " marvels Chuck Chamberlain , head of the Brotherhood of Railroad Signal men . " He knows when one side is ready to make a concession . " Usery also resorts to mild trickery to push for progress . He will , for instance , separate labor and management , telling each group that he will try for a modification in the other 's position . Then he will retire alone to his room , letting each side stew-and work on modifications of its own .                     