@@277389

When Pakistan became independent in 1947 , Britain bequeathed it a parliamentary system . Not until last week , however , did Pakistan 's rulers get around to adopting a feature normally associated with such a system : nationwide general elections . From the rugged Khyber Pass at Afghanistan 's doorstep to the Chittagong Hills near the jungles of Burma , some 40 million voters turned out at polling places . Despite their newness to the process , they seemed to know exactly what they wanted . Picking their way through the conflicting claims of 20-odd parties , they gave an overwhelming endorsement to only two of them , thereby laying the foundation for what could become a stable , two-party system . They also established the leaders of the two parties as politicians to be reckoned with for some time to come in the world 's fifth most populous ( 130 million ) nation . They are East Pakistan 's Sheik Mujibur Rahman , 48 , head of the Awami League , and West Pakistan 's Zulfikar Ali Bhutto , a former Foreign Minister and head of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If Pakistan was slow to adopt the vote , it was because of the turmoil that has embroiled the nation for all of its 23 years . Until 1958 , Parliaments were indirectly elected . After Field Marshal Mohammed Ayub Khan seized power in that year , an elite electorate of village leaders and landowners , eventually numbering 120,000 , was selected to choose a National Assembly . Nearly two years ago , Ayub stepped down amidst bloody rioting as Pakistanis demanded basic social reforms such as a popularly elected parliament and an improved educational system . <P> Army Commander Agha Mohammed Yahya Khan took over and promised a return to democracy as soon as conditions were right . Unlike many another strongman , he apparently means to keep his word . Last week 's elections were held to choose delegates to a constitutional convention . When the delegates meet in January , they will have 120 days to draft a document that meets Yahya 's approval . If they fail , he will order new elections ; if they succeed , they will stay on as members of a 313-seat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ big man at the constitutional convention will be " Mujib " Rahman , whose Awami League captured all but two of the 153 seats contested in East Pakistan . Seven East Pakistan seats reserved for women and nine more seats in the cyclone-ravaged coastal areas will be decided in a few weeks . The Awami League is virtually certain to win all 16 , pushing its total in the projected National Assembly to a commanding 167.                     