@@479849

AN AMERICAN VISITOR finds that Europeans are worrying about a coining economic crisis they can not name . They are wasting little time studying econometric models or statistical series , for they know the crisis and its possible cure are not to be found there . Instead they concentrate on political analysis and explicitly join the political and economic factors that Americans still , naively , tend to look at separately . Thus , a visitor 's query about a given country 's economic prospects invariably produces an assessment of the intelligence ' and fortitude of the incumbent government . If the American abroad also finds that his European hosts are quite pessimistic , it is because the weak governments of present-day Europe seem unable to deal with the problems they alone can resolve . The policy questions summed up in the term stagflation -- persistent high inflation accompanied by equally stubborn unemployment are too difficult for uncertain politicians confronted with powerful interest groups , particularly left-wing unions . Expediency leads weak governments to treat the problems caused by inflation with pseudo-policies which themselves turn out to be inflationary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that European prices have gone out of control , especially in the prosperous , hard-money northern countries . Street scenes in such financial cen ters as Frankfurt and Zurich make vivid the data attesting that the wealthier Europeans are now richer than their American counterparts . They are better dressed than the pedestrians on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan , and their elegant shops are jammed with luxury goods at prices that stun and humble an American window-shopper . The price differential between the U.S. and Europe has become outlandish . A detailed index of the comparative cost of " executive lifestyles , " taking Washington as the base of 100 , currently rates Geneva at 1533 , Stockholm at 150 , The Hague at 138.5 , Paris at 138.3 , Munich at 132.3 , Brussels at 131.6 , Frankfurt at 131.6 , Home at 120.2 , and London at 109.2 . A MERICANS IMPRESSED with the ease of movement of people and goods within the European Economic Cornmunity ? customs officials there are more friendly than the surly misan. thropes who bar U.S. ports of entry ? still tend to assume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contrary , the Community is laboring under the pressures of divergent inflationary trends , made acute by the system of floating currency exchange rates . Since the abandonment of fixed exchange rates three years ago , market forces have determined the relative values of European currencies . In theory , such floating rates were supposed to cushion and contain inflationary pressures , averting devaluation crises . In practice , the new system makes the crisis almost continual and actually encourages the general level of prices to rise . Floating currencies are causing Eu ? ropean countries to drift into two hos ? tile camps , those with high and low rates of inflation . The high-inflation countries ? Britain , France , and Ital ' ? have their currencies devalued in the exchange markets , and this in turn in creases the cost of their imports . Th others , such as Germany and its small er trading partners whose currencie move in tandem with the deutsehemarl are forced to revalue their currencie and subsidize their more expensive e3 ports in order to maintain industri ; production and employment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as much as currency values , an because the high-inflation countries e port their excess paper money , therel increasing liquidity in the relative stable countries , the latter find th their reward for noninflationary v. tue is a ratchet-like escalation of the own prices . This process can not cc tinue indefinitely without destroyi the EEC . " The successful and the r successful seldom have the same THE COMING CRISIS IN EUROPE terest , " dryly observes Rene Larre , managing director of the Bank for International Settlements in Basel . Pessimism is widespread among European capitalists , especially the bankers who are hired to invest and worry over other people 's money . To the affluent European , his banker is an across-the-board financial adviser , broker and money manager , as well as a kind of secular father confessor . ( It is said that the prudent German will not get married without his banker 's blessing . ) Long hours of private conversation with bankers from London to Geneva enable the American visitor to overhear the interior monologue of moneyed Europeans . As if with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very worried about the future . " Money alone , even the gold-backed Swiss franc , can not dispel this worry or buy the anxious European the kind of easy assurance of personal security that the ordinary American possesses . Usually without realizing it , the American enjoys a broad margin for error in contrast to the envious European , who believes his own margin has disappeared . Whatever else may worry him , the typical American loses no sleep over the danger of political upheaval and its consequences . A great many Europeans who are not paranoid see precisely that danger . As a class , European bankers arc better educated and more politically sophisticated than those in America . They are free of the kind of mindless hoosterism that causes leading American bankers to become outspoken advocates of " free enterprise , " forgetting that their banks are government-regulated and - protected . The European style is more inclined to praise capitalism without falsifying it . Thus , in a recent exposition of the theme " free enterprise will survive , " Dr. A. Schaefer , chairman of the Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among the greatest problems of the free-enterprise system is the inequality of income and wealth . We have been successful in creating an affluent society but not a just one . " The skepticism of European bankers is inbred , the product of centuries of experience in dealing with faithless princes and deceitful politicians , their bad debts and debased currencies . Unlike their American counterparts , European bankers have never succumbed to the false notion of banking as a " growth " industry , to be achieved by aggressive lending and risk-taking . They and their clients so distrust the very idea of growth that they are reluctant these days even to take stockmarket risks in pursuit of above-average yields . They arc interested almost to the point of obsession in trying to protect their capital , and toward that end they are sending money to America . APITAL IS MOVING from Europeto the United States in tremendous quantities . Wall Street hankers with long memories find the flow eerily reminiscent of the years prior to the outbreak of World War II . In the phrase of consulting economist Eliot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the New York Federal Reserve Bank is becoming " a financial Ellis Island " for foreign capitalists . " This flight into the dollar has nothing to do with economics , " Jane . way says . " It is the preliminary to a very serious world crisis . " Europeans who are forsaking much higher yields to buy Triple-A-rated bonds in New York confirm this assessment . They are not at all certain of the shape and timing and extent of the crisis . But they do not doubt it will come . As much as anything , they are attempting to flee a claustrophobic state of mind . A German-born American broker who escaped the Nazis in 1938 and made his forum , in the U.S. recently spent a month visiting wealthy old friends in Italy , France , Germany , and Switzerland . " There is a fear of fear among them , " he reports . " They have no faith in Europe . " Although they worry about the socialists , the Communists , and the Russians , and their imaginations are capable of conjuring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disclose to an American willing to listen that the deepest source of their fear lies close to home . They are afraid that the mixed system of welfare capitalism which they helped create is headed for disaster . For a generation , through the mid-1970s , Western Europe enjoyed the most rapid and broad-based material progress in its history . In the key economies -- Germany , France , Britain , Italy , Holland , Belgium , and Sweden ? disposable consumer income grew by 400 to 750 percent . Some of these gains were lost to inflation , but the Europeans en joyed better diets , fashionable clothing , more living space , and , with the arrival of the automobile , greater mobility . European governments simultaneously encouraged personal consumption and embarked on increased welfare spending . Ambitiously , they redistributed incomes and uplifted the rural poor toward full consumer status . To ensure growth they gave investment incentives to industry for expanded output . High wages and labor shortages drew millions of Southern Europeans northward , and their remittances sent a measure of prosperity back to the slums of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and have been sent home . In those years of easily compounded growth , European governments faced few hard choices . More consumption and more welfare were perfectly compatible . Holland , for example , built a comprehensive welfare state at breakneck speed . Between 1955 and 1974 disposable income in Holland increased almost sixfold , but the generous Dutch were also boosting government transfer payments sixteen-fold . Throughout Western Europe during the late 1960s and early I 970s , the same pattern prevailed . As national incomes rose , government welfare spending rose even faster , creating budget deficits that were financed through heavy borrowing or outright inflation . Britain , France , and Italy took the expedient path of paying their bills by printing extra currency . Europe 's era of high growth came to an abrupt end in the severe recession of 1974-75 , which stemmed directly from increased public spending . Despite the current slowdown , public budgets are as swollen as ever . Therefore , the new era of low growth ? or , in the case of bankrupt Britain , no growth ? could drag @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recovery " in the near future , but skeptical businessmen know better . The major European countries can not all enjoy simultaneous export-led recovery unless one of them absorbs a flood of imports and runs a heavy trade deficit . Germany , the strongest economic power in Europe , insists on maintaining a large trade surplus in order to prevent unemployment from rising higher than it already is . The German expedient iE to subsidize exports by making Ivan to chronic deficit countries such a ! Italy , a gambit that fails when the box rower ca n't repay . The trade-oriented European economies are vulnerable to increased energy and raw materials costs , and OPEC 's price-gouging has had a devastating impact . Labor cost pressures are also intense . Wage demands by politically well-connected European unions make even the Teamsters appear reasonable . Between 1970 and 1975 , manufacturing wages rose 43 percent in the U.S. , 59 percent in Germany , 98 percent in France , 112 percent in Britain , and 128 percent in Italy . Indirect labor costs are also considerably higher in several European countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industries , such as autos , steel , and electronics , are losing their competitive vitality and are being clobi bered in their own markets by the Japanese , who invented export-led economic growth . I S THERE A WAY out for Europe ? The simplest remedy would be to boost exports to the huge American market , but that would cause serious problems for American politicians , from the White House down , who owe their position to protectionist labor unions worried about their members ' jobs . Besides , the fast-moving Japanese may already have beaten the Europeans to the cream of the recovering American market ( Japan 's auto exports to the U.S. rose an astonishing 82 percent in 1976 . ) The U.S. , with a large trade deficit of its own , would also like to expand exports . As frightened capitalists suspect , there appear to be only more and less painful ways back to health for Europe . The economic remedy is clear-cut . The momentum of the ever-expanding wel-fare state will have to he baited and reversed , so that government spending is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this means disappointing the expectations and shrinking the incomes of particular classes of people in order to shift resources from consumption to investment . If the less affluent will forgo their turn at high consumption , at least temporarily , permitting welfare budgets to he scaled down , perhaps the wealthy : an be encouraged to increase their investment . Capital investment can not be coerced ; it must be coaxed , lured mil seduced by the scent of profits . 7 , uropean capital has reacted to an in-Teasingly hostile political climate by going on strike " and passing , up investment opportunities . Even in Germany , the level of capital spending is no higher than it was five years ago . Deutschemarks taking refuge in New York are not buying new machinery in Stuttgart . To achieve economic recovery , European socialist politicians steeped in Marxist dogma probably will have to permit their traditional class enemies to make capitalism work . Will they go that far ? The answer may come soon in Britain . The physical aspect of London reflects the free fall of sterling and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city are dotted with " to let " signs , tombstones of the late real-estate boom . The new Arab owners of the Dorchester Hotel and other recent property bargains are much in evidence . Once-posh Mayfair shopping streets are becoming seedy , as though the proudest shopkeepers in England had lost the will to keep up appearances when the hordes of buyers come , willy-nilly , to take advantage of the cheap pound . The Labor government 's austerity program , the latest in Britain 's long postwar slide , is the responsibility of Chancellor of the Exchequer Denis Healey , who at least sounds as though he understands what is at stake and what is required . Indeed , he sounds like an arch-Tory in his severe prescriptions . Last October , he told members of the British financial community : " Inflation is the greatest enemy of full employment .... We can not afford to base our economic growth on an increase in domestic consumption . We must base it on exports , import substitution , and investment . Until we have eliminated the deficit on our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or private spending . On the contrary . Living standards will have to suffer a further fall before we are paying our way in the world again . " The pound promptly fell to an all-time low as foreign exchange markets questioned the political will behind Healey 's brave words . The grim prospects in England now could spread throughout Europe in the future . British interest rates have been raised to the high teens . Credit is being squeezed relentlessly . The choice is between controlled deflation or uncontrolled inflation and eventual collapse . European capitalists are not afraid of the recession that may come this year . They are afraid of the day when deflation becomes unavoidable .                     