@@479266

THE END Of August 's final week , the first autumnal storm blew most of Maine 's summer people indoors . Rain swept in off the sea on the kind of raw nor'east wind that makes coastal cottage owners look for their favorite sweaters , build the season 's first fire and spend the day near it . As they watched their briny driftwood burn green and yellow , the visitors from Massachusetts , New York , Pennsylvania , Ohio , Kansas , New Jersey , and an infinity of other states and places saw the end of their Maine summer in the embers . In a week or so the cottage would be closed , the camp struck , the kids hauled back to school , reality faced . One last windblown walk taken at the day 's end . one more look at the tossing sea , blueing now as the scud parts overhead and a late sun shines through . On such a day , ask one of the summer storm walkers what he wants the Maine coast to be , and he will say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wants it to be exactly this : the summer , the sea , the cottage , even the bittersweet leaving of it till next June . Ask Maine coast motel owners , campground operators , fried clam hawkers , restaurateurs , service station managers , hotelmen , yacht basin owners , real estate brokers , contractors , builders , bakers , carpenters , plumbers , TV repairmen , veterinarians , cleaners and pressers , garbage-men , lobster dealers , retailers , and hairdressers what they like best about the Maine coast , and they will point to the turgid river of tourist traffic and say : " Them . " There are more than half a billion seasonal dollars in those lines of station wagons with bicycles on their roofs , cars with suitcases stuffed in the back seats , or piled on swaying trailers towed behind . it 's a half-billion seasonal dollars according to the state 's Department of Economic Development ) force-fed to Maine coast service businesses in the three months from Memorial Day to Labor Day . It 's the " tourist dollar , " and if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coast saved , he 'll answer , " You bet , " because he sees it being saved for him . The 188 coastal souls who are the total population of Arrowsic Town observed the half-billion-dollar traffic jam and decided they had been left out long enough . Their town fathers called a special town meeting in September to consider the town 's first set of land-use laws since the place was settled in 1623 . The new zoning regulations allow " general business , service establishments , motels , etc. . . . " along Arrowsic 's Route 127 , the town 's only major highway ? a simple , John N. Cole has been , for the past three years , editor of the Maine Times , a statewide weekly Journal of opinion . two-lane road that runs through the community from U. S. Route 1 to a brilliant stretch of public beach at Reid State Park . Full to capacity by noon on summer weekends , the beach is one of the few public watering places east of Maine 's Kennebec River ; and more than 1,000 autos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At a public hearing before the town meeting , just one of the 188 objected to the business building plan , and he was won over before the night was through . No one in Arrowsic has ever built a business on Route 127 ; but after watching the traffic go by , no one wants to be denied the right . The people see a chance for the best of both worlds : if they allow motels , hamburger stands , and filling stations along the road alone , then perhaps there 'll be enough tax revenue from these tourist lures to allow Arrowsic residents solvency and serenity on the rest of their land . For the citizens of Arrowsic do acknowledge that there is something in the quality of their lives worth saving . " Most people , " says the author of the town 's comprehensive plan , " do not live in Arrowsic merely to have a roof over their heads , but rather because its untouched rural woodland and coastal areas offer them ' a way of life . ' " Later in the document @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still inaccessible , noting that " if roads to the coast were built , much fine land would be open to development . " In the Arrowsic microcosm , this is the confusion of the Maine coast . It is 188 native Maine coast people ENVIRONMENT LETTER FROM MAINE could be better protected with Maine laws already on the books ; but they also know that implementation and enforcement of these laws leaves almost everything to be desired . The legislature alone , they agree , will not save the Maine coast by introducing bills , passing resolutions , or enacting laws that budget-starved state agencies are then unable or unwilling to administer and enforce . Nor can the lawmakers use present regulations to halt a refinery at a deepwater port , if and when one of the majors decides the time and place are right . nAVID SCOLL notwithstanding , the ? place will almost surely not be Penobscot Bay . That deep dish of island-dotted sea that washes from Rockland around to Isle Au Haut has been fattened every summer since the turn of the century by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manhattan ) , Thomas Watson ( IBM ) , Douglas Dillon ( Dillon , Read ) , the Cabots. the Lowells , the Lamonts , the DuPonts still live on the islands and environs of Penobscot Bay that their grandfathers chose for their summer places . The foresight that created the largest family fortunes in America was there three generations ago when the first Rockefellers and Cabots staked their claims to slices of the Maine coast . For almost all of those generations , hardly anything disturbed the carefully planned contentment of this wealthiest of coastal colonies . As they left each September , the old-money people never doubted for a moment that they would find the same view from their great houses when they returned the next July . The geographic and economic backwater that was Maine was also the moat that protected their summer castles from the rest of the world . They were an enlightened nobility ; they gave a library or a hospital to the natives now and then , and the Rockefellers bought some of the loveliest of the islands and gave them to everyone , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same Acadia , once considered a forever-wild buttress of the pan-orama from the Rockefeller picture windows ( there are tax advantages in giving land to the government ) , has since crumbled and become an Is ant heap , swarming with so many visitors every summer that their feet are pounding the island topsoil into a dust so fine it blows away on autumn winds . That was never in the Rockefeller plan , nor was David Scoll 's impudent scheme to build an oil refinery within Acadia 's view . The last place the founders of Standard Oil want to spend their summers is in the shadow of another company 's oil refinery . With the threat to Acadia and the reality of a backyard refinery , the Rockefellers and most of their Penobscot Bay brethren have realized for the first time in a half-century that it will take more than a library or a national park to save their part of the Maine coast . They agree with most Maine folk that the state government alone ca n't do it either ; and within the past two years they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the largest lever the Rockefellers and their friends can wield , they have not tried to buy the coast to save it . Instead , they have used rather limited funds ( in terms of what they have available ) to support conservation groups like the Natural Resources Council , land-use agencies like the Maine Coast Heritage Trust , anti-oil lobbies like the Coastal Resources Action Committee , and local environmental planning groups like the Penobscot Bay Plan , Inc . The men and women who manage the nation 's largest fortunes are wise enough to know that these citizen groups are n't enough to protect Acadia from being trampled away , or Penobscot Bay from supertankers . They are studying various blueprints for further action , and are being offered more , including some from Governor Curtis . The governor flew to New York last April to discuss Maine 's future with David Rockefeller and nearly two dozen other assorted millionaires gathered for the occasion . The meeting has produced no direct , visible results . ( It is understandably difficult for a Democratic governor to get much help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Yet , in the wake of the publicity given the heavyweight gathering , both the federal and the private sectors were further prodded into Maine coast concerns . Economics professor Richard Barringer of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard spent last summer ENVIRONMENT in Hancock County ( home of Penobscot Bay ) with a high-powered , privately funded research team . Sponsored by a Maine mini-think-tank called The Allagash Group , the Barringer study explores the development of a new economics for Maine ? an economics that may allow Maine people to enjoy the good life without destroying the place they live in . Faced with this kind of action in the private sector , Maine 's First District Congressman Peter Kyros ( D ) and Maine 's Presidential Senator Muskie D ) , backed by Democratic Governor Curtis , moved to make certain " the people , " as well as the Rockefellers , will be able to enjoy the coast . Muskie , when he addressed himself to the problem , said a " higher authority " may be needed to administer to the coast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the other hand , is a sponsor of the " Open Beaches Act , " which sets federal sanctions on the rights of the public to all Maine beaches . ( Meanwhile , the coastal town of Scarboro plans to buy two miles of beach , with the hope its use can be restricted to town residents only . ) And finally , Governor Curtis , by his June executive order , established a special Committee on Public Lands , to " assure that Maine people have the greatest possible access to their state . . . or otherwise the land will only be for the benefit of a privileged few ... " Like most others ? including the front-runner in the Democratic party 's Presidential sweepstakes ? Maine 's governor seems uncertain about how the Maine coast ought to be saved , or for whom it should be saved . Along with Senator Muskie , David Rockefeller and his Penobscot Bay friends ; along with Robert Monks and the bankers and entrepreneurs who see treasure at the bottom of the coast 's deepwater ports ; along with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " viable trade-off " ; along with Claire Jorgensen of the Arrowsic Planning Board , who says , " we are being realistic about the way the world is " ; along with the Maine coast motel owners who are totting up the profits after a summer of " wall-to-wall people " and planning their winter vacations in Puerto Rico ; along with the summer storm walkers , exhilarated with the memory of late August equinoxial gales ; along with the archetypal Maine lobsterman , the LETTER FROM MAINE underpaid mill workers , and nearly every child in grade school ; along with all of these Maine people , the governor shares a wish : he wants to help save the Maine coast . Like each of the others in this nonparty , non-class , nondefinable constituency , Ken Curtis may not be quite certain about how to save it , or for whom , or when ; but along with everyone else , he senses there is something good here that must not be lost , must not be trampled away , or dropped from clumsy fingers . THINK I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Like the others , I 'm working to save it . Yet I think now it is important to recognize that for the first time in the nation 's history there is a populist , top-to-bottom. rich-topoor , right-to-left , universal constituency that wants to keep what is good about their Maine coast . It 's as if this corner of America , parked for two centuries in a geographic and economic backwater , has been banked all these years just so it could be here when Americans decided for the first time since the Industrial Revolution that there may be a better way . Ed Muskie , David Rockefeller , Claire Jorgensen , Ken Curtis , Bob Monks , and the summer storm walkers sense that there may be more opportunity to build new social , economic structures on the Maine coast than anywhere else in the nation . There is also more political power , great wealth , and intellectual insight to do it with . Along with the seventy million urban arid suburban dwellers who inhabit the megalopolis within a day 's drive of Maine , the one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wavering and fragile dream of reordered priorities that could be the coast 's salvation . I do n't know if the dream can come true . The realities are harsh . But I do know that this is the only time the people of one U.S. state have agreed that their state and its coast should be " saved . " Having reached that agreement , they are now in the confusing process of trying to find and follow a path to salvation . To follow it , Maine will inevitably have to turn away from paths already taken in the rest of America ; and that is why the rest of America should be aware of what is happening here , and who is making much of it happen .                     