@@281392

Prisons have long been recognized as schools for criminals , institutions that can - and often do - turn amateurs into professional lawbreakers . Lately , however , it has become obvious that the prison curriculum has broadened considerably . As if a trade school had turned into a university , the lessons in criminal know-how from fellow inmates have now shifted to a more general unofficial education in sociology , history and politics . The growth of the new curriculum has coincided with a widespread proliferation of new prison organiza tions . Some have provided a useful self-help structure ; others have merely helped to pass the time constructively . A few are responsible for a frightening new element graduating to the streets . Perhaps the most vivid example is the Symbionese Liberation Army which grew twistedly out of the peaceful Black Cultural Association , a five-year-old California prisoners ' group . <P> Big Shots . Criminal organizations are no newcomers to the nation 's 700 federal and state correctional facilities . Mafia chieftains like Vito Genovese have seldom found it difficult to control many prison activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certified big shots , few penitentiaries have ever been free of jailyard governments that enforce rules and pecking orders among inmates . It was the civil rights movement of the ' 60s that brought a new turn in prison society . Just as it did for other groups , the movement helped raise political consciousness among prison inmates . <P> An early sign was the cons ' new awareness of their legal rights . Courts had long kept hands off prisons on the theory that wardens and guards needed virtually unfettered freedom to control convict populations . But judges too had experienced their own consciousness raising and could no longer overlook outright brutality . If the right not to be barbarously treated was recognized , could other rights be far behind ? The Black Muslims scored a major victory when they persuaded federal courts in 1961 to recognize their right to bring suit protecting their religion . Other legal challenges followed . In a series of state and federal courts , prisoners have won the right to form cultural and educational organizations , to complain to newspapers , to correspond with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less censorship of other mail and reading material . Last week even the Supreme Court put its stamp of disapproval on such censorship , saying that it was constitutional only in limited situations that substantially affected " security , order and rehabilitation . " <P> The painstakingly won array of new rights was directly connected to the upsurge of varied convict organizations . Most of the religious groups have contributed toward improving the quality of prison life , although one seems clearly frivolous . Prisoners at penitentiaries in Atlanta and San Quentin have formed the Church of the New Song ( CONS ) . They claim that their ritual requires them to eat porterhouse steaks and drink Harvey 's Bristol Cream sherry and are suing prison authorities to get the needed ingredients for their menu .                     