@@319119

DIED . Preston Jones , 43 , late-blooming playwright widely hailed in 1976 for A Texas Trilogy , his saga of life in a one-horse West Texas town ; following surgery for ulcers ; in Dallas . Born in Albuquerque , big , burly Jones spent the last half of his life in Texas , working as a director , ticket taker and lead actor at Paul Baker 's Dallas Theater Center , where his wife Mary Sue is second in command . Almost 40 when he finished his three plays set in mythical Bradleyville , Jones was discovered by Tennessee Williams ' agent , Audrey Wood , who arranged for a Washington production of Trilogy . The plays ' success at the Kennedy Center led to a brief run on Broadway and national celebrity for the author , but Jones chose to continue to work quietly in Dallas , where , he said , he had " a life in the theater for which most playwrights dream . " <P> DIED . James G. Grant , 53 , an associate editor at TIME for five years ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A veteran of Stars and Stripes in Berlin , Army Times in London and the Newburgh ( N.Y. ) News , Grant joined TIME in 1969 , where he specialized in business writing and helped to launch the magazine 's Energy section . <P> DIED . Ludvik Svoboda , 83 , President of Czechoslovakia during the 1968 Soviet invasion ; in Prague . Having fled to Poland when the Nazis occupied Czechoslovakia in 1939 , Svoboda returned in 1945 as a triumphant general , alongside Red Army forces . He became Czechoslovakia 's first postwar Defense Minister and secretly abetted the Communist takeover three years later . Discredited and imprisoned during the Stalinist purges of the early ' 50s , he was politically resurrected by Nikita Khrushchev . In 1968 , the retired general was selected as a compromise presidential candidate by liberal Czech Leader Alexander Dubcek , who hoped the choice would allay Moscow 's growing doubts about Dubcek 's fealty . The plan failed , and Dubcek was brutally ousted later that year . Svoboda , who retained his office until 1975 , managed to wrest Dubcek and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support the puppet regime of Gustav Husak , his successor . <P> DIED . Gio Ponti , 87 , innovative Italian architect , designer and founding publisher ( in 1928 ) of Domus , a leading Italian architectural journal ; of cancer ; in Milan . Ponti 's varied projects included a villa for the Shah of Iran , a ministry of industrial development for Iraq , and the auditorium of the Time-Life Building in Manhattan . But his best-known structure is Milan 's 420-ft. wafer-thin Pirelli building , which towers higher than any other in Italy . A stalwart debunker of design cliches and a champion of functionalism , Ponti created scooper-like dinner forks , glass bookshelves in which the volumes seem to float , and an austere double bed . A bed , he said , " is n't only a place for voluptuousness , " but a place for comfort and majesty .                     