@@252286

Hamlet 's Aunt TRAVELS WITH MY AUNT by Graham Greene . 261 pages . Viking . $5.95 . It is as if Shakespeare , after the tragedies , had chosen to write not The Tempest but Charley 's Aunt . After 18 novels variously described as entertainments , authentic modern tragedies or murky theological melodramas , Graham Greene has at last put himself onstage in a comic masterpiece . Greene 's aunt has a bit more Melvillean whalebone in her corsetry than Charley 's . She belongs among those female siblings of steel shaped by P. G. Wodehouse who all seem to be named Agatha . <P> Greene 's comes set about with literary conventions-both defied and deferred to . Hamlet , for instance , was a tragedy about a man whose mother turns into his aunt ; Greene 's book is a funny novel about a man whose aunt turns into his mother . It is notorious that Americans have mothers rather than fathers , while literary Englishmen tend to have aunts . Greene 's comedy is based on this English anthropological pattern - one unknown to less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trotwood , all literary aunts should be brisk and , if possible , maiden . But to be really successful they must also have a dull , dim nephew as a foil . Also , it is the aunts ' tragedy that their stories are invariably written by their dim nephews . <P> Far from Maiden . Greene 's dimly tragic nephew is Henry Pulling , an unmarried London bank manager who has retired to look after his dahlias . His comic aunt is Miss Augusta Bertram , who at 75 concedes that her life expectancy may be only 25 years . She is far from maiden . Nephew first meets her at the cremation of his mother . The ashes are intended for a tasteful urn among his dahlias , but somehow , in the overpowering presence of Augusta , Henry leaves the urn behind in his aunt 's apartment . He is only reminded of his dead mother by a chance conversation overheard in a pub . " Peter can talk about nothing , " a girl complains about her absent boy friend , " but- the Ashes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Auntie 's servant ( and lover ) , an enterprising Sierra Leone black named Wordsworth , has emptied Mother out and replaced her with some hot pot . The police get into the act and the chase runs from London to Paris to Istanbul , and finally to Paraguay . Greene is not only putting the reader on . He is putting himself on . We are back in The Orient Express ( Greene 's fourth novel ) , but an Orient Express without the Conrad Veidt monocles or the concupiscent dancers in the wagonlit . Just the respectable Mr. Pulling , smoking his first stick of pot , gift of an American girl who calls herself Tooley . With a boy friend who paints Brand X soup cans and a father in the CIA , Tooley is the ultimate in flower-child hippiedom . The pot she gives poor Pulling happens to have been pushed to her by Wordsworth . Pulling is taking his first trip with Mother .                     