@@317029

President Ford opened his television press conference last Tuesday by soberly intoning : " The war in Viet Nam is over . " In Europe , celebrations marked the ending of another war-V-E day , May 8 , 1945 . The three decades separating the Allied victory in Europe from the American debacle in South Viet Nam were already being viewed by some as a self-contained chapter of history , the rise and fall of the Western world 's reliance upon the Pax Americana . One sign of the times was French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing 's announcement that France 's 30th celebration of V-E day would be its last . Rather than sustain the memories of past animosities-and past alliances - Europeans should " open the way to the future and turn our thoughts to that which brings us together . " <P> Although the point was not directly made , Giscard 's exhortation to greater European unity at least partly reflected a widespread concern on the Continent about America 's continued reliability as an ally . Judging by some recent Western European press coverage , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , headlines bannered , THE AMERICAN RETREAT , THE AMERICAN FAILURE or THE AMERICAN DECLINE . Occasionally , a qualifying question mark was added , as in the headline on the recent cover of West Germany 's Der Spiegel : NO MORE TRUST IN AMERICA ? <P> Continued Dispute . Almost inevitably , the debacle in Southeast Asia was seen in the context of other recent U.S. foreign policy setbacks : the breakdown of Kissinger 's step-by-step Middle East diplomacy , Portugal 's slide toward leftist rule and the continued dispute between NATO allies Greece and Turkey over Cyprus . The fear was not that Viet Nam had fatally sapped America 's physical strength or irretrievably tarnished its moral authority but that the bitter experience of recent events might somehow have traumatized America 's will . A front-page editorial in the Brit ish weekly Manchester Guardian bluntly put the question that seemed to be on everybody 's mind : " Will defeat in Viet Nam tempt the Americans to tackle their own problems and let the rest of the world go hang ? " <P> At least one observer suggested that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Europeans are amazing , " said French Political Analyst Raymond Aron in a television interview . " In the last few weeks , I have been struck by how we put ourselves in the balcony of history . If a Communist Party seems on the verge of coming to power , we call it an American defeat . If the U.S. intervenes through the CIA , we then denounce American imperialism . If , for example , Portugal goes Communist , it becomes an American defeat rather than a European defeat . Obviously , Portugal is closer to Paris than New York . The consequences of a Communist government in Lisbon will be felt more in Madrid and Paris than in New York . But we are acting like voyeurs , counting the blows to see who is winning and losing and never asking ourselves what our responsibilities are . "                     