@@493444

Stanley Kauffmann on films At Sea Voyage of the Damned ( Avco Embassy ) . Saul Bellow says in his new book To Jerusalem and Back : The Holocaust may even be seen as a deliberate lesson or project in philosophical redefinition : " You religious and enlightened people . . . you think you know what a human being is . We will show you what he is , and what you are . Look at our camps and crematoria and see if you can bring your hearts to care about these millions . " And it is obvious that the humanistic civilized moral imagination is inadequate . Confronted with such a " metaphysical " demonstration , it despairs and declines from despair into lethargy and sleep . That passage says a great deal more than this long film on the same point , but at least Voyage of the Damned redirects attention to an appalling episode in American history . Until January 1944 the US government under President Roosevelt did very little to help the European Jews who , according to clear German plans , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this film is that it makes the voyage seem a single incident . The script is based on a book I have n't read . In 1968 I read Arthur D. Morse 's While Six Million Died in which the voyage is only one of several now-incredible acts of American indifference . In May 1939 the German government executed one of its cleverest propaganda maneuvers . The world was complaining about their treatment of Jews , so they put the world to the test . They allowed 930 German Jews to buy passage from Hamburg to Cuba on the Hamburg-American Line 's St. Louis and also to buy Cuban landing permits . Of these passengers 734 held US immigration quota numbers permitting them to enter the US three months to three years after arrival in Cuba . What the passengers did not know , and what the steamship line did not tell the extraordinary Captain Gustav Schroeder of the St. Louis , was that President Bru of Cuba had invalidated the landing permits eight days before the ship sailed . In short , the German government deliberately sent these 930 Jews on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other countries to receive them . On board ship these passengers were treated with the utmost ( secretly ironical ) courtesy ; they were whisked out of the humiliation of Nazi Germany into civilized life . But when they arrived in Havana on May 27 , only 22 Jews were permitted to land ? people who had had the foresight , and money , to get additional Cuban documents . The following five days in Havana harbor , while feverish futile negotiations went on with the money-grubbing Cuban officials , were agony . ( Just one instance : a German Jew , already in Cuba , paddled a canoe close to the ship so that his wife on board could hold up their children for him to glimpse . ) On June 1st the St. Louis was forced to start its return voyage to Hamburg . The ship moved into American waters , and promptly a US destroyer appeared , warning them against any attempt to land passengers and ordering them out of territorial waters . Apparently Hitler had proved his point triumphantly . Nobody wanted those damned Jews . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fuel would allow , to permit agents of the Joint Distribution Committee , who were furiously at work in Europe , to make other arrangements for the passengers . Schroeder established anti-suicide patrols on his ship , and he needed them . Covertly he drew up plans to wreck his ship off the English coast and to force rescue on the British . ( After the war Schroeder was , with minimal decency , decorated by the West German government for his conduct . There was a man . ) At almost the last moment the JDC got agreement from Britain , France , Holland , and Belgium to accept the passengers , and Schroeder landed them at Antwerp . The last twist of the knife is that hundreds of them were nonetheless caught in the Final Solution when the Germans overran their lands of refuge . This piteous story , chilling still , is discernible in the film that Steve Shagan and David Butler have written , that Stuart Rosenberg has directed . But they have laid on it such lashings of cliche and sentimentality that , not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This film could have been a memorial and a warning : it comes out a moderately promising show-biz venture . The facts have been fiddled with slightly , mostly to heat them up . The characterizations and dialogue are at the conventional floating-Grand-Hotel level , like The Hindenburg and Titanic and The Poseidon Adventure . Of course these writers had to use the " cross-section " method , but it could have been done with some taste , imagination and authenticity , some indication that they knew they had to cut against this Type of picture to the legitimate reason for doing it again . Their hamminess is equalled by the assembly-line " weepie " direction of Stuart Rosenberg and most of the casting . Leper bells ought to be hung on Sam Wanamaker and Maria Schell : the presence of either is a taint . Orson Welles , here a rich Cuban industrialist complete with big cigars , has become the club bore of Filmland , the man who once did some terrific things and for many years now has been coasting on our knowledge of them . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Werner and Faye Dunaway and Lee Grant , are pushed into various kinds of posings . A few valid performances convey some of the gravity of the original . James Mason is serious as the one conscientious Cuban minister . Victor Spinetti , as a father trying to get his children ashore , plays reticently and well . Max von Sydow , no surprise , is fine as Schroeder . Luther Adler , big surprise , is restrained and moving as a                     