@@494852

20 Stanley Kauffmann on films Satire and Sordi The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie ( Twentieth Century-Fox ) . The child is father to the man , all right , but how often is the man father to another man ? In art , not often . That 's why Luis Builuel , in the seventh and eighth decades of his life , is so extraordinary . Without losing anything , he has added something : in his later years , he has brought a minor strain in his temperament to maturity . And the " new " Buriuel is much better than the older , better-known one . This early surrealist left that camp for a series of quasi-Marxist cinematic revenges on his Catholic upbringing , toward which he was nonetheless ambivalent , and for sexual fantasies , which were unenlighteningly sadistic . El , Los Olvidados , and Nazarin are only three of his films that other people like more than I do . Then in 1965 he made the short , pungently witty Simon of the Desert and in 1968 The Milky Way , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ films were more interesting than Viridiana ( 1962 ) and Tristana ( 1970 ) ; the latter was well made , but both pictures suffered from his obsession that the macabre is automatically serious . Now , however , he goes back to the new older Builuel ? smooth , stiletto satire . As with The Milky Way , the most important element is the script ? by Builuel and his usual collaborator in French , Jean-Claude Carri'ere . ( He has different collaborators when he works in Spanish and English . ) Buiitiel 's direction has the reticence of a man who needs to " prove " nothing , his casting is bull's-eye all the way , but it 's the script that makes the film matter . His subject is the protocol of daily bourgeois life , how slavishly the members try to obey it , how easily it is wrecked , and how wretched the values are beneath it . In and around Paris move the ambassador from Miranda , ( a mythical Latin-American country ) , the ambassador 's mistress , her sister , her husband , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bishop who likes to work as a gardener ( a " worker-bishop " ) , and a cavalry colonel . The repeated focus of the story is luncheon and dinner engagements , which are never fulfilled , for different reasons . The medium of the story is dream : sequences start as if they were actual , then become gradually and logically wild , violent or ridiculous , and end with the dreamer of the dream waking up with a start . Sometimes the dream and the dreamer are in the dream of a third party , who wakes up . The method is thus not strictly surrealist ; there are no sharp juxtapositions of incongruities . Even more than in The Milky Way , it is the underlying philosophy that is surrealist , rather than visible illogicality . Everything we see is familiar ; it just gradually slides or melts away into the grotesque . For instance , a casual dinner-party conversation changes into polite disagreement , then a guest pulls a pistol and shoots his host . Or , near the end , the seven friends sit down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole story , has been moving . A gang of terrorists burst in ( we know there are terrorists hunting the ambassador ) , and the ambassador hides under the table . The gang line up all the other guests and mow them down . For a moment we think this is the " real " irony that caps the film : the ambassador escapes his assassins , while his friends get killed . Then the gang chief sees a hand reaching up from under the table for a slice of meat ! They discover the ambassador under the table , calmly chewing the meat as he awaits them , and we realize THE NEW REPUBLIC that we are seeing one more dream . The ambassador 's greed that will bring about his downfall , his aristocratic hauteur in the face of it all , have only been symbolized , in a neat comic action ; and the slaughtered friends have not been killed " really " any more than a man hiding from assassins would " really " reach up for a slice of meat . The business link @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the cocaine trade . Some have objected that this element is too grim : since most of the audience does not push dope , it may distance them from identification with the other elements . But the cocaine-symbol does n't seem to me any more distancing than the prostitution-symbol in Belle de Jour and is much less sentimental . Another resemblance to The Milky Way is the recurring use of a journey along a road , as a sort of basso ostinato . Every once in a while , between sequences , we get a shot of the original six friends walking along a lonely country road in city dress . It 's never explained , no destination is ever reached , it 's not part of the story ( as the road was in the earlier film ) . Journey , mystery , incongruity ? the device essentially is just a pleasant metaphor in the sly comedy mystery . Among the actors , Fernando Rey , Paul Frankeur , Delphine Seyrig , and Michel Piccoli are familiar from past Builuel and elsewhere ; Bulle Ogier was La Salamandre herself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ films , is engagingly present . All of them , and others , give the film the effortless credibility it needs to make us twist our necks DECEMBER 2 , 1972 even from his peers .. . My son has recently discovered the existence of " Ultra-Man " and " Speed Racer , " with hard-selling toy commercials liberally sprinkled . Aside from the fact that he expresses a wish-to-have at every commercial , I have noticed no bad side-effects . Monsters , swindlers , blackmailers , bridge-bombers : these things are too fantastic for preschoolers to incorporate into their daily lives ( except in play , if then ) , whereas " Stupid , " " Lousy " and " what 's it to ya ? " are distressingly easy for a child to assimilate into his everyday behavior . Why ca n't we have Children 's TV with no commercials and no insolent language ?                     