@@487965

million allotted to various types of nuclear development . The NSF-NASA study panel called for expenditure of more than $2 billion on solar power projects over a period of fifteen years , with the government and industry to share the costs . The Meinel project could , of course , be scaled down , but then it would n't provide the replace  --  ment for the nuclear program that its foes would like to see . What is badly needed at this point is objective evalua  --  tion of the many ideas that have been proposed , determi  --  nation of what the country is willing to pay for reallyclean power , and selection of one or more projects to receive the kind of funding and federal leadership that has marked the nuclear program . Sixty years ago Frank Shuman said : " We know the sun is the central powerhouse of our universe , and we should therefore attack most seri  --  ously the problem of connecting ourselves with the sun direct . " Unfortunately , the climate in Mr. Nixon 's Wash  --  ington does n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to settle for a slower pace . But it seems clear that solar power is at a stage where it can make an important contribution almost as quickly as we want it to . En The political situation in Great Britain is now excep  --  tionally complicated . There is a widely discredited Con  --  servative government . The Labour Party , in a program adopted at its recent annual conference , has moved sig  --  nificantly to the Left . Meanwhile , however , there are signs that for the first time in fifty years , we are moving from a two-party to a three-party system , with the ex  --  traordinary current revival of the Liberals . These are only the most public features , but they need some explanatory comment . The unpopularity of the Conservative government is easy to understand . Elected largely on a negative vote against Wilson 's last Labour government , and in particular on an undertaking to reduce prices , it has both chosen and been compelled to preside over an extraordinary inflation . One basic reason is the world inflation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importer , Britain is especially ex  --  posed , and a sustained attempt to promote . industrial expansion has widened , the exposure . An expansion of , monetary credit has coexisted with the weakness of ster  --  ling , and in certain sectors  --  notably housing  --  the infla  --  tion has been remarkable . Against this , there have been only two positive policies . An initial attempt was made to confront and defeat the trade unions . This is being sustained , but in a very minor key , after notable defeats of the government by the miners and the dockers . The other positive policy was to join the Common Market , and it was always foreseen that in the early stages this would be expensive . It has certainly proved so , but pUblic argument is muddled by a wide  --  spread and largely false identification of the Common Market as the principal cause of inflation . Even the mainly technical process of decimalizing the currency is similarly blamed , and the result is that one constant reserve of conservative support  --  that of nationalist and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To the Right of the Conservative government there are now considerable forces of this kind , represented if not yet fully led by Enoch Powell . Anti-immigrant feeling adds a constant resource to this sector . In all previous terms , such a situation has heralded a , Labour revival , and Labbur Party strategists have been assuming it . Moreover , a familiar recent pattern of British politics is that Labour moves Right in government but Left in opposition . Until quite recently this whole pattern looked simple . It even seemed that we were in for a re  --  play of the 1960s , when Labour came to power in 1964 , and more firmly in 1966 , on a radical program but pri  --  marily in the context of a disintegrating Conservative government . Virtually nothing of the program was carried out , and it was in any case overshadowed by ' recurrent trade and currency crises through which the Labour gov  --  ernment became one of the most reactionary in recent history . Now , without significant changes in its leadership , but with the assertion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition  --  of the trade , unions and the local activists , that past record has been put down the memory hole , and Labour has been starting again . The scenario was simple : with this new radical program , Labour would take power in 1974 or early 1975 , and only cynics be  --  lieved that the same pattern would repeat itself , under the pressures of international capitalist crisis . Any or all of this may still happen , but the straightforward scheme has been complicated by a de  --  velopment so unusual that many people still refuse to believe it , or have convinced themselves that it will soon go away . This surprise is the revival of the Liberals . In the last election they got 7 per cent of the votes . The most recent opinion poll gave these extraordinary figures : Labour 34 per cent , Liberal 32 per cent , Conservative 31 per cent . Given the complications of the electoral sys  --  tem , which heavily favors the larger parties , the Liberals had to get to about this point to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have done so , if only temporarily , , it is almost impossible to predict a result , but it is obvi  --  ously possible that neither of the traditional large parties could get power on its own . What then are the Liberals , politically ? There is again no simple answer . They are a capitalist party , in the mid  --  dle of the present spectrum . But also one of their main slogans is " community politics , " very much in the terms of some parts of the radical movement in the 1960s . They have grown so quickly as a party , and compose so many disparate elements , that , every old professional predicts they will quickly break up . But will they break up before the election , which as things now stand they could de  --  cisively affect ? It is n't easy to say , ' because politics at this level  --  the competition of parties  --  is subject to more profound polit  --  ical events . The decisive problem of Britain is still its relative weakness as a middle-sized capitalist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Common Market as the inevitable next move for British capitalism were in that sense right . They are still right , even as it becomes evident that the relative weakness makes even this move uncertain . The economy is running a heavy trade and payments deficit , which within about a year could erupt into extreme crisis . But the strains of this situation have been with us for a decade , and more fundamentally for a generation . The relative social and political stability of the country , which most visitors at least still admire , is under great and unforeseen pressures , and the first visible Symptoms are the present political confusions . It is in this context that one should review Labour 's new program . It includes extensions of nationalilation : of building land , of the ports , of aircraft construction and shipbuilding . It includes also selective pUblic acquisition of manufacturing industry . The program of public grants to manufacturing , which was intensively pursued in the 1960s , would be replaced by selective acquisition and competition within particular sectors . Moreover , all these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accompa  --  nied by the institution of , workers ' control or various kinds of democratization within the publicly owned insti  --  tutions . In all these respects , the program undoubtedly moves to the Left and it is already under attack from the capitalist establishment . Every Socialist is bound to work to defend and promote it . At the same time , when we assess it soberly , it is a policy within the perspective of a modernized capitalism , and here there is an im  --  mediate complication . The program has few concrete proposals for control or even protection in the fields of international and domestic monetary policy . Always , hitherto , exposure in these ' fields has wrecked Labour 's ' programs . Moreover , the advanced sections of British industry have been adapting to enter the Common Market : the situation is one of low domestic investment and heavy foreign investment . And here Labour 's political , attitude to , the Common Market must cause difficulties . Common Market entry is now profoundly unpopular . Some 80 per cent of the population want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radically as to change the whole system . Labour alone , among the three parties , expresses this political mood . It is committed , not only to renegotiation , on what most people think are unattainable conditions , but to submitting the results to a further election or referendum . If times were normal , this alone could be relied on to bring Labour to power , and then also , by definition , into a new and profound crisis . The confusion is now such , however , that the Liberals , who have always supported the Common Market , are picking up the mobile vote , since both the other parties are identified with the strains and failures of the past ten years . But suppose that passes , and Labour gains power . Its new program , while in its own terms radical , offers nothing general enough to solve the problems of British capitalism outside the Common Market , nor anything general enough for an independent national-based Socialist policy . That is where the undoubted chauvinism of some sections of the Labour Party , reflecting a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Britain making its own way has survived in spite of every postwar demonstration of international economic realities . A relatively independent Socialist Britain is perhaps con  --  ceivable , but that is not what is being proposed . All of us involved in politics in the advanced capitalist countries have got used to this kind of situation : that the overall position is confused and intolerable , and yet that it persists through new and strange deformations and declines . It is tempting but absurd to offer some sim  --  ple response ; the deepening crisis will be with us for many years . To steer any active course through its confusions and errors seems almost impossible . I can only say how I see it myself . I shall work for Labour 's new program , because the conflict between its concepts of democratic public ownership and the ruling concepts of monopoly capitalism is going to be critically important and might even be decisive . But I will not join the nationalist and chauvinist alliance , simplifying the crisis to a campaign against the Common Market , because I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the current public mood and thestrength of the extreme Right , lies something very dan  --  gerous indeed . I believe that , as in the late 1960s , the first business of Socialists is to analyze and explain the real crisis , and to make common cause with every group ? in practice it will be Mainly the trade unions but there are other active areas in community politics and in some general social campaigns  --  where the reality of struggle , against a capitalist state and economy is giving people new strength and confidence . Among all the confusions of formal politics , this movement also is growing , and it is the only positive movement . For the time being , it will interlock with support of Labour 's new program , but it is still not yet ' a situation in which any Socialist can define his work within the general Labour perspective , and some necessary political distance must still be kept . The going is likely to be rough . The problems of Ire  --  land are still dangerously unsolved . There is a bombing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be running it . The political and economic confusions and failures are taking a heavy toll of energy and belief . Still , when you come to Britain , as most Of my friends from abroad assure me , it is at first sight a green and pleasant island , in the context of more important and more painful events elsewhere . From inside , however , the strains seem severe , and the , future profoundly uncertain . And if you are like me , and want British society to change quite radically , you are caught between affirming recognition of the signs that change is inevitable and somber recogni  --  tion that it will exact a heavy and perhaps even dangerous price . Watching the recent Labour Party conference , in its affirming and even euphoric mood , I saw many com  --  rades , agreed with many statements , but had to say , even sadly , that I find myself living in a different , harder and more extended society , and that there can be no going back . q ROldo Bartimole , whose Point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the oily Cuyahoga , recalls this scene : Carl Stokes , black Mayor of Cleveland , a national figure , an oft-cited case history of democracy and equality in action , was addressing 1,000 or more people several years ago at a meeting of the Welfare Federation . Stokes put in a few words on the need to listen to dissenting voices . Suddenly Bartimole yelled out something like : " If that 's true , why are the corridors filled with cops from your subversive squad ? " " I was just burning , " recalls the Italian butcher 's son from Bridgeport , Conn. , " because a few people , myself included , were protesting the fact that the Welfare Federation was having a big dinner when it did n't address itself to the problems of the poor . " It was the first time I 'd ever seen Stokes at a loss for words , " says Bartimole , an alumnus of The Wall Street Journal . " But he was . He answered , saying he did n't know why they were there . I yelled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ' and I walked out . " A few years later , under the administration of Cleve  --  land 's present Mayor , Ralph Perk , a Republican con  --  servative , Rol &; Bartimole 's bimonthly revealed that the city 's police department had requested $8,089 from the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration for elec  --  tronic snooping gear . " We may have our own , Watergate in the future , " wrote Bartimole last fall . " Mayoral candi  --  dates are as fair game as Presidential candidates . " Later                     