@@491731

. .. while visions of sugar plums danced through my head . . " The fantasy of Clement Moore 's " A Visit From St. Nicholas " was no greater than my own unrestrained imagination as our 15-hourlong flight from New York settled into the ground mist over South Africa 's Jan Smuts International Airport . Though I was well read on the history and current affairs of this distant land , it was as if my knowledge were of a world apart , a country as remote and inaccessible as ancient Cathay , a nation reviled , ostracized and excommunicated by the Third World , disowned and blackballed by the sports world , disinherited by the British Commonwealth , shunned by the World Council of Churches , boycotted by the Organization of African States and now snubbed by its ally of the two world wars , that champion of democracy and civil rights , the United States of America . The enormity of the sins of this errant land , among the otherwise peaceful and law-abiding nations of the world , would surely impact me on my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be , ominous , portending evil , something to be glimpsed quickly , even fleetingly , else one be thought to have fallen under the spell of the wicked witch . I could n't believe my eyes ! As we landed I had a feeling we were in Dallas . The fresh look of a new city , broad boulevards , gleaming new buildings , Chevrolets and Fords dominating the heavy traffic , freeways and cloverleaf exits with the familiar green direction signs , suburban homes with neat yards , shopping centers with appealing stores and oceans of cars surging about . But the faces in the street , ah , the faces in the street  --  a procession of purposeful people moving steadily along the sidewalks and through the stores  --  the same English , German , Italian , French , Jew , light brown and black faces that one would find in the streets and stores of America . Like color , mien , complexion and countenance . Identical ! A mirror image ! Even the names on factories and buildings were nostalgic : IBM , Lilly , Chrysler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , business offices were interchangeable with their U.S. counterparts , industries were busy producing goods , with both white and black // workers tending the machines , blacks and whites in the offices and behind the wheels of big over-the-road diesels . In countless ways , South Africa resembles the American Southwest . There are deserts rich with minerals , mountains with spacious vistas , lush valleys with concentrated agriculture ( very like the San Fernando Valley ) , vineyards with California-like wines , teeming seaports ( Cape Town like San Francisco ) , university towns , resort cities ( Durban like San Diego ) , heavy industrial burgs ( Port Elizabeth like Pittsburgh ) , the financial capital ( Johannesburg like Dallas ) , the political capital ( Pretoria like Washington ) and , finally , their huge national park ( Kruger National Park like Yellowstone ) . Everyone speaks English with a soft British accent , although the national language is Afrikaans , once a Dutch dialect but now grown into a rich language expressing the culture and pride of the dominant white tribe which governs ( some say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be seen , as in Ireland , Lebanon , Czechoslovakia , Angola , and other like civilized and progressive nations . An occasional traffic cop is the only visible specter of authority . The press daily attacks the government for real and fancied grievances . Most of the attacks are in the English language newspapers of the number-two white tribe ( which are read by most foreigners ) while the government is defended in the Afrikaans press , which is generally read only by Afrikaans nationals and thus is not widely reported in the world press ( whose correspondents do not understand Afri 63 kaans and do not read the reports ) . The language maze of the country is further perplexing because of the separate and fully developed languages of the differing black tribes ( Zulu , Xhosa , and some seven other tribes ) , plus the separate language of nearly one million Moslem Indians who , by choice , have established their own segregated communities , much as in the past the Americans , British , French and Germans were wont to do in cultures with alien @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " colored " citizens ( who very much resemble their " colored " counterparts in the U.S. ) have no language of their own and generally speak English and Afrikaans bilingually , their ancestors of some 400 years ago having derived from the Hottentots around Cape Town and Dutch , French and British sailors turned settlers . While there exist the tensions one usually finds in any multiracial society , and which occasionally erupt in riots as in Detroit , Washington , D.C. , and Soweto ( which is not a Bantu word but an English acronym for South West Township ) , the races of the Republic have generally cooperated to build the strongest economic and military power on the African continent . South Africa is an atomic power ( with great reserves of uranium ) , its cargo ships and airlines ply worldwide , its gold currency ( the Krugerrand ) commands a premium in the world market , and it is self-sufficient in agriculture , coal , minerals and virtually self-sufficient in manufactured goods and energy . The country is a tourist 's dream-cometrue , with awesome contrasts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modest to luxurious accommodations ; a highly developed road and car rental system ; fast and dependable passenger trains through an unforgettable countryside , relatively inexpensive but delicious food served in an array of dining establishments , tearooms , coffee houses , grillrooms , hamburger palaces , nightclubs , old world inns and gourmet restaurants tailored to suit the few and the many . Why , with all this going for it , has South Africa been drummed out of polite society as Peck 's Bad Boy ? The answer , of course , is that while South Africa may be in the Communist and Third World doghouse , it is still very much a going concern , feeding its 23 million souls , providing real jobs to its inhabitants , educating its masses and providing for future growth by increasing its industrial plant and its agricultural capacity . So , what 's wrong ? Why is everyone down on this country that otherwise seems to be doing so well ? It mostly has to do with race . White people are associated with colonialism in the collective minds of ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlers in South Africa , over the past 400 years , have fought seven wars to win their freedom from European colonialism as we did in America , to black nationalists all whites are alike , all whites are colonialists and all whites must be expelled from Africa or , at best , tolerated . In the Republic of South Africa there are 4 million whites , 2 million colored , 800,000 Indians , 5 million Zulu , 2 million Xhosa , 3 million north and south Sotho , 2 million Tswana , and 2.5 million in other tribes . The 2.5 million Afrikaans-speaking white South Africans have their roots in agriculture and the small towns . The English-speaking whites , roughly 37% of the white population , came from the urban areas of Britain , bringing to their new motherland the typical lifestyle of British urban-industrial society , which provided a tremendous boost to the country 's manufacturing and commerce . The blacks are as variegated as their 65 governing mechanism for a nation-state , Mr. Qobosa firmly believes that any black rule  --  tribal , military or strong man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind it may be . Last November Mr. Qobosa spoke to a meeting of black " front line " presidents in Botswana ( also attended by Senator Richard Clark of Iowa and a number of black U.S. congressmen ) during which Mr. Qobosa denounced the South African government from apartheid to zebra , all of which was faithfully recorded in the South African press . He then returned home to Johannesburg to continue his strong opposition to white rule . South Africa 's 2 million colored people are represented by the Coloured People 's Representative Council to which they elect their deputies . This body lobbies with Parliament for colored rights and privileges . It also has executive powers to administer education , health services , housing and community development for colored citizens . All monies for colored development provided by the government are handled by this council . In the past , European brothers . The Zulu nation differs as much from the Tswana nation as the French differ from the Italians . While their two languages may have descended from a common early rudimentary speech , each group has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of tribal , clan and kinship affiliations . The homeland of each main group serves as the geopolitical nucleus of that group , the new state of the Transkei being the historical homeland of the Xhosa people . It is this ethnic diversity , still rooted in distinct geographical portions of the country , that provides the basis for the white tribe 's decision to " divide " the country into potentially four or five nation states as their answer to the world 's " majority rule or else " edict . Recently I lunched with Mr. D. Tebehali , Chairman of the Urban Bantu Council of Soweto . Mr. Tebehali holds one of the highest elected offices in South Africa open to blacks . We met at the Three Ships Restaurant in Johannesburg 's swank Carlton Hotel . He brought Mrs. Tebehali along . After talking about his insurance business , the growing affluence of many blacks now entering business or taking over newly opened jobs in industry , I asked him if " majority rule " was a concept he understood and believed must come to South Africa . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and understood what was meant by " majority rule , " but that political principle did not presently apply to Africa , in his opinion . While he thought that many urban blacks who had left their homelands and settled in the cities were permanently uprooted , and that few would return , he did not disparage the government 's homelands policy for he acknowledged that tribalism , not democracy , was still the way of village blacks and he thought well of the government 's intention to provide rural blacks a better life through the decentralization of industry to the homelands and the extension of labor-intensive agriculture to the new black nations . He also expressed the concern of many urban blacks that a flood of unskilled blacks to the cities , without shelter and jobs , would create new conflicts among urban blacks and bring crime to the cities . Mr. Tebehali listed as his priorities economic democracy ( equal pay for equal work ) , social mobility ( one may live where one can afford ) and equal justice ( which he said was much improved for blacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Johannesburg , uncompromising in his total opposition to everything Mr. Tebehali believes , said or stands for , is Percy Qobosa , editor of the all-black newspaper The World . Mr. Qobosa once lived for a time in America and well understands that " majority rule " is a euphemism for " black rule . " Mr. Qobosa is unequivocally for black rule by any black . He freely acknowledges that black rule means tribal rule and that the latter has been imposed on other African nations generally through force , often with open warfare and sometimes by genocide . But with all its deficiencies as a leges they have recently won from the national government . Privately , colored and Indian spokesmen confess they do not see how a minority black tribal government in South Africa could successfully run the highly industrialized civilization that is now the Republic of South Africa without a mass exodus of whites needed to hold the nation 's economic life together , or defend the country from the totalitarian and Marxist countries to the north , who , jealous of the riches developed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese military advisors in their efforts to Balkanize South Africa and thus render it impotent . Besides the non-homeland blacks in urban centers adjacent to the white cities ( and their brethren in the rural areas now and soon to be , constituted as essentially black countries ) , there exist in South Africa tens of thousands of blacks who are natives of former Portuguese Africa and the former British protectorates of Botswana , Lesotho and Swaziland . There are also tens of thousands of blacks who come to South Africa from Zambia ( formerly Northern Rhodesia ) , Zaire ( Belgian Congo ) , Malawi , the Congo Republic and as far away as Nigeria . These black tribesmen work mostly in the mines . They live in barracks and work on contract from six months to a year . The wages of over 100,000 workers from Mozambique are paid to their government in gold ( a head tax which provides this government with a colored persons , in general , have fared better in the cities than have the blacks , and for this reason form a caste , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sharing with the white population the benefits of their industrial society . While I was in Cape Town , a colored regiment returned from the Angolan frontier and was given a hero 's welcome , the colored colonel , with his beret , appearing in all of the town 's papers clasping his welcoming wife in his arms . Indian cadets are now being recruited into the South African Navy , and both the colored and the Indian have first-class universities in which their promising young people are now enrolled . They are free to enter the business community and many are now finding their way into medicine , law and engineering . This is not to say that either the Indian or the colored leadership is satisfied with what they believe is slow progress by the Afrikaans government in sharing with them additional political power ( indeed some colored leaders are actively supporting black activists like Mr. Qobosa ) but most Indian leaders and many colored leaders say they would vote to keep the present government in power , even if they had the franchise to vote , for they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they would be banished from the country ( as was the case with 40,000 Indians in Uganda ) or deprived of many of the privi- substantial part of its foreign exchange ) . So vital is this needed currency to the neighboring developing countries that even the radical Marxist regimes ate loath to break off contact with the Republic . In fact , were it not for the management of South African Railways , the faltering reign in Mozambique could not keep open its principal port of Maputo ( formerly Lourenco Marques ) . The emerging nations of black Africa desperately need to obtain the technology , skills and management know-how which have created the jobs , wealth and social opportunities that now exist in the Republic . What is really needed is a common market of central and south African nations to develop the industrial , agricultural and mineral wealth that organized white-black management and labor can pro duce . The Republic of South Africa is ideally suited to initiate this economic cooperation . If the United States can contain further Soviet takeovers in central Africa , it is possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with central African black presidents ( preferably through its own colored and black representatives ) an initial 10-year treaty . The treaty would have something in it for all participants . The South African Republic would receive diplomatic recognition and a surcease from active hostility to its governance , calling for black nationalists of central Africa to recognize ( at least temporarily ) the two white tribes as the de jure government in South Africa . In return , the white tribes would guarantee their own brown and black fellow tribesmen greater economic and social democracy and equal justice under the law . Further , the white tribes would assure substantial " foreign aid " in the form of grants , investments , managerial skills and technology to help the central African black nations create an economic infrastructure , leading to more real jobs for their burgeoning populations which otherwise threaten to run amok if they are not fed and housed . It would be a tricky business , a white South African tribe dealing with often mutually hostile black central Africantribesmen in a world suspicious that anything good could ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some adverse historical perspectives from which to judge the potential success of this venture ( to their dismay ) if they were to review some 200 years of treaty-making between the U.S. government and various American Indian tribes . The remnants of these red peoples are now to be found on certain reservations , better not referred to as homelands . But in truth , the South African government seems better positioned to accomplish a rapprochement with black neighboring countries than did a 19th-century expansionist United States with its Indian and Mexican neighbors ( " 54 , 40 ? or fight , ' ! " Remember the Alamo , " etc . ) The white tribes of South Africa need the friendship and the labor of the black tribes . The black tribes need the expertise and the nation-building know-how of the white tribes . Somehow , it seems both a buyer 's and a seller 's market . A central and south African common market is 180 degrees in the opposite direction from which we are presently headed . Many profess to see in South Africa a neocolonial relic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anachronism in the new African dispensation . It is true that white South Africans and their culture had their origin in the nations of Western Europe . But having achieved their own distinctive nationhood , they do not think of themselves as a branch of the European family marooned or exiled in Africa . Rather , they see themselves as one of the ethnic nations of Africa . They believe themselves to be as much entitled to a national existence as those nations in Continued on page 69 is a main crossroad of the seas : 51% of all merchandise transported by ship sails around the Cape ; the same applies to more than 60% of the oil consumed in Europe , and 73% of the strategic material used by NATO . Consequently , the power which controls the Cape and especially the harbor of Simonstown will also , to a large extent , determine maritime trade . To this comes the possibility of raw materials ' blackmail . Today Southern Africa is the only part of the black continent where there are still enormous natural reserves in hands which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collapse of the regimes in Southern Africa will inevitably lead to a takeover by the communists and to control by the USSR . This has patiently been prepared through decades by the work of the African Division of the Soviet Academy of Sciences . Among the black people in Rhodesia and in South West Africa , probably even in South Africa , there is an impressive majority who think reasonably . They do not like the white preponderance . They know however that their fate would be infinitely worse if the present ruling system was replaced by a Soviet regime . The black people are much better informed concerning Angola and Mozambique than our European ideologues . They know that in Angola , after the communists took over , 250,000 persons were assassinated , while the number of dead in Mozambique has already passed the 300,000 mark . The white residents can usually return to the country of their ancestors ; the blacks have to stay on the spot and face the music . The U.N . refuses to listen to the moderate spokesmen of the black nations . The international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as sole representative of his people , and demands that one should negotiate only through him . The West , on the other hand , is much too cowardly to support the moderate elements . This international imbalance leads to tragedy since it brings that Soviet neocolonialism compared to which the worst misdeeds of the 19th century are venial sins . Today it would still be possible to achieve a reasonable settlement with moderate blacks . If , however , the present attitude continues , it will soon be too late . Despite everything that is being said , there can be a fruitful negotiation if only the West is ready to reject the monopoly of the U.N.-favored Marxist " liberation movements , " which refuse free elections . Sam Nujoma for South West Africa , Tambo for South Africa , Mugabe and Nkomo for Rhodesia are not genuine spokesmen of their nations . They would , given a chance , be no less bloody oppressors than Agostinho Neto in Angola , or Samora Machel in Mozambique , and would , all of them , be only puppets in the hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              