@@480116

Ho tin YOU like for president of the next constitutional convention Sam Ervin or Archibald Cox ? Take your time deciding , but do not take too long ; the drive for a convention to require a balanced budget is bearing in on Washington . Officials there are hurrying to avoid it , but the thirty-fourth state could call for a convention within months . Then Congress would have to decide what to do about it , and the stakes could not he higher . The call for a balanced budget has been raised to draw official Washington 's attention finally to taxes , inflation , and a rising sense that government is out of control . It is a summary complaint against the growth of government , reflecting a basic insight that getting and spending , along with regulation , are the heart of public policy . It steps over piecemeal issues , and the demand for constitutional amendment underscores the seriousness of the complaint. * The states have petitioned for a balanced budget , but limiting government spending is more nearly the matter . " Balanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' terms , but on the federal level even higher taxes to balance government spending is the last thing advocates want . Another scheme ? perhaps more sensible ? would tie annual spending to increases * Article V. " The Congress , whenever two thirds of both Houses shall deem it necessary , shall propose Amendments to this Constitution , or , on the Application of the Legislatures of two thirds of the several States , shall call a Convention for proposing Amendments , which , in either Case , shall be valid to all intents and Purposes , as Part of this Constitution , when ratified by the Legislatures of three fourths of the several States , or by Conventions in three fourths thereof , as the one or the other Mode of Ratification may be proposed by the Congress . " in the gross national product . Both ideas are enormously popular . In July , 1978 , a Gallup survey found 81 percent polled favoring an amendment requiring a balanced budget , though the figure slipped to 70 percent in an AP/NBC poll last February . And a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favoring a cut in spending over a tax cut . Yet people are realistic : 70 percent doubted politicians will work to balance the budget . Americans still display overwhelming support for the Constitution . At the same time . there is widespread disaffection and a sense of distance from government . The Harris poll found alienation from politics has doubled in a decade . Most believe the American condition is worse now than in the past , and they also feel things will not improve . For the first time , there is personal pessimism as well ; a majority now feel that their personal situations will deteriorate in the future , along with the country as a whole . And they pin the blame on Washington . Fewer have confidence in the central government than in state and local governments , and confidence levels are lower overall for governmental than for private institutions ? except for organized labor , which is distrusted as much as the federal government . The states have applied to Congress hundreds of times before , for a wide range of amendments , but this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power and the emergence of a national press , the vectors of cultural and political innovation seemed clear : elite to mass , Washing . ton to hinterland , figurative center to periphery . But now , out of nowhere ? nut of state legislatures , of all places ? comes this vulgar threat to the American mandarinate . What passes for leadership of the movement comes from something called the National Taxpayers Union , although a Maryland state senator , James Clark , has also been pushing the idea with other state legislators since 1974 . Ben Martin teaches politics at the University of Missouri at Kansas City . 26 Since the Supreme Court has held that no individual taxpayer has standing to sue Congress over spending from the general treasury , the drive to limit spending constitutionally amounts to a grand , political class-action suit by taxpayers . The convention mode is the closest thing there is in the Constitution to the techniques Of popular initiative and referendum , reflecting popular distrust of political establishments . State legislators calling for a balanced budget are seen in Washington as traitors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their big brothers at the national level and making them look bad . Accordingly , the first response in the capital was to threaten to shut off the federal money spigot to the states and localities : you want less spending , goodbye revenue sharing . This has had a sobering effect : state governors are already complaining about punitive blackmail from Washington . Liberal Democrats generally oppose , in increasing order of ferocity : requiring a balanced budget ; doing it by constitutional amendment ; and doing that in another constitutional convention . Republicans in Washington also oppose a convention , but favor a bal. anced budget and are moving toward the method of amendment . The House Republican Policy Committee endorsed both a constitutionally required balanced budget and a limit on federal spending last spring , but party leaders in both chambers oppose another convention . Jerry Brown of California is trying to ride the west wind by supporting all three , while Jimmy Carter of Washington opposes them . Brown 's embrace of Proposition 13 last year assured his reelection as governor , but his support for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at least in the party of governinent subsidy . He has little support among the union leaders , Democratic regulars , and political activists who are more liberal than the rank-and-file but who dominate the party 's organization . They have little love for Carter and may pine for Kennedy , but Brown 's endorsement of a balanced-budget amendment is considered heresy and may have disqualified him even as stalking horse for Kennedy . T HE NATIONAL PRESS has treated the taxpayers ' revolt from the beginning as an outlandish oddity more dangerously re-actionary than stock-car racing , but about as bizarre . It has received only grudging recognition as a genuinely popular trend and still is not designated as a fully respectable movement . Episodic coverage of the drive for another constitutional convention gave way early this year to a rash of press stories pronouncing it " sputtering " and tying it to Jerry Brown , whom the revisionists were then transforming from a serious candidate into a guru on safari . By siding with the taxpaying majority , Brown forfeited his greatest political asset ? the willingness of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his shallowness and naked ambition . President Carter has avoided that mistake , which should aid his renomination but could jeopardize his reelection . He opposes legally requiring a balanced budget , on the advice of Charles Schultze , chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers , who says it would prevent the government from fighting recessions and would be impossible to administer . This reflects the countercyclical economic notion on which fiscal policy supposedly has been set for nearly twenty years , in which deficits during recession years are , in theory , offset by surpluses in boom years to produce steady growth without accumulating deficits . The trouble is that the surpluses in the good years have not been tried . The last small surplus was in 1969 , and inflation remains chronic , which allows government the luxury of ever-increasing revenues without the messiness of a tax increase . Spending is politically profitable ; taxing is not . Inflation conveniently pushes taxpayers into higher brackets , even when purchasing power declines , and tax revenues increase automatically . Spending can then rise , illusory " tax cuts " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can grow . In the past twenty-five years , the proportion of the income of the average American family taken in taxes has doubled . Federal , state , and local taxes now take more than a third of the net national product . Where does it all go ? Neu-Keynesian theory helps justify government spending to stimulate demand , but it says nothing about who the payers and payees ought to be . Liberal Democratic social theory and constituency interests provide the answer : they should be different people . In the 1970s , for the first time in our history , the primary business of the central government became the transfer of income among individuals . Those in the upper half of adjusted gross incomes ( above $8,931 in 1975 ) paid ninety-three percent of all the personal income taxes collected by the Internal Revenue Service , while purposeful transfer programs accounted for more than half of all the spending . This has created a growing class of permanent government dependents who see their subsidies as entitlements and who , together with public bureaucrats , provide vital support for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to require a balanced budget are an attempt to check the growth of the share of the national income taken by government . Some think an amendment that limits spending would accomplish that more directly , since taxes could be raised to balance any budget . The National Tax Limitation Committee , led by Milton Friedman. has proposed an amendment to Congress that would limit federal spending hikes to increases in the GNP . with a downward adjustment for inflation that would give politicians an incentive for reducing inflation rather than increasing it , as at present . in practice , both ideas , balancing budgets and limiting spending , might tend to have the same effects . Taxpayers ' complaints would slow the rise in taxes ? and therefore spending ? a bit if balanced budgets were required ; and inflation-swollen taxes would quickly rise enough to balance the budget if spending were limited by law . Both amendments contain escape clauses that would free spending in case of national emergency , but neo-Keynesian economists and President Carter ? still claim they are insufficiently flexible to fight recessions . Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limitations . Like locked liquor cabinets , they are intended to prevent larceny and intemperance in those we mistrust . Washington is a conglomerate of subgovernments ? eoteries of Congressmen and their staffs , bureaucrats , and lobbyists ? concerned with different policy areas . Each of these iron triangles serves itself and its constituents in the short term , and the logrolling among them produces total spending and policy outcomes of unexpected proportions . The sluice points monitored by party leadership , the Congressional Budget Committees , and the Office of Management and Budget are unable to check the great flow of policy and spending . The proposed amendments to control the budget , are appropriately , determinedly constitutional , to govern profligate impulses when self-discipline is absent and resolution inadequate . D EMOCRATS IN Congress want to give resolution another try . The defeat of many liberal Democrats last November and the threat of the constitutional convention have been instructive . Suddenly , many are for a balanced budget ? but not by constitutional amendment . And few are willing to risk another convention . Democrats have lost five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's election ; however . most members can rely on their anonymity and the advantages of office they have bought themselves to assure reelection . The most worried are those deficit spenders in the Senate who feasted on the spoils of Watergate in 1974 , but who now must face a less distracted electorate : Gary Hart of Colorado , Patrick Leahy of Vermont , John Durkin of New Hampshire . John Culver , George McGovern , Frank Church , Birch Bayh . They are getting their campaigns started earlier than usual , putting distance between themselves and Carter , and hoping the voters overlook the unbalanced budget in favor of all the water projects they 've lugged into their states . But fiscal 1981 is the year the Congressional Budget Committees are planning a balanced budget , for the first time in more than a decade , though only after another $23-billion deficit in fiscal 1980. the fruit of Carter 's " austerity . " They may make it , too , because inflation is pushing tax receipts so high so fast that the 1981 budget could be balanced with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $15 billion . That would meet Carter 's campaign promise of 1976 , but Congressional leaders are also hoping the promise of a balanced budget in just a couple of years will reduce pressure on state legislatures for another constitutional convention . In 1980 , it would remain only that ? a promise ? but that is probably the best the Democrats can do . President Carter has called the proposal for a second convention " extremely dangerous , " citing fears that it might throw out the Bill of Rights and undermine civil liberties , a curious reaction from a candidate who only wanted to make the government as good as the American people . But opponents believe that the American people would not be represented at another convention : it would be dominated by special interests . If another convention were called , Congress would try to restrict its deliberations to the budget amendment , although most legal scholars doubt the validity of such an attempt . Prof. Charles Black of Yale Law School feels the framers intended the Congressional method for piecemeal amendment and the convention mode only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general revision was necessary . All the state applications for a balanced-budget amendment have limited their call specifically to that subject , and some have called for a convention only if Congress fails to initiate such an amendment : but , once gathered . the delegates could argue convincingly that they were entitled to set their own agenda , and such a runaway assembly is the stunning possibility that mesmerizes everyone . At the furthest edge of plausibility , the delegates could propose drastic changes for the Constitution and also try to change the ratification procedure , as the first convention in Philadelphia did in 1787 . Whatever amendments another convention produced , the Congress might claim the right to refuse to submit them to the states . But whatever that outcome , three-fourths of the states must still ratify them to become part of the Constitution , and it is hard to imagine any attempts to avoid that last requirement . This provision , which no one has suggested changing , should assuage any reasonable fears about a wide-open convention , for any amendment that thirty-eight states approved could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ casual for any amendment from now on , after the cautionary tale of the ERA. w E SHOULD ADMIT that the first Constitution is moribund . Except for a few institutions ? the dominant federal structure is not one of them the original Constitution is largely irrelevant to contemporary public affairs . It set a framework for government on principles widely shared by Americans in the eighteenth century , still held by the majority today . but long abandoned by our governors . From the Mayflower Compact through the Articles of Confederation , Americans relied upon written fundamental laws to establish , but just as importantly to limit , government . The Constitution was written to correct the inadequacies of the Articles primarily in defense and foreign affairs , for which the new central government was allowed to finance itself . The commerce and currency clauses were intended to prevent state regulation and paper money . The Bill of Rights was intended as a further check on the central government , although it has become a license for central control . Federalism is obliterated now , of course . State and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , dependent upon revenue carrots and submissive to the stick that inevitably followed . There are few domains left now for which federal action is unprecedented . Central government expansion has been driven through every opening in the first Constitution . The antifederalists were right . The Constitution 's careful separation of powers has been wrecked by the growth of Presidential initiative and Congressional delegation to the bureaucracy . The least accountable arms of central government , bureaucracy and the courts , govern most freely . What began as a Constitution of states ' and private rights has been turned into a cornucopia of powers . Building a collectivist state in this century has required demolition of the classical liberal values of the Constitution . Redistribution and regulation have required progressive assaults on property , and an antibourgeois animus has driven the architects of our new constitutional order . The new premises 28 of public policy have turned taxpayers ' money into " public funding " or " federal spending . " Senator Kennedy has criticized the " blank check for all the spending programs contained in the Internal Revenue Code @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government lets you keep should not be regarded as " yours , " rather as a boon from Washington . Senator McGovern described Californians voting for Proposition 13 as " degrading hedonists . " Today 's rebellion is another middleclass reassertion of the legitimacy of the inherited order , as was the original Revolution . Tax rebels today would agree with the revolutionary aim of John Adams : " I say again that resistance to innovation and the unlimited claims of Parliament , and not any new form of government , was the object of the Revolution . " Most of the values underlying that Revolution and the Constitution were found in the thought of John Locke , who distinguished between occasional violations of natural law inevitable under any form of government and chronic violations constituting a " long train of abuses , prevarications , and artifices " marking degeneration into tyranny , against which rebellion became a right , even a duty . Liberty was conceived as freedom from alien dictation , freedom from government , and American conditions seemed so neatly to confirm Locke 's views that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expect and accept social change , but primarily outside politics and not as a sweeping purpose of government . They generally support the Lockean emphasis on private property as crucial to individual liberty , and they value achievement still . It is no wonder that mounting redistribution and regulation have evoked today Jefferson 's charge against King George III , that " he has erected a multitude of New Offices , and sent hither swarms of Officers to harass our People . and eat out their substance . " W ASHINGTON IS mobilizing to avoid another constitutional convention . The Congress has been alternately soothing the states with promises of a balanced budget by 1981and threatening them with cuts in revenue sharing . Senator Bayh 's Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution has been holding hearings on an amendment , and others are on in the House . President Carter has set up a squad of staff members from the White House and the Office of Management and Budget to pressure governors and legislative leaders in key " battlefront " states not to call for a convention . It is cooperating with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together by Lt. Gov . Thomas P. O'Neill 111 of Massachusetts to lobby against a convention , backed in turn by labor unions , civil-rights groups , and publicinterest groups . Congress might try to get by with some general resolution for fiscal responsibility , hoping that will stem the tide . Or it might propose a balancedbudget amendment itself , hoping that thirty-eight states will not ratify it after they realize that balancing is not the same as controlling spending . Nearly the most dangerous move , from liberal Democrats ' perspective , would be a Congressional amendment to tie annual spending to increases in the GNP . This makes more sense than a balanced-budget requirement and comes closest to satisfying tax rebels . Democrats in Congress have resisted efforts to set ground rules of a convention by law . Such a law would set the time , place , delegate-selection , and voting procedures and try to set the issue to be considered . Delegates would probably be elected in House districts , with seats at large from each state . If the thirty-fourth state applied quickly enough and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selection at the same time as the 1980 elections , so they could get double duty from their campaign funds and organization . That timing would probably help offset the damage to Democrats if the elections of delegates were on a separate ballot , formally nonpartisan , and decided by the issue . In any case , the advantages of Washington incumbents in such elections would be so great that Congress might be forced to set the size of the convention at , say , twice that of the Electoral College , instead of just one from each district and two from each state . This would still be an assembly of just under 1,100 and would make iteasier for Ralph Nader , Cesar Chavez , and William Buckley to join the crowd . Contemporary liberals warn that reactionaries ? meaning classic liberals who still like the values of the first Constitution ? would dominate a new convention . But it is just as likely that leftist groups already strong enough to have entrenched themselves in Washington would be able to lake over a convention as well . Unions , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and managerial symbolspecialists who took over the Democratic party in 1972 , should do quite well with their organizational and polemical talents . Even if they dominated the convention and enshrined in the Constitution the new politics they have imposed in this century , we would gain a lot just in having the current philosophy of American public affairs set out explicitly . Another convention , with all its possibilities , would force a great shaking-out of American politics . Its drama would cut through the layers of mass apathy and focus popular attention on the fundamental political questions . It would force Americans to consider the kind of people we have become , and the society and government we prefer . It would allow a genuinely New Foundation , if desired . The proximate issue , controlling government spending , is not some fiscal technicality ; it reflects a growing desperation among the governed . The political appeal of the New Deal model ? our current constitutional order ? has lain in its promise to each voter to take from and control other people for his benefit . But as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans have realized that they are now those other people , more often targets of state action than beneficiaries ; yet the machinery of regulation and redistribution seems impervious to individual aspiration . Another convention would force Americans to recall the values of the first Constitution and consider how we have changed as a nation . It would allow a recalculation of the costs of dependence upon government and the benefits of individual responsibility and voluntary public spirit . Another convention could offer perhaps a last chance to make sure we have the government we deserve .                     