@@488032

Mr. King , a reporter on the Louisville Courier Journal &; Times , has written extensively about the penal systems of Ife-nucky and Indiana . In the mid-1960s , three bloody riots exploded at the Indiana Girls ' School , the state 's reform school for delinquent , 14 girls , , just outside Indianapolis . Television newsmen and newspaper reporters came from outside the state to record 1 " scenes of teen-age girls running about the institution in a frenzy , hurling rocks at windows , being clubbed in reprisal , screaming  --  and bleeding . The Hoosiers were chagrined . It was an ugly portrait of 44 their state . After years of neglect by the legislature , the school 's budget was fattened . Three new dormitories were - built , a new recreation building and a central kitchen were added , and money was made available to hire competent , professional staff . Over the next five years , the girls ' school became the gem of the Indiana Department of Correction , and cooperation flourished between inmates and staff . Today , most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own accord on Sunday evenings . It is an accepted truth among inmates of penal institutions that riot begets reform , that often a violent confrontation within the high walls is required to bring deplorable conditions to the attention of an apathetic public , and to force examination of practices that have gone unquestioned - for decades . Reform , in- turn , often encourages a return to public apathy , which provides the setting for violence to flare anew . This cycle of violence , reform and apathy runs through the histories of most state prison systems in the country , and the path to progress and reform in these systems is almost invariably studded ' with bleak moments of cruelty and killing . In recent years , Indiana 's penal system has churned through the cycle twice , and may well be headed for a third round . The girls ' school riots of the mid-1960s led to a brief era of reform , which was followed two years ago by a shooting at the state 's reformatory that has led to the most important period of reform in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the autumn of 1969 , eight guards and a plumber employed at the Indiana Reformatory in Pendleton , a maximum-security prison for men under 30 , opened fire with riot guns on a group of inmates who were lying down on the reformatory parade ground in a protest against prison conditions . Two inmates died and forty-five others were wounded , some of them seriously . The shooting occasioned investigations by a Madison County grand jury , the U.S. Civil Rights Commission , and a federal grand jury that returned indictments this spring against the nine who fired the guns , charging that they deprived inmates of their civil rights . The maximum penalty for that offense is life imprisonment . One of the nine pleaded guilty to the charges in August and is awaiting sentencing . The other eight are scheduled to go on trial October 26 in Indianapolis . Several weeks after the Pendleton shooting , two inmates made use of the services of the Indiana Civil Liberties Union ( ICLU ) to bring suit against Warden George Phend , Commissioner of Correction Robert P. Heyne and Gov . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on behalf of all Pendleton inmates , charged that the system of internal discipline at the reformatory ( similar to operations at most other prisons in the country ) consistently violated their civil rights . Instead of fighting the suit , Phend and Heyne invited ICLU Director Craig Pinkus and his associates to come in and tell them exactly what they were doing wrong . Meetings between Pendleton staff members and ICLU representatives went on for several months . ' When they were over , the discipline system of the reformatory , one of the most traditional aspects of - any American prison , had been drastically altered . Today , inmates accused of a violation of prison rules are allowed to call witnesses and question them when they are brought before the Conduct Adjustment Committee , or prison " court . " Before , this basic court right was unheard of at Pendleton . Prior to the ICLU talks , accused prisoners had been routinely thrown into a special detention area  --  often solitary confinement , known as " the hole " ? until the Conduct Adjustment Committee was ready to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were given a hearing . ( " Here , we 're guilty until proven innocent , " said one inmate a year and a half ago . ) Now the accused remain in the general population of the prison . Another important change in procedure bars the guard ' who accuses an inmate from sitting on the court that tries him . In the past , an inmate 's accuser could sit on his jury , a practice that is still followed in many American prisons . Since the ICLU talks , every inmate found guilty of a breach of prison discipline is immediately advised of ap peals procedures . Also , when the Conduct Adjustment Committee reaches a decision by a split vote , that vote is announced . It used to be kept a secret , lest the prisoners detect chinks in the armor . The Conduct Adjustment Committee periodically reviews the cases of inmates locked in special detention areas , to determine when they are to be returned to the general populatidn of the prison . Since the ICLU talks , inmates are allowed to represent themselveg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that guards be required to discuss infractions with inmates before reporting them to the Conduct Adjustment Committee . " This is what the more experienced guards do , " said ICLU Director Pinkus . " But the inexperienced guards often just write a man up without trying to talk ' to him and work things out . " Officials hope this change will reduce tensions and the number of cases that must be tried before the " court , " and ultimately be an effective way to discover what causes some inmates to be ; . habitual violators of prison rules . Early this year , top officials of the Indiana Department of Correction , encouraged by the success of the ICLU talks and convinced that the Pendleton shooting had 4. armed them with compelling evidence that more reform was needed , went to the 1971 legislature for help . Before the legislature adjourned this spring , it enacted two major reforms . First , the Department of Correction was given authorization to plan and build a network of regional , community-based treatment centers that may eventually replace much of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 70 per cent of those locked up in restrictive prisons and reform schools should not be there either for their own safety or for that of the public . The regional treatment centers will be designed to provide a variety of treatment programs for these offenders within or near their home communities . Second , the department was reorganized to clarify lines of authority and to give tenure to all positions except that of commissioner . In the past , top jobs were traditionally filled by political appointees with little or no experience of correction work . The new legislation sets professional qualifications ' for the top officials in the department ( including the wardens and superintendents ) and insures that the jobs will be filled by professionals and not passed out as post-election political plums . Despite the success of the ICLU talks and the new legislation , a good many correction workers in Indiana remain unconvinced . They point out that the reformatory at Pendleton is still badly overcrowded , and that many men must double up in single cells . Most of the reformatory inmates spend their time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are n't even enough of those jobs to go around . On any given day , a third of the inmates may be milling about their cell areas with nothing to do . The superintendent of the Indiana Boys ' School estimates that the 1,200 boys who are sent there each year are ty , ro to three times the number that the school should handle . Most of the Department of ' Correction staff is paid less than laborers get in local industry , and 80 per cent of them are involved with custody  --  simply watching  --  as opposed to the 20 per cent in treatment programs and administration . And , say the disgruntled correction workers , although the department got reform legislation , it did n't get any money to expand salaries or programs . For decades , the Indiana Department of Correction has been the most poorly financed agency of state government , but the 1971 legislature did not increase its share of the tax dollar . What bothers correction workers even more is the way the new reforms were obtained . Few believe that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their needs if blood had not been spilled in the halls of the girls ' school and on the parade ground at Pendleton . And they have a nagging fear that the reforms gained over the past few years will salve the public 's conscience and again ease the voters into apathy . Then it is anybody 's guess what new moment of ugly violence will be required to rekindle public commitment to the arduous task of making the penal system humane and effective .                     