@@493821

has interfered M human affairs . He has counseled the narrator through several thousand years of previous incar ? nations It is now past IVO , and things look bad . The Flounder , who represents a sort of civilizing impulse which has both its good and its sinister aspects , feels he has been advising the wrong ex . Letting himself be caught again , this time by a woman , he allows himself to be tried on charges of criminal chauvinism by a Tribunal of women to whom the narrator makes love in his present incarnation , and who remind him of women he has loved in his past lives . The nine months of the trial have both ontogenic and phylogeno reference , and correspond to the nine months of his wife 's pregnancy as well as to nine phases of human development during which he has previously hued . While the futureis waiting to be born , the Tribunal fights over the fate of the enigmatic fish , who , throughout history has whispered into the rather dull male ear about fatherhood , property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not been alone in misunderstanding him Some of the women of the Tribunal sympathize with the Flounder . Others form an extremist group bent on his destruction . ion . Like Eichrnann , he is tried in a glass cage built against terrorist attack . But the Flounder most also be protected against the smoke-filled air . The sea , we are told , is so contaminated that his further survival m it is uncer ? tain . Meanwhile the narrator and his wife fight : about the dishwasher , about his infidelities , about vacations. about her pregnancy . The future IS very much in doubt . That future rests , literally , in embryo , in the women who themselves face doubtful times . Female status is one of Grass 's maw themes , as he shows the matriarchal primacy of pre-history gradually distorted by men under Chris ? tian laws of marriage and male politics . Grass 's women remain very strong , both physically and morally , but he suggests that this strength is in teopar ? dy . Women have begun to imitate male weakness and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with nurture , the one activity which gives any hope for human survival . If this sounds rather sexist , I think Grass would happily admit that , of course . it is . Up to now he has had every right to be a man dependent on women , the cooks who have fed the species through the centuries Weaned from total dependence on her , the man of the stone age is given roast elk by the proto ? mother , Awa . Her daughters learn how to cook roots , use herbs , raise geese and get the most from a potato . While men explore the globe and write poetry , women discover how to add political revenge to the stuffing in a calf 's head , and make beef-bone soup an instrument of mental health . Several of the men . including the narrator in some of his past live , are historical figures , like Bishop Ada lbert who brought Christianity to Prussia . and Count Rumford from Massachusetts , who created many ingenious gadgets , in ? cluding the drip coffee-pot . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts which the men act out They are the imagined muses and mistresses of men who Indeed took part t he Renaissance and the Reformation , who created Romanticism and Socialism And there he s the book 's one problem : as women to m , so fiction here is subservient to history . The spell that turned recent events to metaphor in Thr Ttn Drum is missing from The Flounder . And though Dorothea , the High Gothic neurotic , and Billy , the gentle , bullied lesbian , are wonderful creations , they only underline the fact that this is not a In our post-Nixon era living in the shadow of a supposed Imperial Presiden ? cy , we both fear the coming of a great leader , and yearn for him . Jimmy Carter on the 1976 election in part because he seemed to embody our ambiguous wishes : he promised political revitaliza ? tion , and yet his folksy ways allayed our fears that he might turn into another Caesar . His first two years as president show how difficult it has been to reconcile our contradictory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways Political scientists talk darkly of a " crisis of leadership " James MacGregor Burns has been studying leadership for decades . His first volume on Franklin a Roosevelt . Roosevelt : the Lion and the Foe ( 1956 ) , for example , included a " Note on the Study linedeleted For the world which Grass sees here is too apocalyptic to nourish any comfor ? table fiction . " Thunder-hurling hairsplitters , ' he scornfully calls men . But his women are also not reassuring : the most maternal , plumped up like pillows . are figments of infantile fan ? tasy , while the women of today look like shadows of their own past ; they have become petty and petulant . Still , at least the narrator himself now knows how to cook . His shoulder of mutton is in ? strumental in his wife 's pregnancy . There may be hope that between the two of them , the world will still go on But a better hope , perhaps . lies w the fact that in the narrator 's equivocation between sexist and liberal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is abundant wit and deep Irony . This is an extraordinary book ; a dialectic of sexual supremacy which makes for dense reading . But the rewards are much too considerable to miss Ed1/1 , Millen Is a novelist and short-story writer of Political Leadership , " which briefly foreshadowed the theme of his present magisterial work : that leadership most be understood as a reciprocal relation between leader and led , personality and culture . In his RoosnAt he wrestled with questions of power and morality . In Leadershto he is still passionately engaged with these questions , still quoting Machiavelli. but now with evident disapproval In place of the amoral Prince ( the imperial president ? ) , he seeks to offer some " generalizations about the leadership process across cultures and across time , " which culminate in an intellectual validation of the need for and the possibility ? nay , the promise ? of truly moral , yet effec- tive , leadership . Burns believes that generalizations about leadership are now possible because of the intellectual breakthrough provided by humanistic psychology , which allows for transcultural asset @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his generalizations on Abraham Maslow 's theory of the hierarchy of needs , and Lawrence Kohlberg 's theories of moral stages These theories embolden Burns to cceive of leadership as the actualizing byon the leader of the increasingly higher needs and moral goals of his followers , rather than as mere power wielding . Burns 's leader does not merely act upon his followers : his leader and the led are reciprocally connected . Conflict among leaders . between leader and followers , and among followers is essential in order to generate meaningful social change . At different tones , leaders become followers , and followers , leaders . " The essence of leadership in any polity , " Burns summarizes for us at one point , is the recognition of real need , the uncovering and exploiting of contradic ? tions among values and between values and practice , the realizing of values , the reorganization of institutions where necessary , and the governance of change . " Moral leadership ? the only kind of leadership Burns allows ? takes two basic forms , transformational and trans ? actional . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a higher need and moral stage . Burns 's examples are Gandhi and Mao . Transac ? tional leadership is based on exchange : for example . " jobs for votes , subsidies for campaign contributions . " The relationship is ephemeral , leaders and followers are not bound together in " a mutual and continuing pursuit of a higher purpose . " Most politicians in democratic systems are transactional leaders . Franklin D. Roosevelt seems to be in the middle of Burns 's two type , A Hitler falls out of Burns , scheme completely , he is a were tyrant , a power wielder . In a long section . Burns expands his analysis of the types of transforming leadership ? intellectual , reform and revolutionary ? and discusses charismatic heroes and ideologues . There are brilliant vignettes of Woodrow Wilson , Lenin , Mao , Joan of Arc , and the Mandi of the Sudan , among others . Another large segment of the book is devoted to detailing the nature and history of transactional leadership : here opinion leaders , bureaucrats , small group , party , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's analytic and historical power . Burns is especially good on the history of com ? parative political parties . and is equally at home with English , French , American and Russian materials . In aconcluding section on " Im- plications Theory and Practice , ' " Burns restates his generalizations and sum ? marizes his position . Rational decision-making , he seems to be saying , is simply not possible the multiplicity of forces , the range and the difficulty of es ? tablishing facts , the personality of the leader , etc. impose an unwieldy reality on the ideal . The leader can not be a simulated computer he must use his intuition , his rnisathy , " to comprehend and to respond to the cognitive and emotional structures of needs and the values that lie behind them . " Mao leading his followers through two stages of need and moral change , is Burns 's example here . ( Burns does not discuss the most recent vicissitudes of the Cultural Revolution and China 's move away from Mao 's " intuitive " approach . ) For Burns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become almost inseparable " The measure of a great leader is that he intend lasting change and embody it in institutions . The measure of great leadership is that it really up1:11 people . Moral fervor and earnestness pervade Burns 's book , but Burns has a sure grasp on the tangled reality of political life and embeds his moral intensity in masterly and wise descriptions and analyses of real leaders and leadership situations . Still , Burns 's effort to do justice to a wide range of psychological , sociological and political approaches to the study of leadership has led to an over-long book , which at times reads like an introduc ? tory textbook in its subjects . In fact , it will undoubtedly become a standard text in political science courses . Nevertheless , it is far more than a text ; it is a fundamental statement on the nature and causes of leadership , and possibly the best general work now extant on that subject This said , we face certain problems . The first is Burns 's psychological base , on which he places so much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a solid and sufficient ground for universal generalizations about leadership , them theories underlie his assertion that only moral leadership deserves to be calle , ; leadership . This is certainly an attractiv. ? proposition . Many psychologists . however , are dubious about Maslow ' . and Kohlberg 's stage theories . Some , a the Piaget persuasion , are less willing ti discount cultural differences as the chile . moves through the presumed stages ot moral development . Others wonder whether it is an imposed morality , i.e. , a kind of Western imperialism requiring moral , as well as material , progress for the lesser breeds . I can only record such doubts , I do not know enough to resolve them . Another problem concerns Burns 's treatment of Freudian psychology . Though ostensibly sympathetic , he appears to neglect most of the recent developments in that field . Like many others , Burns seems to think that psychoanalysis still insists on offering rigid , general statements , universal in nature , rather than forcing us to ask particular psychological questions . In fact , psychoanalysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory , Erikson and Rapaport , Jacobson and Guntrip , Kohut and Kernberg are some of the developments and names to be conjured with Contemporary psychoanalysis does n't claim that all children undergo Oedipal or identity conflicts ; it asks , is there evidence for this particular child , in this particular culture , having had such a conflict , and with what outcome ? Burns quite rightly notes that early psychoanalysis overemphasized the early years ; he believes , mistakenly , that it continues , even in the guise of psychohistory , to neglect the effect of political learning , successes and failures . He deals wisely , in a paragraph , with sex as need ; he is not interested in the notion that sex , or rather libido , is important in political studies primarily in terms of such concepts as displace- ment and transference . Now Burns under no obligation to be a Freud an ! for most readers , quite the contrary . The Freudian Issue is worth raising here because 0 points to a larger question : how adequate is Burns 's picture of human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the early 20th century insisted on the fundamental importance of this ques ? tion for politicalscience Harold Las well from the 1930s on has led in probing this issue . In many ways Burns is a fulfillment of this tradition . He is dealing with the fundamental question of politics : human motives and needs . In following Maslow and Kohlberg , however , he appears to be staying mainly on the surface , only or over- concerned with cognitive processes and morality . The darker motives of the unconscious life are largely ignored . Does this have important consequences for his views of leadership ? A look at his treatment of Adolf Hitler poses the issue squarely . For Burns , Hitler is as a leader . ( There is a nice irony in denying this title to the self - proclaimed Fiihrer . ) Hitler is merely a tyrant , a power wielder . Such an at ? titude appeals to our moral instincts . But does it serve the intentions of political science , our need for the deepest un ? derstanding even of that which we dislike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " motives and goals . . to appeal to those motives by words and action ... to make conscious what liesunconscious among foil " L t tG g St early follower of Hitler : " Hitler responds to the vibration of the human heart with the delicacy of a seismograph. or perhaps of a wireless receiving set , enabling him , with a certainty with which noconscious gift could endow him , to act as a loudspeaker proclaiming the most secret desires , the least ad ? missible instincts , the sufferings , and personal revolts of a whole nation . His words go like an arrow to their target , he touches each private wound on the raw , liberating the mass un ? conscious , expressing its innermost aspirations , telling it what it most wants to hear . " We may nor like what Hitler liberated in the unconscious of his followers , but they certainly thought he was leading them out of a depressed , defeated state in a direction they wished to go . He did not merely coerce therm an extraordinary number of Germans followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly not moue ) leadership , according to Burns 's and my standards . But motives are mixed , people have dif ferent values and nations have varied goals . A leader can touch on these matters for good or evil , usually for a little of both ( Erikson allows for both in his book on Gandhi ) . For purposes of understanding the phenomenon of leadership , it seems perverse to deny that title to a political figure because we dislike the direction in which he leads his followers . Once having understood that particular kind of leader-led relation , and there are other lenses than the Freudian for looking at the " darker- side , we may rightfully deny it the title of moral leadership . In short , the phenomenon of leadership has a life of its own , distinct , alas , from morality . To say this , of course , is to run directly against the thrust of Burns 's book . The issue is joined . It is a tribute to Burns 's work that he forces this question upon us . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thesis . His present book is the touchstone for all future discussions on the subject . It is a fitting capstone to the work he has been engaged on for the last " It is a good moment to be a social historian , " Eric Hobsbawm once said , " social history is at present in fashion . " Surely he is right . Two very different books in American social history bear on his conclusion . One is a paradigm of sorts , the kind of historical monograph that is increasingly issuing from univer ? sity presses ; the other , in the Studs Terkel model . comprises interviews with former workers and managers at Arnoskeag. once the largest texfile mill in the world . Neither book , mercifully . reflects the current scholarly obsession with coding , cross sectional dating , cohort analysis . occupational mobility . Susan Hirsch , in a study that is a model of its kind , certainly makes liberal use of census data and other statistics , but also draws upon traditional sources ? such as memoirs and newspapers as well as secondary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and lifestyle of Newark 's antebellum craftsmen and the impact of industrialism upon them . Industrialization was the most fun ? damental process in our history . It quarter of acentury , marked so magnificently by his earlier work on Franklin D. Roosevelt , and now elaborated into a powerful , overarching , general theory of leadership . Bruce Mazlish Bruer MazIrsh is professor of history and head of the Humanities Department at MIT . He and his colleague , Edwin Diamond , have nisi finished a book on jimmy Carter , to be published next year by Simon and Schuster. spawned a world which transformed itself with , as Hannah Arendt once wrote . " ever increasing rapidity from one shape into another . " She might well have been commenting upon early 19th-century American society when it first sensed the loss of the old permanence and predictability . Ms. Hirsch finds these reflections appropriate to pre-Civil War Newark . and meticulously and thoughtfully reconstructs the world we have lost . Newark , the paradigmatic small town in 1820 , was that world . It wan governed by a pre-factory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production , the putting-out system and apprenticeship , cultural homogeneity . Church , family and workshop were the institutions forging social unity . Class , social , business and marriage ties knit the family , and the artisanal world view prevailed : pride in manual labor , in the finished product , in the tight-knit Protestant community which prized the labor theory of value and honored skill , independence , craft status                     