@@279090

Rice that looks and tastes like wheat ? A plant that yields both tomatoes and potatoes ? Strong Turkish tobacco that burns as smoothly as mild Virginia leaf ? Such unlikely hybrids may now be a little closer to reality . Last week an Atomic Energy Commission researcher announced that he had achieved a long-elusive goal : the successful fusion of two different species of plant cells into a hybrid that has characteristics of both its " parents " and is capable of reproduction . <P> The experiment , directed by Biologist Peter Carlson at Long Island 's Brookhaven National Laboratory , involved two species of wild tobacco called Nicotiana glauca and Nicotiana langsdorffii . In the past , researchers have been able to crossbreed these two common plants by sexual means-fertilizing one plant with the pollen of the other-but many species will simply not breed sexually with others . Carlson , borrowing techniques recently developed by scientists in England and Japan , accomplished the trick with individual cells . First he treated cells from each kind of leaf with an enzyme that dissolves their protective cellulose walls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he placed the two different types of cells in a solution of sodium nitrate , forced them together by spinning them in a centrifuge and , out of a total of about 10 million , achieved successful genetic " matings " of the two species in some 30 cells . Finally , after putting them in a nutritive broth in which only the hybrids could survive , he was able to pick them out one by one and grow them into full-fledged plants . <P> Carlson has tried the same experiment with weirder combinations-carrots and tobacco , for instance-but was unable to get the fused cells to reproduce . The problem , he says , is probably only technical , involving such variable factors as temperature and light conditions . If it can be solved , there seems to be no reason why the same cell-fusing technique can not be used to breed totally new plants that have the most desirable features of their parents .                     