@@479086

Can violence be the force for social redemption now celebrated by a growing number of young Americans ? n the cover of the June 30 , 1969 , issue of New Left Notes , the organ of the Progressive Labor faction of Students for a Democratic Society , there is a large woodcut illustration which must surely he one of the minor signs of the times . Two young men , one white , one black , are seen crouching on a rooftop above a city in flames . Both are armed with automatic rifles , and both wear , Mexican-fashion , the crisscrossed bandoliers of the rural insurrectionary or bandito . They are revolutionaries , urban guerrillas . Alongside them is the legend : " We are advocates of the abolition of war , we do not want war ; but war can only be abolished through war , and in order to get rid of the gun it is necessary to take up the gun . " One must . I think , pass by the resemblance of this promise of a war-toend-war to other such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its hauntingly perverse echo of the words of the American officer in Vietnam that " In order to liberate the village we had to destroy it , " to consider its larger meaning for American political culture . There is in America today a rising mystique of violence on the Left . Those who lived through the rise of European fascism , or who have watched the development of right-wing groups in this country over the last generation , or have fully recognized the amount of violence leveled at civil-rights workers in the South . are never surprised at violence cults on the Right . They still see them in action in such crank groups as the Minutemen , and hear their accents in some of the uninhibited passages in George Wallace 's speeches . What has been more ar ? resting is the decline of the commitment to nonviolence on the Left , and the growth of a disposition to indulge or to exalt acts of force or violence . What was once the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee has taken the " Nonviolent " out of its title . Frantz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of violence has been one of the most widely read books of our time . During a summer of exacerbated rioting , The New York Review of Rooks , one of the most influential and fashionable periodicals on the American campus today , elected to feature on its cover a set of instructions , complete with diagram , for making a Molotov cocktail . In its columns , a widely read left-wing journalist , Andrew Kopkind , has told us that morality collies out of the muzzle of a gun . The Weatherman faction of SDS has made a primary tactic of violent encounters with the police . A young leader of the Black Panthers rises at the 1969 sum ? mer convention of the SDS to taunt the white delegates with the boast that the Panthers have " shed more blood than anyone " and that white Leftists have not even shot rubber bands . Dotson Rader , a young veteran of Columbia 's wars . informs the readers of the New York Times in its correspondence columns that the justice the New Left seeks will be won by " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are reminded of the Paris Commune . Others will be reminded of the promises of Mussolini . Certain ironies in the new cult of violence are inescapable . The sidewalk Sorels who preach violence know very little about it , and sometimes prove pitifully ineffectual in trying to use it . Those who practice it with the greatest effect ? the police and the military ? find preaching superfluous . The new prophets of violence are almost certain to become its chief victims , if it becomes general and uncontrolled , especially when their own romanticism carries them from the word to the deed . Historically , violence has not been an effective weapon of the Left , except in that rarest of rare circumstances . the truly revolutionary situation . Under normal circumstances , violence has more characteristically served domineering capitalists or trigger-happy police , - peremptory sergeants or fascist hoodlums . And even in our day , I think it should be emphasized , the growing acceptance of violence has been unwittingly fostered from the top of society . The model for violence . which has rapidly eroded the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hideotis and gratuitous official violence in Vietnam . And after having created and made heroes of such a special tactical force as the Green Berets , we should not he altogether surprised to find the Black Panthers wearing their berets and 47 practicing close-order drill . It may be childishly irrelevant to cite the example of Vietnam as an answer to every reproach for domestic acts of force or violence , but there is in that answer a point of psychological importance that we should not overlook : now , as always , the primary precedent and the primary rationale for violence comes from the established order itself . Violence is , so to speak , an official reality . No society exists without using force or violence arid without devising sanctions for violence which are used to uphold just wars and necessary police actions . But the frequency and the manner in which official violence is used is of signal importance to the legitimation of the civic order . Any liberal democratic state is in danger of wearing away its legitimacy if it repeatedly uses violence at home or abroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that violence is necessary . Neither establishments nor revolutionary movements can do without sanctions for violence . What any man sees as a just war or a necessary police action will , of course , depend upon his situation and his politics ; but only a few pacifists quarrel with the idea that just wars are conceivable , and only a few utopian anarchists are likely to deny that under some circumstances authorities have to use force or violence to keep order . The right of revolution is itself an established and sanctified rationale for violence . It can hardly be banished from the established sanctions in a country like America that was born in a revolution . One of our most sacred texts lays down the circumstances under which revolutionary resistance becomes legitimate . " Prudence , " it also remarks ( there were revolutionaries for whom prudence was a consideration ) , " will dictate that governments long established should not be changed for light and transient causes .... But when a long train of abuses and usurpations , pursuing invariably the same object , evinces a design to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is their duty , to throw off such a government , and to provide new guards for their future security . " I n our own time we have no difficulty in thinking of some tyrants against whom the right of revolution was or could have been justifiably invoked , and responsibly so when the circumstances warranted hope of success . Unfortunately , in this age of verbal overkill , the epithet of tyranny can be hurled at any regime that is intensely disliked by a morally self-confident minority , and the prospects of revolutionary success may seem astonishingly good to those who gull themselves with their own miscalculations and fantasies . The classic rationale for revolution is now widely used to sanction piecemeal violence against democratic regimes in which no shadow of a revolutionary situation exists . The word " revolution " has been distended to apply to any situation in which there is rapid change or widespread discontent . Hence acts of forcible or violent adventurism can be given a superficial legitimacy by defining any situation one pleases as a " revolutionary situation . " One radical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be accused of lack of concern for the oppressed or of hostility to revolutions , has deplored the current disposition " to cast some vague universal cloak of legitimacy upon violence ? even upon violent resistance to oppression , " and has warned against occasions when " revolutionary rhetoric outruns the real possibilities inherent in a given historical situation . " Today , in America , " talk about revolution is ... pure talk with potentially dangerous and tragic consequences . " One of the essential difficulties in justifying violence is that its success is an ingredient in its justification , and such success is usually a matter of chance . There are some blunders that are worse than crimes , and among these are the blunders of those who , even in a good cause , precipitate violence without reasonable grounds for believing that violence rill serve its purpose or that it can he contained within bounds that will be proportionate to the ends in view . No doubt it is tempting to think of putting a final end to some grave and massive social evil by a quick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulty lies in being reasonably sure , before the event , that the evil will indeed be ended and not exacerbated or succeeded by some equal or greater evil ; that the violence can really be limited both in time and in the casualties it inflicts , and that the reaction will not be more harmful than the surgery . For this reason all politicians , revolutionary no less than establishment politicians , must work with a terrible calculus in human misfortune . In order to justify the use of violence as a means toward the accomplishment of sonic humane and " progressive " end , one must first believe that he knows , roughly at least , two things : first , that so-and-so much violence is in fact necessary to achieve the end ; and second , what the countervailing human cost of the violence will be ? that is , where its repercussions will stop . There are , of course . many people who imagine that they have this kind of command of the future ; but some of us are not so sure , since we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or usefulness of past violence in many cases where all the returns seem to be in band . But let us not deceive ourselves . Current credulity about the benefits of violence is rarely based upon a careful concern about when and how violence can be justified , or upon sober estimates of its past role or its prospects of future success . We are not living in a period of moral casuistry or measured calculation but in one of robust political romanticism . The protest politics of the 1960s threatened at times to break with the historic politics of liberal American reformers ? who aimed to persuade a wide public . had scruples about methods , were willing to compromise , to move patiently from one limited end to another . For a decisive but now perhaps waning segment of the Far Left , politics has become all too much a matter of self-expression and of style , and such efforts as its more extreme exponents make at calculation and casuistry seem feeble as compared with the full-blown bravado of their actionist creed . There are moments when the aim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the venting of a sense of outrage . and there have been activists more concerned with their freedom to carry the Vietcong flag in a peace parade or to use four-letter words than with their ability to persuade . There is less hope that any particular foray will yield visible results or affect public policy , more desire to get a sense of emotional satisfaction out of a mass happening . The demand for programmatic achievement has become less fixed , that of self-assertion central . The distinction between politics and theater has been systematically blurred by activists in politics and activists in the theater . In the new politics , force or violence has a new place : for some it is satisfying merely to use it , but others have devised strategies to provoke counter-violence to show up the Establishment , as they put it . for what it is . In any case , violence has come to have the promise of redemption . " Violence alone . " writes Frantz Fanon in The Wretched of the Earth , one of the canonical works of the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized and educated by its leaders , makes it possible for the masses to understand social truths and gives the key to them . " Fanon , writes Sartre in presenting him , " shows clearly that this irrepressible violence is neither sound and fury , nor the resurrection of savage instincts , nor even the effect of resentment : it is man recreating himself .... No gentleness can efface the marks of violence , only violence itself can destroy them . " Tiolence , then , is not only useful but therapeutic , V which is to say indispensable . It seems natural enough for those who have been victims of a great deal of violence . or simply of the constant threat of overwhelming force , to conclude that they can restore their dignity only when they use violence themselves . But the restorative power of violence , if indeed violence can have that power , must surely depend upon its being used successfully . The unsuccessful use of violence , ending in defeat and fresh humiliations , may in fact intensify the original malaise . It is hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the grim massacre of the Indonesian Communist party in 1965-66 would have the same enthusiasm for the restorative power of violence as the victorious Algerian rebels . And this is why the existential mystique of violence , which tries to circumvent the rational calculus of tactical probabilities , will not do : its claims for therapy or sanctifi ? cation through violence rest upon an arbitrary assumption of success . There is no satisfactory refuge from political calculation in psychology or metaphysics . But of course there are examples of success in our time ? examples set by Mao , Castro . the Algerian rebels . Ho Chi Minh and the Vietcong . The circumstances in all these cases have a special quality : the successes have been among " backward " peoples with a firm territorial base and a history of colonial exploitation . It is now suggested that violence can he equal y successful in modern industrial countries , that guerrilla action suitable to the Sierra Maestre or the terror and sabotage that won in Algiers can be adapted to New York , Chicago , Oakland , or even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of tactical ingenuity has in fact been stimulated , but the chief intellectual consequences have been pathetic : many young blacks have begun to think of themselves as being a colonial people , and of their problems of liberation as having exactly the same characteristics. * The psychological similarities are , of course , there ? and a book like Fanon 's The Wretched of the Earth , the work of a psychiatrist , argues its case largely in psychological rather than in social structural terms . American blacks may have the psyches of other victims of colonialism but they lack all the essential features of the true colonial situation : a terrain suitable to guerrilla action , the prospect of becoming a majority , territoriality , and the promise of integral control of the economy after the colonial power has been expelled . Except for these indispensable elements , the comparison is excellent , and therefore we may indulge ourselves in the fantasy that Watts is just like Algiers . But in the end one must give the prophets of violence their due : violence is pervasive in human experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it repels us , we must see it as an instrument of common use . The creed its proponents put before us is simple but forceful : Violence has been all but universal in the past . Violence changes things and nothing else does . Violence is therefore necessary . " Violence , " said Rap Brown in what must surely remain one of the memorable utterances of our time , " is necessary and it 's as American as cherry pie . " Presumably he did not expect his listeners to be so uncritically patriotic as to think that violence must be good because Americans have so often used it . No doubt his hope was that if a decent respect for the normality and inevitability of violence could be instilled in the minds of his contemporaries , they would be less censorious about the violence supposedly necessary to black liberation . And one should grant all that is sound here : certainly violence that would in fact lead to a full realization of the rights of blacks would have a great deal to be said for it . and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violence , say , that many lynchers used for their own entertainment and for the edification of their children . Here , as always , however , one encounters the latent , the unexamined assumption : violence will deliver that which is expected of it . It is an assumption shared more and more among the very young , black or white : justice will be won by " fighting in *Since so much has been accomplished by strategic minor . ities , it may not matter for the future of violence in America that the black militants have not yet converted a majority of Negroes. to Newsweek 's 1969 poll , 63 per cent ( as against 21 per cent ) thought that Negroes could win their rights without violence . Overwhelming majorities also repudiated separatism in response to questions about integrated schools and integrated neighborhoods . ( Newsweek , June 30 , 1969 . ) The appeal of militant ideas , however , is much higher among the young.the streets . " Fighting in the streets as a revolutionary technique ? it is one of the few old-fashioned ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in ? ..... 1which some historical logjam seems to have been broken up by an eruption of violence , which is then followed by a period of peaceful , gradualist improvement . It is always possible in such cases to argue ( though difficult to prove ) that the violence was a necessary precondition of the peaceful change that followed . The trouble is that there are so many other cases in which violence has decided issues in ways we are less likely to applaud . American experience with the large-scale violent resolution of fundamental crises is mixed . The Revolution and the Civil War pose an interesting antithesis . The question of American independence was settled by violence , and , as historical issues go , settled with considerable success . But one of the keys to that success may be found in the minimum of gratuitous violence with which the Revolution was carried out . There could be no regicide and there was no terror . There were frequent incidents , but there was no wholesale mobbing of dissidents . Few Loyalists outside the ranks of the British army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into exile , and many lost large properties . Even the military action did not characteristically go beyond what we would call guerrilla warfare . Most important , the revolutionaries did not turn upon each other with violence or terror . The Thermidor , if the adoption of the Constitution can be correctly called that . was equally mild . and in part simply nationalized and embodied in institutional form some of the principles set forth in the Revolution itself . Not only was independence secured and the political life of the American states markedly democratized but some social reforms were given a strong impetus . In spite of the difficult questions of national organization that were not settled . and in spite of the tumultuous passions raised by the political issues of the Federal era , the episodes of domestic violence that followed the Revolution ? and there were quite a number of them ? were in a relatively low key and proved eminently controllable . The early rebellions mounted by Daniel Shays , the Whiskey rebels , and John Fries , though of much political consequence , were , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skirmishes , and their leaders were afterwards treated with judicious consideration . The Revolution was followed by relative peace : on the whole , the era from 1790 to 1830 , though far from violence-free , was one of the least violent periods in our domestic history . The Civil War stands in marked contrast . Again , it did settle historical issues , the issues of union and of the legal status of slavery . But it was preceded by a decade of scaring civic violence and climaxed by a war that cost 600,000 lives , and it left an extraordinary inheritance of bitterness and lethal passion that has not yet ended . The legal liberation of the slave was not followed by the actual liberation of the black man . The defeated states became less rather than more democratic . The violence of the war was followed by the resounding and horrifying episodic violence of Reconstruction , and the Thep midor in the South went on for a full generation after the guns were stilled . The war seems in retrospect to have been an intensely cruel and wasteful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? the issues that gave rise to it . I do not agree with the categorical form or exaggerated rhetoric of Barrington Moore 's pessimistic world-historical estimates that " violence has settled all historical issues so far , and most of them in the wrong way , " but in the considerable list of historical cases that could be drawn up to support his judgment , the Civil War would surely rank high . If we look at the use of violence in social situations of less profound consequence than those which led to the Revolution and the Civil War , we can find instances when violence in the United Stales appears to have served its purpose . And it has been , on the whole , the violence of those who already had position and power . Many vigilante movements , for example , achieved their limited goal of suppressing , outlaws . Lynching clearly added a note of terroristic enforcement to the South 's caste system . For years employers used violence and the threat of violence against labor with success : in the main , the outstandingly violent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although there were occasions when violence initiated on behalf of employers became too blatant for public acceptance and boomeranged . Labor has used violence less often than employers and with only rare success . There was , to be sure , one very effective series of extralegal actions by labor ? the sit-downs of the 1930s . However , in these instances the workers , though using illegal force , were using a tactical device that tended to avert rather than precipitate acts of outright violence . This may explain why they won considerable sympathy from the public , which was at the same time becoming acutely aware of the violence , intimidation , and espionage used by employers in many industries . In any case , the sit-downs were a transient lactic which labor leaders abandoned as soon as collective bargaining was achieved , and it is difficult to imagine the sit-downs repeatedly successful as a standard device . In sum , violence can succeed in a political environ- ment like that of the United States under certain conditions . Those who use it must be able to localize it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstances in which the public is either indifferent or uninformed , or in which the accessible and relevant public opinion ( as in the case of vigilantes and , usually , of employers in the nineteenth century ) is heavily biased in their favor . If violence is accompanied by exceptional brutality ( lynching , employer actions like that at Ludlow ) , it must be kept a local matter , and one must hope that it can somehow be screened from the attention of the larger polity . The conditions for its success , in this respect , seem to have become more problematical in the ageof mass communications , where the most vital tactical problem is to set the stage so that the onus for violent action can be made to seem to rest entirely upon one 's adversaries . H violence sometimes works , it does not follow that nothing but violence works . Most of the social reforms in American history have been brought about without violence , or with only a marginal and inessential use of it , by reformers who were prepared to carry on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparatus of the welfare state , from child labor laws , wage-hour regulation , industrial safely laws , and workmen 's compensation to legally regulated collective bargaining , social security , and medical care for the aged , is the achievement of active minoritiees which , while sometimes militant and always persistent , were also patient and nonviolent . Ours , however , is au age that can not wait , and it is doubtful that young militants , black or white , are taking much comfort from the example of such predecessors in the tradition of American reform . The activists , according to their temperaments , will argue either that earlier reforms , being props to the Establishment , were of little or no value , or that they were all a generation overdue when they came . The first response is simply inhumane , but the second has much truth in it such reforms were indeed long overdue . However , it does not follow that the use of violence would have hastened their coming . Under some conditions the fear or threat of violence may hasten social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primary force in bringing reform , one might have expected social-welfare laws to come in the United States before they came to such countries as Great Britain and Germany where there was less industrial violence . The important element seems to have been not the resort to violence but the presence of powerful labor movements with a socialist commitment and the threat of sustained action through normal political channels . But the confrontationist politicians of our time seem to have hit upon an approach to violence that surmounts one of the signal disadvantages under which social dissidents have labored in the past : they have learned the value not of committing violence but of provoking it . It remains true today , as it has always been . that most political violence is committed by the agents of authority . In the past , for example , labor often got the blame for violent outbursts that were primarily the work of police or other agents of employers . Hence one speaks of " labor violence " but not of " capital violence . " Today , however , a technique has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparent interests of dissent . A small cadre of determined activists , enveloped in a large crowd of demonstrators , can radicalize a substantial segment of public opinion by provoking the police into violent excesses ? if necessary by hurling objects , but better still by hurling nothing more than verbal abuse . The activists have correctly gauged the temper of the police , who are often quite ready to oblige by lashing out indiscriminately against both those who have offended them and those who have not ? orderly demonstrators , innocent bystanders , reporters , cameramen . Young radicals have thus found a way to put the police and the mass media to work for them , as the public sees a hideous spectacle of beating , kicking , and clubbing by officers of the law against unarmed demonstrators and witnesses . Outrage becomes the more blatant to those who are aware of and attracted by the milky innocence of the majority of young demonstrators . Whether the larger public effect of such confrontations will actually work to the ultimate advantage of the activists is problematical . What they ran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that many persons , hitherto vaguely sympathetic , become , at least for a time , energized and activated out of indignation . What they choose to ignore is the other , Less visible but usually larger public , which puts the full blame on demonstrators and backs the police and the authorities . ( The behavior of the Chicago police during the Democratic Convention of 1%8 , one of the most flagrant police actions of this era , was approved by a substantial majority of the public . ) Still , activist leaders are aware of their converts , and converts there usually are . Why not rejoice in the converts and dismiss the backlash ? Hence the ubiquitous New Left agitator . Tom Hayden , has called for " two , three , many Chicagos , " and the young activists interviewed by Jerome Skolnick 's researchers for the National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence show a shrewd if limited understanding of the implications of such tactics . The purpose of confrontations , they argue with striking candor , is to educate the public by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intended to win particular reforms or to influence decision-makers , but rather to bring out a repressive response from authorities ? a response rarely seen by most white Americans . When confrontation brings violent official response , uncommitted elements of the public can see for themselves the true nature of the ' system . ' " The activists also believe that such experience lowers the " cultural fear of violence " natural among young middle-class radicals ? a fear that is " psychologically damaging and may be politically inhibiting , " and thus prepares them for a serious commitment to revolution . To some degree they have already been proved right the " damaging " inhibitions against the use of guns , bombs , and arson have begun to break down . C an this breakdown be extrapolated into an in- definite future ? No doubt most Americans are more curious about where our penchant for violence is taking us than they are about a more precise explanation of its pattern in the past . But here prognosis is as hazardous as anywhere . In the past our violence has always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1960s will some day appear on the charts of the sociologists as another peak period , rather more pronounced than many , which is followed by relative calm . As the young never tire of reminding us , we live in a situation that is new and in some decisive respects unprecedented . ( I sometimes think that all American experience is a series of disjunctive situations whose chief connecting link is that each generation repeats the belief of its predecessor that there is nothing to be learned from the past . ) In any case , our social violence is not a self-contained universe that holds within itself all the conditions of its future development . In fact almost everything depends upon external forces which no one dares to predict ; the tempo at which we disengage from Vietnam , the national and international response to our undisguisable failure there . and our ability to avoid another such costly , venture . Who can really believe that he knows what to expect of the future of American violence ? It is easy to draw up two plausible scenarios for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though hardly exhilarating . Apocalyptic predictions are conventionally in order ? indeed they have become so conventional that they constitute a kind of imperative intellectual fashion . But in them there is more of omniscience than of science . and their function seems more psychological than pragmatic . In a magical gesture one predicts evil in order to ward it off . Or worse , in moments of terrible frustration one threatens one 's audience with some ultimate catastrophe by way of saying : This is what you will all get for not having followed the social policies I have prescribed for you . However , over the past generation the visions of the future that have prevailed among the most modishly apocalyptic intellectual circles in this country have been so largely wrong that they could almost be used like odd-lot buying in the stock market as a negative indicator of future realities . Perhaps the most cogent reason , aside from the perverse element of self-indulgence inherent in it , for not yielding too easily to the apocalyptic frame of mind is a pragmatic one : apocalyptic predictions , repeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduce men of good will to a useless passivity and at worst turn into self-fulfilling prophecies . Pragmatic wisdom argues for assuming that our difficulties are manageable , so that we may put our minds to thinking about how in fact they can be managed . Still , it requires no remarkable ingenuity to see how some of the recent trends in American society , continued and magnified , could bring about the eclipse of liberal democratic politics . The danger is not that the alienated young and the militant blacks will wage a successful revolution . The I fnited States is basically a conservative country , and its working class is one of the anchors of its conservatism . Its overwhelming majority is not poor . not black , and not in college . College activists , themselves only a fraction of the college population , command so much attention from the mass media that the actual state of mind of the American young has been obscured . Almost three-fourths of those in the 17-23 age bracket do not go to college , and their political direction is quite different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the cruder forms of backlash sentiment may be measured by their votes in the 1968 election : in which George Wallace had proportionately somewhat more support among white voters in the age groups 29 and under than in the age groups 30 and over . ' In a nation so constituted , the most serious danger comes not from the activities of young militants , black or white , but from the strength of the backlash that may arise out of an increasing polarization of the society . The apocalyptic scenario spells itself out rather easily : an indefinite prolongation of the war in Vietnam , or a re-escalation , or the launching of yet another such provocative and disastrous foreign undertaking ; a continued unwillingness or inability to make adequate progress in accommodating the demand for racial justice : an intensification of confrontation politics in the colleges and on the streets ; a heightened alienation of the intelligent young ; violent scenes , vividly reported on TV , of provocative conduct by demonstrators and brutal responses by police ; a continuing polarization of the political public into Right and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institute for Public Opinion national sample showed that Wallace had the following support in four age brackets : 2125 , 13 per cent ; 26-29 , 18 per cent ; 30-49 , 13 per rent : 50 and over , 11 per cent , social efforts as might relieve the crisis ; the formation of numerous armed groups of black and white citizens , highlighted perhaps by a few mass gunfights in the big cities : the breakdown of one or both of the major parties : the capture of the Presidency and altogether impossible . one must say . though to me it somehow fails to carry conviction . The particular forms of violence that flourished in the 1960s seem now to he on the decline : ghetto riots have been tapering off , and the crest of violence touched off by campus protest may have been reached in the years 1967 to 1969 . Black militancy is certain to be with us for an indefinite future , and it is a sobering thought that the one major breakdown of the American political system came in association with an unresolved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more selective about methods and goals . and it is by no means clear that it must involve large-scale violence or mass casualties . Student activism too seems likely to outlast the American withdrawal from Vietnam , since it rests on a profound cultural malaise that goes beyond any political issue , but it may work at a lower level of emotional intensity . An end to the war would bring about a political and economic climate in which the effort to relieve urban blight and poverty and to come to terms with the demand for racial justice can be resumed under far more favorable conditions than those of the past five or six years . It is a rare thing in our experience to be centrally preoccupied with the same problem for two successive decades , and it is quite conceivable that even a persisting and relatively high level of violence in the 1970s will come to be regarded as a marginal rather than a central problem . At some time in the near future the destruction of the environment , and the problems attendant upon pollution and overpopulation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to have such a commanding urgency that all other issues will be dwarfed . The styles of thought , the political mood that will be created by such problems , as well as the political alignments they will bring about , may he so startlingly different from those of the 1960s , that the mentality of the 19609 will seem even more strange by 1980 than the mentality of the 1950s has appeared during the past few years , When one considers American history as a whole , it is hard to think of any very lung period in which it could he said that the country has been consistently well governed . And yet its political system is , on the whole , a resilient and well seasoned one , and on the strength of its history one must assume that it can summon enough talent and good will to cope with its afflictions . To cope with them ? but not , I think , to master them in any thoroughly derisive or admirable fashion . The nation seems to slouch onward into its uncertain future like some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ailments to be robust , but too strong and resourceful to succumb .                     