@@480006

ARE WE EXPERIENCING an epidemic of cancer , or of cancerophobia ? or both ? Gallup polls in 1965 and again in 1976 revealed that the public fears cancer more than any other disease . When all respondents over twenty-one were confronted with a list of eight afflictions and asked which is " the worst thing that can happen to you ? " about 60 percent selected cancer ; heart attack , with a mortality rate about three times greater than cancer 's , was named by only 10 percent . The public 's perception seems to be that of an unidentified murderer roaming the streets and killing indiscriminately , while the police remain helpless . Cancer has always been an emotionally draining experience for victim , relatives , and friends , but the present climate seems to be a particularly alarmist one , perhaps bordering on hysteria . Only occasionally is a bit of humor to be found , such as in the cartoon that shows a couple watching the evening news with the newscaster announcing , " And now for today 's list of carcinogenic substances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a list of the " ten top suspects " and noted that altogether there are some 1,400 suspect chemicals , drugs , physical agents , and pollutants , though only twenty or so are widely held to be proved carcinogenic agents . The National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health maintains a registry of more than 2,000 suspects . Aside from cigarettes , diet , and alcohol , the list includes food additives , cosmetics , drugs , and a host of toxic chemicals in workplaces or in manufactured products , ionizing radiation , and even sunlight . More to the point is that carcinogens are believed to be present in the air we breathe , the food we eat . the water we drink , and the soil from which our food supply derives . There 's a common current assumption that some 65-90 percent of cancers can be attributed to harmful chemicals in our environment . This figure derives from a proposal made in 1969 by Dr. John Higginson ? currently director of the International Agency for Research in Cancer ? and is based on international differences in various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible to reduce the incidence of cancer by creating an environment equivalent to that obtaining in the country with the lowest incidence of each type . Not only is this proposal highly theoretical , its implementation is virtually impossible and it does not take into account genetic differences between various national populations . The issue that besets cancer research seems to be this : Do we have as many villains in our midst as the prevailing mood would seem to indicate ? Or is it not as Pogo might say , " We have met the enemy and it is us . " Does our environment cause cancer , or do our own bodies betray us , inevitably , in the aging process ? EFORE CONSIDERING the role of aging in the origin of cancer , we need to look at some shifts in the characteristics of the American population since the turn of the century and how these changes have affected the frequency of several diseases . Since 1900 the over-sixtyfive population has increased more than twice as fast as the total population ; in the twenty years between 1946 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For those over seventy-five the increase has been even more marked , 111 percent . In 1900 only 4 percent of the total population was over sixty-five ; this group now represents about 10 percent of the total , and by the year 2000 it is estimated that there will be about 31 million people over sixty-five , some 18 percent of the total population . If one looks at the changing distribution pattern of disease responsible for most mortalities , it becomes evident that in 1900 infectious diseases accounted for most deaths , while today heart disease , cancer , and cerebral hemorrhage ( stroke ) are the leaders . Senile dementia is not formally listed as a cause of death , although this affliction does reduce remaining life expectancy ; if it were so listed it would rank fourth . The Terry Report , which launched the campaign against cigarette smoking more than a decade ago , recognized that there has been a. progressive increase in cancer more tality since the turn of the century to reach what some are now calling an epidemic . However , diagnostic accuracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people see physicians much more frequently than they did sixty or seventy years ago ; once this is taken into account it appears likely that cancer was more prevalent at the turn of the century than vital statistics indicate . Nevertheless , the Terry Report made an attempt to adjust for some of these factors , concluding that some 30 percent of the increase in cancer deaths since 1900 can be accounted for on the basis of the increase in life expectancy . The probability that a person will develop cancer in the next five years is only 1 in 700 at age twenty-five , but at age sixty-five it is 1 in 44 ? sixteen times higher . Data from Australia show that in the 20-44 age group there was no change in lung cancer mortality between 1950 and 1973 , while in the 7579 age group there was a marked increase during this same period . The groups between these two extremes show an increase that correlates directly with age . The conventional view of this data would be that the longer one smokes , the more prevalent lung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smoking at twenty would have fifty-five years of exposure to tobacco carcinogens , while those of a fifty-year-old who started smoking at the same age would have only thirty years of exposure . However , another possibility is that the cells of older individuals are more susceptible to the carcinogenic effects of tobacco than those of younger people , and as noted below , there is substantial evidence to support this second possibility . Other common cancers also show an increasing prevalence with advancing age . These include , for example . some forms of leukemia , cancer of the breast and of the uterus in women , and cancers of the gastrointestinal tract , including the pancreas in both sexes and the prostate in men . ( Cancer of the cervix in women , of the testis in men , and a few other cancers show a more random age distribution . ) Data deriving from the American Cancer Society confirm the widely held belief that despite all of the publicized therapeutic breakthroughs , cancer survival rates are generally not improving . In women there has been a significant drop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due to early detection by pap smears , and of stomach cancer . In men the only significant changes are the marked increase in deaths from lung cancer and an equally marked decrease in stomach cancer . The decrease in stomach cancer mortalities in both sexes seems due to a mysterious decrease in frequency rather than to any new prevention or treatment . If some unknown dietary factor is responsible , it is apparently with respect to stomach cancer only , because incidence of colon cancer has increased . Traditionally , the relationship between aging and disease has been viewed in two ways : 1 ) Some diseases require many years between the initiating event and the appearance of illness . Alternatively , repeated " insults " may have to occur before disease results . In either case , the extended life-span that began about three decades ago makes the risk of cancer and other diseases greater for an increasing number of people . 2 ) Disease harms body organs and cells , and thereby adds " injury " to the " insult " of inevitable aging . in this context @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degenerative effect and thus to accelerate aging . Over the past two decades several gerontologists have been examining yet a third possibility , namely that certain diseases , including cancer , are inextricably linked with aging . If this proposition is valid , it means that everyone who lives long enough will at one or more times over the course of his life-span generate cancer cells , as Australian Nobel laureate F.M . Burnet has asserted . James Trosko and C.C. Chang at Michigan State University hold a similar view . They believe that it is not possible to avoid all of the environmental factors that may cause cancer and that the same natural ge netic processes producing mutations that led to the evolution of our species are also responsible for the phenomenon we call cancer . Environmental hazards have been present throughout the history of life on our planet , and indeed , mutations , good and bad , have in effect dictated the course of evolution . George Sacher at the Argonne National Laboratory has been particularly interested in isolating the evolutionary factors responsible for the superior longevity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life-span is directly tied to the proportionate size of its brain . The bigger the brain , the longer it takes the species to develop its physical and mental capacities . The human brain is thought to have doubled in size during the past 2 million years . Intelligence has increased with size , permitting greater control over the external environment . Clothing , weapons , and housing have enhanced our longevity in rather obvious ways . Less evident , perhaps , is the fact that the brain can also fine-tune the internal environment of the human body as the brains of other species can not . An important strategy of evolution has been to provide mammals with their greatest resistance to harmful environmental factors during the period of the life-span when they enjoy their greatest reproductive capacity . This assures the survival of the species . Evolution has little interest in the survival of the middle-aged and the elderly , who have lost their capacity to procreate , and who can therefore no longer contribute new individuals to the species . On the other hand , our superior intelligence has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that allow the human species to realize the full capacity of its life-span ( which , as Sacher also points out , may not extend much beyond eighty years no matter how well we control our environment ) . T HREE INTERNAL SYSTEMS are particularly relevant to our capacity to resist disease and to extend longevity : 1 ) The system within each cell that maintains the fidelity of production of those substances that derive more or less directly from the individual 's genes ( DNA ) . 2 ) The immune system , which protects the individual not only from intruding viruses , bacteria , and parasites , but also from the body 's own cells when they go awry , as in the case of cancer . 3 ) The neuroendocrine system , which regulates the functions of the body 's hormones , including those involved in the reproductive process . The first of these systems relates to research on senescence and to a possible origin of cancer cells independent of the influence of external factors in the environment . Each cell of the body synthesizes proteins . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , others into enzymes ( catalysts that facilitate chemical reactions ) ; still others provide hormones , and some form antibodies that protect against foreign intruders , as well as against the proliferation of cancer cells . The phases of this process consist of the replication of genetic DNA by a process termed transcription ; this is followed by translation to indicate that the final product , the protein , is in effect a printout analogous to that provided by a computer . The composite of genes that controls this process is commonly called the genetic program . This may be an old story to many readers . Less common knowledge is that gerontologists and others refer to the " fidelity of information flow " in this system to indicate that there are sometimes errors that result in " misspellings " or " misstatements " in the printouts . The latter may be the consequence of a flaw in the DNA equivalent to a mutation , but errors may occur as well in transcription and translation . There is a considerable body of evidence indicating that as cells age they become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which may , in some instances , be cell death . In others , the result may be the transformation of a normal cell into a cancer cell . Sometimes this transformation proceeds through several stages . In fact , there is evidence showing that cancer-producing radiations , chemicals , or viruses change the characteristics of the DNA and cause an infidelity of the protein synthetic system similar to that which occurs with natural aging . Agents such as X rays appear even to accelerate other manifestations of senescence . It therefore becomes difficult to distinguish between an environmentally induced processand the body 's genetically programmed aging process . If one considers the possibility that at some point in life these two phenomena ( one intrinsic and the other environmental ) merge , then assessing environmental impact may become extremely difficult , if not impossible . Henry Pitot , head of the cancer research program at the University of Wisconsin , has reviewed evidence showing some nine similarities between senescent and cancer cells , as well as three differences . The majority of carcinogenic chemicals must be converted in the body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for destroying ? detoxifyingthese agents . Whether or not cancer develops depends on which of these two competing mechanisms predominates , and the ability to detoxify may deteriorate with age . Polyunsaturated fats , recommended for preventing heart attacks , accelerate aging in test animals , reduce the effectiveness of the immune system , and increase tumor incidences . There have even been reports suggesting that these highly touted substitutes for butter and other fats may act similarly in human beings . Thus polyunsaturated fats may be yet another fine example of the safeguard proving worse than the disease . The public has not yet been told that these products may be carcinogenic . One way of carrying out comparisons between senescent and cancer cells is by studying isolated cells in tissue culture . Studies at Harvard show that senescent cells , when exposed to carcinogenic agents , are particularly vulnerable to a transformation process resembling cancer . This transformation of cultured cells has been called an " escape from senescence , " but in the context of the whole body , such newly won freedom is hardly a benefit . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is necessary to initiate the transformation process ; some researchers believe an external agent may not be necessary . There has been much in the news lately about the possible dangers of research on recombinant DNA . This kind of research is commonly referred to as " genetic engineering " because it is now possible to cut out a segment of DNA and splice in a new segment from another organism . In one suchexperiment at the University of California in San Francisco researchers have excised DNA from a bacterium and spliced in a segment of DNA from rats that directs the production of insulin . The bacterium then produces insulin . However , the public is probably less aware of the fact that the body also has the capacity for carrying out a similar process , which it uses to repair damaged DNA . Ronald Hart , of Ohio State University , and James Trosko have found that species with long life-spans maintain efficient DNA repair capacity far longer than species with short life-spans ; in effect , life-spans correlate with the ability to maintain this function . They have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : error-free and error-prone . The latter is held to be responsible for mutations that lead to either cancer or senescence . Research of this kind suggests that the opposite side of the coin from natural aging is the development of cancer . D NA REPAIR CAPACITY may thus be viewed as the first line of defense against aging and cancer . The second line of defense is the immune system , which can identify and destroy cells that have suffered unrepaired DNA damage , as well as cancer cells . F. M. Burnet has observed that there is a minor cancer mortality peak in childhood that subsides at about the onset of sexual maturity . Cancer mortalities then remain low until about age thirty , after which they rise steeply . On the other hand , the effectiveness of the immune response in the destruction of cancer cells reaches a peak at about age fifteen with the onset of sexual maturity , remains high through about age thirty , and then progressively declines . Burnet interprets this model in terms of evolution . He attributes the minor mortality peak to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system is not yet completely developed . The lowest cancer mortality rate corresponds to the period of maximum reproductive capacity , which is also the period of maximum effectiveness of the immune system . The steadily rising cancer mortality rate after age thirty supports the notion that evolution is not concerned with the survival of senescing individuals . The superior human brain provides for precise control of the stability of many internal biological functions . It accomplishes this through its modulation of the endocrine system , primarily via connections between the higher brain centers and a part of the brain called the hypothalamus , which sends chemical messages to the endocrine glands where hormones are produced . Hormones not only regulate processes within cells , including functions that derive from DNA , but also influence the immune system , promoting and suppressing its activities in response to certain circumstances George Solomon at Stanford University has been studying the effects of emotions and stress on the immune system , attempting to discover their interrelationships with cancer . His objective is to demonstrate that during certain emotional states and stressful situations there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a Canadian biologist , and Burnet believe that repeated stress over years adds to the deterioration of the immune system . In this context , physical , social , economic , and a host of other factors indigenous to industrially advanced societies may serve as accelerators of aging and thus perhaps of cancer , If one views cigarette smoking as correlative with tension , then tension might manifest the same statistical correlation with cancer that is attributed to cigarette consumption if only we could quantify stress as accurately as we can count the number of cigarettes consumed . In The Closing Circle , Barry Commoner states that " everything leads to everything else . " So , too , we might describe the cancer problem . There have always been environmental factors that pose a threat to the existence of living beings , and indeed evolution has provided biological mechanisms for overpowering these villains . These mechanisms have attained their greatest efficiency in the human species and have thereby provided us with superior longevity . It is paradoxical , however , that the improved efficiency of these protective mechanisms is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we acquire for purposes of adaptation , the more complex become the functions that our cells and organ systems must perform and the greater the opportunity for THE CANCER LOTTERY things to go wrong . As we look at the prevalence of cancer among mammals as they are arranged on the evolutionary tree , it appears that there may be a direct correlation between the increasing complexity of adaptive mechanisms and the increasing frequency of cancer . However , this possibility is clouded by the fact that animals in the wild state rarely attain a sufficiently advanced age to become cancer-prone . In any event , I have tried to make the point here that the attribution of cancer to some environmental agent does not imply a simple cause-and. effect , one-to-one relationship . In addition to the agent , there is the ability of the body either to convert the environmental agent to a carcinogen or , conversely , to detoxify it . There are also considerations of a multiplicity of stresses and tensions associated with everyday living in a competitive , industrialized society , the factors of inherited susceptibilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other , all of which are related to longevity . And finally there is the possibility that cancer may be directly linked with aging . An impartial appraisal of current strategies guiding cancer research suggests that aging has the lowest priority . B EFORE WORLD WAR ir the direction of medical research was usually determined by a researcher 's own intellectual goals , and scientists were pretty much free to pursue their own interests . Barry Commoner once characterized progress during this period as dependent upon serendipity the chance that some scientific discovery would suggest new lines of research and new discoveries . Pre ? World War II re ? search was paid for by universities or supported by small grants from patrons and a few foundations and companies . The first several decades of this century saw , among its discoveries . a continuation of the identification of microorganisms that cause human disease , the development of vaccines , serums , and antibiotics with which to prevent or cure infectious diseases , and the discovery of insulin , which has saved the lives of countless juvenile diabetics . Successes such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expectancy from 1900 to 1950 . Since World War II , medical research has been funded largely by the federal government through the National Institutes of Health and the National Science Foundation , supplemented by public donations through such organizations as the American Cancer Society , the American Heart Association , and the American Diabetes Association , with small supplemental grants from some foundations and drug firms . There remains a residue of nostalgia for the small-is-beautiful attitude , although the day has long passed when one can expect progress from scientists working in isolation in a small laboratory equipped with a student 's microscope and some crudely constructed pieces of equipment . And despite its many faults the present system has had some remarkable successes in basic research ; particularly relevant to cancer and aging are the revolution in molecular biology , which has brought us to a consideration of utilizing genetic engineering to cure some diseases , and the rapidly expanding field of immunology , which may someday provide a more effective means of treating cancer than is currently available . The medical establishment is not devoid of some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Diabetes Forecast , a publication of the American Diabetes Association , notes that the 1921 discovery of insulin provided a " miracle " that probably could n't happen anymore because Banting and Best would not qualify as researchers by today 's sophisticated standards , and because in this brave new world of large funding , they would not appear to be men of great vision : If they had submitted a sixty-page grant proposal ( in twenty copies ) properly supported by bibliography , the resulting site inspection by their scientific peers would certainly have found that results front only ten dogs could not be statistically significant . Anyway , no project of this scope could possibly be funded for less than $250,000 annually for at least ten years in order to determine the general direction of this project .... The grant would , of course , include a 40-50 percent overhead figure which would adequately take care of any administrative needs . This more or less accurately describes the process involved in submitting a research proposal . It indicates why " grantsmanship " ? the skill necessary to formulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We seem to think that our medical problems can be solved by announcing , with great fanfare , their epidemic proportions and the need to launch a full ? scale attack . Nixon 's 1971 Cancer Crusade is , by far , the most dramatic case in point . About $1.6 billion was appropriated for three years and a critical change in policy was initiated . ( The annual appropriation for the National Cancer Institute is currently about $800 million . ) Cancer research was to be highly systematized , with specific , approved battle plans and a ruling hierarchy of both scientists and laymen , including some corporate executives . A new way of life was dictated to research workers . One of the corporate executives was quoted in Science : " in the development of atomic power and in the outer-space programs there was a wonderful control and a most highly businesslike type of approach . It is my thinking that we must strive to bring businesslike methods into the fight against cancer . " The problem with this analogy is that in the atomic power and space programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be implemented . Unfortunately , this is not true of cancer research programs , where basic knowledge remains to he discovered . One member of the federal cancer advisory board , Nobel laureate James D. Watson , charged the Nixon Administration 's war on cancer with seeking a quick , visible public relations success , while undermining the fundamental biological research most likely to yield a cure . " The sad fact is that there is no way we can effectively plan an end to all cancer . " The best way to make progress , he suggested , is " by strongly encouraging research on all forms of experimental biology instead of restricting substantial funding , to direct cancer research . " One of the gimmicks deriving from the corporate mind is something called the cost/benefit ratio ( substitute " profit " for " benefit " ) . This , as every scientist knows , is not possible for basic research . The solution to the cancer problem is as likely to come from someone with an inconsequentially small grant as from some highly organized cancer program T PRESENT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Only about 5-10 percent of cancers appear to be job-related , not the much-cited larger percentages approaching 80-90 percent . No rational person should oppose the removal of environmental hazards , whether job-related or not , but at the same time the public should not be misled into believing that if the environment is purified , cancer will vanish . The emphasis for the moment is on prevention , not only of cancer but also of other chronic and degenerative conditions . Prevention has an intrinsic logic , but is it realistic ? In addition to changes in living habits , enthusiasts advocate regular medical examinations . But the cynics have been through much of this over the past twenty-five years and see little evidence of improved survival . As Lewis Thomas writes , In the midst of this argument , new voices are being raised in an effort to simplify the whole problem of disease by blaming it , simply , on wrong living . Suddenly , hygiene has been rediscovered . If you want to avoid heart disease , eat less animal fat and ride your bicycle . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ totally and comprehensively explained by external contaminants in the environment ; get rid of these and thus be rid of cancer . Live a more sensible life , get plenty of sleep and a good breakfast , give up smoking and drinking , eat less , and you can stretch out your life by eleven or twelve extra years . He points out further that the conquest of infectious disease was not an overnight phenomenon , but required some sixty years of painstaking research . We have been engaged in concentrated research on cancer and other age-related diseases for only about twenty-five years . The reality is that these diseases are much more complex in their origin , prevention , and treatment than the simplistic one-liners provided to the news media by the Medical Establishment . The public should be made aware of a fact that is common knowledge among gerontologists : The eradication of cancer would add only one to two years to human life expectancy as compared with about ten years for all forms of arteriosclerosis . The potential gain in life expectancy if the rate of aging could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategy on the frequency of cancer , arteriosclerosis , and other diseases of aging ? has not even received serious consideration . For every we spend on cancer research , only about 3 cents funds research on aging . Burnet sums up the issue of cancer causes as follows : Despite some seventy years ' intensive scientific work aimed at identifying a cause or a series of causes of human cancer , the only demographically significant success has been to establish that polycyclic hydrocarbons taken into the body in cigarette smoke or by various forms of industrial exposure can cause cancer from prolonged and extensive action . A number of industrial examples of cancer induction by other types of material are known , but involve a small number of people . Many other chemicals or viral agents have been suggested , but for the present the evidence for their importance involves only animals other than man . If this is a fair assessment of the current status of research on causes of cancer , then it is certainly high time to examine , comprehensively , the role of aging in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                