@@319323

By every billing it was the musical that could not miss . At the top of the credit lines for 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue were two of the arts ' most potent names : Lyricist Alan Jay Lerner of My Fair Lady and Camelot fame and West Side Story Composer Leonard Bernstein . The show , about the lives and times of 13 early Presidents , was a Bicentennial natural , and the Coca-Cola Co. eagerly footed the $1.2 million cost of bringing a 45-member cast and a 30-piece orchestra together for five weeks of rehearsals in New York and tryouts in Philadelphia and Washington . But when it finally reached Broadway 's Mark Hellinger Theater , the critics found its view of American history " bleak and patronizing " and its humor - typified by such lines as Dolly Madison saying " I must go feed my parrot , his language is becoming scandalous " - unbearably flat . While some found Bernstein 's score strong , rich and melodic , others said it was " self-derivative " and unable to rescue " a bum idea that has arrived in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( TIME , May 17 ) , probably the most costly flop-in terms of tarnished reputations as well as money-in White Way history . What went wrong ? <P> Lerner 's original idea , on which the entire show turned , was an incredibly complex white-black Upstairs , Downstairs , a slice of a century of White House life expressed as a play within a play . Last week the survivors of the disaster were wondering what went right . Given the magic of the names involved , Coca-Cola and most of the 1600 actors bought the project on blind faith . Versatile Lead Ken Howard , who played all 13 Presidents , took the job without having seen a line of Lerner 's book . British Actress Patricia Routledge , who played all the First Ladies , had heard only one song and Director Frank Corsaro ( A Hatful of Rain , The Night of the Iguana ) started rehearsals without even a finished second act . " That was , " he says now , " a very dangerous situation . I would not have permitted this with any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coca-Cola , which signed on as a backer because Chairman J. Paul Austin , a chum of Lerner 's at Harvard in the late 1930s , had been looking for " something meaningful " as a Bicentennial project . <P> In retrospect , most of its principals seem to agree , 1600 was probably doomed as early as 1972 . That was when Lerner , depressed by the Nixon landslide , decided to write a musical comedy about " the first 100 years of the White House and other attempts to take it away from us . " The action would revolve around 13 Presidents , their wives and their black servants . The play within a play would involve performers dropping in and out of character to discuss acting problems along with the problems faced by the various Presidents-Lerner 's way of conveying his notion of American democracy as an idea that is still in rehearsal .                     