@@494638

Is Muskie The One ? When he took office nearly two years ago , President Nixon had four primary tasks : to reconcile Americans of all races and ages and restore common trust in representative government ; to stabilize the economy , keeping down both unemployment and inflation ; to set in motion programs to make the American community a fit place to live ? cleaner air and water , more housing for the least well off , safer streets , efficient transport , and a sensible system of health care for everyone ; and to end the war in Vietnam . On all four counts , the Administration as of this date has not earned a passing grade . The jobless rate is up , so is the price level . The cities decay , the social services do not serve , the environment is poisoned or polluted ; racial tensions , crime , the rejection of the system by young idealists are on the increase . As to peace in Vietnam , the President 's representative in Paris summed it up last week : " There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was blamed , of course , on Communist stubbornness ) . Nor do the next two years promise any marked improvement in Presidential performance . For between now and November , 1972 , as John Osborne comments in The Nixon Watch this week , the guiding question in the White House will not be what does the country need , but how many votes are in it . No , Nixon is not the one the next time . That is why there is such early , widespread speculation about who could and should replace him . We do n't expect Nixon to do an LBJ and refuse renomination , so we turn for hope to the Democrats . And here , speculation inevitably begins with Edmund S. Muskie of Maine . He is so far ahead in the competition for nomination in ' 72 that a significant number of Democrats , high and low , have concluded that Muskie 's primacy should be accepted as final by the party , now , and that other possible contenders should withdraw from consideration , and should instead work alongside Muskie for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the whole ticket . The latest Louis Harris poll gives some support to that view . It has the Senator from Maine leading Mr. Nixon 46 to 40 percent , a dramatic gain for Muskie , since only a month earlier the figure was 51. percent Nixon , 35 percent Muskie . Moreover , the same poll shows Edward Kennedy and Hubert Humphrey winning the approval of only 39 percent of those polled , as against 46 percent for Mr. Nixon . The excellent impression Mr. Muskie made by his fireside chat over national television on the eve of the November elections doubtless accounts for a part of this remarkable upsurge in popularity . But he was not starting from scratch . His relaxed , reassuring performance as the Democratic Vice Presidential candidate in 1968 had already illustrated his talent for inspiring trust , and among hardhats as well as eggheads . Since then , the Senator has been doing the necessary . Sixty-three percent of the voters cast their ballots for him on November 3 ? in what once was a Republican state . " As Maine goes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now and convention time . He is writing a book or two , as all proper Presidential candidates must . He has mastered one issue that is on the mind of everyone : if he has not nailed down proprietorship of pollution , it is not for lack of enterprise . He has shifted from defending the Vietnam policy of Lyndon Johnson to attacking the same policy as pursued by a Republican President . So far this year he has traveled to nearly every key area in the US giving 73 speeches outside Maine . He has passed the hat at 16 fund-raising affairs for other Democrats . He has set up an efficient staff , outside his senatorial office , of 20 paid and 5o volunteer workers who are dedicated to making him President . And he is planning the prescribed tour abroad that always precedes a formal declaration of availability . Given this public acceptance , this performance and these ambitious plans , why should another Democrat challenge Senator Muskie ? Any real campaign for the nomination , no matter how modest , is costly in time and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal recriminations . Yet it would be unfortunate were all the other Democrats to lie down and play dead in deference to the front-runner . No one is out until someone is in . There is always a chance that Mr. Muskie will stumble and fall before the summer of 1972 , though it must be added that since he is a cautious man , not given to leaps in the dark or even the dusk , that chance seems remote . Nevertheless , variety makes for interest ; there 's no contest with only one player . Variety also contributes to sharper debate and voter education . Any man who runs for the Presidential nomination knows he will get press and television attention that he does not get as a senator . The more Democratic contenders there are , the less chance Mr. Nixon and the Republicans have of dominating the news . Moreover , a handful of national Democratic spokesmen , other than Muskie , do have things to say that are worth saying , ideas they hold with passion and which ought to have wider circulation . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ express , or not with quite the same force . Everyone knows that the Democratic Party is broke . Whether the National Committee owes $9 million or $5 million is incidental ; it 's strapped for money . But let there be a lively campaign in ' 71 and ' 72 , with attractive candidates who talk sense , and pocketbooks will again open that have been closed to Democrats . The unity of the party need not be compromised by competition . Debate is not fratricidal ? if rivals stick to issues , and if there is no deep Democratic split on a major and emotion-laden issue , an issue such as Vietnam was in 1968 . We see no sign of any such split two years hence . The shoe , at least the Vietnam shoe , is now on the other foot , which is one of the reasons it seems to us that a third party offshoot is not likely to take root . Finally , whatever the arguments pro and con for an early rallying around Muskie , venturesome politicians ca n't be kept from dreaming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vision that times and tides may turn his way . The Democratic Party has more than one such man . Our reluctant opinion is that Hubert Humphrey 's future as a Presidential condidate is all past . But the party has three bold campaigners of intelligence in Senators Edward Kennedy , who was given a handsome vote of confidence this November by the people of Massachusetts ; Harold Hughes , who served Iowa as commerce commissioner and six years as governor ; and George McGovern , director of Food for Peace , twice elected to the House of Representatives and now in his second term in the Senate . They will do to begin with . In fact , the national Democratic Party never had it better in respect to the availability of modern-minded leaders . Cheers to them all . Plots and Conspiracies Is there an FBI conspiracy to link opposition to the Vietnam war with terrorism at home ? The question arises from J. Edgar Hoover 's assertion on November 27 to a Senate Appropriations Subcommittee that two Catholic priests , the Rev. Philip F. Berrigan and the Rev. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the East Coast , the so-called East Coast Conspiracy to Save Lives , " which is plotting to " kidnap a highly placed government official . . . If successful , the plotters would demand an end to US bombing operations in Southeast Asia and the release of all political prisoners as ransom . " And more . The group " plans to blow up underground electrical conduits and steam pipes serving the Washington , DC area , in order to disrupt federal governmental operations . " Mr. Hoover 's statement was made in prepared testimony on the FBI 's request for an additional $14.1 million to pay salaries of woo additional agents and 702 clerks . The Berrigan brothers are not available for questioning by the press , because they are locked up in the Federal Correctional Institution at Danbury , Conn. , having been convicted of participating in the destruction of selective service records in Maryland two years ago . What is this East Coast Conspiracy to Save Lives ? One report published last week credited it with having had eight members ; another 11 , most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the organization " has never claimed the leadership of the Berrigan brothers . " Two other priests who had been associated with the organization denied that the Berrigans were even members . The Rev. Joseph R. Wenderoth of Baltimore call Hoover 's charges a " fabrication . " The Rev. Richard Bidwell , a Jesuit in Boston , said Hoover 's statements are " not true at all , " and anyway the group is " no longer in existence , " and when it was in existence it had not " engaged in violent or anarchistic tactics . " Through their attorney , the Berrigans acknowledged that there is indeed " a Worldwide Conspiracy to Save Lives and ' to demand an end to US bombing operations in Southeast Asia . ' " But , they added , Mr. Hoover had been " overgenerous . " For at " Danbury , we have neither the facilities nor personnel to conduct such an enterprise . " They asked for " equal opportunity to answer his charge . " The White House and the Justice Department have not been willing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee bothered to ask the FBI chief to identify the intended kidnap victim . Perhaps we will be told more in a forthcoming TV installment of " The FBI Story . " One way to undermine law and order is to raise doubts about the objectivity and fairness of the custodians of law enforcement . And doubts are raised when an official of the Justice Department , which Mr. Hoover is , uses alleged plots and threats for political purposes around appropriations time . Either Hoover 's statements are fictitious , in which case they should be retracted , or they are well-founded , in which case they ought to be documented , If Mr. Hoover has the evidence , let him come forward with all of it , and let those accused be questioned for the public record . At the least , the Berrigan brothers are due equal time before the congressional committee which heard the charges . If it is shown that the charges entirely are without foundation , the priests should have some redress at law . Freeing POWs The failure of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the unavailability of a camera that sees through roofs , as Defense Secretary Laird has suggested . Photo reconnaissance played only a small part in the planning of the Sontay raid . The scheme was based mostly on intelligence gathered from captured prisoners and defectors , including at least one former guard at the POW camp . The US had carefully built a file on Sontay over many months . Given such patient preparations , American intelligence organizations were aware that Hanoi probably knew the Sontay camp had been compromised . A dozen previous attempts to free prisoners in surprise operations failed because a ) the other side routinely changes POW camps at unpredictable intervals ; 2 ) when Hanoi discovers that any North Vietnamese or Vietcong with knowledge of the camps is missing , American prisoners are quickly transferred to new locations . It 's unlikely that the US intelligence community ? if consulted ? would have advised Mr. Nixon to undertake the operation unless it had current hard information that Sontay had not been evacuated , The raid smells of a Nixon-Laird , can't-lose political operation , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether or not any prisoners were found at the camp . But the campaign to promote Sontay as a success goes far beyond the usual official doublethink , which has given us an unbroken string of victories from Khesanh to Hamburger Hill . The President has used the raid as a smokescreen to hide his failure to begin serious negotiations in Paris for the prisoners ' freedom . Hanoi announced several months ago that a US declaration of intent to withdraw from South Vietnam by mid- ' 71 would start immediate discussions on POWs . Mr. Nixon 's pattonmania at Sontay and his declaration of failure have done nothing but jeopardize their early release . Dow on the Farm When the public learned through a TV documentary and congressional hearings that the Minute Maid subsidiary of the Coca Cola Company maintained a squalid migrant labor camp in Florida , Coke took action to brighten up its image . Exposure moved the company to do for the workers what it might not otherwise have done . Ralph Nader and Campaign GM have unquestionably affected the behavior of General Motors . The lesson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good effects ( for the public ) has not been lost on the burgeoning public-interest organizations in Washington and elsewhere . A spinoff of the Project on Corporate Responsibility ( which did Campaign GM ) called the Agri-business Accountability Project is currently working with Cesar Chavez and his United Farm Workers Organizing Committee to get union recognition for migrant and seasonal farm workers in the Southwest . With a staff of four and a small Field Foundation grant , AAP is looking into who owns the farms that ill-treat workers . Chavez has already been successful through strikes and the lettuce boycott in unionizing about zo percent , of the lettuce growers , who , in some instances , thought they could escape Chavez and his insistence on decent wages , employment guarantees for seasonal field workers , retirement funds , nondiscrimination in hiring , and bans on pesticides by entering into more favorable contracts with the Teamsters , who in turn strongarmed the workers into joining up . At the moment , Chavez ' principal antagonist is Bud Antle Inc. , the second largest producer of lettuce . Antle has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that union to bargain for them . Antle obtained a court injunction against the UFWOC 's picketing his operations in California and Chavez expected to be cited for contempt for violating the ban . According to the Agri-business Accountability staff , the Dow Chemical Company , which made napalm , makes pesticides and needs more poor publicity like the Sahara needs sand , bought 17,000 acres of Antic property last year for $5 million to save Antic from losses ; it then leased back much of it to Antle . C. F. Weaver , the President of Dow Chemical Financial Corp. , a subsidiary , is a director of Bud Antic Inc . Dow owns " at least 15 percent " of AntIe 's stock . Dow sells Antle packaging material used to wrap lettuce . No one claims that Dow " controls " Antle ; the claim is that the company could exercise some influence in the present labor dispute . Dow , for its part feels unjustly implicated and its spokesmen have stated quite accurately that AAP is trying to capitalize on the napalm notoriety in fingering Dow . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , considers itself a harassed family farm . On November 18 , Fred Ross , Jr. , who heads the UFWOC boycott operation in Seattle put up a picket around the Dow plant . Ross says he got a call that night from Bob Antle , vice president of AntIe Inc. complaining that picketing Dow violated the injunction preventing the union from picketing , leafleting or talking to employees of Antle . In other words , picketing Dow is picketing Antle . AAP hopes Dow will pull a Coca Cola .. Rosenthars Lament Congressman Ben Rosenthal ( D , NY ) felt the disappointment of Sisyphus when , last week , the House Rules Committee rejected his consumer protection bill , passed just a day earlier by an uncommon 74 to 4 vote in the Senate . The margin in the Senate established ? if proof were required ? that consumer protection is an issue whose time has come . Favoring as it does the largest " special interest " group in the country ? everybody with a buck in his pocket ? such legislation should be unbeatable . Rosenthal had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and was close to success but the heavy stone rolled down the hill . That it was defeated , by a 7 to 7 tie in the Rules Committee , was in part a fluke occasioned by the absence of Rep. Richard Bolling ( D , Mo. ) who 'd said earlier he would vote for it but was unwilling to cut short an extended vacation in the French West Indies . With 7 votes on their side , President Nixon and the US Chamber of Commerce , which strenously opposed the bill , carried the day . Rosenthal 's bill would have created an independent consumer agency with authority to represent consumer interests with the regulatory . ? ncies , the courts and the remainder of the federal government . It would have tested products and published results without reluctance to single out brand names . Although the bill had been criticized for giving the President power to appoint the agency 's administrator , and thus retain some measure of control , the President opposed it as too independent . As a diversionary tactic the Administration said it wanted a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Justice Department . Rosenthal 's aides suspect Nixon wanted no consumer bill at all . When Rep. Rosenthal appealed for support to the White House consumer advisor , Mrs. Virginia Knauer , he got no reply . She 's quite definitely not independent . The defeat of the consumer bill was a terrible blow to the credibility of her office . Congressman Rosenthal says she 's lost her effectiveness and should quit , " forthwith . " Rosenthal is hoping to find some procedural way to resurrect his bill in this session of Congress but he 's not optimistic .                     