@@493905

Drugs for the mentally ill To the editors : Peter Sterling 's article , " Psychiatry 's Drug Addiction " TNR , December 8 ) , makes good anti-psychiatric politics but poor science . Sterling can not deny that drugs can be useful and successful in treating psychosis ; he tries , therefore , to trivialize or disguise this fact . He claims that drugs can treat only the " symptoms of psychosis . " Can nitroglycerin do anything more than treat the symptoms of angina , insulin the symptoms of diabetes , or aspirin the symptoms of arthritis ? That is the rule of medicine and the accepted standard of judging the excellence of any therapy . To imply that there is something wrong with treating the symptoms of psychosis is to hold psychiatry to standards to which we hold no other medical specialty . The second attempt at trivialization is to imply that these drugs only make the patient " more manageable . " Sterling knows that in the most rigorous scientific studies there is overwhelming evidence that drugs are better than placebos in treating psychotic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do with the pain and distress experienced by the psychotic patient : anxiety , disorientation , confusion , etc . When these drugs were introduced in the 1q505 there was no possible way of knowing of the long-range side effects like tardive dyskinesia , which only began emerging after decades of use . A similar situation has occurred in estrogen use and raises a difficult moral problem : do we withhold drugs that appear to have great usefulness in relieving suffering pending decades-long investigations of possible long-range side effects ? A difficult question , even in retrospect . To attribute insensitivity to those who used Thorazine in its early years without benefit of this hindsight is patently unfair . Sterling is right that drugs can be abused when used promiscuously and without supervision or care for patients ' complaints . But to advocate a return to the moral therapy of the ' Nth century , where ( by Sterling 's own admission ) its most successful practitioner , Worcester State Hospital , had a 25 percent rate of permanent rehospitalization is stunningly anachronistic . I suspect that if Dr Sterling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acutely distressed psychotic patients , he might be less apt to inveigh against the use of modern drug therapy which , when used judiciously and carefully , holds out the only prospect for relief of that terrible suffering . Charles Kra : Awn mer . MD Washington , DC To the editors Part way through the excellent article " Psychiatry 's Drug Addiction , " 1 was struck by the realization that the overwhelming majority of the mental-hospital patients that Peter Sterling refers to as " he " are in fact women . The symptoms of tractability and good " hospital adjustment-often produced by drugs such as chlorpromazine are particularly valued in female patients ? women are supposed to be docile and obedient anyway . Arm M. Woodhull School of Natural Sciences Hampshire College Amherst , 111assachusetts No Job for Becker To the editors . Your former intern , Rene Becker , would never make it as a reporter at the Des Moines Register . He has too hard a time getting his facts straight and keeping quotations ungarbled . Becker interviewed me by phone for your November 24 editorial , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to invite Governor Jerry Brown to the Kennedy-Carter debate our newspapers are sponsoring in January . I explained to Becker that the criteria for invitations were quite simple . We were inviting the candidates , Republican and Democratic , who had established campaigns in Iowa and who intended to compete for support in the January precinct caucuses here . When the debate was announced on November o , Brown had not yet set foot in Iowa , had no campaign here , and had previously signaled his intention to skip Iowa . Your editorial correctly noted that Brown acquired a sudden interest in Iowa immediately after the debate plan became known . But it incorrectly stated that , " as far as the editors are concerned , it is too late " for Brown to be included . I never maintained it was " too late " for Brown to qualify for the debate . We made it clear he could qualify by deciding to run in Iowa . Becker must have decided it was too late . Further , I am correctly quoted as having said , " Brown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on to say that " What he means is that Brown ca n't ignore the Register and then expect an invitation to the party . " That is neither what I said nor what i meant . If Becker had managed to get the rest of the quotation , it would have said that Brown ca n't have the benefit of national exposure in the debate without deciding to take the risk of running against Carter and Kennedy in Iowa . Our intent in sponsoring the debates is to let the people of Iowa see and compare the candidates who are competing for their support in the January caucuses I fail to see the alleged unfairness of an invitation list based on the willingness of candidates to participate in our state 's politics . Governor Brown has changed his mind . He 's decided to mount a campaign in Iowa , and challenge Carter and Kennedy for support . Whether he is what you call a " viable " candidate ( what does that mean ? ) is irrelevant . Now he 's an Iowa candidate , and so he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ P. Gannon , Executive Editor Des hloirres Register and 1- oburre Des . Moines , Iowa Texas Yankee To the editors : Vint Lawrence 's caricature of George Bush ( TNR , December 8 ) is a complete miss . Bush is no Texan ; he is a Connecticut Yankee who merely came to Texas to make his millions , which he made not in ranching but in oil . Never at home on the range , Bush is most at home in the Petroleum Club in Houston . Martin Shockley Denton . Texas Understanding Islam To the editors : Michael Walzer overstates the case in his discussion of religious ( particularly Moslem ) fervor in much of the third world ( " The Islam Explosion , " TNR , December 8 ) . In virtually every one of the incidents he cites Indonesia ( 1%5 ) , Pakistan ( 1on ) , Lebanon , Cyprus ( not mentioned by Walzer ) , the Arab-Israeli conflict , the Sudan , Malaysia , and even Turkey ? the religious cleavages are reinforced by either ethnic or economic cleavages . Since Islam undeniably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ societies , it would be surprising indeed if the frustrations engendered by rapid socioeconomic change , contact with alien and unfamiliar people and ideas , and the hardships imposed by economic instability did not throw the masses back upon more familiar and comfortable religious symbols . But when we observe conflict between groups divided along ethnic , economic , and religious lines , how do we know whether the most important difference between them is that they pray to a difterent trod , that they speak a different language , or that one group is wealthier than the other ? And can we take surface indications at face value ? Frank Taclrau University of Illinois , Chicago Circle Chicago , Illinois To the editors : Michael Walzer writes with reference to a rare peaceful demonstration of Islamic fervor : " Nor does this fervor , any more than in Jewish or Christian history , often take such peaceful forms . " Does Walzer really believe that Jews have perpetrated the same kinds of savagery on those outside their faith as have Christians and Moslems throughout their histories ? Jewish religious fervor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jihads , etc . The offhand egalitarianism of Walzers comment may have been motivated by a sense of fairness , but it obscures fundamental differences unjustly.                     