@@490728

ANNALS OF VAR VIETNAM II-SOVEREIGN OF DISCORD NG ? DINH DIEM --  the name meant a great deal at one time , in Washington as well as Saigon . On a trip to Vietnam in 1961 , Lyndon Johnson called Diem " thc Winston Churchill of Asia . " Whatever the other points of resemblance between him and that British statesman , the man who undertook the American project of barricading the southern against the northern half of Vietnam certainly provoked hyperbole from Americans . For a period in the mid-nineteen-fifties , Diem was the hero of the American press . According to an article in Life , he was a " tough miracle man , " who had " saved his people from the agonizing prospect " of a national plebiscite ; and lie was widely given credit for halting " the red tide of Communism in Asia . " The word " miracle " affixed itself to Diem 's name with the adhesion of a Homeric epithet . Diem had performed the " political miracle " of creating a strong government , the " economic miracle " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of war . In 1957 , Diem travelled to the United States on the American Presidential airplane . Welcomed by President Eisenhower at the airport , he addressed a joint session of Congress and visited New York , where Mayor Robert Wagner called him " a man history may yet adjudge. as one of the great figures of the twentieth century . " Six 3ears later , Diem was to die in a dark alley of Saigon , denounced as the petty tyrant who had destroyed South Vietnamese society and prejudiced the cause of the free world in Asia . Any history of the Diem regime would have to be written in vivid , nuvelesque colors . To start with , there was Ngo Dinh Diem himself  --  a shy , self-righteous Catholic mandarin who had taken a vow of chastity and revealed an ambition to serve as a moral example to his people . He wished , in effect , to be the emperor of an enlightened Confucian state , in the classic pattern of Vietnamese history . Four of Diem 's brothers played important roles , especially the lean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ succession of plots , ruses , and metaphysical dogmas . And there was Mme. Nhu , the beautiful , outspoken , and wholly outrageous woman whom the American journalists called " the Dragon Lady . " For nearly a decade , the Ngos dominated all conversation in Saigon ; Americans and Vietnamese alike spent hours discussing the latest court intrigue or scandal , hours speculating on the intricacies of the family philosophy . The Ngos never disappointed them not even in dying . Played out under the gaze of the television cameras , the fall of the Ngos was , in its way , pure theatre , the denouement of a baroque tragedy . The private psychological drama of Diem and his family was as nothing beside the grand strategies and global concerns of the United States in Vietnam , but , as the French historian Philippe ? Devillers once wrote , " in our age of mass society , where all history seems to be determined by forces so powerful as to negate the individual , the Vietnamese problem has the originality to remain dominated by questions of individuals . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men into abstractions . " The notion may sound romantic , but it is not . In the first place , Vietnam in the days of Diem possessed a very small educated society ; most of the prominent men knew each other as well as if they had been the inhabitants of one vitlage . In the second place , the Vietnamese traditionally understood politics not in terms of programs or large social forces but in terms of the individual . And their perception was not unscientificalb based , for , given the size and uniformity of the old society , the life of one man might stand as a model for the life of the society as a whole . If that one man was Ngo Dinh Diem , then the personal drama of the Ngo family , with its mysterious and violent ending , described the difficulty of the American project in Vietnam better than would a history of all the counter-insurgency programs or an analysis of all the larger social forces . THE American decision to back Ngo Dinh Diem was not of itself a major policy decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formulated some years earlier , and Diem himself was but one element of the fallback position hastily devised following the French debacle in 1954 . By that time , the United States was paying eighty per cent of the costs of the French war , and it was not until June of 1954 that Secretary of State Dulles told the French definitely that the United States would not commit its own troops and planes to Indo-China . Even after the fall of Dien Bien Phu , Administration officials did not accept the Vietminh victory or the principle of a divided Vietnam . During the Geneva Conference , their ambition was not only to build up a government in Saigon but to undermine Ho Chi Minh 's government in Hanoi as well . In June , 1954 , Colonel Edward G. Lansdale was sent out as chief of a Saigon military mission with orders to " heat the Geneva timetable of Communist takeover in the North . " By August , during the period of negotiated truce that had been en precede the holding - ions , Lansdale 's teams were scattered about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agitprop work and sabotage operations , in direct violation of the United States government 's promise at Geneva to " refrain from the threat or the use of force . " These teams had small success in the Vietminh-held areas . Their main achievement in the North was to lay the groundwork for the subsequent " flight " of the Catholics to the South . Their tactics were promises and " black propaganda , " or the falsification of enemy reports . Many of the rest of their activities were little more than terrorist acts . One team , for instance , managed to contaminate the oil supply in the bus depot of Hanoi in order to wreck the engines of all the city 's public transport . The fact is that high United States officials could have had very little confidence in the success of Lansdale 's mission in either the South or the North . In Saigon , the French-sponsored government was in a state of near-collapse . Shortly after die Emperor Sao Dai ap , .... 001 ? 10 ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dinh Diem as his new Prime Minister for the State of Vietnam , President Eisenhower wrote a letter of encouragement that fell short of committing the United States to support Diem . The current national-intelligence estimate held out little hope that either the French or the Vietnamese could establish a strong government in Saigon . In all probability , the estimate noted , the situation there would continue to deteriorate and the Vietminh would extend their control throughout the South . As the United - States directly , joined the struggle for Vietnam , American officials weighed the odds against a non-Communist solution and , even more heavily , against the success of the small , retiring mandarin Ngo Dinh Diem . In Saigon , the American pessimism appeared fully justified . Always the home of the entrepreneur and the collaborator , Saigon had become a veritable sinkhole of violence , corruption , and intrigue . Its atmosphere , compounded of dense marsh heat , diesel fumes , and the rotting-vegetable smell of the Saigon River , accorded perfectly with its political climate . The French Army remained the one force for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Xuyen , a private army under the command of a bandit chief named Bay Vien . The countryside belonged largely to the Vietminh and the Cao Dai and Hoa Hao sects  --  none of them eager to have a strong government in Saigon . Ngo Dinh Diem found himself with hardly a strand of political support . The sects and the Cochin Chinese landlords disliked and suspected him for being a Catholic and a Central Vietnamese . The Vietnamese officers and officials regarded him as an interloper , for Diem had left the country four years before in protest against their refusal to hold out for full independence . The French resented him and the whole American undertaking in the South . As for the American military command in Saigon , it retreated into deep diplomatic silence in preparation for backing the strongest candidate who might emerge . kk-hen Colonel Lansdale went to visit Diem in the palace of the former governor , he found the new Prime Minister quite alone , abandoned even by his bodyguards . As a man with a job to do , Lansdale did not share @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next year , he almost singlehandedly propelled Diem to power , first by pressuring the U.S. command to give Diem economic control over the State of Vietnam 's Army and , second , by adroit financial manipulation of the sects . After a dramatic battle for Saigon between the regular Army and the Binh Xuyen in April , 1455 , Washington officials accepted Lansdale 's judgment that Diem was the strong leader they had been looking for . DIEM was in many d respects a cu ous candidate for the role of American protg6 . He came from Hut : and , he boasted , from a family of mandarins that since the sixteenth century had held such high rank in government that the peasants of the region thought it good luck to attempt , under cover of night , to bury their dead in the Ngos ' ancestral graveyard . In reality , Diem 's ancestors had little or no distinction ; Diem simply fabricated high mandarin lineage for himself  --  and this at a time of general social upheaval . Diem also said that his forebears had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This claim , though possibly true , was an odd point for this new " nationalist " leader to insist upon , for the non-Catholic Vietnamese believed , with some justification , that the Catholics had acted as a fifth column for the French in the period preceding the conquest . Certainly the French had always shown great favoritism toward the Catholics , turning theta into a self-conscious elitist minority  --  though without necessarily imparting to them any great degree of French culture . Vietnamese Catholicism was harsh and medieval , a product of the strict patriarchate of the Vietnamese village rather than of the liberal French Church . In the center of each Catholic village a church stood like a fortress , manifesting the permanent defensive posture of the Catholics in relation to all other Vietnamese . A Buddhist mob , so Diem reported , raided the Ngos ' village in the period just before the French conquest , killing all his relatives except his father , Ngo Dinh Kha . Kha made the fortune of the family by joining the service of the French-supported emperors . Taking on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be Minister of the Rites , Grand Chamberlain , and Keeper of the Eunuchs to the Emperor Thanh Thai . Then , when the French exited that uncooperative monarch to the island of Reunion , Kha , like a model mandarin , retired to his village to live out his life as a farmer and a " notable " of the region . One of nine children  --  the third of Kha 's six sons  --  Diem was born in 1901 . A good student , he studied in a small French Catholic school in Hue and then , deciding against the priesthood and a scholarship in France , attended the French college for administration and law in Hanoi . Graduating first in his class , he went into the roandarinate of Annam ( then still under protectorate status ) and rose quickly through the ranks from district chief to province chief in the French protectorate . In 1933 , he became Minister of the Interior . Just two months after his appointment to this highly important post in the government , he resigned in pm-test against the French refusal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Recalling his decision three decades later , he told Robert Shaplen , " When the French asked me if I were waging a revolution , I told them we had to transform the country in order to fight Communism . Privately , I was convinced that an alarm had to be sounded to make the people feel the need for daring reforms and to make them respond in an energetic and even violent way . I felt it was my responsibility . " The remark looks colored by hindsight , but Diem did in fact recognize the Communists as a potential enemy almost before the French did . In the late nineteen-twenties , he tracked down some of the earliest Communist cells in his region . At the same time , Diem undoubtedly , responded to the new currents of nationalist sentiment stirring among educated Vietnamese , and he felt that the correct posture for a man of his rank and estate was one of disengagement from the French authorities . Following his resignation as Minister of the Interior , Diem retired to his village , like his father before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seclusion of his garden , the libraries , and Catholic seminaries . During the years of feverish political activity in the nineteen-thirties and forties , Diem joined no anti-colonial organization he believed in govern-ment , nor in politics  --  but he maintained contacts with anti-colonial leaders of his own background . And he held himself ready to take up what he considered his responsibilities to his country . In the light of the American intervention twenty years later , he showed a great deal of prescience . During the Second World War , for instance , he sounded out the Japanese on their willingness to overthrow the French Vichyite regime . When the negotiations came to naught , he dissociated himself from the Japanese , and he remained obdurate even when , in 1945 , they offered him the post of Prime Minister in the government they hastily assembled in Hanoi . A few months later , Diem was captured by the Vietminh and brought before the high command . Ho Chi Minh , at that point eager to have a prestigious Catholic in his first coalition Cabinet , asked Diem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explanation that a Vietminh guerrilla band had killed his oldest brother . Diem went South to live with his clerical brother , Ngn Dinh Thuc , outside of Saigon , and for the first few years of the French war he made a series of unsuccessful attempts to pressure the French into setting up a Vietnamese government under dominion status . His efforts failed , partly for the reason that the Saigonese colonial functionaries and intellectuals , unwilling to renounce their own privileges , refused to join him in his protests . When the French finally decided to do just as he had suggested , he flew to Hong Kong to ask the Emperor Bao Dai to insist upon a greater degree of autonomy for the new government . Again he was disappointed : the indolent but perhaps realistic Emperor refused to hold out for his terms . In 1950 , Diem left Vietnam for Rome , with the intention of staving on for the Holy Year . Instead , he settled in the United States . The decision was a fortunate one for him , since it was in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to he laid . Upon his arrival in the United States , Diem was enthusiastically received by a number of Catholic dignitaries , including Francis Cardinal Spellman . Living for two years at the Mary-knoll seminaries in New Jersey and New York , Diem lectured occasionally at American universities and pressed his case in Washington under the wing of Spellman . Among those who supported his goal of independence for the State of Vietnam were Senator Mike Mansfield and Senator John F. Kennedy . The two senators were later to become members of a group called the American Friends of Vietnam , one of whose most influential charter members was Dr. Wesley Fishel , a young academic from Michigan State University who had important connections in the Republican Administration . The enthusiasm for Diem on the part of Mansfield and Kennedy can be explained to some extent by the fact that the early fifties were the height of the McCarthy era . In Washington , the Catholic Senator from Wisconsin had attacked as " traitors " those State Department officials who had recommended that the United States accept Mao Tse-tung 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , taken the anti-Communist rhetoric employed by President Truman and Secretary of State Dean Acheson for their anti-Soviet campaign in Europe and turned it about on itself . Now the " Communists " were inside the American government , plotting with the Kremlin fot the expansion of international Communism in Asia . Seeing political benefits in it , the right wing of the Republican Party  --  Senators Styles Bridges and Herman Welker and Vice-President Nixon took up the attack , charging the Democrats with the " loss of China " and " softness on Communism . " The campaign was almost entirely rhetorical  --  no political group advocated putting American troops into mainland China  --  but it found a sizable audience , and the Democratic politicians began to compete with the Republicans for the most staunchly anti-Communist position . Whatever the reason of state involved , it became an axiom to both parties that no Administration could possibly survive the " loss of Indo-China . " By 1956 , Senator Kennedy had adopted the " domino theory " of the Truman and Eisenhower Administrations . At a meeting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cornerstone of the free world in Southeast Asia , the keystone to the arch , the finger in the dike . " He maintained that " Burma , Thailand , India , Japan , the Philippines , and obviously Laos and Cambodia are among those whose security would be threatened if the red tide of Communism overflowed into Vietnam . " And he added , " The fundamental tenets of this nation 's foreign policy ... depend in considerable measure upon a strong and free Vietnamese nation . " Under the circumstances , therefore , the American government 's somewhat haphazard decision to back Ngo Dinh Diem found favor with an influential group of American senators . With respect to the political exigencies of the moment , Diem had all the right qualifications . He was a patriot untainted by service to the Japanese or to the wartime French regime , He had the reputation of a man of integrity and an experienced administrator . Most important of all , he was a Catholic and a strong anti-Communist who had had the foresight to come to the United States for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to request American support in transporting and resettling those people who wished to leave the Vietminh for the French zone of regroupment . The request could not have been more politic from an American point of view , as it permitted United States military and civilian welfare services to take up the congenial cause of " saving " Vietnamese from Communism and then from starvation . With the help of the United States Seventh Fleet , some eight hundred and sixty thousand people , the vast majority of them Catholics from the disciplined bishoprics of Phat Diem and Bui Chu , descended upon the South during the three hundred days of the armistice . The arrival of the refugees provided Diem with his first political base in the South  --  and an important one at that , for the Catholics were the most highly organized of all the non-Communist political groups . Their arrival also provided Diem with a great deal of favorable publicity in the United States , for , like their French predecessors in the nineteenth century , the American Catholic missions were anything but reticent about their good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his American advisers felt confident enough about their position in Vietnam and the United States to go about setting up the legal framework for a new government in the South . In October , 1955 , Diem organized a referendum to determine whether the state should he a monarchy under Bao Dai or a republic with Diem himself as president . As organized by Ngo Dinh Nhu  --  and perhaps with excessive efficiency , to American taste  --  the vote showed a majority of ninety-nine per cent for Diem out of the six million ballots counted . Already , in July , Diem had repudiated the Geneva accords , and specifically the article proposing a free election between the two regroupment zones . Not content with making a political division of Vietnam , he proceeded to seal the border between the two regions with surgical precision , refusing the Democratic Republic of Vietnam 's request for the opening of trade relations and forbidding even die reestablishment of a postal exchange  --  a bitter blow to those thousands of families whose members the war had divided between North and South . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressure for elections of some sort , Diem held an election for a constituent assembly and drafted a constitution for the " Republic of Vietnam . " THE United States government ex- ! messed its approval of these measures in the most forceful terms . By 1956 , it was paying the Diem regime an average of two hundred and seventy million dollars a year . The United States Military Assistance Advisory Group , composed of some eight hundred officers , took on the job of reorganizing and retraining the Vietnamese Army . The United States Operations Mission t:SOM ) was pumping money into the economy and cramming food for refugee relief into the warehouses of Saigon . The Mission was also providing funds for a land-reform program and a vast project to resettle the Northern refugees and the /and-hungry peasants of the center . United States officials were lyrical in their reports to Congress , asserting that the Diem regime was on the way to rebuilding the economy and solving the social problems caused by a decade of war . The American press followed suit in more colorful terms . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the Bright Spot in Asia , " and a subheading proclaimed , " Two years ago at Geneva , South Vietnam was virtually sold down the river to the Communists . Today the spunky little Asian country is back on its own feet , thanks to a ' mandarin in a sharkskin suit who 's upsetting the Red timetable . ' " Other periodicals ran stories vaunting the " economic miracle " that Diem had performed . The new United States aid program and public enthusiasm for the Diem regime were essentially two halves of the same phenomenon  --  the second reflecting the first almost exclusively , without any reference to what was happening in South Vietnam . For in truth few Americans , in or out of Washington , knew anything about the country . If Vietnam was " the keystone to the arch , the finger in the dike , " it was still a very distant and foreign place , whose major interest to Americans lay in its geographical position , south of China . Not until 1961 , when guerrilla fighting clearly threatened Diem 's control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numbers to investigate this new American dependency . The lacuna had a certain hnportance , for it meant that for the first six years information about the Diem regime came largely from United States government sources . The most prolific of these apologists was Dr. Wesley Fislicl , who Ied a team of some fifty scholars and public administrators assemhled by Michigan State University under a government contract to reorganize the Diem administration . It was Dr. Fishel who took over the task of explaining how and in what manner the Diem ILgime was a democracy . The idea that the mission of the United States was to build democracy around the world had become a convention of American politics in the nineteen-fifties . In certain circles , it was more or less assumed that democracy  --  that is , electoral democracy combined with private ownership and civil liberties  --  was what the United States had to offer the Third World . Democracy provided not only the moral basis for American opposition to Communism but the practical method for making that opposition work . Whether American officials actually believed that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many officials definitely did not  --  they saw lip service to it as a necessity for selling American overseas commitments to the American people . The American officials and scholars who backed Diem adhered to this convention precisely . During Diem 's visit to the United States in 1957 , they wrote speeches for him that produced a gush from the Times over his deep religious feelings , his " firm concept of human rights , " his jeffersonian attitude . They also encouraged Diem to write a constitution that , with its provisions for a president elected by universal suffrage . a unicameral legislature , an inclepend-ent judiciary , and a wide-ranging bill of rights , looked something like a cross between the Constitution of the United States and that of the French Fourth Republic . The difficulty was that while Diem agreed with his American advisers completely on issues such as the Catholic refugees and the American aid program , he did not seem to follow them on the issue of democracy . From the fact that Diem had pictures of himself set up on altars in the streets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the national anthem , it could be concluded that , at least in some part of his mind , he had assumed the role of the Confucian emperor . And the emperor required not the support but the obedience of his people . He required not a majority but unanimity . It was thus with some sense of having been betrayed that Diem 's American advisers surveyed the results of the elections they had persuaded him to hold and had so carefully publicized in the United States . In the 1955 referendum , Diem got 605,025 votes from a total of 450,000 registered voters in Saigon . In the legislative election of 1959 , government candidates won seventy-six out of a hundred and twenty-three seats in the National Assembly . That was the official tally . Actually , of the twenty-two government candidates who lost their races , almost all lost to other government candidates or to independents who favored the government . ( Ngo Dinh Nhu , for example , ran and won his seat under the label of an " independent . " ) In fact , the outcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ngos prevented all opposition groups from operating as parties and closed down all the newspapers that printed any criticism of the government . One outspoken opposition candidate , Dr. Phan Chuang Dan , who surprised the government by winning , was refused a seat in the Assembly , and was subsequently jailed and tortured . While the lack of an opposition gave the Assembly a somewhat lopsided look , the Ngos were more than equal to coping with this cosmetic problem . Quite arbitrarily , after one election they divided the Assembly into two group-a government majority of a hundred and seven , and a " minority " of sixteen , which tended to vote with the government The arrangement did not seem at all unreasonable to the Ngos . Mme. Nhu once told an American-university audience , " They Vietnamese living in the United States ignore the decisions of the Vietnamese people manifested in free elections in order to decree that our executive lacks popular support , and to complain at the same time in the most illogical manner that our legislature is no more than a rubber stamp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued , " Ahout that question of the rubber-stamp argument , I have repeatedly said , ' But what 's wrong to rubber-stamp the laws we approve ? ' " Mme. Nhu 's remark may have had some double meaning , for Diem actually gave the Assembly very few bills to vote on . He simply sent down orders from his office , and no one inquired what legal status they held . In an attempt to explain these events to the American public , Dr. Fishel , just after the elections of 1959 , wrote an article in the New Leader entitled " Vietnam 's Democratic One-Man Rule " : ... Ngo Dinh Diem has all the authority and all the power one needs to operate a dictatorship , but ... he is n't operating one ! Here is a leader who speaks the language of democracy , who holds the powers of a dictator , who governs a Republic in accordance with the terms of a Constitution . The Constitution was written at his request by a National Assembly which he caused to be elected by the people of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do this , His authority and power at that moment were so absolute that he could have ruled for many years as a dictator had he chosen to do so . Dr. Fishel presumably felt that the fact that Diem had so generously adopted a constitution excused him from all obligation to abide by it . Such must have been Fishel 's meaning , for Diem in the first five years of his term in office violated every article in the constitution , concentrating his attacks most heavily on the bill of rights  --  the habeas-corpus laws and the rights of assembly and trial by jury . With a few exceptions , the Americans in Saigon at that period made no criticism of these dictatorial measures . Instead , they concentrated on describing the " positive achievements " of the regime , shifting their emphasis slowly from the theme of democracy to that of " strong leadership . " Wolf Ladejinsky , for instance , the Iand-reform expert who went to Vietnam to help Diem with his agrarian programs , argued in the Retorter , " The overwhelming majority of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's authoritarianism . They have probably never enjoyed greater freedom in the conduct of their life and work or benefited in a greater variety of ways . Impatience with the government on the part of those intellectuals who want power for the asking does n't extend to the peasantry . " Dr. Fishel further explained , " The peoples of Southeast Asia are not , generally speaking , sufficiently sophisticated to understand what we mean by democracy and how they can exercise and protect their own political rights . " It was , he continued , naive to suppose that a " new " state that had no traditions of democracy and no enlightened electorate could immediately adopt a Western-style democratic system . What Vietnam needed for the moment was strong leadership  --  and strong leadership necessarily implied the concentration of great power . Popular support for the regime could he best assured once the police and security services throughout the country had been adequately developed . In fact , of course , American officials in Saigon were not at all anxious to see Diem adopt an electoral democracy . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ According to all intelligence estimates , the Communists would win more than a majority of the votes in a Free election . The main objective of the United States officials was to build up the Saigon government to the point where it could deter the Northern regime and suppress the Southern Communists . To that end , the Americans were spending some eighty per cent of the entire aid budget for Vietnam each year on the development of the former French colonial forces and another large slice on the creation of a civil guard and other security and intelligence services . Rather than pressure Diem to create a consensus among the political factions or find a base of popular support , they urged him to increase his control over the countryside . And Diem was all too willing to oblige . Within his first two years in office , he dispensed with the French system of village elections and replaced the local village councils with government officials appointed from the outside  --  many of them Catholics . At the same time , he issued laws under which his officials imprisoned members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist agents in the South . Certain American journalists would later accuse Fishel and United States officials of deliberately deceiving the American public about the whole nature of the Diem regime and its programs . But the matter was not quite so simple . On the one hand , the officials had to believe in the essential goodness of their policy ; on the other hand , they had to believe that Diem shared their goals . If the second was the natural assumption for Americans to make about their Asian dependents  --  many in the Roosevelt Administration had believed the same of Chiang Kai-shek -- it was also a necessary assumption for those involved in trying to implement their own policy through a foreigner . Many officials would go so far as to suppress their own awareness of the Diemist repressions , while others would rationalize them on the ground that such measures were necessary in this moment of crisis . In the future , with American advice , matters would certainly be put right . Thus , the American officials ended by knowing very little about Ngo Dinh Diem or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to take notice , few of them knew very much more than what Senators Kennedy and Mansfield had known seven years before . They would go on assuming that Diem was working only against Communist agents ; they would go on believing that Diem headed a strong , Asian-style government for people not " sophisticated " enough for a full democracy . The Diem regime would , in other words , become a fiction to them , a creation of the mind . For in reality the Saigon government bore no resemblance whatever to a strong , Asian-style government . Indeed , apart from the democratic constitution with which Diem had endowed it , the government resembled nothing so much as an attenuated French colonial regime . In Saigon , the same ministries filled the same colonial office buildings . The civil servants shuffled the same papers their predecessors had shuffled . Many of the civil servants themselves remained the same . By 1959 , more than a third of them dated their term of service from before the professional advent of the Ban Dai government . Though Diem disliked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made no great effort to replace them , The one civil-service academy , the National Institute of Administration , was much too small to meet the need , and , in any case , trained men better for law careers in France than for any local form of employment . What was most strange was that Diem , this proud nationalist , did not even symbolically dissociate his regime from the government lie so despised as a " French puppet . " The Republic of Vietnam had the same flag and the same anthem as the Bau Dai government , and Diem lived in the governor 's palace . As the Diem regime grew older , the administration began to take on more and more the property of a sponge . Money , plans , and programs poured into it and nothing came out . This situation was only to be expected , for under the colonial regime the French had exercised the only initiative , the only authority . With their departure , the old-line functionaries seemed to lose all power of forward motion . As one disenchanted Michigan State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put off all decisions until the day after their retirement . In the meantime , they guarded their positions by piling up mountains of red tape to bury any program they might have to take responsibility for . Under the French regime , the civil servants had looked upon the administration not as part of a nation-state working for the benefit of the Vietnamese people but as an exploitative , partly inscrutable , and , in any case , foreign concern . They had joined the administration in order to belong to what seemed the most powerful and interesting group in the country , and to get their share of French wealth  --  as it were , a abounded in all its forms  --  from briber ) to nepotism to graft to outright embezzlement . Fishel and his associates resolutely defended the corruption on the ground that all Asian governments were cornipt . Yet Diem had in fact inherited a relatively clean administration . Now the corruption was increasing , and at least partly as a result of his own efforts . Nepotism , certainly , began at home , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been any bigger than it was . FOR all Diem 's talk of enlightened Confucian government , the President managed in five years to reduce his administration to a form far more primitive than any that a Confucian emperor would have countenanced : his own family . To his initial Cabinet , consisting of six men , Diem appointed three of his relatives ; in addition , two in-laws served in the most important civil-service posts For most of his regime . Mme. Nhu 's father acted as Ambassador to Washington , and Diem 's youngest brother , Ngo Dinh Luyen , served as Ambassador to Great Britain and other European countries . Three of his other brothers were by far the most important people in the government , though they held no official posts . Archbishop Ngo Dinh Thuc took no specific authority for the state , but as the senior member of the family he remained close to Diem 's councils . ( This genial , worldly cleric rni doubt found his ambitions best satisfied by the Church , which was , after all , a great deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dinh Can A farouche figure , and a bachelor like Diem , Can had lived all his life with his mother in the family home in HuC . Can had no Western education , and , indeed , very little education at all . With the founding of the Republic , he simply assumed power in central Vietnam , and without any official title ruled it as a warlord for the duration of the regime . The most important of the brothers was , of course , Ngo Dinh Nhu . Brought to live in the Presidential Palace in 1956 , he assumed the title of Political Counsellor and a power that perhaps exceeded Diem 's , for Diem listened only to him . Nhu was a striking figure . In contrast to the rotund President , he was a lean man , with a pale complexion and piercing eyes . He had spent several years in France at the distinguished but archaic school of paleography , the Ecole des Chartes , and was thought by Diem to be the intellectual of the family . He had not in fact the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in sonorous abstractions . He craved power for its own sake and created a Byzantine labyrinth around Diem through which to pursue it . His wife , Tran Le Xuan , in no way moderated his craving . A relative of the Emperor , she was a woman of great beauty and even greater ambition . Living at the palace as the First Lady , she appropriated to herself much of the public spotlight and the authority over all matters touching upon women and the family . She was outspoken and fiercely competitive , even with her husband and even on the subject of Catholicism  --  a subject about which she knew nothing until she married Nhu . Possibly because she was less complicated , less involved in all the Confucian formalities and the intellectualizing , she was a stronger character than either of the two men . With her long red nails and her tight no dais , she appeared as a physical force that quite overwhelmed the two pale , dry mandarins . Apart from her , there was a kind of sterility about the family , an empty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regime was its governing philosophy  --  Personalism , or Nhan Vi , as the doctrine was known in Vietnamese Ngo Dinh Nhu had lived in Paris in the nineteen-thirties , when French Catholic intellectuals were searching for a doctrine that held the appeal of Communism while remaining conservative  --  the era of Action Francaise and the philosophical slide into Fascism . After the war , Nhu had been impressed by the works of Emmanuel Mounier , the Catholic thinker who , equally preoccupied by Communism , had propounded a doctrine of the corporate state in which the alienated masses would find unity through participating in certain authoritarian social organizations , and through leaders of superior moral fibre . Always a highly abstract affair that lacked the rigorous analysis of Marxism , the doctrine in Nhu 's hands became an incomprehensible hodgepodge having something to do with state power , the dignity of the " person " ( as opposed to the individual ) , and the virtues of humility , renunciation , and sacrifice . Whether or not Nhu had any clear idea of what he meant by Personalism remained questionable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ student hot for dissertation material , he said that no written statement on the subject perfectly expressed the true philosophy of the regime . In the end , what remained ? . from all the abstractions was a certain tone of voice . As one British adviser noted , the term Nhan Vi is a " neologism of Chinese roots suggesting rank and thereby hinting that contentment with one 's station might be the quality from the Personalist catalogue the new regime would prize most highly . " Taken together , the Ngos formed a royal family  --  a royal family that ruled by fits and starts , in a kind of vacuum . The American officials continued to hope that Diem would finally dispense with some of his relatives and rule through the structure of government . But Diem  --  much like Chiang Kai-shek trusted no one else . Apart from those few whom he familiarly " adopted " into his patriarchal clan , he kept his distance from his officials , turning them away with a cold , aristocratic hauteur . Both Diem and Nhu hated to delegate authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eighteen hours a day . Each night , he would retire with a great stack of papers to sit up into the early hours of the morning in a pathetic attempt to oversee every detail of the administration , from the movement of spies to the placement of shrubs about the palace . He did not seem to be able to separate the important from the trivial . For a time , he signed all the exit visas for the country himself . Physically unable to run the entire government , he and Nhu took the next-best course of attempting to insure that no cooperation could possibly exist between any two agencies or any two units of the Army . The brothers would interfere directly and without warning at all levels of the government , replacing a district chief here , cutting off a credit there , and sending a battalion on maneuvers without the knowledge of its divisional commander . In 1954 , Nhu created a secret network of Catholic refugees , whom he placed at strategic points throughout the government to oversee all the rest of the government officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Revolutionary Personalist Labor Party , as this organization came to be known , had immense power , if only because all the other government officials assumed it to he omnipotent . Under the aegis of his Can Lao chief , Dr. ' Fran Kim Tuyen , Nhu built up not one but ten separate secret intelligence agencies , all of which competed to bring him news of traitors , spies , and foreign plots . The Political Counsellor acted as though he knew what all of them were doing , but the amount of intelligence so produced and the necessity for self-protective fab-rications on the part of all the agents prevented him from knowing anything of the sort . Officials would occasionally disappear or rise to sudden prominence , and that would be that . The inner ring of intelligence agencies , of course , quite neutralized the outer ring , whose job it was to catch Communists . The only consolation for the Diem regime was perhaps that the Communists , who eventually infiltrated both rings in large numbers , were quite as badly informed by the system as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as voluble as Ho Chi Minh was laconic . When Diem was interviewed by American journalists , he would often lecture from four to six hours at a time on his own philosophy of government and the congruence between his own family history and the history of Vietnam . And , unlike Ho Chi Minh , he had not a grain of humor . For his part , Ngo Dinh Nhu would spend hours of his working day composing high-flown sentences for his public speeches . At night , he would settle down to lecture American officials on the true nature of Vietnamese society , on the evils of Communism and capitalism , on the mysteries of guerrilla warfare , and on the differences between the spiritual East and the materialist West . Certain officials , such as the C.I.A . chief , John Richardson , would listen for hours , awed by the intellectualism , convinced that they were sounding the depths of unfathomable Asia . For others who wished to get something done or to obtain specific answers to specific questions , these sessions were an exquisite torture . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ngos ( for their own good ) to entertain yet another United States congressman for dinner , the Ngos talked from 8 P.M. until four o'clock in the morning , at which point the congressman , felled by whiskey and jct lag , had to be carried nut of the palace . The alliance of the Ngo family and the United States was , quite obviously , an ill-matched one . The Americans wanted an able administrator , a strong leader , a man of the people ? " another Magsaysay , " as they put it  --  and Diem was none of these things . Though the American officials spoke significantly of his experience as an administrator , the President actually had very little experience , and that in the small , far-off Annamesc protectorate . Born a mandarin , he had grown up under the tutelage of that older generation of Catholic mandarins who believed in the resurrection of the traditional state . His sense of patriotism came from the elitist tradition of the mandarinate and the Church , and he was , as the Vietnamese said , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of intense anti-French activity , Diem neither formed nor joined a political party , where the real training for independence might be had . He saw himself as a man of destiny , responsible for the nation by right of birth and superior virtue . Plus ro  --  al pre le roc , he held himself aloof from the conflict , waiting for that moment of destiny that God or Fate had already arranged in Heaven , And when that moment came , he felt himself justified by it , all his hopes and theories confirmed  --  never quite understanding that the moment came less as a result of his own virtue than as the result of intervention by a large and interested foreign power . While the Ngo brothers were essentially pathetic figures , their regime was an indissoluble mixture of nightmare and farce . The farce was played out largely in the cities , among the people supported by the American aid program , for on this stage Mme. Nhu could whimsically enforce an anti-divorce law or a ban on dancing . The nightmare lay mostly in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American importation of food and the new influx of money to the cities , and where no laws held . The difference was , however , invisible to most Americans . IN the period 1955-59 , Diem is- sued a series of laws that many Americans liked to think were directed against Communist agents actively trying to overthrow the Diem regime . At the time , certain French journalists , including Jean Lacouture and Philippe Dcvillers , reported that the Diem regime was conducting a large-scale campaign of terror not only against the entire Vietminh but also against leaders of smaller political factions . Some American and British sources confirmed this report , but neither American officials nor journalists investigated the matter at the time . Only years later did the next generation of American social scientists designing the next series of counter-insurgency programs discover the cause and the full consequences of the campaign . According to the testimony of the victims  --  many of whom consequently joined the National Liberation Front the Diemist officials ar-rested thousands of people whose onis political sin was to have fought fur independence against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were killed on arrest ; others were beaten and tortured ; still others were held for indefinite periods under inhuman conditions for the purpose of extorting money from them or confiscating their land . In certain areas , whole hamlets were subjected to such treatment . What most surprised the American researchers was that few of these arrests were ever made in Saigon or in any of the larger cities , for this fact indicated that Diem did nor directly order them . In most cases , the officials seemed to have acted on their own initiative and for their own personal or sectarian interests . Some of the officials were , after all , former colonial functionaries with blood scores to settle against the Vietminh . Others were former village notables and landlords who had been driven from their villages by the Vietminh during the war . Some of them were Catholics fighting old sectarian battles , and still others were adventurers who joined the new administration in order to make their fortunes . By issuing the anti-treason laws , Diem had , in other words , opened a Pandora @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the terror campaign worked against the long-term interests of Isis government , he could have done nothing to stop it . Apart from those people who could use his administration to their own private advantage , he had little support in the country . The anti-Vietminh campaign was only one manifestation of the anarchy-within the administration and the Army . Almost all the American reporters who came to Saigon in 1961-62 had tales to tell of Army officers gaining promotions through bribery or political influence , of generals running illicit traffic in rice or opium , of intelligence officers refusing to divulge information or lying to conceal a job undone , of officers stealing their men 's pay , and of soldiers treating the peasants like the members of a conquered race . One experienced reporter wrote , " Of the thousands of Vietnamese officials I have known , I can think of none who does not more or less hold the Vietnamese people in contempt . " There were exceptions , of course , but they remained exceptions . On the whole , the behavior of the officials had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pattern that transcended the region or social class from which they came . From the tales of the Diem regime as told by the villagers , it would seem that the history of the South was but the history of one village repeated over and over again . The story as told by villagers throughout the country had its stock characters : the government-appointed village chief ; the " haughty " and " arrogant " official who took bribes from the local landlords and forced the villagers to work for him ; the village security officer  --  a relative , perhaps , of the district chief  --  who used his position to take revenge on old enemies or to extort money from the villagers ; the government soldiers who , like juvenile delinquents , drank too much , stole food , and raped the village girls ; the village self-defense guards who huddled in their earthwork forts each night and fled when the National Liberation Front came in force to the village ; the district and provincial officials who , like Kafka 's bureaucrats , seemed to inhabit a world impossibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ villagers themselves , who complained so little that for years the Americans thought the insurgency would find no root among them . And there was a cVnouement to the story shocking to Americans of the period : when the Front cadres moved into the village and assassinated one or two of the government officials , the villagers reacted with enthusiasm or indifference . Dr. Fishel and his colleagues contended that the Diem regime was not the worst government in Asia , and possibly it was not . But the Vietnamese did nut make such comparisons . The fact is that the failings of the Diemist officials arose not out of any one political system but out of the depths of the society . Ngo Dinh Diem did not create these failings ; on the other hand , he could do nothing about them . He could not even analyze them , for although they were not " natural " or traditional , they stemmed from the disintegration of the old society , from a process that he himself did not recognize . And it was this disintegration , rather than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As always , the crux of the matter was the village , the essential community of Vietnam . Traditionally , the villages stood almost isolated , huhs in the wheels of their paddy fields , surviving civil war upon civil war , protecting the cycle of the rice and the Way of the ancestors . But with the coming of the French the villages succumbed  --  first to the colonial bureaucrats , then to the merchants , then to the soldiers . Overwhelmed by the new power in Saigon , the Southern villages lost their internal structure and the bonds of their community . The strict patriarchy , the " natural order " of the Confucian universe , had disintegrated , leaving a vacuum of authority where no laws held . Initially , Diem tried to pacify the South with moral instruction  --  it was that , he supposed , that had insured the harmonious working of society in the past . When instruction did not work and perhaps he had always feared that it would not  --  he found himself at a loss . The idea that he might consult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occur to him as a possibility . " I know what is best for the people , " he would repeat endlessly to his American advisers . Seeing himself as the patriarch , the father of his people , he could not cope with the social disintegration . He scarcely knew what had happened or why . When it became clear that the people would not respond to what many Americans were pleased to cal/ the " traditional government " of the Vietnamese villages , Diem 's reaction was to extend his own paternal rule down into the villages with the appointment of officials from the outside . But his administration could not function , and not surprisingly , for a Western-style bureaucracy , could not function according to the traditional Way . By imposing his own administration upon the villages , Diem broke down the last barriers and exposed the villagers to intolerable pressure . In the end , the villagers would break away from him , as they broke away from the Nguyen emperors , leaving him helpless before the foreigners . Like the majority of his people , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' in the nineteen-thirties was hardly more cosmopolitan than a buck-country village . Like them , he watched uncomprehending while his world gave way before the strange forces of the West . Suddenly made responsible for a country fashioned by others and altered beyond recognition , he could only react as he had been trained to in his childhood . Like his " haughty " officials , he was a man nut of tune with his times , a sovereign of discord . Under other circumstances . Diem would simply have drifted into obscurity . It was the United States that gave him power over his people and encouraged him to adopt a policy based exclusively on the use of force . EVEN as late as 1968. many American liberals , including many of the journalists in Saigon , believed the official claims that the United States was at least making an effort to develop South Vietnam and to improve the well-being of the South Vietnamese people . But as a look at the aid budget would show , the claims were , and always had been , false . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guerrilla war began , the United States spent only a minute fraction of its aid on industrial or agricultural development  --  two sectors that required heavy investment if South Vietnam was to become an economically independent country . The land-reform program of 1956 failed in part he-cause the United States did not allocate capital for the Diem regime or the peasants to buy the land the large proprietors had by law to relinquish . Throughout the Diem era , the United States spent approximately ninety per cent of its aid on the creation of an army and a military bureaucracy . This distribution of aid was not arbitrary ; nor was it the result of mere shortsightedness on the part of the local American officials . In Washington , United States officials conceived of their policy not as an attempt to help the Vietnamese but as an attempt to hold the line at the Seventeenth Parallel against the Communists . These officials justified the entire aid-and-assistance program on the basis of this essentially negative , military goal . When it appeared that the main source of trouble for the Diem regime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no attempt to change their priorities . All the social scientists notwithstanding , the Americans had no real theory of development , no firm belief that development would reduce the insurgency . And they would make no large-scale appropriations for humanitarian purposes . For the United States government , " security " ? or the attempt at a military occupation of the countryside  --  always came first . The final shape of the Diem regime reflected that concern . Beginning in 1955 , the United States Military Assistance Advisory Group , under the command of Genera Samuel T. Williams , dismantled the small , mobile units of the French-trained Army Ole groups mobiles ) and replaced them with seven regular divisions armed with American weapons . The reorganization exemplified the usual military obsession with precedent  --  in this case the Korean war . The regular divisions were to prove utterly unsuitable for a domestic guerrilla conflict . But the American advisers , instead of correcting their initial error , merely added to it by forming a new group of units  --  Marine , Ranger , and paratrooper battahons  --  from their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Navy and an Air Force , the armed forces of the Saigon government became a complete scale model of the American armed forces , its soldiers all dressed in American uniforms labelled Combat , Asian , Men 's , Large or Small . At the same time , the civilian side of the American Mission , with the help of the Nlichigan State University teams , built up territorial forces that more or less paralleled the Vietminh-N.L.F. formations : a self-defense guard ( later called the Popular Forces ) to patrol the villages , and a fifty-thousand-man civil guard ( later called the Regional Forces ) to provide provincial defense . The very size of the American military commitment insured that the Vietnamese armed forces would eventually dominate the civil administration . By 1962 , military officers were assigned to almost all the crucial territorial posts of province and district chief . The " security " and " control " system was then complete . Village chiefs reported to the military district and province chiefs , the province chiefs to the three ( later four ) corps commanders , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system brooked no interference from any representative institutions , or , indeed , from any civilian body whatever . The United States had , in other words , made the Saigon government into a military machine whose sole raison Ware was to fight the Communists . The only difficulty was that the machine did not work . That the regular Army divisions could not effectively cope with the domestic guerrilla warfare was only the superficial aspect of the problem . The " real problem was that these divisions bore no relation to Vietnamese politics . From the American point of view , the Army of the Republic of Vietnam appeared to be solid  --  a group of men in the same uniform trained and ready to do battle against the Communists . But within the Vietnamese context the ARVN was more like a collection of individuals who all happened to be carrying weapons . In 1961 , it became clear to the inner circle of the Kennedy Administration that the N.L.F. was threatening the very life of the Diem regime . New measures were required if the regime was to survive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survey the military situation , General Maxwell D. Taylor recommended to President Kennedy that the United States send eight thousand regular troops to Vietnam for the purpose of raising the morale of the Saigon government and showing the Communists the seriousness of the American intention to defend South Vietnam . Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara questioned the value of a token force , on the ground that " we would be almost certain to get increasingly mired down in an inconclusive struggle . " He recommended that the United States make a clear commitment to the defense of South Vietnam and support that commitment with the introduction of American forces on the " substantial scale " that would be necessary to achieve military victory . President Kennedy did not accept either McNamara 's recommendation or Taylor 's proposal as it stood . Instead , over the next two years he doubled the number of troops Taylor requested , posting sixteen thousand American soldiers as advisers to the ARVN , and at the same time he increased military aid to the Saigon government , reinforced the Vietnamese units with squadrons of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clandestine sabotage operations in Laos and North and South Vietnam , all directed against the Democratic Republic of Vietnam . As McNamara had predicted , these new measures did not deter the N.L.F. The success of American policy thus continued to rest on the capabilities of the Saigon government . In 1961 , American officials presented the Diem regime with a new list of demands for poli.ical , economic , and military , re-form . Possibly they thought that the Diem regi ne would now meet these demands , for with the increase of military aid the Americans took steps to transform their d viso ry " relationship into one of " limited partnership " with the Saigon government , in which American troops as well as materiel could he committed to combat . Presumably , the new sys-tem would assure more effective Amer-ican control over Diem 's regime . In February , 1962 , the Military Assist-ance Advisory Group ( M.A.A.G. ) became the Military Assistance Com-mand , Vietnam ( M.A.C.V. ) , " some-thing nearer  --  but not quite  --  an opera-tional headquarters in a theatre of war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as Ameri-can  --  were inserted in every part of the bureaucracy , with the authority not only to advise but to insist on the adoption of new programs . Within this new arrangement , the Diem regime undertook a new pacification plan . Designed by Diem 's British advisory team , it was called the Strategic Hamlet program . For the next two years , the Strategic Hamlet program was by far the most ambitious of the Diemist land programs , and by far the most destructive . In its very conception , the program was a study in misplaced analogy . Sir Robert Thompson , the head of the British team of advisers to Ngo Dinh Diem , proposed to build up a system of fortified villages such as the British had used against the Communist insurgency in Malaya . The difficulty was that while in Malaya the British had fortified Malay villages against Chinese insurgents , in Vietnam the Vietnamese would have to fortify Vietnamese hamlets against other Vietnamese who had grown up in those hamlets . The plan purported not to involve the displacement of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unsuccessful resettlement programs had done . But it involved precisely that in most regions of the Mekong Delta . Anyone who took an airplane trip across the Delta could have seen that the villagers did not live in concentrated settlements but in farmhouses scattered through the rice fields and along the edges of the dikes . Because the new program made no provision for the allotment of new land to the villagers , many of the peasantswho moved into the strategic hamlets ended up with no land at all  --  five miles being the same as five hundred to those who had to walk to their fields and hack each day . The American and British advisers overlooked this basic economic difficulty- . The strategic hamlets offered them the military advantage of concentrating people into small , fortified settlements that the armed forces could actually surround . And by 1962 the military situation appeared to he desperate . The Ngo brothers had from the beginning favored the new program in the expectation that it would give them more direct control over the villages . Once they learned how much money the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of the possibility of direct American intervention if they did not concur , they rushed ahead with it . Ngo Dinh Nhu took charge of the program himself , and insisted that two-thirds of the sixteen thousand hamlets in South Vietnam he fortified within fourteen months . His theory  --  or , rather , the theory he expounded to the Americans- was that with the help of proper indoctrination the peasants would he all ton glad to defend their own villages against the Communists , without any military or financial support . Sir Robert Thompson argued that the program had to proceed more slowly , so that at every stage the government could protect the hamlets from large-scale attacks . But Nhu went ahead with his own plan , whereby the Americans shipped in vast quantities of commodities to enable the villagers both to construct their own defenses and , as the press releases had it , to build new and better communities for themselves . By the end of 1962 , Diemist officials reported that , though they had not quite reached their objective , about half of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of self-defense . The figure reflected no real achievement but , rather , the amount of American aid that had gone to the various province chiefs for such a purpose . As one American study later showed , only fifteen hundred , or less than ten per cent , of the hamlets possessed any military security . And even that figure might not have been achieved without the new American commitment of firepower . With artillery , helicopters , and tactical bombers at its disposal , the Allied command declared whole areas outside the strategic-hamlet belt " free-fire zones , " where anything moving might be shot . Inside the belt , it permitted the artillery to fire almost at random every night on suspected Vietcong concentrations , trails , and staging areas  --  a tactic known as " harassment and interdiction . " All this unguided firing naturally dissuaded many peasants from following what would have been their normal course of slipping away from the crowded , squalid enclosures . At least one American official at the time admitted that the N.L.F. was not far wrong in calling these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actually applied , the Strategic Hamlet program did give the Saigon government a short-tertn military advantage . Politically , it proved a disaster . If the American and British officials really envisioned happy and prosperous peasants standing up to defend their villages against the insurgents , their wishful thinking was vast indeed . Except for the Catholics , the peasants had no possible reason for tieing anything of the sort . The amount of American aid that trickled down to the villages hardh gave them a motive to support the govcimment  --  in the Delta , it barely permitted them to survive . Armed with slogans on the virtues of self-sufficiency and self-sacrifice , officials took the peasants away from their fields and forced them to construct mud and barbed-wire fences that made them liable to N.L.F. attacks and thus put them in some jeopardy . Even those officials who conducted themselves in an exemplary manner induced anxiety among the villagers by their very physical presence . Under constant surveillance and in constant fear of attack , many of the hamlets lost even such unity as they possessed . One village @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Vie have no solidarity here , no cooperation . And so if the Vietcong come , no matter where we are , they can take advantage of us . " In his hamlet , as in so many others , the circle of artillery and barbed wire enclosed a political void that waited for the N.L.F. And , from the Plain of Reeds , from the Ca Mau peninsula , and from the Central Highlands , the N.L.F. slowly moved in to fill the void . It drove the government forces completely out of many areas . In other places , near heavy troop concentrations , it simply drained away government authority and acted as the government of the nighttime . To the American command , the Vietcong seemed to have arisen by spontaneous generation . The Americans had not perceived the anarchy of the villages , for in their view the first sign of anarchy was unorganized violence , and there was no violence inside the villages until the N.L.F. began to mobilize them in the most methodical manner . Not until their military offensive of 1962-63 did the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its influence to about eighty Del cent of the rural population . THE new American aid commitment bought time for the Saigon regime , but it increased the dangers confronting the Ngo family . The larger the military bureaucracy grew , the more it came to resemble the country itself  --  its officers no more " pacified , " and no more loyal to the Diem regime , than the peasants inside the strategic hamlets . Ngo Dinh Diem knew this perfectly well . He as much as told his American advisers that he feared his ministers and generals But the Americans did not understand his situation . From the very beginning , Diem 's aim had been not to run the administration but to render it helpless  --  to bypass it , with the help of his brothers . As time went on , his attempt to divide and ride required more and more extreme measures : the sabotaging of military operations , replacement of the most competent officers by the most venal . The Ngos were not so much running a government as running an opposition within it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ societies , and bandit groups such as had existed in the periods of greatest anarchy between Confucian governments . In order to finance the Can Lao party and his other subversive intelligence agencies , Ngo Dinh Nhu engaged in activities similar to those of his old enemy the bandit Bay Vien : waterfront piracy , extortion rackets , illicit trading in opium , exchange manipulation.Ngo Dinh Can ran central Vietnam as his own private business venture : he controlled the local shipping and the cinnamon trade , and with Diem 's tacit consent ruled the local officials through adroit manipulation , graft , and extortion . Each of the brothers jealously guarded his own sources of revenue from the other  --  their agents occasion-. ally killing one another off in an access of zeal . Mme. Nhu had the foresight to amass a fortune in goods that could be quickly converted into European assets . Amazingly , despite all this illicit traffic , the Ngos maintained an impenetrable facade of self-righteous hauteur . The world , they seemed to he saying , was not good or pure enough for them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " the hand of God " had sustained him against the rebels . And yet the attempted coup had a demonstrable effect on the Ngo family . Ngo Dinh Diem had at one time trusted his relatives , but after 1960 even his family members began to drop away : some were fired , others resigned , still others remained at their posts but no longer had any influence on Diem or Nbu . The extended family narrowed down to the nuclear family of Diem , Can , Thuc , and the Nhus . And even within this inner ring there were fights for power and prestige , with Nhu claiming the protocol arrangements of a head of state and Mme. Nhu claiming responsibility for her husband 's ideas . Only Can remained constant . After the attempted coup of 1960 , Diem began to withdraw more and more into himself . He had long been something of a recluse . He was always , as Graham Greene so brilliantly pictured him in 1955 , " separated from the people by cardinals and police cars with wailing sirens and foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brown gaze , in-corruptible , obstinate , ill-advised , going to his weekly confession , holstered up by his belief that God is always on the Catholic side , waiting for a miracle . " But in the past he had travelled a great deal around the country , visiting vil-lages where his officials had taken pains to produce elaborate pageants of a thriving , moral , and deeply respectful peasantry . Now he travelled less and less , and appeared at fewer and fewer public ceremonies . Each year , he cele-brated his election as chief of state with a day of parades and speeches . On the 1962 anniver-sary , David Halberstam reported in the Times that there were no Vietnamese crowds to be seen anywhere near the route of the pa-rade . The police , on Diem 's orders , had erected great barricades to keep the people away , and the parades were held in a vacuum , for Diem and his foreign advisers . Now , too , Diem began to talk more and more . In the Iasi year of his life , he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , refusing to he interrupted by questions . Some of the American reporters saw this incessant talking as a sign of defensiveness . The Vietnamese understood it to have a very precise meaning : his talking was a sign that he could no longer exercise the self-control of a true " father , " a Con-fucian gentleman . Diem was fright-ened of his subordinates , but he had no recourse except to insist on his authority . As Diem withdrew into himself , the influence of Ngo Dinh Nhu began to displace his , as the dark the light of the waning moon . If Diem possessed many of the puritanical virtues of the true Confucian monarch , Nhu possessed , and to some degree personified , the complementary vices  --  arrogance , indiscipline , brutality . As Diem represented the first sovereign of a dynasty , Nhu represented the last . Perhaps anticipating Diem 's failure in moral instruction , Nhu had quite early begun to bully . It was Nhu who defended special military courts on the ground that those found guilty must he " wicked people . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who encouraged corruption and factionalism in order to control the bureaucracy . It was Nhu who so divided and demoralized the officer corps that it provided small resistance to the N.L.F. In the end , Diem displayed some of the classical anxieties of an unsuccessful Confucian ruler , but Nhu showed signs of insanity . It was Nhu 's intransigence and use of terror that precipitated the coup of 1963 against his Family . After a period of quiescence following the failure of the 1960 coup , the Army officers once again began to plot against the regime . This time , their victory appeared assured . Military reverses persuaded most of the top generals and much of the Saigon bourgeoisie that the continued existence of the Republic required the removal of the Ngo family . Besides , there were few officers to whom the Ngos had not given reason for a private vendetta . But the officers vacillated . Most of them were afraid of Nhu . For eight years , he had almost singlehandedly prevented them from taking that share of power they had always felt was rightly theirs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them , and manipulated all of them so successfully that not one trusted another . The officers feared that any one among them might inform on them or lead a counter-coup to place himself in the Ngos ' favor . They feared that in the event of a successful coup against the Ngos one of their number might seize power and oust the rest . Dr. ' Fran Kim Tuyen , Nhu 's own security chief , now turned against the Ngos and organized a plot that brought several officers to the point of counting battalions . But still the officers could not bring themselves to act . Th , - Americans controlled the purse strings of the government , and the officers knew they could not count on the support of the rest of the Army until they obtained a firm commitment from the Embassy . In the spring of 1963 , this commitment seemed impossible to come by . Despite the disintegration of the ARV N , Ambassador Frederick Nolting and General Paul Harkins , the M.A.C.V. commander , remained optimistic about the war and about the ability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tutelage . The heads of the Mission appeared unable to comprehend the seriousness of the situation inside or outside the government . Given their faith in the Ngos ' own military estimates and their obliviOUSTLCbS of the silent defections within the government , they might , it seemed , have remained ignorant of the situation up to the moment when the N.L.F. took over the government  --  and perhaps a little beyond . Contemplating that end , the officers waited , as if paralyzed . But than something surprising happened . On May 8 , 1963 , large crowds of Buddhist priests and laymen surrounded the radio station in flu6 to protest an order by Archbishop Ngo Dinh Dux forbidding them to carry the Buddhist flags on the birthday of the Buddha . When the crowds would not retreat before fire hoses , blank shells , and tear gas , the deputy province chief , a Catholic , ordered his troops to fire live ammunition into the crowd , and nine people were killed . The next day , the government claimed that the Vietcong had set off plastic charges in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antagonized the Buddhists . After weeks of argument , the Americans finally persuaded Diem to meet with the Buddhist leaders and to give in to some of their demands . But the regime never admitted responsibility for the killings , and Nhu ordered the Republican Youth to protest Diem 's signing of an agreement with the Buddhists . The bonzes demonstrated before the National Assembly building and embarked upon a hunger strike in Hut . In the second week of June , the bonze Thich Quang Dur died by fire , seated in the lotus position in the middle of a busy intersection in Saigon . From that moment on , the bonzes went into determined , organized opposition to the Diem regime . Travelling from city to city , the leaders in Hud and Saigon held mass meetings of prayer and political protest ; their spokesmen held almost daily conferences for the American press . From that moment on , it became increasingly clear that the days of the Diem regime were numbered . Only the details and the timing of their demise remained to he settled . The regime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ngos perhaps recognized , the Vietnamese would commit their regime to that absolute death which comes to a family when it has no heirs , and comes to a dynasty when the will of Heaven turns against it . 