@@494931

White House Watch Small Expectations Paris A lot of pressure from France and West Germany , a lot of bargaining with their governments and a lot of argument in Washington preceded President Ford 's reluctant decision to join French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing and the heads of the British , West German , Italian and Japanese governments in a conference called and organized by Giscard d'Estaing " to discuss economic issues of mutual interest " at the ChAteau de Rambouillet , a massive , ancient and ugly edifice set among lovely lakes , grasslands and forests some 30 miles southwest of Paris . After one full day , parts of two other days and two evenings with his peers and their foreign and finance ministers at the chateau , President Ford said in a formal statement that it had been " a highly successful meeting in all respects . " A change in the text that had been prepared for him indicated that the economic summit had been less than successful in one rather esoteric but important respect . The prepared text had him saying that he and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " conviction that we can master our futures . " The President actually spoke at the closing ceremony of " our conviction that our peoples can master their futures . " One of the arguments that persuaded him to attend the conference had been that if it went well it could bolster the confidence of the people of the six countries in their governments and , more to the point , strengthen the confidence of the leaders themselves in their capacity to define and resolve the enormous economic problems that afflict their countries and the world . It was interesting that amid the general euphoria at the close of the conference the President chose not to claim that the latter effect had been achieved . For many months the President and his chief advisers doubted that anything worthwhile could be achieved at such a conference . Giscard d'Estaing originally asked the governments of the US and of what he regarded as the only four other industrial democracies that really mattered to join France in a meeting devoted solely to international monetary policies . He made it clear publicly and privately that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governments to abandon the system of floated currencies that the US more or less forced upon the Western economic community in 1971 and return to a system in which the exchange rates of the principal currencies would be fixed by government decision rather than left to the play of the world money markets . Administration doctrine , Mr. Ford 's personal doctrine , Republican doctrine and the doctrine of the Federal Reserve Board and its chairman , Arthur Burns , forbade US agreement to the change demanded by Giscard d'Estaing . Mr. Ford , Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and Secretary of the Treasury William Simon therefore agreed among themselves that it would be foolish for the US to attend such a conference and put itself in the predictable and unpleasant position of opposing and frustrating the will of other governments . When the President and Secretary Kissinger stopped in Bonn on their way to the Helsinki conference last July , German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt argued strongly for a general economic conference to be attended by the chiefs of state or government of the principal non-Communist industrial powers . Schmidt nominally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it was clear to Messrs . Ford and Kissinger that his actual purpose was as unpalatable to them as Giscard d'Estaing 's was . The chancellor 's overriding purpose was to use the conference as a means of bringing international pressure upon the Ford administration to go much further than it was willing to go in stimulating the US economy with enlarged budget deficits and expansion of the money supply . All of the prospective participants except the US wanted this because of the enormous importance to them of the US market for their exports . Chancellor Schmidt , faced with a worsening economic situation in Germany , wanted it more intensely than the others because German industry depends to a greater extent than the others upon its exports to the US . Here again , the President and Kissinger resisted rather than submit themselves to international pressures to take a course that they were determined not to take . At private meetings between sessions of the Helsinki conference , Giscard d'Estaing and Schmidt renewed their urgings . Prime Minister Harold Wilson of Great Britain supported them to some extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the proposed conference than from a real and burning wish for it . Developments led President Ford and Kissinger to agree to a conference from which neither of them expected much . President Giscard d'Estaing indicated privately that he was prepared to back away from his demand for totally and rigidly fixed exchange rates and settle for an understanding that at forthcoming meetings of the International Monetary Fund the conferees would advocate a modified float of the principal currencies , with value in terms of the dollar and the dollar 's value in relation to other currencies allowed to fluctuate within narrow and agreed limits . Mr. Ford , Kissinger and the President 's chief economic advisers concluded that the US could go that far toward Giscard d'Estaing 's objective without abandoning the basic principle that market forces rather than government fiat should determine the rates . The other development was that key domestic indicators showed enough improvement in the US economy and enough progress toward recovery from the recession to enable the President to argue that no further stimulus was needed and indeed that the kind and degree of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reviving the waning inflation . Some recent changes in the indicators , among them rises in the wholesale price index and the rate of unemployment made the counter-argument harder to sustain than it had seemed to be when the President decided to go along with a broadened economic summit , but he was stuck with it at Rambouillet and stoutly insisted that the adverse indicators did not mean that the US recovery was either slowing or illusory . Mr. Ford decided to accept Giscard d'Estaing 's invitation only after exposure to some fierce debate within and at the top of his administration . The debate in the main was between advisers and assistants whose principal concern was the President 's political prospect of nomination and election in 1976 and those who were chiefly concerned with foreign policy and international relationships in general . The politicians opposed his going to the conference and the policy advisers favored his going . The opponents argued that there simply were no problem areas that could produce hard decisions and impressive declarations and that the President would be thought to be grandstanding , wasting time and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The chief arguments for going to the conference were that even though no major decisions and announcements could be expected the exercise would be worthwhile if the leaders and their ministers recognized the fact and analyzed the nature of " interdependence " " a time of worldwide economic distress . Publicized recognition by the US President that his country 's economic condition and economic policies gravely affected the economies of other major " industrial democracies " and that their governments therefore had a legitimate interest and stake in the American government 's economic decisions would be useful in itself . At the least it would assuage their resentment at what appeared to them to be arrogant exclusion from policy determinations that vitally affected them . In domestic terms it would provide the President with support for his efforts to discourage and defeat the more extreme American protectionists who were making increasing trouble for him . After the President agreed with advocates of the conference , small working groups representing the six participating governments met in New York and finally in London to set an agenda and to determine in advance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least agreement not to disagree in public could be expected . Instead of putting a senior official from the State or Treasury Departments at the head of the American group Mr. Ford reached outside of government for former Labor and Treasury Secretary George I ' . Shultz . Only the media 's profound lack of interest in the subject and George Shultz 's reputation for complete integrity saved him and the President from an embarrassing row over what could have been made to seem a serious conflict of interest . Shultz is president of the Bechtel Corporation , a conglomerate with multinational construction and other interests that inevitably would be affected by international economic discussions . Although no effort was made to keep his role and the group 's work secret , the preparations and Shultz 's part in them were seldom reported . In a speech in Pittsburgh on November 11 , four days before the conference opened , Henry Kissinger undertook to define the American interest in the meeting , the positions the President would take and the objectives he would try to get agreement on . An interesting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the most useful thing the conference could accomplish would be to restore the leader 's confidence in themselves and in their capacity to deal with their grievous problems . Kissinger came pretty close to it , however , when he cited the unemployment , inflation , losses of production , and arbitrary increases in oil prices that plague the Western industrial world , and concluded " the deepest consequence is not economic , but the erosion of people 's confidence in their society 's future and a resulting loss of faith in democratic means land ' in governmental institutions and leaders . " At the start of what soon would become a flood of conference rhetoric to the effect that the Western industrial world is in one hell of a shape and will be in worse shape unless something effective is done about it , Kissinger also set forth specific American aims at the conference . They provide the best available measure of what , from the US standpoint , the conference did and did not accomplish . Kissinger said the President would propose that ministers " responsible for economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set at the summit . " He said the US would ask the conferees to pledge their governments to complete pending renegotiation of international trade terms along free trade lines by 1077 . He said the President would " propose that we reaffirm our common determination to avoid new harriers to trade as well as actions which provoke countries to erect them . " And : " The United States will urge the summit to recommit the industrial democracies to an even more forceful pursuit of the fundamental long-term goal of depriving the oil cartel of the power to set the oil price unilaterally . " Finally the President would argue that under any revised international monetary system-Each country should be free to choose the exchange rate regime that best suits it , provided it respects international obligations to avoid trade and capital restrictions and competitive devaluations. - The grandiloquent " Declaration of Rambouillet " that followed the conference was mostly a rhetorical assertion of agreement upon goals rather than upon measures to accomplish the goals . Even so , it provided some indications of how far the US got with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of international renegotiation of trade terms by 1077 . They deplored protectionist measures by which countries " try to solve ; - their problems at the expense of others " and simultaneously accepted Prime Minister Wilson 's notice to the other five governments that Britain soon will impose import quotas in order to protect industries that can not compete in their home markets . President Ford and his delegation , conf run t-Mg strong pressures to take equivalent protective measures , were in no position to object very strenuously to the British course . Far from committing themselves to a joint attack upon the arbitrary pricing powers of the OPEC oil cartel , the other five conferees forced the US to settle for the feeble advocacy of a harmonious and steady development in the world energy market . The announced agreement upon a controlled currency float rather than the fixed rates first advocated by France and the totally free float preferred by the US is subject to IMF approval and in anv case was concluded before the Rambouillet conference opened . The other conferees merely affirmed what the US and France had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the conference be institutionalized and made a permanent instrument of cooperation by having the member governments ' economic ministers meet periodically to review the steps recommended at Rambouillet and to consider what other measures should be adopted to forward recovery in the sick industrial world . It all added up to a poor score for the US but the outcome was no worse and perhaps a bit better than the President expected .                     