@@250787

FOR several chilling minutes last week , millions of television viewers wondered if Astronauts Dave Scott , Jim Irwin and Al Worden were going to make it safety back to earth . As the command module Endeavour came into sight high above the fluffy clouds over the Pacific , it became apparent that one of its three big orange-and-white chutes was fouled and thus not supporting its share of the load . Dropping into the calm seas 300 miles north of Hawaii several feet per second faster than planned , the moonship created a mighty splash . But despite the jolting landing the astronauts were safely home . Man 's fourth and most productive moon-landing mission had ended successfully . <P> Few fictional adventures could rival the real-life drama of Apollo 15-or match its superlatives . During their twelve-day mission , the Apollo crewmen roamed the moon for more than 17 hours , almost as long as did the Apollo 11 , 12 and 14 astronauts combined . They traveled 17.5 miles in the first car man has ever driven on the moon , took the first walk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of more than 170 lbs . of lunar rocks . But the really significant accomplishment of Apollo 15 was its scientific payoff , which in the words of Paul Cast , chief of lunar and planetary science at the Manned Spacecraft Center , will enable man to take " a real giant step in the understanding of the solar system . " <P> Perhaps the most important discovery was made early in the week during the second excursion by Astronauts Dave Scott and Jim Irwin . After driving past a group of craters called the South Cluster , they made their way up a 7 slope toward the mountainous Apennine Front , and approached an imposing 12,000-ft. peak called Hadley Delta . The astronauts stepped out of the rover and began to select rocks , describing each to the fascinated geologists back in the science support room in Houston . One rock looked like " green cheese " - until Scott raised his gold-tinted visor and saw that it was really gray . <P> Elusive Fragment . Suddenly , Scott exclaimed : " Guess what we just found ! " His prize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientists his description indicated that it had once been molten and had cooled slowly , probably far below the surface . " The Holy Grail , " proclaimed NASA Geochemist Robin Brett , who , like Scott , immediately concluded that the specimen could well be an elusive fragment of the moon 's original crust . The crystalline rock , the first large one of its kind found by astronauts , may well give scientists a new slant on the early history of the 4.6 billion-year-old moon . It may also expand man 's knowledge of the primordial earth , where wind , water and crustal movements apparently obliterated all rocks older than about 3.4 billion years . The prized rock , Scott reported later in a televised press conference from space , was found on top of a larger brown rock- " sitting there like it was waiting for us. "                     