@@494757

Paying for Good Schools Public schools across the country are slipping into bankruptcy . Dayton , Ohio schools have already closed , and Chicago faces closure for the month of December . Schools have been shut down temporarily or are near it in Independence and Kansas City , Missouri ; in Louisville , Portland and Philadelphia . In Gary , Ind. , teachers decided to work for two weeks last month without pay checks . In California , although deficit financing is prohibited by the state constitution , several major school districts are operating in the red this year . A National Education Association survey taken in September of the nation 's 103 largest school districts , found that 41 were facing some kind of financial crisis ; five planned to close temporarily , three planned to shorten the school day , 22 were holding larger classes , and 27 were cutting back an " luxury " courses such as art , music , drama and physical ed . Not all the alarms are false . Increases in operating revenues have not kept pace with rising costs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional taxes out of their communities appears to be evaporating . Not long ago , a well managed campaign could assure voter endorsement of school tax increases , bond issues and tax overrides . Now ballot proposals to increase school outlays are routinely defeated ? three times last year in Dayton . Similarly , requests to state legislatures are being refused . In an industry as gargantuan as public education , one would expect there to be reliable , up-to-date information on school closures and financial problems . There is not : The US Office of Education has no current figures on how many schools have shut down in the past six months , nor does the National Center for Educational Statistics . All they know is what everybody knows : schools are in trouble . The most fashionable explanation for the trouble is that a taxpayers ' revolt is underway , that an already overburdened middle class and working class will no longer stand for open-ended government expenditure . The explanation is inadequate . A cursory analysis of California school revenue elections shows that the traditional pattern of support and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children favor increased outlays ; nonparents do not . In California , at least , this division cuts across religious lines , with Catholic parents supporting money for public schools in the same proportion as their Protestant and Jewish neighbors . Those with the most to gain from good schools - the black and poor - endorse increases overwhelmingly . The taxpayer revolt theory is attractive because schools are one thing about which voters are occasionally able to express themselves directly . How would social welfare programs , or defense expenditures fare if they faced public referendums ? On this theory , outraged taxpayers are simply addressing themselves to the most visible target : the schools bear the brunt of public frustration . It is equally reasonable to believe , however , that the public - and thus the legislatures - are tightening the purse strings because the schools are no longer credible , are not doing their job well , and therefore do n't deserve further support . Legislators who voted more money five or ten years ago are still waiting for the good education it promised and did n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A crisis of confidence has developed that is potentially catastrophic . There is one new element , and that is a California Supreme Court decision on August 30 , 1971 . In Serrano vs . Priest , the court ruled that California 's system of school financing was unconstitutional because it made educational expenditure a function of school district wealth . This served no valid public purpose , it said , and could not withstand challenge under the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment . The court 's basic point was that Watts , or a rural Mexican-American barrio , should have the same capacity as wealthier Beverly Hills or Palo Alto to raise funds for education .. Since many lily-white bedroom communities have low-assessed property valuations , they stand to gain as much from Serrano as poor black and Chicano communities , raising the prospect of a unique alliance between middle-class white suburbanites and the inner-city and rural poor . Although procedural issues and appeals may keep Serrano in suspension for months or even years ( and the Nixon Supreme Court may eventually reverse it on appeal ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A Minnesota federal court recently issued a finding nearly identical to Serrano , and numerous Serrano-type suits are being filed elsewhere . In California , the legislature lhas taken the Serrano decision with great seriousness . Both houses of the legislature have initiated comprehensive studies of alternate methods of school finance , and major legislation to revise school financing will be introduced this spring . The key , however , is not in new methods of financing , but in a determination to couple school tax reform with major educational innovation . In that connection , we should note our rare agreement with Governor Reagan . A bill he supported , and which was just defeated in its final committee hearing in California , would have permitted a school district to contract with the US Office of Economic Opportunity to undertake a carefully controlled tuition voucher pilot project . We reported on this proposal in Christopher Jencks ' article , " Education Vouchers " in our issue of July 4 , 1970 . The experimental plan Jencks described , and which he largely authored , would provide parents with vouchers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school of their choice . It was supported in California by a bipartisan coalition of liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans in both houses of the legislature . Its purpose was to improve elementary education by making schools more responsive to the needs and desires of the families they serve . The bill contained tough civil rights provisions and prohibited discrimination against the poor . It also required comprehensive , independent evaluation of the program it authorized . On balance , it represented a novel but fair approach to a controversial subject . On the other side of the country , in Washington , DC , a community-controlled school project has been told by the US Office of Education not to expect any further funding . Most of the children affected are black . Nearly $6 million has been spent , and the entire experiment is scheduled for dismantling . Although we have reservations about the ability of a voucher system , or community control , or open classrooms , or educational parks - or any single innovation for that matter - to materially improve the public schools , the voucher idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ getting . Living on the Land Real estate is an enterprise in ' futures , ' " Thorstein Veblen wrote in Absentee Ownership , " designed to get something for nothing from the unwary . " One of the more enterprising ways in which absentee landowners have profited at the expense of unwary taxpayers has been through ownership of large acreages in federal reclamation areas . The scheme is simple : buy worthless land in an arid region , or in an area where the water supply is erratic , and then persuade the government to build dams and pumping stations and aqueducts that will turn the land into a valuable oasis . This is approximately what has happened in California 's torrid Imperial Valley , as Peter Barnes pointed out in " Water , Water for the Wealthy " ( NR , May 8 , 1971 ) , despite the provisions in the 1902 Reclamation Act that make it illegal for a single landholder to receive federal water for more than 160 acres , or for anyone but " an actual bona fide resident " or occupant " residing in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water at all . Earlier this year the Nixon administration let stand a federal district judge 's ruling that the Imperial Valley was miraculously exempt from the 160-acre limitation . Solicitor General Erwin Griswold , who might have appealed the decision , chose not to , and also refused publicly to say why . Subsequently , in a private letter to an inquiring New Republic reader he expressed his belief that the Imperial Valley should be exempt from the 160-acre limitation because large landowners had long assumed that it would be that is , you ca n't start enforcing laws now that have n't been enforced for 70 years . Late last month , however , another federal district judge , William D. Murray of Butte , Montana , made an astounding ruling , astounding because of its straightforwardness , its boldness in this age of large-scale corporate farming , and its enormous potential impact on rural areas in the West . Judge Murray ruled that the residency requirement of the 1902 Reclamation Act is , today as ever , the law of the land , having never been repealed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enforce it in the Imperial Valley . Judge Murray 's decision is the culmination of many years of legal and political maneuvering by Dr. Ben Yellen , a general practitioner in Brawley , California . Yellen is one of a dying breed of Populist gadflies who keep on fighting for the little guy even after all the little guys have given up . For decades he has been crusading almost singlehandedly against the large absentee landowners who have taken over the Imperial Valley , reaping millions in subsidies for themselves while leaving other residents without land , without power , and with little chance for self-improvement . It was Yellen who conceived and largely financed the legal challenge that led to Judge Murray 's decision . Now the question is whether the Nixon administration will permit Judge Murray 's decision to standunchallenged ; if it does , the result could be a far-reaching redistribution of land in western reclamation areas to small farmers and farm workers , and a revitalization of those areas along democratic , as opposed to feudal , lines . Spock 's Specter Enter The People 's Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peace and Freedom , and in reality little more than a few score white radicals who met in Dallas over Thanksgiving and nominated Benjamin Spock to be their stand-in presidential candidate . The good doctor and company hope they can attract five , maybe eight percent of the vote next November , if Eugene McCarthy , Fred Harris or some other breakaway Democrat takes up their party 's banner . It is n't a specter likely to haunt anyone . Last summer when the same people met in Albuquerque they had gotten on the ballot in five states ; they are still on the ballot in five states . Last summer the fourth party organizers had everything a political movement needs except a popular base , leaders with stature , and money ; today they have a new name . Nicholas Johnson , the FCC commissioner , turned down an offer to be their nominee . So did Ralph Nader and just about everyone else worth asking . Congressmen John Conyers and Ronald Dell-urns agreed not to protest if the People 's Party nominated them to a shadow cabinet , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still with the Democrats . Conceivably there will be a role for a leftish fourth party in 1972 , if , say , Hubert Humphrey or Henry Jackson is nominated by a dissention-wracked convention . In that case it will have to be a party that embraces far more than the white counterculture.                     