@@279091

In 490 B.C. , just before the Persians were successfully repulsed on the plain of Marathon by the heroic defenders of Athens , the threat of imminent attack spread terror across the Greek countryside . Panicky residents hastily buried their prize belongings to save them from the dreaded invaders . Then the people fled , some never to return . Now , almost 2,500 years later , archaeologists have recovered what may well be long-lost samples of that buried treasure : two remarkably beautiful and well-preserved statues of a young man ( kouros in ancient Greek ) and a maiden ( kore ) , at least one of which is almost certainly a missing masterwork of the well-known 6th century B.C. sculptor Aristion . <P> The statues , still covered with some of the decorative paint used by the Greeks to embellish their marble carvings , were found only eleven inches below ground in a field 25 miles southeast of Athens by a team of diggers headed by Archaeologist Efthymios Mastrokostas . After discovering some ancient burial urns , they came upon the figures of two young people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treasures , Mastrokostas is convinced , could only have been placed in the earth for safekeeping in a hour of peril . <P> Apparently funeral statuary that once stood over the graves of a brother and sister , both pieces show the same slightly smiling , childlike look so typical of the kouros and the kore of the time . Although the feet are missing from the statue of the youth ( as is the right hand ) , the figure stands more than six feet , somewhat larger than lifesize . His wavy hair , held in place by a headband , still bears traces of its original red color . The girl wears a diadem of lotus blossoms and other flowers on her shoulder-length curls and a chain of tiny pomegranate-shaped beads around her neck . Despite some slight damage to the nose and a missing left hand-which , Mastrokostas believes , also held a flower-it is the most complete statue of its period ever recovered . <P> Even more exciting to scholars , the female figure fits perfectly atop an ancient marble pedestal that was found earlier in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Phrasikleia ( " Renowned for Eloquence " ) , and the sculptor 's hallmark " Aristion made me . " That , says Mastrokostas , director of antiquities for Attica , is " unchallengeable evidence " that the statue is Aristion 's work , and he thinks that the statue of the youth may also be carved by him . Aristion was a master artisan , known from old writing to have lived on the Aegean island of Paros about the third quarter of the 6th century B.C. Until the new dig , it had been believed that the only remnants of his work were four statueless marble bases bearing his imprimatur . Now that Mastrokostas has been able to study Aristion 's style , he believes he may be able to identify other works of his among the many still unidentified masterpieces of ancient Greece .                     