@@480009

TO MANY PEOPLE , the past seems inevitable and the future impossible . History is seen to have arisen not from unpredictable flows of genius and heroism . but more or less inevitably , from preordained patterns of natural resources and population . For those who doubt the decisive role of genius , courage , and chance in history , the future always appears impossible ; they can see no way for free nations to escape a fate of decline , decay , and coercion , as their growing populations press against a closing frontier . These attitudes lead to distortions of vision and policy . Strangely enough , the man who sees a future blighted by coercion and scarcity also . tends to believe that the present can be made as free of risk and uncertainty as the past , receding reassuringly in the reliable lenses of hindsight . He calls upon government to create an orderly and predictable economy , with known energy reserves always equaling prospective needs ; with jobs always assured in current geographic and demographic patterns ; with monetary demand always expanding to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign intruders banished from the marketplace or burdened by tariffs and quotas ; with invention and creativity summoned by bureaucrats for forced marches of research and development ; with inflation insurance in every contract and unemployment insurance in every job ; with all windfall wealth briskly taxed away and unseemly poverty removed by income guarantees . In this view , risk and uncertainty are seen to be the problem and government the solution in the fail-safe quest for a managed economy of steady and predictable long-term growth . These follies of false security and rationality are the characteristic delusion of the modern age . Abstractions everywhere are confused with things . But despite a pretense of scientific objectivity , the vision of a comfortably calculable world has been almost completely abandoned by serious thinkers in the hard sciences . While modern physicists begin to concede freedom to microscopic particles , social scientists still begrudge it to human beings . While chemists and mathematicians accept chance and uncertainty , politicians and sociologists cling to the determinist dream of an orderly , predictable , and risk-free world . Capital loss OST OF OUR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncertainty from man affairs . A vivid current example is the dispute over tax policy . Early this spring , Washington underwent a small legislative upheaval on the issue of how much to tax the profits of speculative investment . A young Republican Congressman on the House Ways and Means Committee sought to reverse the high levies imposed by the Nixon Administration , only to meet with the fierce hostility and resistance of the present Administration . Joining President Carter against the Congressman 's idea were the Chairman of Ways and Means , the House Democratic leadership , the united forces of organized labor , the Business Roundtable ? speaking for the executives of some 190 major corporations ? and the editorial boards of both the New York Times and the Washington Post . It has been some time since the works of Richard Nixon have enjoyed so fervent and prestigious a defense . One might assume that the fight was over before it began . Rising in support of the young Republican from Wisconsin , however , were powers nearly as impressive : a majority of the Ways and Means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting motley of others , including Rep. Ron Dellums of Berkeley , California , and other young Democrats , the editorial board of the Wall Street Journal , and virtually every American organization of small businessmen and venture capitalists . The Wisconsin Congressman was William Steiger , and the proposal that created this strange but illuminating cleavage was reversal of Nixon 's tax reform on capital gains . Capital gains are profits derived from the sale of assets or equity , such as real estate or corporate securities . In order to protect incentives for risky but possibly productive investment , many countries , like Germany and Japan , refrain from taxing capital gains at all . and even socialist Sweden taxes them at less than half the American level . As part of a tax reform signed by Nixon in 1969 , however , the statutory top rate , as later impacted by minimum tax provisions , was lifted from 25 to 49 percent in the United States . Even this high nominal rate sometimes understated the effective rates . Not only are capital gains also taxed by some states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase in the value of an asset may well be illusory . Thus the government maybe taxing ostensible gains in companies that have declined in actual value . Partly because of this interplay of inflation and taxes , new stock issues by smaller firms plummeted in the early 1970s from several hundred annually to exactly four in 1975 . Yet in 1978 , President Carter proposed to raise the tax again , to a top rate of 52 percent , in order to prevent " windfalls for the rich . " The businessmen who were willing to accept such drastic taxation of rapid growth were all from mature and established companies . They preferred to cling to the Carter program of corporate and personal income tax reductions , an expanded investment tax credit , and accelerated depreciation . This conflict appears minor : a technical choice among ways of lowering taxes and promoting enterprise . But the choice is anything but minor and technical . It embodies what Jane Jacobs has called the central conflict in every economy . This is not the split between capitalists and workers , technocrats and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rich and poor . It is the struggle between past and future , between the existing configuration of industries and the industries that someday will replace them . It is the conflict between the risk takers and the risk averters , established factories , technologies , formations of capital , and ventures that today may not even exist , that today may flicker only as ideas , or tiny companies , or obscure research projects , or fierce but penniless ambitions , that today are unidentifiable and incalculable from above , but which , in time , in a progressing economy , must rise up if growth is to occur . In fact , long-range growth may be defined as the replacement of current industries and techniques and products by better or more efficient ones . Sir Henry Bessemer , the creator of the Bessemer method of large-scale steel production , vividly described such a nineteenth-century moment of discovery and displacement . After his first breakthrough in tests for making steel he wrote : " I could now see in my mind 's eye , at a glance , the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces of the facts so recently elicited . " As economist Joseph Schumpeter wrote in Capitalism , Socialism , and Democracy : Creative destruction is the essential fact about capitalism ... ; it is by nature a form or method of economic change , and not only never is , but never can be stationary . . The fundamental impulse that sets and keeps the capitalist engine in motion comes from the new consumers ' goods , the new methods of production or transportation , the new markets , the new forms of industrial organization that capitalist enterprise creates . Progress absolutely depends on the willingness of government to allow the future to prevail . As capitalist governments weave their tentacles ever more deeply into the economic fabric , however , their bureaus enlist more and more on the side of the established order , and thus on the side of stagnation as opposed to growth . A legislator usually supports the most powerful businesses in his district . Labor unions are deeply influential in politics , and they normally back the interests of the big companies that they have already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they regulate or patronize , and in any case the regulations tend to favor the old ways of doing things . Even when governments choose to help business , they often act through investment credits , tariffs , quotas , and tax incentives that favor existing industries . These government tendencies are reinforced by the media . While more than 300,000 small businesses involving many millions of jobs expire annually without notice , the death throes of a corporate leviathan provide a drama that captivates the press . Boeing loses the contract for a supersonic transport , and the networks descend on Seattle to depict that thriving city in images of the Great Depression because a few thousand well-paid technicians with ample unemployment insurance may be out of work for a while . The halls of Congress begin to ring with a rhetoric of emergency programs and subsidies . G OVERNMENTS EVERYWHERE are torn between the clamor of troubled obsolescence and the claims of unmet opportunity ; between the sufferers of aging pains and the sufferers of growing pains ; between enterprises shrinking from competition or asking subsidies for their errors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new demands . The threatened industries of the past always turn to politics to protect them from change . Failure demands finance . A government preoccupied with the statistics of crisis will often find itself subsidizing problems , shoring up essentially moribund patterns of economic and social activity , creating incentives for unemployment , inflation , family breakdown , housing decay , and municipal deficits , making problems worse by making them profitable . Throughout Washington today , behind the inevitable rhetoric of innovation and progress , the facades of futurity , these forces of obstruction are gathering : an energy department exalting counterproductive new taxes and price controls ; a department of housing promoting rent controls ; even a National Center for Productivity forced to celebrate the least productive of all unions ? both the steelworkers and the American Federation of State , County , and Municipal Employees . Despite his best intentions , the government planner will tend to live in the past , for only the past is sure and calculable . In response to the inevitable crises of scarcity , he will prescribe , as progress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canals and windmills , or a renaissance of consumer cooperatives , or a return to small-lot farming . Current government programs , in fact , can be seen as a far-reaching and resourceful defense of the status quo against all emerging competitors . Economic policy focuses on stimulating aggregate demand for existing products rather than on promoting the supply of new ones . Investment credits and rapid depreciation allowances favor the re-creation of current capital stock rather than the creation of new forms of capital and modes of production . Antitrust activity is directed chiefly against successful competitors ( I B M ) rather than against industries that refuse to compete ( the steel industry ) . Government regulatory policy rewards the company that follows prescriptions , rather than the company that avoids them with new techniques and products . Our floating exchange rates deal with U.S. lapses in international trade by depreciating the dollar rather than by forcing a competitive response of greater productivity or new products . Our taxation and subsidy systems artfully cushion failure ( of businesses , individuals , and municipalities ) , reward the creativity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hungrily in ambush for all unexpected and thus unsheltered business success . There is a similar bias in our social and employment programs . The civil service joins with affirmative-action rules to grant jobs and promotions on the basis of nearly immutable credentials like test scores , diplomas , race , and sex , rather than on competitive performance of work . The nation 's employment policies are increasingly based on new forms of tenure and entitlement rather than on expanding opportunities and new kinds of jobs . Most of these policies are designed to protect businesses and individuals from risk and competition , inflation and unemployment . But the effort to escape inflation by indexing the 38 incomes of favored groups and to fight unemployment by subsidizing outmoded jobs merely makes these problems worse , and foists them onto the unorganized majority : onto small businesses , onto nonunion workers , and onto the public at large in a stagnant economy . As Burton Klein has shown in his brilliant new book , Dynamic Economics , the effect of the government 's efforts to shield itself and its clients from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peril . It becomes at once too rigid and too soft to react resourcefully to the new shocks and sudden challenges that are inevitable in a dangerous world . Supporting the future is technically easy for government to do . It can perform economic miracles merely by enforcing the laws equally , by fighting monopoly , by removing barriers to trade , and by lifting the dead hand of taxation and bureaucracy . Only slightly more difficult is imposing a sensible structure of penalties and incentives on industries that pollute or defile the environment , protecting patents and property rights , promoting educational excellence ? above all in science and technology ? and maintaining a reasonable balance in its own accounts ( in relation to the level of economic activity and employment ) . That is , government best supports the future by refraining as much as possible from attempting to shape it , for in a democracy the shape of government policy nearly always conforms with the current incidence of political power , which derives from the configuration of existing capital and labor : with an overlay of rhetoric and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current debate over tax policy is so crucial and revealing . The distinctions are relatively simple . Cuts in the tax on capital gains chiefly benefit companies that expect to grow fast , i.e. , new and innovating companies . The few that succeed will indeed " hit the jackpot , " win " obscene windfall riches , " if that rhetoric appeals . Cuts in corporate income taxes and enlargements in the investment tax credit , on the other hand , are less likely to bring such untoward results . The chief benefits will go to companies that are established and profitable . and subject to union pressures . The money will tend to be spent for higher wages and for the repair and reduplication of current capital formations rather than for the development of new ones ? for inflation rather than innovation . Expansion will come through homogeneous growth or through mergers . In recent years , in fact , the stock market has been largely preoccupied not with anticipating innovations and growth but with speculating on takeover attempts , as big companies give up on generating progress and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ risk , however , they become reactionary , because all important progress and innovation is dependent on accepting risk and entering the realms of the unknown . The " hiding hand " T HE DAMAGE OF fail-safe policies is most vivid in the small and struggling economies of the Third World . With a passionate devotion to the ideals of welfare and central control and an undeniable need for public works and investments , the developing countries provide continuing lessons in the perplexities of planning . Economist Albert 0 . Hirschman has discovered in the trials and errors ? and occasional successes ? of these countries , a crucial principle of economic progress . In an article in The Public Interest ( winter , 1967 ) , Hirschman recounted the story of a hydroelectric station that was built to stimulate industrial development in rural Uganda . No boom occurred , and five years later the project seemed a complete fiasco , until transmission lines were built to deliver the power first to neighboring Kenya and later to smaller towns elsewhere in Uganda . The station thus thrived , and when Hirschman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a success , despite the fact that few of its expected effects or intended purposes were fulfilled . Another case was the Karnaphuli pulp-andpaper mill in East Pakistan ( now Bangladesh ) . Built in 1953 to exploit the vast bamboo forests along the upper reaches of the Karnaphuli River , the mill had been in fitful operation for several years and had passed into private hands , when the bamboo unexpectedly burst into flower ? as bamboo does every sixty summers or so ? and became useless . It turned out that many years would elapse before the seeds would grow into usable timber . The catastrophe was apparently total . But , instead , the network of East Pakistan 's rivers and canals was used to transport random pulpwood from throughout the country . Not only was this approach a success for the mill , it also provided profitable activity in towns all over East Pakistan . In his article Hirschman offered similar examples from other Third World countries ? successful results that totally failed to correspond to the plans and intentions that gave them birth ? and proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Leaders in less developed countries seem able to muster in themselves and their followers the confidence and willpower to commence a major undertaking only if its dangers and difficulties are obscured . This " hiding hand " takes the form of a vast overestimation of benefits and underestimation of difficulties . There is usually a pretense of planning and expertise that suggests that all problems have been anticipated and the solutions are known . Such a " hiding hand " seems to have been active in the industrial development of the United States during the first half of the nineteenth century . Economic historian John Sawyer has observed that " miscalculation or sheer ignorance " of costs and difficulties was important in the launching of a number of great and ultimately successful businesses , from canals and railroads to mining and manufacture . Hirschman writes in his article : Creativity always comes as a surprise to us , therefore we can never count on it and we dare not believe in it until it has happened .. . . Since we necessarily underestimate our creativity , it is desirable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .... Then we will undertake tasks which we can , but otherwise would not dare tackle . ... The Hiding Hand is essentially a mechanism which makes a risk averter take risks and turns him into less of a risk averter in the process . Of course , the entrepreneurs themselves will not see it this way . They will not imagine that they may have stumbled into their greatest achievements . As Hirschman puts it , in a linguistic apercu : " We fall into error , but do not usually speak of falling into truth . " Hirschman has fallen into some of the most vital truths of human society , but does not quite dare to extend them beyond the less developed world . Things are different , he seems to assume , in modern economies , with their panoply of computers and econometric models , their coolly Galbraithian managers and entrepreneurs , their increasingly routinized research and development techniques , their new methods of market analysis and manipulation , their populations of " risk-taking , achievement-motivated men . " Hirschman implies ( though he surely knows better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are correctly estimated and benefits clearly foreseen . Yet it seems obvious that if Hirschman had directed his attentions to contemporary modern societies , he would have discovered the same pattern that he found in nineteenth-century America and in the Third World : Planning sometimes succeeds in manipulating markets or governments , but rarely in generating new enterprise or substantial growth . From France to the Philippines , plans are propounded , given lip service , and flouted . Countries like Taiwan and the Ivory Coast , which leave room for uncontrolled private ventures , grow faster than their more centralized neighbors . G OVERNMENTS AND BUSINESSES must have some concept of goals and directions . Detailed blueprints can be useful in seeking gains through imitation . Nonetheless , the developing countries are littered with projects undertaken in the false assurance that any random river valley is a site for " another TVA " and that steel and auto industries can be copied by bureaucrats mobilized in military array . Progress and creativity can not be forced or prescribed , except at casts far beyond the reach of any Third World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no way to escape for long the necessity of openness and risk . This truth is anathema to those who seek a risk-free scheme of development and growth , whether unlettered leftist generals assuming control of small nations or smooth-talking corporate leaders in the U.S. The rule of risk applies alike to national planning and private business , to advanced technical industries and even to the movies . John Gregory Dunne 's extraordinary book The Studio tells of the foibles of planning during a year of high expectations under new leadership at Twentieth Century Fox . In preparation ? and preoccupying the executives ? were several colossal " sure things , " including Doctor Dolittle with Rex Harrison , Star ! with Julie Andrews ( coining off her Sound of Music bonanza ) , and Hello Dolly with Barbra Streisand . The sure-thing superhits , however , would have brought the company near bankruptcy , if it had not been for an afterthought cheapie ( several times nearly canceled in the interests of economy ) named Planet of the Apes . Star Wars was later to perform a similar miracle for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a malady of underdevelopment is , in fact , the incalculable condition of all economic progress . To deal with uncertainty , one must have enough faith in the future to take risks . Faith moves mountains . evokes commitments , and lowers interest rates ; risk propels adventure and innovation . To a great extent , plans are the mythology of a secular rationalist world ; they are designed , paradoxically , to get the planners out of the way , to appease the bureaucrats and financiers , so work and faith and ingenuity can proceed . As clothing executive Richard Salomon told the Wall Street Journal , " Everybody praises carefully tested methods and long-range planning . Yet the most successful moves are often on-the-spot responses to completely unexpected situations , taking a company to places it never before imagined . " When the planning is taken too seriously , as in totalitarian states , stagnation results and most creativity has to be imported in the form of goods from abroad . Risk , faith , and the frontier of the poor . It is to deprive our economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would engender by their hard work and enterprise . A society that immobilizes its poor by excessive welfare and trivial games ? government bread and circuses ? removes a major source of economic growth and change . The economic history of America is largely the saga of successive generations of the poor , toughened by hardship , who overcame all odds to move up : launching new businesses and spurring the middle class into greater efforts and accomplishments . By pampering and demoralizing the poor , government impoverishes the whole society . Similarly with the rich , the government makes the dubious claim that it can use wealth more productively than a free capitalist . So its tax policy raises the always adverse odds of enterprise to the point that they no longer invite the investor . While the poor man swings between welfare and the state lottery , the rich man alternates between personal gambling and municipal bonds . The stochastic margin of progress ? the frontier of the economy ? is being closed off by obtuse taxation and bureaucracy . Most redistributive activity is based on serious misunderstandings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the high levels of chance involved in each particular business success , many officials and intellectuals conclude that most large capital gains are in a sense both unearned and unanticipated , and no factor in either personal motivation or efficient allocation of resources . Two of the nation 's leading thinkers on the Left , Lester C. Thurow and Christopher Jencks , ended their ambitious studies of inequality* with the conclusion that crucial in most fortunes , great and small , is luck . The beneficiary , like a raffle winner , was at the right place at the right time , and in a rational system should not be permitted to convert his luck into real economic power , any more than the myriad losers should suffer more than limited liability for their losses . Indeed , risk and faith do produce much more waste and inefficiency than any well-trained planner could tolerate or defend . Some 300,000 new businesses start every year in America , two-thirds fail within five years , and the median small businessman earns less than a New York City garbage collector . Of the thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and only a handful of these are an economic success . Perhaps 90 per- *Lester C. Thurow , Generating Inequality , 1975 ; Christopher Jencks et al. , Inequality , 1972. cent of trade hardcover books lose money for the publisher , and a still higher proportion represent a net loss for the author ; an even greater number , comprising untold months or years of labor , are never published at all . But such waste and irrationality is the secret of economic growth . Because no one knows which venture will succeed , which number will win the lottery , a society ruled by faith and risk rather than by rational calculus , a society open to the future rather than planning it , will call forth an endless stream of invention , enterprise , and art . The greatest irony of modern economics is that the kind of " economic man " at its center , the rational optimizer of wealth , could rarely create wealth , or dare invest in the frontier enterprises of growth . visibly possible achievements , the clearly available resources , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the existing statistics , necessarily presume a declining field of choice , a contraction of possibilities , an exhaustion of resources , a diminishing of returns ? entropy and decay . The only unlimited resource , the one that can release us from all the others , is the imagination and creativity of free men . The most dire and fatal hubris for any leader is to cut his people off from providence , from the miraculous prodigality of chance , by substituting a closed system of human planning . Innovation is always unpredictable , and thus an effect of faith and freedom . In the United States today we are facing the usual calculus of impossibility , recited by the familiar aspirants to a master plan . It is said we must abandon economic freedom because our frontier is closed : because our biosphere is strained , because our resources are running out , because our technology is perverse , because our population is dense , because our horizons are closing in . We walk , it is said , in a shadow of death , depleted air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growth showering from the clouds of our future in a quiet carcinogenic rain . In this extremity , we can not afford the luxuries of competition and waste and freedom . We have reached the end of the open road ; we are beating against the gates of an occluded frontier . We must tax and regulate and plan , redistribute our wealth and ration our consumption , because we have reached the end of openness . But quite to the contrary , these problems and crises are in themselves the new frontier , are themselves the mandate for individual and corporate competition and creativity , are themselves the reason why we can not afford the consolations of planning and stasis . The old frontier of the American West also appeared closed at first . Only in retrospect could the achievements of the past be seen as easy or inevitable . America became an open reservoir of wealth only in retrospect , because the pioneers dared to risk their lives and families in the quest for riches , looking for gold ( of which there was relatively little in the U. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were the barrens of Texas and Oklahoma an energy cornucopia , the flat prairies a breadbasket for the world , or Thomas Edison a catalytic genius and Henry Ford the salvation of capitalism in the grips of an earlier closing circle . The future is forever incalculable . Its challenges can be mastered only by those who are willing and permitted to enter the unknown .                     