@@493644

Economic Chills and Fevers Uneasy Portugal by Tad Szulc Lisbon Portugal is a sad place as winter approaches this year . The chilly mists rise from the Tagus River , engulfing the ancient houses on Alfama hill that rises over Lisbon . In downtown Rossio square , huddled vendors sell roasted chestnuts wrapped in cones of old newspapers that once spoke of The Revolution . There are crowds on Rossio and along the majestic Avenida da Liberdade , but they seem to have little purpose : many strollers are unemployed Portuguese workers and refugees from Angola still trying to fit into the society of the metropolis . In front of the Rivoli Hotel , furtive youths accost foreigners , whispering how cheaply the expensive watches they have procured God-knows-where can be bought . Cars and green double-decker buses fill the streets , but this an illusion of prosperity . In his official residence right behind S5o Bento Palace , the home of the National Assembly and the symbol of Portugal 's young democracy , the Socialist prime minister , Mario Soares , worries about where to obtain foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eat in the winter ahead . This is Lisbon today , 32 months after the euphoria of the glorious movement of the armed forces that ousted Portugal 's 48-year-old rightist dictatorship , and a year or so after the extreme left , a strange coalition of military officers and civilians , tried and failed to take power through insurrection in the streets . It is a very different Lisbon from the politically effervescent city I knew last year . For more than one and a half years after the dictatorship was overthrown on April 25 , 1974 , Lisbon was a political battlefield . The extreme left and the Communist party , sometimes acting in harmony and sometimes at cross-purposes , sought to take over the country in an effort that culminated in the abortive coup in November 1975 . Centrist and right-of-center military and civilian groups , and , most importantly , the Socialist party , were able to beat back the challenge , but Portugal had suffered untold economic and social damage during the entire period when , for all practical purposes , the country was ungoverned and rent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new regime and sometimes by factory workers , farm hands , newspaper , hotel and restaurant employees ? resulted in a dramatic drop in productivity . This had a devastating effect on a nation whose economy was at best primitive by European standards , and whose resources had already been drained by 12 years of African colonial wars . The influx of at least a half-million refugees from Angola , given independence by the revolutionary regime , compounded the problems of unemployment and lack of housing . Huge wage increases , frequently politically motivated , created a consumer demand that the economy could not meet . Runaway inflation followed . A few statistics show that the crisis threatens Portugal with the nearest thing to economic collapse : unemployment ( including exiled Angolans ) stands at close to 20 percent in this nation of nine million ; inflation is running at an annual rate of almost 30 percent ; the balance-of-payments deficit for 1976 is estimated at $1.2 billion and the domestic budget deficit at $1.7 billion ; consumption is up 15 percent while 22 overall investment is down 40 percent ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national product in 1974 to four percent this year ; national capital formation is one-half of what is needed . To this dismal picture add the fact that enterprises now run by the state , largely as a result of the 1974-5 nationalizations , produce an annual deficit of around one billion dollars , a staggering amount by Portuguese standards ? the annual GNP is $13 billion ? and a major factor in the budgetary deficit . But the terrible irony is that the Soares government can not close down the enterprises that promise to be indefinitely in deficit ( though some Portuguese economists have recommended it ) because it would further increase unemployment . Soares , in office since July , is painfully aware of the magnitude of the Portuguese economic crisis and its political implications . ( He may well sense the danger of a coup from the right , the end of Portugal 's infant democracy , and a return to dictatorship ? if the situation does n't improve within a reasonable time . ) The danger from the extreme left is currently more limited because it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , the Communist party which is particularly strong in the labor unions , is still a force to be reckoned with . To put it simply , the continued survival of democracy in Portugal is intimately linked to the state of the economy , a fact that is well understood by the Soares team . In a gloomy speech on September 9 , Soares told the nation frankly that " the hour of truth " had come , that austerity measures were imperative , and that he had to have national support for his policies as the only way to find a " non-repressive and democratic " solution for economic problems and avoid " dolorous confrontations that may cover Portugal with blood . " He added : " We have to face ( the problems ) courageously if we want to save democracy in this country , because this is what it 's all about . . . Dictatorial pseudo-solutions , from the right or the left , are always imposed at the workers ' expense , with the heaviest sacrifices . " Early in November , Soares ( who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deficits were mounting " the state will inevitably collapse , and in a short time " ) unveiled an austerity program . But it satisfied nobody . Workers took exception to a steep increase in the price of public transportation and to orders that Christmas bonuses be paid in government bonds . The middle class resented a 20 to 30 percent surcharge on imported goods and a 60 percent tax on " superfluous or luxury " imports ranging from furs to liquor and jewelry . Many economists , on the other hand , took the view that Soares was not decisive enough and his program not sufficiently stern . Actually , the truth is that Soares and his minority Socialist government ( the party received 35 percent of the vote in last June 's parliamentary elections , but The New Republic refused to enter a coalition with the Social Democrats who won 16 percent ) must walk an incredibly thin tightrope in attempting to save the economy while preserving democracy . When I visited Soares at his office early in November , he was trying to project a modicum of optimism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the end of the tunnel , " but , quite clearly , the task facing him could be impossible . The fine line lies between the danger that the economy will indeed collapse if Soares fails to act with determination , and the danger that excessively harsh austerity measures will make him lose popular support . In either case , Portugal may slip back into chaos and then a rightist dictatorship . Not only is Soares opposed by the right ? there are reliable reports that rightists are actively conspiring against the government ? but his own Socialist party is split . The party 's left wing faction virtually broke away from the prime minister at the Socialist congress early in November , in part in protest against his austerity program and in part because it felt he was " betraying " the 1974 revolution . The latter charge stems from Soares ' decision to eliminate exaggerated extreme leftist influences from public education and to return to the owners some of the land expropriated by peasants in 1974 and 1975 . His own agriculture minister , Antonio Lopes Cardoso , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " agrarian reform . " Left wing Socialists opposing the economic policies , including a well-known National Assembly deputy , were suspended by Soares for trying to engineer a revolt within the party . Socialist left wingers are now moving toward an alliance with a Communist-sponsored political front in what may be the beginning of the reconstruction of the badly splintered Portuguese left . Soares himself admits that the Communists control about two-thirds of the membership in Intersindical , the powerful labor federation , with the Socialists holding one-third of the rank-and-file . And there are other signs that the left is returning to political life . Vasco Gonsalves , a pro-Communist army officer who served as prime minister in 1975 , recently broke a year 's silence with the publication of a document highly critical of Soares . Maj. Ernesto Melo Antunes , the ideologue of the 1974 revolution and a former foreign minister , is emerging again as a leftist spokesman after leading the movement among the military that blocked the advance of Gonsalves and the Communist party to power in August , 1975 . The attempted coup @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Gonsalves ' collapse . Leftist politics in Portugal are obviously complex , and they remain important . Still , the left must unite if it is to pose a serious threat to the Soares government . This unity was not evident in October when the government placed Maj. Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho , an extreme leftist and defeated presidential candidate , under a 20-day detention for involvement in politics in violation of military regulations . The Communists looked the other way when Carvalho , a political folk hero only a year ago , was arrested ; they have n't forgiven him for taking votes away from the Communist candidate in last summer 's presidential elections . The leftist split was one reason Gen. Ramalho Eanes , who , as chief of staff of the army , smashed the November putsch , was elected president of Portugal . Soares ' principal concern is the right . Ranging from the ancien regime " ultras , " military and civilian , to conservative businessmen and northern farmers , the rightists become increasingly dangerous as the economy deteriorates . Ironically , the left 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right . Even Soares ' associates acknowledge that if the economic crisis is not arrested by mid-1977 , there is a good chance for a rightist coup attempt . In the meantime , rightists are busy destabilizing the economy ( as is the left ) and trying to build up positions within the armed forces . All this increasingly isolates Soares and his minority Socialists . The key question in Lisbon is whether the prime minister may not be forced to invite the Social Democrats and other centrists to join him in a coalition of " national salvation " to strengthen the government even if the Socialists do well in the December 12 municipal elections . Soares has a serious problem with the Social Democrats ( until recently known as the Popular Democratic party ) . Its chief , Francisco SA Carneiro , was a member of the dictatorship 's rubber-stamp National Assembly when Soares was in prison and in exile before the 1974 revolution . Although he has already lost the left wing faction , Soares does n't want to be pushed too far to the right : he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible . Nevertheless a coalition may become the only solution for Soares , and President Eanes may well put considerable pressure on his prime minister to accept it . Thus far Eanes is an unknown quantity politically , although he is thought to favor centrist positions . As an experienced Western diplomat told me , Eanes may turn out to " be a de Gaulle or a figurehead ? it 's still too soon to tell . " To a growing extent the Soares government is dependent on foreign aid for economic survival . Such assistance is available because both the United States and Western Europe realize that Portugal 's present regime must be shored up . In November , Portugal received an emergency $300 million loan from Washington and the European Free Trade Association ( EVTA ) , of which Lisbon is a member , organized a $100 million fund to set up small and medium-sized industry in the country . Earlier , the US had provided Portugal with $200 million in aid , mostly in commodity loans . The emergency loan is designed to help Soares with his immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and all of its oil requirements . Its foreign currency reserves are gone , and much of its gold is mortgaged against a variety of earlier loans . And Portuguese problems nowadays go far beyond immediate cash needs . The real need is for a stable economic base . With the loss of the African colonies , which for centuries supported Lisbon , the Portuguese economy is no longer viable . The country 's traditional exports ? sardines , cork , wines and similar goods ? were never adequate to pay for the imports . Tourism was a major source of foreign currency income , but it dropped drastically after the 1974 revolution . Remittances from hundreds of thousands of Portuguese workers in Western Europe and the United States , another crucial source , have been curtailed as a result of the recession . Therefore , Portugal must improve its agricultural system to feed itself , and it must have an industry that can meet internal consumer demand and , hopefully , provide some export earnings . None of this can be achieved overnight and the emergency assistance is designed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new economic structure can take shape . The Ford administration has opened negotiations with Western European governments to set up a $1.5 billion consortium for Portugal 's economic development ( the Carter administration will presumably go along with it ) , with the US contributing around $350 million . This will be a good start . Perhaps as important is the encouragement of investor confidence . But this depends , in turn , on a reasonably stable political situation , which can be obtained only when the current economic crisis is resolved . Portugal seems to be caught in a vicious circle . When I saw Soares in November , he was talking about modernizing and expanding the Portuguese fishing fleet . He was pleased by recent inquiries from a major French automotive manufacturer about building a plant in Portugal . He discussed some other development concepts . He hoped that the planned establishment of diplomatic relations with the new regime in Angola ( which has rich oil reserves found by a US company ) will lead to profitable new trade . But in the end , it is clear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an economic collapse . Soares himself suggested as much when he mentioned his plans to tour Western Europe early in 1977 to seek additional assistance , short and long-term . The US government is aware that last month 's emergency cash loan is not enough , and that more will be required in the new year . Having supported , or at least tolerated , the Portuguese dictatorship for so many years , Western democracies now have a moral and political obligation , it seems to me , to protect Portugal from relapsing into a dark age .                     