@@479676

JUNE 17 , 1974 , eleven leading American kfimolecular biologists published an open letter in which they asked for voluntary , immediate , worldwide suspension of all work in two types of research in the modification of the genetics of bacteria . They also called for great caution in carrying out certain other experiments that might be dangerous to research workers and the public at large . The letter appeared in the American journal Science and the English Nature , two distinguished scientific weeklies . Most of the signatories had been carrying out in their own laboratories the same work they now warned against . Foremost among them was Paul Berg of Stanford University , because he and his laboratory have been most closely identified with this line of research since it began , five years ago . David Baltimore of MIT and James Watson of Harvard and the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory , Long Island , were also on the committee , along with eight others , well known among biologists , if not to the public . The group proposed an international meeting to discuss the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International Conference on Recombinant DNA Molecules , took place from February 23 to 27 this year at Asilomar , California , with Paul Berg as chairman and with 146 participants from the Soviet Union , Japan , Australia , Israel , and ten European countries . The conference was an unprecedented event in the history of the relations between science and society . The biological discoveries that were the subject of the conference must be examined with the closest attention by thinking laymen if the dangers of the new biology are to be correctly assessed ; even more important , the interactions within the scientific community which led to the conference being called , and which continued at the conference itself , must be probed if safeguards and ethical controls are to be strengthened for the present day and for the decades to come . What , then , are the scientists afraid of ? In certain lines of biological research , investigators have become apprehensive that unless stringent and ingenious safeguards are enforced , dangerous biological substances will get loose from the laboratory . Some of these prob . lems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tumors in animals might do so in people . For example , at a laboratory in Cambridge , England , a year ago , there was a series of protest meetings among technicians and the younger scientists when they found out that a room in their building was being used by a university group , not part of the lab , for attempts to infect human cells ? cultured loose , in glass dishes ? with a virus that causes leukemia in cats . The scientists threatened to call a strike unless much more thorough protective apparatus were installed . Some biologists insist these sorts of dangers are no more serious than the new hazards that were the occasion for the February conference in California . Other biologists disagree , passionately . What they fear are man-created combinations of genes that have never been put together before , with characteristics that may prove surprising . The nastiest novelty of all these biological hazards is that they are living creatures , able to multiply . Biohazard FaF IVE YEARS AGO , Paul Berg and his students and associates began trying to put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? two overlapping problems ? so that the new genes would merge into the host organism and multiply as the organism multiplies , In the past three or four years , the work in several laboratories has shown that these things can he done easily and cheaply . Dozens of other biologists have rushed into it . One of the several breakthroughs needed for manipulating cells in these ways was made fairly recently ; but the discovery was double-edged , and was the first link in the chain of events that led Berg and the others to call for the suspension of research and for the international meeting . The genetic information in bacteria comes in one long rope of DNA . It turns out , though , that there is some extra DNA in bacteria . This comes in little DNA rope rings , which have been named plasmids , each carrying a few genes . Enzymes have been found ? called restriction enzymes ? which will snip open the plasmid rings . Frayed ends ? called sticky ends ? are thus exposed . These can be made to join @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DNA , a few genes from another sort of creature altogether . Other enzymes have been found which will close this hybrid back into a plasmid ring --  and the plasmid , complete with its alien genes , can be inserted into fresh bacteria . It has been suggested that the resulting compound virus or bacterium might be used in a further step to put new genes into laboratory cultures of animal , or plant , or human cells . All these methods may allow biologists to press far deeper into the genetics and cellular processes of higher organisms than they have ever been able to do before . For nearly half a century the molecular geneticists ' standard research animal , the most widely used and most thoroughly understood creature in all biology , has been the bacterium Escherichia cull , whose normal , peaceable habitat is the human gut . Working with plasmids in the past two years , investigators have already inserted a variety of animal DNA into E. coli : there are intestinal bacteria around that contain , reproduce , and multiply genes from frogs , genes from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ geneticists ' other favorite , the fruit fly . One aspect of this research is that bacteria easily trade plasmids among themselves , even between different species . Furthermore . plasmids happen to be the place where bacteria of many species carry genes that give them resistance to antibiotics . The trouble is that bacteria trade these resistances easily among themselves along with the plasmids ? which is why a hospital is a bad place to be sick ; your bugs can pick up bad habits from their new friends . P. B. Medawar once said that science is " the art of the soluble . " Some biologists believe that recombinant DNA molecules will be as powerful in making new problems soluble as any new technique ever introduced in biology . Sydney Brenner , of the Medical Research Council Laboratory of Molecular Biology in Cambridge , England , was brought by Paul Berg onto the organizing committee of the international meeting at Asilomar ; Brenner said afterward . " I would expect this technique to be comparable in impact to the use of radioactive isotopes as tracers in biology ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It 's going to be very widespread . Simply , it 's going to allow us to tackle for the first time problems of the molecular genetics of higher organisms ? of anything . Elephants . Sea urchins . It 'll make a lot of things - obsolete , the possible easier , the impossible possible . It is fully as important as radioactive isotopes ? no , probably more profound in the questions it can reach . Why ? Because these things self-replicate . You have a way of enhancing yield . You can detect things . And you can put together combinations ? you may say , look , even biological systems since the dawn of time have not had an opportunity to explore the complete range of combinations now suddenly possible . And , in principle , for any new configuration we can make the probability ? one . One is a very large number in these things . We can put duck and orange DNA together ? with a probability of one . " The benefits of the new technique are firstly to science ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medium and long term 71 ? although , when they come , they should be great . Understanding the molecular genetics and therefore the cellular control mechanisms of higher organisms will open up the mechanisms of cancer . Put to manufacturing use , the new hybrid microorganisms with selected alien genes might be cultured to make the biological end products for which the transferred genes provide the blueprint a back-to-nature's-way to synthesize large amounts , cheaply , of hormones like insulin , or of individual enzymes , substances now hard to obtain and costly . For another example , new vaccines should be possible , utterly safe and fully effective , made in quantity by setting E. coli to work . Wild viruses OBERT POLLACK , at Cold Spring Harbor n Laboratory , served as an instructor there four summers ago , teaching advanced students the techniques of culturing mammalian cells . " In the last lecture I chose to talk about the safety and ethics of working with these biological materials , " he said recently . " Safety and ethics are interrelated . I think . I talked about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work ? yes , literally , how to keep from getting sick . From the fear of that , / moved to the other question , whether there 's a danger of doing something that might screw things up in a much larger way . I got a lot of argument from some students , one girl in particular , from Paul Berg 's laboratory . She said that at Paul 's lab ? this was nearly four years ago , remember ? they were going ahead to join the DNA of a virus called SV40 with part of the DNA from a bacterial virus called phage lambda and then to put the combination into E. coli . " I had a fit . SV40 is a small animal tumor virus ; in tissue cultures in the lab , SV40 also transforms individual human cells , making them look very like tumor cells . And bacteriophage lambda just naturally lives in E. coil , and E. coli just naturally lives in people . She seemed to see it as a neat academic exercise . And I said , of all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then , that does n't grow in a bug that grows in your gut ! Because what if the combination escapes from the lab : then you have SV40 replicating in step with the E. coil and a constant exposure of the cells in your gut to the DNA of SV40 . Which is a route in for the virus that never occurs in nature and therefore something you might not be prepared to fend off . " What do you do ? What I did was to call up Berg and say , ' You 've got some kind of a zealot for a student . ' And he said , ' Yes , we 've been thinking about that , though we are not ready to do it yet . Let me think about your objections . ' And six months later Berg called me up and said that he thought there ought to be a small meeting on safety and ethics , and if I was so hot about it would I be one of the organizers . Which I was . " In those six months , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Last summer I asked him about his exchange with Pollack . He said that he has little sympathy with those who say research should be controlled now " from fear that twenty years from now somebody might put a discovery to bad use . On the other hand , in this case , when Bob Pollack called me , it was true that we had been heedless . We had not considered the possible hazardous consequences of what we were making . I do not see this as a great moral or ethical issue ; I see this more as a problem of public health . At first , when Bob called , I was , frankly , quite upset . He raised issues . I tried to counter them , feeling that most of the dangers he saw were so remote that he could n't really be serious . And then he would make further counter-arguments . Afterward , though , the more I thought about it , the more I found I was persuading myself . We decided not to carry on that particular phase of my work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time , I thought this was only the beginning of this kind of research , and it was important that we get a fix on just what kinds of hazards tumor viruses themselves pose to man . So we called that first , earlier meeting Pollack told you about . " That first meeting was held in January 1973 , in California . Just over a hundred biologists attended ; for three days they speculated among themselves about the dangers of ( and the necessary preventives against ) accidental infection of laboratory workers or of larger populations by such things as wild viruses from experimental monkeys , or exotic , virus-caused dementias , or cancer viruses contaminating the cell cultures in which polio vaccines arc made , or virus hybrids created in the laboratory in research like Berg 's . Later that year , the conference papers and discussions were published as a book , Biohazards in Biological Research . Unnoticed by science journalists or the general public , the hook has sold briskly to biologists . M EANWHILE , RESEARCH with plasmids and hybrid viruses was continuing . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , much of the work then current , and even unpublished , was discussed ; the scientists attending held a special meeting and sent a letter to the president of the National Academy of Sciences asking for a study committee . The letter was urgent , low-key , highly technical in phrasing , the grown-ups talking to each other over the heads of the children . The idea was ripe . A Committee on Recombinant Viruses was formed , with Berg as chairman , and convened in April 1974 at MIT . " Within one hour we agreed that an international conference in 1975 would be our first recommendation , " Berg recalled . But when Berg went to MIT he knew about some of the newest research , that few of the others could be aware of , " because it had been done at Stanford , in fact . And also , nobody else knew of the pressure that was building up from the large number of other people who were calling us daily wanting the biological materials to do similar experiments . I would ask them what they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planned with no appreciation of the consequences . At MIT when I explained what was happening , we began to realize that if we waited for the big meeting in nine months ' time , most of the molecules that we were worried about people making would already have been made . So we appealed for an immediate suspension of work . " Hence the letter to Nature and Science . At the conference this February , the attendance was a third larger than the organizing committee ? Berg , Baltimore , and three others ? had originally planned . The meeting was wide open but also strongly centrally directed . This difficult combination was symbolized when David Baltimore , in an opening statement , warned that if the meeting failed to find a consensus there was no other group to appeal to ; he was asked from the floor how the consensus would be determined ? and gave the lapidary answer " The procedures by which the consensus will be determined will be largely determined by the extent of the consensus . " From the outset , it seemed as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be discernible . Many biologists there had chafed under the seven-month shutdown of experiments already asked , and were eager to have explicit guidelines settled so that they could get on with their work . The science itself beckons alluringly ; and the competitive pressures in biology in the United States have grown steadily greater as the field has become more crowded in the past ten years and as funding has grown much tighter in the past five . To scientific and professional impatience was yoked , in some minds , the belief that further formal restrictions would amount to violation of the scientist 's academic freedom to determine the direction of his research , or the belief that the potential benefits for the public at large are so great that the work must not be delayed . Then one of the working groups presented a report on the use of plasmids which graded the imaginable experiments in six defined categories of increasing risk , with a recommendation of safety equipment and procedures for each category . The report became the fulcrum on which the conference turned . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a very senior biologist who emerged as a highly vocal critic of the entire conference , objected that the six categories of experiments had been defined with unrealistic , unworkable precision ? and he worried that they would be an irresistible invitation to governmental regulation , which could prove still more restrictive and unworkable . Sydney Brenner , on the other hand , argued that the suggested guidelines were , in several essential aspects , too permissive . He saw that highly detailed guidelines could not sensibly be written to cover experiments and techniques that were changing so fast . Even more important , Brenner said , a set of restrictions could too easily be reinterpreted as a license to go ahead with even the most dangerous experiment that could somehow be fitted into the categories . Brenner said that if the conference became simply a licensing authority , he would resign from the organizing committee . Brenner 's second objection was that in the calculation of risks and benefits there was a serious logical disjunction . The immediate benefits of working with recombinant DNA molecules , he pointed out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will come only in the middle or long term . " But now , who are the immediate risks to ? They are of course to the scientists , but they are also to the innocent within institutions that practice science . This is the difference . I mean technicians , students , sweepers ? and then , of course , there are also risks to the world at large if something escapes . How do you manage these risks ? Given these circumstances I think we must move to the highest level of protection possible . You 've got to make sure that people who do n't know they 're taking the risk are exposed to no risk or as little as possible . A good level of safeguards is one that in the light of later experience we might revise downward . Thus , but only thus , we can turn to society ? I mean by society those who determine science policy and funds ? and say that if they judge the potential benefits to humanity as being tremendous , then they must be prepared to pay for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , throughout the conference , with great effect . After the meeting , however , Brenner said that he had been shocked and worried by the competitive intensity that has grown up in American biology . " People arc being driven very hard there , " he told me . " I kept hearing them use the word business . You know , as in ' You 'll put me out of business with these restrictions . ' Many times . " Some participants were convinced that the risks had not been proved and could not be estimated from present knowledge , as was reported in an excellent narrative of the conference by Nicholas Wade that appeared in Scienv ' . James Watson , one of the eleven who had signed the original call for a holdup of research . now caused great surprise when he rose to ask that the moratorium simply be ended . Watson said : I thought we should have six months to see if we could hear anything that would frighten us . As someone in charge of a tumor virus laboratory , I feel we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have heard about here . . . The dangers involved are probably no greater than working in a hospital . You have to live with the fact that someone may sue you for $1 million if you are careless . That sounds very negative and right-wing. but I do n't see any other way of doing it . Later , Watson came hack to the problem of lack of knowledge . " You ca n't measure the risk . So they want to put people out of business for something you ca n't measure . " * The most pungent reply to that came from Robert Sinsheimer of the California Institute of Tech-nology : Watson says correctly that there is no way to measure the risk . But it seems to me that in the end we will be regulated ; we would be in a better position to face that if we take the position that some of the higher i.e. , riskier ) categories of experiment should not be done until more information is available . I ca n't think of anything that would impede science more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also said in that exchange , and emphasized to me after the meeting , that at present there exists no way to " monitor " such organisms in the population : if they escape from a laboratory , they could be widely disseminated before any evidence appeared ? unlike , for example , the case of radiation dangers around an atomic plant . " Therefore , " he said , " in addition to trying to do these experiments in a safer way , we ought to fare the problem of detecting instances where our safety measures have failed . " Directly out of the scientific discussions at the conference arose a new technical possibility , namely that modified , safer organisms and biological systems can be devised plasmids that will be less able to cross the line between different species of bacteria , for example , and strains of bacteria with metabolic requirements that will render them unable to survive outside highly specialized laboratory environ- * Watson said to me later that the chief point he was trying to make was that although , of course , precautions are necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has specially designed laboratories to give a high level of protection . He can see no way , by the very nature of the problem . that precautions can be codified in detail in advance of the technology . ments . A special session of the conference was called to discuss these innovations . When it appeared that it might be possible to develop and distribute the modified experimental organisms within a few months , the idea provided the essential basis for resolving the many-cornered disagreement that had been developing . The last night , the organizing committee was up until 4:00 A.M. preparing , duplicating , and stapling its final statement . The statement established three levels of risk , with brief , general examples . Low-risk experiments could be started right away , under the sorts of physical precautions required by the National Cancer Institute for handling tumor viruses . For moderate-risk and high-risk experiments , however , the moratorium continues under a new guise : they are to await the development of the new , safer experimental organisms . Even then , high-risk experiments will only be permitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world that work with diseases such as smallpox , plague , or Lassa fever . Perhaps equally important , the statement called for training programs in safe working procedures for laboratory personnel , and asked that safety committees be set up in each institution where such work goes on . Berg presented the statement to the last session as the organizing committee 's opinion of the consensus that had been reached . In fact , as some experimenters protested , many of its provisions went considerably beyond anything that had been formally put before the conference . The organizing committee had not planned to proceed to a vote ; a vote was forced from the floor . Discussion and voting went section by section and at every point the organizing committee won overwhelmingly , with never more than five or six hands raised in opposition . Brenner said afterward , " Most of the scientists , from many countries , had said little or nothing , but listened . In the end it was they , the silent majority , who brought it together . " Prizes and contracts T @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a Nobel laureate said some years ago , is to make an informal rule that no Nobel Prizes will be given for such work . Scientists do n't control the Swedish Academy , of course ( although they influence it more than is generally realized ) , and a wide variety of methods will be needed to discern and limit the dangers of science . Yet the remark about Nobel Prizes made a serious point : the built-in obstacles to effective control of science can be overcome only through devices that grow directly from the most powerful motives and institutional structures already active in science . Most discussions of the control of science proceed , I think , from the wrong implicit model , a censorship model , but what 's needed is precisely the reverse . The appropriate proverb is not , after all , " Quin custodiet ipsos custodes ? " but " Set a thief to catch a thief . " Committees of civil servants or legislators or industrialists or ethicists ca n't do what 's needed , and early enough : only other scientists can . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meaning that its natural institutional controls are of a kind that most people in this century have never experienced . Medicine and the law are professions that in theory retain a self-governing , collegiate , guild organization ; the patchy ethical performance of lawyers and doctors , and the sluggishness of discipline in these professions make the idea of peer controls and self-government seem dubious . But medicine and law have abandoned , since the turn of the century or before , the essential organizational device of the guild : the apprentice system . Science retains that . The scientific community is the last place where every student must work at the bench in direct , individual relation to his master . It is almost the last place where the apprentice , once he has qualified , must spend an itinerant , journeyman period for several years , doing his work in other men 's labs , before setting up for himself . The mark of setting up for himself is that he acquires apprentices of his own . The apprentice system is the fundamental reason why there is something that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't want to press the point too far ; the system has certainly been strained by the doubling and redoubling in the past twenty years of the number of students who want to be scientist . Yet it is at the bench , from the man who supervises a young scientist 's first research , that he takes the attitudes that will inform his ethical approach to doing science . These are the roots of self-discipline that must be nourished . Peer pressures can be seen at . work , informally and belatedly , nudging people out of embryo transfer or premature attempts at gene therapy . It has worked strikingly well in the moratorium on plasmid research . On the international level , only peer control can work . In England , within a week of the American scientists ' call for the moratorium , the Medical Research Council requested all laboratories to observe the ban . We do n't know in detail what happened in the Soviet Union , but their biologists read Science and Nature ; at the end of the voting at the international conference , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee 's statement was reasonable and would guide their discussions in the Soviet Union . One of the most flexible and promising of existing American institutions for control of science by scientists has been under damaging attack recently . This is the long-established system for giving out federal funds to laboratories competitively , in the form of research grants awarded after peer review . By this system , each research project and the laboratory that proposes it must he evaluated by a committee of active research scientists ; only the highest-ranking applications get any money . There can hardly be a biologist in the United States who has not been affected by the struggle over funds for science that has been going on since the end of Lyndon Johnson 's administration and the first year of Nixon 's . The cuts have progressed from large to savage . When Congress passed higher appropriations than the administration requested , these were vetoed or impounded . Delays and uncertainties led in some cases to entire laboratories being disbanded unnecessarily . Then the Office of Management and Budget began asking for " targeted research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research rather than pure science ; in practice it meant that new money went into cancer research and treatment , at the expense of even deeper cuts almost everywhere else in biology . In a parallel shift , the OMB began to dismantle the competitive grant system with peer review , in favor of a contract system . Science was to be procured like submarines , results specified in advance and the contract given to the best bid . The competitiveness among biological laboratories in the United States has produced a mood almost of despair in many younger scientists ; among the institutional forces operating in American science there has been nothing else so ethically corrosive . At present , with funds no easier to obtain , the struggle is still felt to be about money for science , but it is about something more fundamental as well , how science is to be organized and who is to control it . Thus , scientists find themselves arguing that the grant system is more efficient than the contract system because grant applications are originated more freely and creatively , in relation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are then judged more knowledgeably , by scientists rather than by bureaucrats . If we are really concerned that science be used for the social good , then the argument should he that the grant system , with its essential instrument of peer review , is preferable even if sometimes less efficient . If we are concerned , more specifically , with the dangers and ethics of biological research , then we must restore , preserve , and strengthen every institution by means of which the scientific community can govern itself , and the scientists can be obliged to he responsible for each other .                     