@@287856

During an interview with TIME last week , President Jimmy Carter was asked why his advisers had not warned him that his human rights policy would annoy the Soviets . Replied Carter with a broad smile : I will have to search the pages of TIME to see if you were materially more prescient than I was six or seven months ago " <P> We may not have been more prescient , but neither were we especially surprised by theSoviet reaction . At any rate , we have carefully monitored Carter 's policytoward the Soviet Union and other powers . This week we undertake a major assessment of Carter 's international performance to date . In accompanying articles we discuss secretary of State Cyrus Vance and how he fits in to the mechanism that shape foreign policy , and we report the ideas of National Security Adviser Zbigmew Brzezinski . <P> Associate Editor Burton Pines , who wrote our cover story , has had extenisive foreign experiences : he has served as correspondent in Bonn and Saigon , and covered Eastern Europe from Vienna As a writer m @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specialized in stories concerning diplomacy and national security . Fourteen correspondents in eleven bureaus around the world supplied Pines with reports on foreign perspectives . The major reporting was done in our Washington bureau : Diplomatic Correspondent Strobe Talbott State Department Correspondent Christopher Ogden , White House Correspondent Stanley Cloud and Pentagon Correspondent Bruce Nelan . <P> The Washington correspondents find that covering Carter 's foreign policy is markedly different from covering that of Nixon and Ford . " There is an openness within the Carter Administration , " says Ogden . " This means that officials you deal with now are seeing information they never received under Kissinger . In those days , many officials resorted to asking reporters what they had heard from Kissinger . " Not that this particular question has gone out of style-as shown in Hugh Sidey 's column on the former Secretary of State , who is in demand by foreign statesmen , not to mention reporters .                     