@@491344

An English gentleman by the name of Henry Cole once found himself in something of a predicament . It was the sort of a pinch any chap could create for himself ; Christmas of 1843 was drawing nigh , and he had fallen far behind in his correspondence to friends . His impulsive solution was the first Christmas card , and it has solved similar problems for millions of tardy correspondents ever after . But to get back to Mr. Cole , he was an imaginative fellow . After his initial inspiration , he contacted an acquaintance , John Calcott Horsley of the Royal Academy , and commissioned him to design a card which would reflect seasonal sentiments and could be printed in quantity and sent around to all the people to whom he owed letters . In the back of Cole 's mind , no doubt , there was the recent English Postal Reform which had created penny postage . Cole 's lively brain had seized the moment . Horsley 's first card . shown on this page , depicted a convivial family party in progress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the recipient of the card . The side panels show two of the oldest traditions of Christmas , feeding the hungry and clothing the needy . The greeting on the first Christmas card is as familiar as " Hello . " " A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to you . " A t least 1,000 copies of the Cole-Horsley card were printed . Only a dozen are known to exist today . Two of them , including the only known unused copy , may be seen in the Hallmark Historical Collection in Kansas City , Missouri , as may all the rare cards shown on these pages , and thousands of others . Henry Cole 's novel idea really caught on , boosted by the penny post which made a large-scale exchange of cards possible throughout the United Kingdom  --  upon which in those days the sun never set . An established printer of playing cards , Goodall &; Sons , issued in 1862 what is probably the first large selection of Christmas cards . Other English publishers , notably Marcus Ward and the De La Rue Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the market . Kate Greenaway , England 's world-famous woman artist , entered the competition at this point , contributing outstanding greeting-card designs to Marcus Ward . Her paintings of cute children dressed in high fashion drew many imitators . Much can be learned of the tastes , manners and preoccupations of people of an earlier generation by a study of their Christmas cards . Their archaic notions amuse us . The Victorians imagined their children as miniature men and women , innocent and coy , and this is reflected in the cards of that age . Also characteristic of the Victorians were a kind of gamey , masculine wit and , in contrast , an almost mawkish sentimentality . The most popular cards of the 1860 's and 1870 's showed little Christmas significance . They depicted children , landscapes , kittens , fairies and flowers , portraits , animals , fish and even reptiles . Then appeared Bostonian card-maker Louis Prang , who wrought two big changes . Prang , known as " the father of the American Christmas card , " perfected the lithographic process of multicolor printing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of artistic quality in Christmas cards . He held contests in which artists competed with their finest works . Many of the winning pieces were of the Nativity and other religious scenes ; thus Prang helped put religious significance in to Christmas cards . Nineteenth-century America was a rugged and sometimes harsh place ; there was a longing for fragility and beauty expressed in the Christmas cards of that era . By 1881 , Prang was printing almost five million Christmas cards a year . He offered prizes of as much as $4,000 to promising artists to offer designs for his cards . Near the turn of the century , however , Prang was forced into the background by a great influx of penny cards made in Germany . The Christmas-card trade from then until World War I 1 " ? was virtually monopolized by the Germans . In the 1920 's , major American greeting-card companies again emerged , and as before , their Christmas cards reflected the times . During the Great Depression , cards spoofed being poor , and always hinted that tomorrow we 'd all be better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American flags , and there were " missing you " sentiments for the servicemen separated from their families . The grimness of the Cold War brought about a demand for more humor in greeting cards , and the studio card  --  with its odd Santas and dopey-looking reindeer  --  was born . Nowadays , Christmas cards received and sent each year number in the billions , their number multiplied by the affluence and mobility which disperse friends and families to far places . Just to give you an idea , Hallmark Cards , Inc. , the largest and best-known publisher of cards , prints its greetings in twelve languages and distributes them in more than 100 countries and , to keep the happy wishes ? rolling , turns out approximately eight million greeting cardsdady ! A staff of more than 300 artists creates more than 12,000 greeting-card designs annually . The Hallmark people estimate that as many as 3,000 people , involved in up to 300 separate processes , actually combine their talents in the conception and publication of a single greeting card . Each card has to run the gauntlet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the customer : about ninety-five working days ( and possibly more , if there are overheated discussions over the length of Santa Claus 's beard ) are needed to completely develop a greeting card from first step to last . All this emanated from the conviction of a young lad , Joyce C. Hall , in 1910 , that : what was needed on greeting cards  --  and lacking at that particular time  --  was a from me to you " sentiment . Basic , perhaps , but that little bit of sentiment , according to estimates in the business press , brings in today annual sales of more than $300 million to Hallmark . Christmas cards , those convenient conveyors of goodwill among men , are here to stay even though the penny post is now eight cents . 2                     