@@494719

a ? Encounter in Samarkand Soviet Jews by Joan Kaplan After long silence , the State Department has spoken out , before a House Foreign Affairs subcommittee , on " denial of rights to Soviet Jews . " This was the subject upon which the department was called to testify - but only a fifth of the 21-page statement by Deputy Assistant Secretary Richard T. Davies dealt directly with it . In one paragraph , Davies glossed over the " well documented facts , " which he decided " need no elaboration here . " He then proceeded to offer , in effect , an apologia for Soviet discrimination against its Jews , stating that it bears no comparison to Stalin 's blood purges and the Nazi holocaust . He nevertheless conceded that Jews are " suspect in a special way , " that " Jewishness has come to be regarded as a more alien phenomenon than ... other cultures in the USSR . " While the department asked Congress to pass a resolution supporting Soviet Jewry , many of his remarks sought to strengthen the department 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is " little evidence , " he said , that anti-Zionist propaganda " has spilled over into ... anti-Semitism . " The condition of Soviet Jews merited a more comprehensive treatment than the two-day subcommittee hearing afforded . Much of the testimony was inexpert or irrelevant or dripping with political banalities . Yet enough documentation was put on the record - some in Mr. Davies ' own testimony - to indicate that the Jews of Russia are indeed living in a state of terror . For instance , Davies noted the findings of Mrs. Rita Hauser , US representative on the UN Human Rights Commission : ... " It was stated in Pravda that any Soviet Jew who wishes to migrate to Israel is automatically an ' enemy of the people. ? Davies also cited Dr. Hannah Edmonds ' statement that , " Jews are not treated as citizens on an equal level with all other Soviet citizens ... it is not surprising that large numbers of Jews are seeking to leave the Soviet Union . " Department testimony did not include evidence that The New York Times has been reporting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secret Police ( KGB ) in front of the Moscow Synagogue at Yom Kippur , the highest Jewish holiday ; Jewish librarians from Samarkand and Odessa charged with treason and imprisoned ( two years for writing a letter to Kosygin complaining of anti-Semitism , three years for reproducing fragments of anti-Stalinist literature ) ; confiscation by Soviet postal authorities of thousands of visovs ( these are invitations in the form of affidavits ? sent by Israeli relatives to Soviet Jews , without which an application for repatriation is impossible ) . No mention was made in Mr. Davies ' testimony of such anguished pleas as the one from the widow and son of Peretz Markish , distinguished Jewish poet who was executed in the Stalin purge of Jewish intellectuals in 1952 , and then " rehabilitated " after Stalin 's death . This year Mrs. Markish and her son David were fired from their jobs , and reduced to the status of non-persons after they were denied permission to repatriate . Beware Zionism , an internationally distributed Soviet paperback ( now called Caution : Zionism in the revised English edition ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Zionists with ruling the Vatican as well as Yale University , and weaves a fantasy of world conspiracy : " International Zionism is the enemy of all peoples ... relying on the theory of Jewish racial superiority , Zionism is following in the footsteps of Fascism ... " According to Professor Michael Zand , a recent Soviet expatriate , the author of Beware Zionism , has for 10 years been a top Soviet expert on " the Jewish problem . " ( Professor Zand , himself a distinguished Orientalist , suffered a heart attack when he was subjected to the indignity of force-feeding while in a Soviet prison for " sitting-in " against the government 's policy on repatriation ; he and his family were permitted to leave the Soviet Union only after an international protest in his behalf . ) Ivanov 's book is at least more subtle than its predecessor , Judaism Without Embellishment , which so outraged world opinion ? including foreign Communist parties ? that it was withdrawn in 1964 . That book 's author , Trofim Kichko , received special high honors four years later from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and his new book Judaism and Zionism , repeats his anti-Jewish slanders . The New Times , a " Soviet Weekly of World Affairs " published in several languages , is one of many costly propaganda publications which are the exclusive reading matter in Russian airport waiting rooms , hotels and Intourist offices . In June of this year it reported on " Zionism and the Swastika " as follows : " International Zionism collaborated with Fascism from its ) inception ... The Nazi butcher , Eichmann , viewed the Zionists with favor and made deals with them ... Zionists themselves have had a hand in the desecration of synagogues ... The militant anti-Semitism of the Nazis turned , out to be a godsend for the Zionists ... " In a country with a history of pogroms , a country where the most infamous of twentieth century anti-Semitic slanders , " The Protocols of the Elders of Zion , " was fabricated and which has a long record of persecution , is it possible for the victimized not to feel terror ? " intense , sharp , overmastering fear which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ danger " ? Random House Dictionary ) ? The Soviet regime has arrested Russian Jews for speaking to western newsmen and now apparently seeks to restrict communications between Soviet and American Jews . On this , I can speak from some slight experience . My husband and I were expelled from the Soviet Union last July after three days of detention . We were charged and found guilty of a " crime " that was wholly fabricated . As tourists , we had visited Moscow , Leningrad , Kiev , Tbilisi , Erevan and Khiva , . in what is now Uzbekistan , Soviet Central Asia . Tashkent , capital of Uzbekistan , was our jumping-off place to Samarkand and Bokhara , which were to have been the highlights of our tour . We had no prior preoccupation with the plight of Soviet Jewry ; neither of us speaks Russian , Hebrew or Yiddish , though my husband has a smattering of German . What began as a mild interest was aggravated by several incidents . In Moscow a group of clean-cut , well dressed youths of 17 or 18 burst @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while we , were there . The few elderly Jewish men silently shrugged . At the one working synagogue in Leningrad , young and old worshippers were terrorized by threats of a hostile Russian who watched their every move . When a few less fearful Jews came closer to ask us for news of Jewish life abroad , the guard headed toward us angrily , shoving the people away , informing us that he was Russian ? not Jewish ? and insisting that we leave . Suddenly a tall , bearded young man rushed up and shook hands with my husband , whispered " Shalom , " then fled . The Russian cursed and broke into a run , shouting obscenities as he chased the young Jew . My husband had acquired a scrap of paper during the handshake ? on it was scrawled a name , an address and a plea for help . In Tbilisi , capital of Georgia , we were followed from the time we met him until we left by a Jewish man in his early thirties . He spoke only Hebrew , Georgian and Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were there , he and other members of his family ran in and out , searching among trusted members of their community for a possible interpreter . Each time the door opened to the courtyard , the young man 's wife made certain we were out of the sight of informers . We finally learned that our host had lost his job for requesting repatriation . He waited vainly for his visas , although he had all the other necessary documents and funds had been made available to him for the exit fees ? 900 rubles ( $1000 US ) per person for his family of four . During the next two days , he mysteriously appeared in dining rooms , museums , parks ? and in the doorway of our hotel room the morning we left Georgia . He was acting as bellhop , accompanied by a housekeeper who whispered in halting English that she was Jewish and we must help him . He thrust some photographs at me , smiling sheepishly , then lugged our three bags down to the cab stand , where he waved till our car @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but on one he had superimposed a solemn shot of himself in his best suit and yarlmulka . At a park bench in Tashkent , after the apprehensive appraisal we 'd grown accustomed to from Russian Jews , a few elders approached . In Yiddish , they despaired of Jewish life in Russia , asked how many synagogues there were in America . Distressed by what we had seen earlier , we tried to ask ? through the aid of what little German my husband spoke and our Russian phrase book ? if they could take us to the Tashkent synagogue . At that moment , one man alerted the others to a woman standing about 10 feet away , staring in our direction . The group abruptly dispersed . Our stay in Samarkand was providing the pleasure we had anticipated ; the monuments , were gloriously restored . On our last afternoon , Victoria , our Intourist guide , invited us to visit the local synagogue , which surprised us because she had told us it did not exist . We accepted her invitation . At the synagogue , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alley , then into the tiny dirt courtyard where we found a shabby synagogue compound . We spent about 15. minutes with a group of withdrawn , suspicious elders and children in the exotic atmosphere of ancient Central Asia . During this quarter-hour , Victoria strode in twice asking us to leave , so that our communication with these people was limited to convincing them ? through the aid of our official , six-language phrase book ? that we were not Soviets , or Israelis , but American Jews . They were troubled by Victoria 's intrusion . Nevertheless , one old man presented me a slightly used bouquet of flowers and they all nodded , smiling warmly when we attempted to arrange to have my father mentioned in a traditional Jewish prayer on the anniversary of his death . Before we could translate the name and date into Russian , Victoria barged in a third time , exchanged a few heated words with one of the men , and ordered us to leave , all traces of amiability gone . We followed her rather than risk any further alarm . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we carried only the Russian phrase book ; she had asked to see it at our first meeting . We asked her to examine it again ; she refused , though we persisted . We saw the last of her when she curtly reminded us to be in the lobby at 7:30 the following morning for our flight to Bokhara . The next morning we found that orders had been given early the night before , by the Intourist manager in Samarkand , not to let us leave the hotel . We were forbidden services of a porter , but we got our bags down from the sixth floor ? the lift in the eight-monthold hotel was broken . In the lobby we were denied any services or information until an hour later , when the assistant Intourist manager informed us in English that we were being " detained for questioning for unbehavior in yesterday 's excursion " ? that we had " much to explain " and were in " serious difficulty . " Affidavits against us had been signed by Victoria , the driver , and , ostensibly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Jewish scholar , later identified from a photo as a KGB agent . They accused us of " distributing forbidden literature in violation of Soviet regulations in old-Jew-talk , Urdu and other unknown languages " at the synagogue . We had no literature to distribute at the synagogue or , indeed , anywhere else . We were found guilty by In-tourist , without trial and were forbidden to telephone the US Embassy in Moscow , 2000 air miles away . They kept us one day and night in Samarkand , and at dawn we were flown to Tashkent . The room we were assigned in Tashkent was next to the Intourist headquarters and presumably tightly monitored . Ground transport was unavailable without express consent of Intourist . In both Samarkand and Tashkent it was Intourist officials who interrogated us . During the first interrogations various punishments were implied for our " anti-Soviet activity . " We had nowhere to turn for assistance and did n't know the real nature of the Russian game . The authorities deliberately set out to frighten us in petty , underhanded ways . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some baby pictures we had been given when we had the good fortune to visit the homes of several of the Russians whom friends in America had told us to look up . Most of these Russians were academicians or highly skilled professionals , and non-Jews . We tore up everything we thought might connect anybody with us ? mere acquaintance with " anti-Soviet offenders " might get them in trouble . The world had become Kafkaesque . Midway in the second day of interrogation , the affidavits were read to us through an interpreter and the line of inquiry seemed to shift . My husband explained his position as professor of law at an eminent American university and insisted on contradicting each phony bit of evidence as it was read , though he was ordered not to do so . His refusal to be intimidated seemed to confuse and frustrate our interrogators . They did n't expect or know how to deal with protest , and although they grew angrier and more petulant , we sensed uncertainty in their attitude . Shortly thereafter , we were notified that we were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as possible , " and the money we had paid for our coveted trip to Bokhara would be confiscated as punishment . Further , our record was " permanently soiled and we would not again be welcome in the Soviet Union . " Their bullying continued during our last day and night in Tashkent . Three sets of customs and KGB agents repeatedly searched our property during a 10-hour wait at the airport the next day . We doubted whether we would get out until our plane was in the air , and even then we were n't sure . Why us ? Possibly our guide 's invitation to the synagogue was prearranged ? she said her father hadbeen a top party official in Uzbekistan for 40 years ? and our status as ? independent tourists made us more vulnerable ; we were without the protection of numbers that is the advantage of group travel in Russia . The commotion staged at the Samarkand synagogue and the travesty of the charges against us ? and the expulsion of other American Jewish tourists as well ? seem designed to discourage and frighten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may have been seeking to prop up its myth of an " international Zionist Conspiracy . " Obviously the Soviets do n't want the rest of the world to realize the intensity of Soviet Jewry 's apprehension .                     