@@491603

Cape Town . It may be that , politically speaking , they are the loneliest people in the world today  --  Africa 's unique white tribe of Afrikaners , numbering only about two and a half million and currently at the center of an inordinate amount of international politics . Were they born to this fate , did they bring it down on their own heads , or was it thrust upon them ? Answers vary , even among themselves , for they are as given to self-pity , self-analysis and self-admiration as any other branch of humanity . However , they have moved to near consensus on the proposition that they are passing through the most decisive phase of their more than three centuries of history in Africa . Making allowances for quite important differences , they see themselves as a sort of Israel in Africa , with a sense of God-guided destiny that it would be as perilous to discount as in the case of the original model . The writer of this article is a member of this people , sharing some of their qualities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sum up their present world view from the southern tip of the continent from which they take their name , he would do so as follows : Deriving from many sources , there seems to be operating in the world community these days a widespread and passionate craving for a whipping boy , a scapegoat , a victim to burn at the stake or to crucify , in order to gain at least temporary relief from the collective burden of guilt , meaninglessness and complexity oppressing the nations . Thoughtful Afrikaners have a feeling , possibly exaggerated , that a growing forest of fingers is pointing their way as the most likely candidates for such an expiatory role . The Kremlin imperialists must find some grim delight in this scene , as Russian rifles are handed down to any young bully of the African bush who chooses to call himself a freedom fighter . The Afrikaners know , from their not so distant past , what it is to go down to superior force ; total national tragedy is not beyond their imagination . They do not presume to be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the stuff that heroes are made of . They have stood up stubbornly to what they regard as false ideals and systems of human unity with arrogant pretensions to universality . By way of reaction , they have tended to overstress diversity , ethnicity and differentiation by separation and exclusion . Their greatest need now seems to be to define the common aims of all the peoples sharing their land with them . The most obvious of these aims must surely be the defense of a common civilization that , with all its defects , has raised the average quality of life of the black peoples of South Africa far above that found in most parts of the less-developed continents . Even now , prospects are opening up of enhanced human dignity and self-realization undreamed of a decade or two ago . " There are no inferior people in South Africa , " Prime Minister John Vorster has said , voicing a prospect rather than the Sunday afternoon rolls by with bowling on the green . Sir Francis Drake , who made the Spanish Armada wait while he finished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Good Hope " the fairest cape in the whole circumference of the earth . " Modern bowlers on the green are just as unhurried as Sir Francis . reality  --  but a sincere one , with untold liberating potentialities . He was speaking as majority leader of quite a small people in African continental and subcontinental terms . The Afrikaners amount to maybe 1 percent of the total population of Africa , and less than 10 percent of that of their own Republic of South Africa . The rest of the country 's twenty-five million people is made up of fewer than two million non-Afrikaners , mostly English-speaking , whites of British and other immigrant extraction ; about two-and-one-half million people of mixed race , known as coloreds or browns  --  predominantly Afrikaans-speaking and sometimes daringly called " brown Afrikaners " ; fewer than one million Asians , and about eighteen million black Africans belonging to eight or nine distinct tribal groupings , peoples or emergent nations . Through the ruling Nationalist Party , the Afrikaners are very much in political control of this intricate conglomeration of peoples and cultures  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major power in African terms and , at least potentially , as a medium power in a global context . Who and what are the Afrikaners ? They find it a most absorbing question . Their learned men and artists show an intense preoccupation with " identity . " And there exists among Afrikaners , as among white South Africans in general , a sincere conviction that , on this score as on others , they are being woefully misunderstood and misrepresented abroad . Their conception of what they are and what they are up to is completely different from their image in the world . A typical Afrikaner is supposed by many , including sometimes himself , to be a strict Calvinist in his theological views , an austere puritan in matters of sexual morals , an uncritical hero worshiper as regards his past , and a passionate son of the soil ( even when he is a third-generation city clerk or mineworker ) . Up to the end of the nineteenth century , most Afrikaners were indeed conservative agrarians , but secularization , urbanization and social stratification have changed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has become difficult . He may combine a fanatical attachment to the Afrikaans language with considerable liberalism in matters of race and color ; or a devotion to avant-garde art with hard-line views on the perniciousness of " English " progressivism in politics . A refusal to be stereotyped expresses itself in a crop of Van der Merwe jokes in which the " typical " bucolic Afrikaner , alternately stupid and shrewd , is lampooned : ? Koos van der Merwe sets forth from his farm for a visit to the city , taking his black farmhand with him . On the way , he fraternizes with the black in accordance with Prime Minister Vorster 's d  --  tente from , we have blacks doing these inferior jobs . " ? Van der Merwe , on a trip to London , goes to a restaurant , and a colored man from South Africa sits down at his table . Van der Merwe expresses his displeasure in vigorous Afrikaans . Tears roll down the other man 's cheeks . Says Van der Merwe : " First you have the effrontery to share @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like a woman . What the devil is the matter with you ? " " Baas , " says the colored man , " you make me feel so homesick . " ? Van der Merwe is called upon to take over the leadership of Rhodesia . Deciding on a high-powered , top-level approach , he flies to America and Britain and picks up Gerald Ford and Harold Wilson for an on-the-spot conference . On the way back , the two statesmen get into an argument , each claiming his country builds things faster than the other 's . Flying over the Zambezi River , they look down on the huge expanse of the Kariba Dam and ask what it is . " I do n't know , " says Van der Merwe . " It was n't here when I flew north to fetch you . " The Afrikaner 's concept of what he is trying to achieve is rooted in his stirring history . The Dutch settlement at the Cape of Good Hope in 1652 was conceived as simply a halfway station for ships on the profitable route to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company 's policy , the early settlers took root , and by the beginning of the eighteenth century the Cape Dutch , strengthened by a modest influx of French Huguenots and German employees of the company , were already evolving a subnationality of their own . The term " Afrikaner " ( African ) became current to distinguish the permanent white settlers from the colonial birds of passage . At the same time , their speech was diverging from the Dutch prevalent in the Netherlands ; by the twentieth century it had become a full-fledged modern language . The early and unconscious tribe- or nation-forming process among the settlers was accelerated during the Napoleonic wars when the Cape was cut off from its European homeland by preventive British occupation . An important section of the Cape Dutch came to resent British domination . In the 1830 's , they set off northward in their ox wagons in search of a promised land where they could live as they liked . British power and cupidity  --  or , more charitably , imperial law and order  --  followed them . In the Anglo-Boer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were beaten down in a devastating struggle . In Afrikaner thinking , it still ranks as their most tragic as well as their finest hour . The moral victory was indeed theirs , and in a sense the decline of British imperialism and Western European colonialism in general can be dated from this war . In 1910 , with a postwar change of government in Britain from Conservative to Liberal , the four British colonies in South Africa were brought together in a strongly centralized and self-governing Union of South Africa  --  under Afrikaner political leadership and British-minded financial hegemony . The mainstream of Afrikaner tradition has thus never been colonialist in the sense in which the term is applied in our time . The Cape Dutch were anticolonialist in their behavior toward Dutch authority ; and after that British imperialism became the most feared and resented evil in their political demonology , outranking by far their sporadic and sometimes extremely bloody troubles with southward-moving African tribes . An Israeli diplomat said recently to a leading Afrikaner , " Your people , very much like mine , seem to be fated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The Boer republics got in the way of Pax Britannica and had to pay the price of subjugation . Then , when British policy changed to gradual emancipation of colonial peoples , the Afrikaners got in the way of a new , sweeping and still prevalent pretension : that what the emerging societies // Michael Zondi is a Zulu woodcarver of international stature . His home and workshop is with a white family , that of Dr. and Mrs. W. Bodenstein  --  who affectionately share their life with him . Zondi 's art reflects a deep consciousness of an intensely personal responsibility to his fellow man ; his is an art which transcends cultural divisions , race , and time itself . in colonial areas needed was an expanding franchise within a unitary parliamentary structure of the Western type . Thus would self-governing and eventually free nations be created in the Western , and especially English , image . Bundles of diverse tribes arbitrarily grouped within manageable colonial areas were now expected to become viable parliamentary democracies . It has not worked anywhere in black Africa , where political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests and power , and Western democracy ends up in authoritarian rule based on a dominant tribe or grouping of tribes . Parliamentary democracy has lasted so long in South Africa because it has been confined largely to the whites , who , although themselves divided along lines of language and tradition , did have enough Western values and conventions , as well as interests , in common to make the system work . Even so , over the past twenty-eight years , it has given the Afrikaners a virtual monopoly of political power . The ruling Nationalist Party , founded in 1914-15 , started off as a militant splinter group dedicated to sovereign independence , republicanism , equality for the Dutch-Afrikaans language , and the economic interests of Afrikaners impoverished by the Boer War . In coalition with the predominantly English-speaking Labor Party , the Nationalists ruled during the 1920 's , winning independence for South Africa and laying the foundations of industrialization . Afrikaner unity collapsed during the world depression of the 1930 's and power shifted to an **26;3842;TOOLONG combination . It was n't until the election of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mood of the period can be gauged by a remark of the Nationalist leader Daniel Malan : " Now we feel at home once again in our own country ! " It was during the 1948 election cam paign that the fatal word " apartheid " was first launched  --  ironically as a more positive and acceptable label for ethnic separation and differentiation than the shopworn term " segregation . " With a tidal wave of anticolonialism building up in the wake of the Second World War , " apartheid , " and the negative aspects of the policies it stood for , created the impression of a South Africa flying in the face of the whole world . A semantic changeover to " separate development " did not fare much better . In fact , although a great deal of Nation- 4 Ol &; alist policy , with its proliferation of Jim Crow legislation , amounted to a gut reaction against laissez-faire race-mixing under the previous regime , thoughtful Afrikaners were at the same time coming to grips with the central problems of their minority role in a multiracial or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nationalist Party , which has now lasted uninterruptedly for almost three decades , Afrikaner intellectuals and churchmen posed the dilemma more or less in these terms : " In our very essence as a distinct African people , we are anti-imperialist . Our forefathers rejected alien domination by the British to the point of plunging into a hopeless war against fearful odds . They lost , but won their moral point at a ghastly economic and demographic price . " We have come to inherit what is , in effect , a white-dominated empire containing a variety of underdeveloped colonial peoples , black , brown and Asian . Having fought for national freedom  --  first militarily , and then constitutionally  --  we can not forever deny it to others . Like everybody else , we have to liberate the nonwhite peoples under our care , leading them to self-determination and freedom . " However , since a shared freedom in a common society inside a single state structure is bound to lead to black numerical domination , probably expressing itself through tribal tyranny , the only option seems to be territorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , autonomy and freedom in its own part of a commonwealth or confederation of South Africa . " Such areas for the attainment of separate freedoms by the black ( or Bantu ) peoples did indeed exist in embryo in the shape of " native " reserves , later more grandly called black homelands . However , these lands set apart for blacks had , to a large extent , stagnated into rural slums , from which the able-bodied migrated to the fast-growing industries in the " white " cities . The idealistic Afrikaner vision during the Fifties and Sixties was one in which these homelands , with their great As happens to most grand political concepts , the reality has been trailing the ideal . True , the Transkei Republic , homeland of the four-million strong Xhosa people , has this year attained statehood and independence ( although international recognition is being withheld on the grounds that Transkei is a phony creation , with no prospect of viability , a large percentage of its able-bodied citizens working outside its borders ) . Still , even among the orthodox Afrikaners , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To what extent is the master plan of the Sixties valid and adequate for the Seventies ? The other homelands are fragmented to a degree that makes their future statehood seem less than credible . To consolidate them properly would involve political and financial risks beyond the foreseeable resources of South Africa . Time has grown short , and the ambitions of South Africa 's labor force of millions of blacks have been fired by the withdrawal of Western colonial government from other parts of southern Africa . The blacks are demanding rights and privileges in the urban centers where they work , not in a distant homeland . Also , the browns and Asians , who have residential areas separate from the whites but no " homelands " of their own , are asking , through their representative bodies and , recently , by violent youth demonstrations : " What about us ? " There is indeed no lack of clamor in present-day South Africa . It has withal remained a surprisingly open society , maintaining a measure of press freedom equaled or surpassed in few ers are interminable in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these laws may be , they are indispensable in the present situation , which demands that people who are likely to bring dangerous situations to a boil should be taken out of harm 's way in time . Some hundreds of individuals are affected , few of them nationally known . Revelations of subversion made during some recent court cases tend to augment public support for the government 's hardline approach . Such divisions , as well as much of Afrikaner history , suggest a persistent Protestant inclination toward schism and factionalism , which in turn evokes a deep hankering after unity , discipline and strong leadership . The Nationalist Party 's power base has broadened considerably during the last few decades . A growing percentage of other countries in the world , none of them in Africa . Afrikaners today are sorting out their reactions and responses , and the superficial impression is one of some confusion . Like all originally rural peoples , they tend to an individualism that sometimes distresses their leaders mightily . Afrikaners are to be found in all South African parties , from the underground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vociferous extreme right , with its racial supremacy or baaskap ( bossism ) . The common feature is passionate involvement , the rightists stressing white or Afrikaner national freedom at any price , and the leftists and liberals finding present inequities , discrimination and administrative restrictions on civil liberties unbearable . South Africa does indeed have a formidable apparatus of security legislation . It can he used by the government to prohibit persons from addressing or attending meetings or entering certain areas , and to place individuals under house arrest or preventive detention for indefinite periods of time . The Communist Party , the African National Congress and the Pan-African Congress are proscribed , and active membership in these bodies is a criminal offense . Arrests and detentions have multiplied in the wake of the recent urban unrest . The arguments over the rights and wrongs of these executive pownon-Afrikaner whites has been attracted by Vorster 's strong-man image and his uncompromising stand on law and order  --  tempered by a show of reluctant flexibility in the face of powerful evolutionary forces inside the country and mounting pressures from the outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an active policy of d  --  tente in Africa , with some initial success . The main aim is to create an area of peace and prosperity in the subcontinent ; the alternative , he said , is " too ghastly to contemplate . " Since he spoke those words , Russian imperial power , using Cuban soldiers as its cat's-paw , has intruded into southern Africa by way of Angola . When the American Congress stopped covert American military aid to Moscow 's enemies in the Angolan civil war , South Africa had perforce to cease its own concurrent  --  and liberally interpreted ? " hot pursuit " across the Angolan border . The way was opened for a Marxist takeover in Angola  --  and the propaganda boast that the " Boers " had suffered defeat at the hands of the black forces of freedom . All the time , Vorster has been plugging away at the two immediate problems that stand in the way of more constructive relations with at least some black African states : Rhodesia and South-West Africa . In the handling of both matters , basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government has never accepted the idea of separate freedoms for white and black in that country , Afrikaner logic demanded the alternative of moving with all deliberate speed toward shared freedom in a common society . Moreover , only rightist fanatics in South Africa ever entertained the idea of direct military support for Rhodesia against the guerrilla warfare being waged against it from bases in Mozambique and Zambia . It is very much against Afrikaner principle to go to war in order to maintain a form of colonialist domination left by the retreating tide of British imperialism . A similar attitude has emerged toward South-West Africa , wrested from the Germans by South African troops during the First World War at the request of the British government and administered by South Africa under a League of Nations mandate . This legacy of British imperialism by proxy landed in due course in the lap of Afrikaner Nationalist Governments , which reluctantly veered away from the idea of incorporating the territory to the present policy of self-determination and independence by way of a constitutional consensus . What makes this solution difficult is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immensity of Vorster 's agenda will have become apparent . Both a Rhodesian and a South-West African settlement would have to he negotiated in the face of Russian and militant African pressures that threaten to  --  and may be designed to  --  wreck orderly evolution in southern Africa . Even without these pressures , the outlook would have been pretty formidable . The Rhodesian blacks , about six million of them , next to 250,000 whites , are politically and tribally as diverse as the population of any black African state . The prospect of the whites handing over power within two years to a so-called black majority may reveal that there is no such thing . In the process , an Angolan-type civil or tribal war may break out between the Matabeles and the Shonas , leading most likely to the loss of a managerial and specialist elite consisting mainly of whites , a collapse of those economic and other standards associated with civilization , and the creation of another rural slum area in South Africa 's vicinity . In South-West Africa , also , a simple one-man-one-vote system will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ovambo people , who have their home immediately south of Angola . The other peoples will not accept Ovambo domination willingly , and it could probably be imposed only by Russian power , exercised brutally through the South-West African People 's Organization ( SWAPO ) , a mainly Ovambo tribal movement conducting a terrorist war from Angola . SWAPO , by intensive lobbying , has gained exclusive recognition at the United Nations , and its political wing may have to be granted some say in the multinational constitutional consultation initiated at Windhoek . However , if SWAPO 's ambitions are not trimmed , it isall set to become a Marxist agent of disruption and disaster , which may or may not be the aim of its Russian promoters . This helps to explain why Vorster opted to work closely with former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger . Both Rhodesia and South-West Africa have become superpower concerns as a result of aggressive Russian ambition and planning in the subcontinent . Afrikaner Nationalists have a natural affinity for the extroverted , friendly , hospitable type of ordinary American , but they also have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unfamiliar American political system . They are praying  --  more than really hoping , after Angola  --  that the United States will in due course come round to the view that what is at stake in southern Africa is not white minority government , apartheid or antiblack fanaticism but the whole structure of Western civilization , threatened by Russian-hacked terrorism as vicious , if not yet as sophisticated , as anything in the Arab world or Northern Ireland . It is not to be appeased by outbidding the Marxists in anti-colonialist gestures , but can perhaps be countered by understanding and encouraging , by all available means , the genuine evolutionary anticolonialism inherent in Afrikaner Nationalist thinking . In South Africa itself , the Vorster Government is committed to moving away from discrimination . Already , overt segregation notices are gradually coming down ; post-office apartheid is being dismantled ; a number of first-class hotels have been desegregated ; multinational sport down to the club level has been sanctioned , and representative South African teams will in future be multiracial . The matter of open churches and theaters is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an evolutionary course that , if followed , will eliminate " petty apartheid " and carry our society to a normalization of human relations unthinkable ten years ago . The exceptions will be measures whose removal can be shown to endanger elementary law and order . Politically , the black homelands policy will have to be pursued with all possible vigor as a means of devolving and decentralizing power among the black peoples . These comparatively backward areas will have to be developed economically much faster than in the past . In South Africa 's present circumstances of financial stringency , the homeland leaders themselves are more and more looking for international aid from friendly Western sources , not without modest success and against utterly misguided liberal opposition in Continued on page 103 ing : 31,000 pounds of meat , 15,000 pounds of poultry , 16,900 pounds of fish , 36,000 eggs , 1,200 pounds of cucumbers , 500 artichokes . One hates to think of the chef 's grocery list for the Prinsendam 's twenty-seven-day cruise from Vancouver to Singapore on September 27 or for those eighty-seven-day annual round-the-world jaunts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Rotterdam . " Bon appetit " is the watchword on board Paquet Line 's Mermoz and Renaissance . In the dining rooms , wines are , quite naturally , compliments of the captain . Cr  --  pes suzette are prepared at the table ; informal lunches are served in the flamboyantly informal Caf ? de Paris . After dark , it 's the round of that sprightly Gallic trio : cabaret , discotheque and aperitifs . A seven-day cruise , including air fare , will cost around $1,000 . The Je ne sais quoi quality of favorite spots in the Caribbean and Central America will take on new meaning when being transported with Gallic flair . The same holds true in colder climes , when the Renaissance plies the Inside Passage from Vancouver to Alaska each week from May until September . Rates start around $400 , double occupancy . It is Italian hospitality on board Home Line 's Doric and Oceanic . But the Italians seem to have succumbed to the charms of British Bermuda , for their short cruises include a four-day stopover at the islands , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Everglades in Florida include a fly-cruise package at substantial savings . Finally , there are those alternative ways to travel by sea which can prove memorable because they are so different . Freighter travel can cost about half that of regular cruises and the drawbacks of a variable timetable due to dock loading is offset by spacious accommodations and the privilege of being one of maybe eight or twelve pampered passengers . ( A useful source of information is Ford 's Freighter Travel Guide , P.O. Box 505 , 22030 Ventura Boulevard , Suite B , Woodland Hills , California 91365 . ) Schooner cruises may sound all right for old salts but not for the landlubber likes of you and me . Yet the vessels are large and well appointed and the journey is full of the nostalgic feeling of living under sail . Among the companies offering such journeys are Caribbean Schooner Cruises , Inc. , and Stevens Yachts , Inc. , of New York City , the latter specializing in the charter of boats complete with crews . In Miami , there is Windjammer Cruises , and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yankee Schooner Cruises of Camden , Maine . In all of us , there is the strange lure of the sea . As poet John Masefield put it , " I must down to the seas again . " A cruise makes us young once more , takes us back to the innocent , uncluttered times of childhood 's sand castles . 17 , continued from page 96 Western capitals . As for the constitutional position of the browns and Asians  --  and of the urban blacks  --  that will have to be handled in ways still to be properly explored . The urban blacks , sometimes called the nub of the South African problem , have been promised political rights at municipal level , and conditions for property ownership have recently been eased considerably . Whether and to what extent full citizenship rights should be envisaged for those of them who can be regarded as permanently denationalized  --  in the sense of not really belonging to any homeland  --  is probably the most touchy question in South African politics . Nationalist intellectuals are arguing that if there is a comparatively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutional framework , a certain percentage of urbanized blacks may be acceptable under the same or a similar formula . So far , they have met with a firm no from the top . These intellectuals can by no means be called integrationist in the American sense : While they favor a perspective of full citizenship for browns and some urban blacks , their approach presupposes separate freedoms in viable homelands for the vast majority of blacks . Their " liberalism " excludes any prospect of black majority domination of the white and brown minorities . They , in fact , argue that South Africa is populated by a collection of national minorities , the blacks themselves consisting of a number of distinct peoples , each of whom would resist domination by any of the others . South Africa 's whole internal program , according to present indications , will have to be carried out in the teeth of unceasing Russian and militant African subversion , United Nations propaganda pressures and Western liberal sensitivities concerning human rights and racism . Will there be time ? The recent civil-rights rioting among urban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Timetables of reform will have to be shortened . At the same time , the question is being posed whether South African society , under constant threat and potential siege , can afford a degree of openness and freedom of expression unique in Africa . To prophesy in detail how the Afrikaners are likely to react to the problems confronting them would be foolish . But having regard to their Western European makeup , their history of radical adaptation and innovation , and a powerful national ethos based on the belief that they are in Africa for a high purpose transcending their own survival , it is safe to predict that they will give as good an account of themselves as any other people similarly placed . " If we have to go under , " runs a somber saying current among Afrikaners in troubled times , " let it be our fate and not our fault . "                     