@@493637

For a number of years now journalists and scholars have emphasized the myths that have dogged American dealings with China throughout our history . Enunciating an " open door " policy to prevent the demise of an independent China and the loss of the " China Market " to the United States , a succession of American leaders gave only lip service to this goal . Woodrow Wilson 's acquiescence in Japan 's seizure of the Shantung peninsula during World War I and Herbert Hoover 's refusal to offer more than moral condemnation of Japan 's conquest of Manchuria in 193132 are but two examples of the meaninglessness of the " open door . " Though a weak , dependent country suffering under a corrupt totalitarian regime during World War II , China was falsely viewed as a great democratic power contributing to Japanese defeat and preparing to play a major role in postwar arrangements for peace . When the outbreak of the Chinese civil war in 1945 challenged these illusions , Washington continued to back Chiang Kaishek 's moribund Nationalist government on the assumption that the rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Soviet power in East Asia . The success of Mao 's armies and the emergence of the People 's Republic in 1949 provoked tragic recriminations in the United States , where attacks on professional foreign service officers for having " lost " China destroyed the careers of honorable men and helped drive the country into more than 20 years of tension with the Chinese communist government in Peking . In this timely and lucid survey of the US and China in the 20th century , Michael Schaller , a young historian at the University of Arizona , provides a brief , 200-page summary of America 's failure in China . As a succinct historyanu analysis , c:nailer s DOOK win will John K. Fairbank 's The United Stales and China and Warren I. Cohen 's America 's Response to China as standard introductions to Sino-American relations . Like these earlier distinguished histories it will also help build a more constructive approach to China . At the same time , however , it will foster some new problems by encouraging the view that Sino-American difficulties have been almost exclusively the consequence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from his account is the role China played in creating SinoAmerican tensions . Schaller contends , for example , that blatant American racism undermined possibilities for good relations with China . And so it did . In the I9th century Chinese migrating to America met open hatred and abuse : rioters against the " heathen Chinee " usually went unpunished , even if their crime was murder . " Coolie " laborers were valued workers , one medical book of the times explained , because their poorly developed nervous systems made them immune to ordinary pain . Described by Theodore Roosevelt as an " immoral , degraded and worthless race , " the Chinese presence in America gave birth to the expression : " Not a Chinaman 's chance . " In response to pressures from western states , the Congress passed the Chinese Exclusion Act in 1882 . In force until 1943 , it barred the Chinese , along with " imbeciles , paupers , and prostitutes , " from migrating to America or becoming citizens . At the same time , though , the Chinese responded to Westerners in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All Westerners were " long noses " whose meat-eating habits made them smell like pigs . China was the Middle Kingdom and all outsiders were barbarians who were to be played off against one another for China 's advantage . In short , Chinese and Americans alike were unprepared to think of each other in terms of equality and genuine regard . Schaller does not make enough of the fact that this was more a mutual than a strictly American failing . Likewise , Schaller overstates the case against the United States during and after World War II . He is generally right when he says that American lack of realism spawned major difficulties with China during this time . Drawing on an important study he published earlier in the year , The U.S. Crusade in China , 7 93 8- 1945 , Schaller concludes that FDR , " and most of those around him , had only the dimmest comprehension of Chinese conditions . They failed to realize that Chiang 's military policy overlay a deeper political crisis in China , that these problems could not be solved by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration 's failure to satisfy Chinese Communist requests for military aid and political contact in 194445 as another major blunder . It forced Mao into a reluctant alliance with the USSR and scotched the possibility that China would become " a major trading partner and an important counterweight to possible Soviet expansion in Asia . The Communists did not deny their commitment to a Chinese revolution , " Schaller writes . " But they did constantly assert the belief that a Communist China need not threaten American interests . " The Truman administration , Schaller also says , destroyed any remaining chance for an accommodation with the PRC . Though recognizing its inability to save Chiang , the American government refused to abandon him entirely during his four year civil war with the Communists . Under considerable political pressure from the pro-Nationalist China Lobby and convinced that the Chinese Communists were pawns of Russia , the Truman administration acquiesced in congressional decisions to lend Chiang 's government $200 million in 1948-49 . This was in spite of the Nationalists ' imminent demise and Truman 's belief that the " Chiangs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of them. ? There was greater understanding of China in Washington than Schaller suggests . Roosevelt , for example , was mindful of Chiang 's failings and understood that there might be a Nationalist collapse . But American domestic constraints or fear that a communist victory in a Chinese civil war would weaken American resolve to play a major part in postwar world affairs moved FOR to encourage a Chinese compromise ? a coalition government under Nationalist control . Further , Schaller places too much responsibility on the United States for difficulties with Peking after 1949 . For even if the United States had backed away from Chiang in 1944-49 and been strictly neutral in the Chinese civil war , it is doubtful that this would have assured a working relationship with the PRC . It seems unlikely that a fledgling communist government in China would have been able to maintain its revolutionary esprit and stabilize its rule if it had sided with the US against the USSR or even adopted a posture of strict neutrality at the height of the cold war . Indeed , one may do better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the PRC was inevitable and that it was the product of Chinese as well as American conditions . But whatever the Chinese contribution to Sino-American tensions , the rise of the PRC led to a period of extreme overreaction in the United States . Refusing to believe that the Chinese would have accepted communism freely and that such a regime could only be hostile to the United States , Americans sought first to root out the " treason " in America that had supposedly made China communist " and then to contain the contagion of what was called ' Red China ' . . . . Looked at through the blinders of western liberalism and the ideology of anticommunism , " Schaller observes , " the Chinese Communists ' violent rejection of the American model proved the new regime to be a Russian pawn . As such , Communist China must be considered a threat to American security . " From here , Schaller says , it was only a small step to American involvement in the Korean War and ultimately Vietnam . Part of the objective in both cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communist China , which American leaders like John Foster Dulles and Dean Rusk compared to Nazi Germany . Schaller 's assessment of America 's exaggerated fears of Peking in the 20 years after 1949 is persuasive . But again , US antagonism toward China was not simply the consequence of American paranoia . Chinese hostility to the United States in these years , punctuated by almost daily expressions of determination to overturn world capitalism and American influence in East Asia , justifiably fed American concern . In short , improved relations needed more than simply a change in American attitudes ; they required greater rationality on both sides and a renewed sense of shared interests . Indeed , the collapse of the Sino-Soviet alliance and the desire to use each other against the Soviet Union opened the way to the current rapprochement in Chinese-American relations . Schaller sees this as a healthy development . " China poses little threat to our own values and security , " he writes . " In fact , the more involved with China the U.S. becomes , the more likely both societies will discover valuableaspects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new relationship with China , Schaller adds , the US for the first time in the 20th century is on good terms with both China and Japan . " In terms of its own interests , the United States may finally have achieved by peaceful means the balance for which it has searched For a century . " Fair enough . But if we are to maintain these improved relations with China and this new balance of power , we will need to keep in mind that SinoAmerican affairs are not just the sum of what the United States does or fails to do ; indeed , that troubled relations throughout much of this century were also the product of what the Chinese thought and did " n. not believe that any Western civilization 's action can ever affect the people of China very deeply , " Franklin Roosevelt cautioned a government official in 1935 . In the 19309 and the 1940s , Barbara Tuchman has explained , " China went her own way as if the Americans had never come . " It is a " lesson " of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               