@@479109

Tribute to an American poet CEN l'ENNIAL of Edwin Arling- ton Robinson ? he was born on December 22 , 1869 ? has passed without a murmur of public notice . My first reaction to this neglect was a feeling of anger , since Robinson is one of the best poets we have ever had in this country . But cooled by reflection and time , I have come to see that perhaps it does n't matter whether the writers we most care about receive their " due . " Only the living need praise . Writers like Robinson survive in their work , appreciated by readers who are n't afraid to he left alone with an old book . Robinson himself would hardly have expected any other fate , for he was not the sort of man to make demands on this world or the next Shy of all literary mobs , just managing to keep afloat through a workable mixture of stoicism and alcohol , he lived entirely for his poetry . Most of the time he was very , poor , and all of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He seems to have composed verse with that single-mindedness the rest of us keep for occasions of vanity and profit . As a result he wrote " too much , " and his Collected Poems , * coming almost to 1,500 crowded pages , has a great deal of failed work . But a small portion is very fine , and a group of fifteen or twenty poems unquestionably great . This , to be sure , is not the received critical judgment ? though a few critics . notably Conrad Aiken in some fine reviews of the 1920s and Yvor Winters in a splendid little book published in 1946 , have recognized his worth . The public acclaim of a Robert Frost , however , Robinson could never hope to match ; the approval of the avant-garde , when it came at all , came in lukewarm portions , since T. S. Eliot had declared his work to be " negligible " and that , for a time , *There is no single book in which one can conveniently read all of Robinson 's best work . The Collected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and forbidding . Morton Zabel has edited a Selected Poems ( Macmillan ) for which the poet James Dickey has written a sympathetic introduction ; the choices are good but scene of the best of the middle-length and all of the Arthurian poems had necessarily to be omitted . We need a selection that includes the best of all the kinds of poems was that . Robinson stood apart from the cultural movements of his clay , so much so that he did n't even bother to oppose literary modernism : he simply followed his own convictions . He was one of those New England solitaries ? great.grandsons of the Puritans , nephews of the Emersoniansl ? whose lives seem barren and pinched but who leave , in their stolid devotion to a task , something precious to the world . The trouble in Robinson 's life was mostly interior . Some force of repression , not exactly unknown to New England character , had locked up his powers for living by , or articulating openly , the feelings his poems show him to have had . Even in the poems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; they " contain " or emerge out of enormous depths of feeling , but it is a feeling pressed into oblique irony or disciplined into austere reflection . He was not the man to yield himself to what Henry James once called " promiscuous revelation . " Robinson lived mainly within himself , and sometimes near a group of admiring hangers-on who , as he seems to have known , were unworthy of him . Among his obsessive subjects are solitude and failure , both drawn from his immediate experience and treated with a richness of complication that is unequaled in American poetry . For the insights Robinson offered on these grim topics , in poems such as " The Wandering Jew " and " Eros Turannos , " he no doubt paid a heavy price in his own experience . But we should remember that , finally , such preoccupations are neither a regional morbidity nor a personal neurosis : they are among the permanent and inescapable themes of serious literature . In his own dry and insular way , Robinson shared in the tragic vision that has dominated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By the time he began to write , it had perhaps become impossible for a serious poet to compose a tragedy on the classical scale . and as a result his sense of the tragic , unable to reach embodiment in a large action , had to emerge ? one almost says , leak through ? as a tone of voice , a restrained and melancholy contemplativeness . At the age of twenty-two , Robinson could already write , half in wisdom and half in self-defense , sentences forming an epigraph to his whole career : Solitude ... tends to magnify one 's ideas of individuality ; it sharpens his sympathy for failure where fate has been abused and self demoralized ; it renders a man suspicious of the whole natural plan , and leads him to wonder whether the invisible powers are a fortuitous issue of unguided cosmos . - . Like Hawthorne and Melville before him , Robinson came from a family that had suffered both a fall in circumstances and a collapse of psychic confidence . To read the one reliable biography , by Herman Hagedorn , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nightmare , an atmosphere painfully similar to that of a late O'Neill play Tight-lipped quarrels , heavy drinking , failing investments , ventures into quack spiritualism and drugs ? these were the matter of his youth . Hagedorn describes the few months before the death of the poet 's father : IT he elder Robinson 's interest in spiritualism had deepened and , in the slow disintegration of his organism , detached and eerie energies seemed to be released . There were table rap-pings and once the table came off the floor , " cutting my universe ..... lean in half . " ... 0f these last months with his father , he told a friend , " They were a living hell . " Not much better were Robinson 's early years in New York , where he slept in a hall bedroom and worked for a time as a subway clerk . He kept writing and won some recognition , including help from President Theodore Roosevelt , who was impressed by one of Robin-son 's ( inferior ) poems but had the honesty to admit he did n't understand @ @ 