@@431829

 | What the Ancient Pines Teach Us Two MILES above sea level , on the semi-arid mountain ranges of America 's West , grow earth 's oldest known living individuals : the bristlecone pines . These timberline ancients , sculptured through millenniums by the interplay of environment and living process , are astonishing at first sight . A massive trunk may be 12 feet across , while the whole tree is less than 30 feet tall . The swaying " bottlebrushes " of short needles may decorate but a fraction of the contorted branches . You hear a sighing , a singing , as air moves through . You feel drawn to touch the naked , varicolored wood , carved and polished at these remote heights by pelting ice crystals and sand . You wonder how the tree can possibly remain alive , but then you discover , running up the trunk on the leeward side , a narrow lifeline of bark . The bristlecone pines are even more astonishing when studied in depth . Growth rings so narrow and close together as to elude the unaided eye @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to form annually just inside the bark . Dendrochronologists ( scientists specializing in tree-ring dating ) carefully bore small cross-section holes and extract cores , the diameter of a pencil lead . These are read under , 88  | microscopes and analyzed in laboratories as eagerly as moon rocks . ( Scientific coring does no real damage : the holes fill with healing resin . ) The oldest bristlecone pine yet found alive ? below Wheeler Peak in east-central Nevada ? was nearly 5000 years of age when , regrettably , it was cut down in 1964 and sectioned for study and display . The current champion ? on California 's White Mountains ? is more than 4600 years old ( compared with 3215 for the oldest known giant sequoia , long considered the most ancient living tree ) . Many bristlecone pines were mature during the golden age of Athens , taking on the appearance of old age as Rome rose to power . The growth of this tree on dry , cold sites is remarkably responsive to annual differences in moisture . The varying sequences of wide and narrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be used to date ring series in other trees ( whether bristlecone pine or not ) , in fragments of wood lying on mountainsides , in timber beams of ancient ruins , even in the charred wood of long-ago cooking fires . At the Laboratory of Tree-Ring Research at the University of Arizona in Tucson , scientists have assembled a master calendar based on rings from bristlecone pines and long-dead remnants . Every year back to 6200 B.C. has been spec ' cally identified , and further inform tion on it gleaned from cell struct n Thus these pines may be consider organic computers , automatically r cording the events and conditions life . How can any tree live so ama ingly long ? The paradox is that typically the oldest pines are foun on the most difficult sites : steep an rocky , 9500 feet or more above sea level , with only thin soil and little precipitation . Could what man has considered adversity actually contribute to long life ? All trees older than 1500 years have only strips of bark up their trunks , slowing the growth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wood thus formed supports life for millenniums . Even after death the tree may not fall for 2000 years . Its wood may persist 4000 years , eroding rather than decaying . Bristlecone pines in richer conditions grow faster , die earlier and soon decay . We feel a kind of awe in the presence of such spectacular longevity . Must there not be profound meanings in a living calendar that reaches back to Confucius and Buddha , Moses and Father Abraham , and on deeper into the dim past ? Naturalist John Muir , viewing the pines twisted , majestic forms silhouetted against crags or sky , saw in them " a clear manifestation of God 's love . " Weirdly shaped , fantastic , each of the timberline ancients is a character to meet . Many have names ? Methuselah ( oldest known live tree ) ,  | The Patriarch ( largest known bristlecone pine , trunk circumference 37 feet ) , Pine Alpha ( first tree found to be over 4000 years old ) . Fortunately , the bristlecone pine is not threatened with extinction ; it reproduces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of the still more ancient dead trees and " driftwood " fragments , is becoming a problem . Cutting or removal by visitors of any part is prohibited ; but the forest lands are vast and enforcement is difficult . At Tucson in 1901 , A. E. Douglass began looking at trees for old weather records . His assistant , Edmund Schulman , studied sequoias and their rings , but found them inferior to trees on semi-arid sites in recording year-by-year precipitation differences . Largely from conifers that bordered deserts , and from timbers at archeological locations , he verified the occurrence of great droughts in the 1900x , 1500s and 12005 . Then he discovered the sensitively detailed rings of bristlecone pine . In 1961 , elaborate instruments were transported up to timberline , and since then researchers have watched and measured current tree growth in relation to changing environmental conditions , also carefully measured . Thus , as the tree-ring calendar has reached further into the past , the record of earth 's climate has lengthened and been enriched with detail . Researchers soon discovered a " fossil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nevada . This ghostly strip , between elevations of 11,200 and 11,600 feet , is marked by bristlecone pine remnants , some still anchored to the ground . Ring counting and radiocarbon dating show that all these trees died between 2700 and 2000 years ago . Similar situations on mountains hundreds of miles distant prove a widespread lowering of timberline so recent as to overlap the lifetimes of Plato and Aristotle . No living trees have been able to establish themselves since then on the cold mountaintops . Are we moving toward another ice age ? Damaged water-conducting cells in warm-season tree rings have been found to pinpoint intrusions of frigid air masses . Nevada and California bristlecone pines , for example , agree in reporting waves of extraordinary cold in the summers of 1453 A.D. , in 16o1 , 1884 , 1902 , 1941 and 1966 , the more recent being confirmed by man 's own records . Is there a recurring pattern ? The scientists have identified and 1 counted pollen grains found in nat ural traps that formed when 1 , .111. grew over wounds in bristlecone pines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compared with one of 350 A.D. Exposed roots writhe snots the bases of old bristlecone pines as if mourning the transience of e.11 Ill 11 self . In some cases , their upper sides have been left three feet out of the . ground as ' soil washed away But they maintain contact with earth through root branches and still feed 90 THE READER 'S DIGEST  | the tree through living channels along their undersides . Calculations based on time elapsed and land-level lowered tell how fast California 's White Mountains are being eroded away : an average of almost one foot per thousand years . On the archeological front , these venerable pines of the New World are revolutionizing man 's understanding of Old World prehistory . Radiocarbon readings of bristleconepine rings , year by year , showed up errors in the conventional radiocarbon dating system ? caused by unsuspected fluctuations in the amount of carbon in our atmosphere . And the new bristlecone-pine-based scale ? with recalibration of dates ranging from a few centuries to I000 years ? applies all over the world . The time relationship between Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all what has been supposed . It now appears that great stone tombs in northwestern France and in Spain may be older than Egypt 's famous pyramids ? a startling thought . England 's mysterious Stonehenge may be older than similar works elsewhere . Significant innovations in engineering , construction and metallurgy originated in Europe , not always somewhere to the east . More years of research are required , but it is now recognized that the creativity of early Europeans has been seriously underestimated . And this is far from all : the bristlecone pine goes on from archeological dating to help in the study of still more complicated and fundamental questions . A Czech geophysicist using samples of bristlecon wood to probe suspected fluctuations in earth 's magnetism . Laboratories around the world use tiny but still pine-fragrant blocks to study variations in trace elements through time . A scientist at the University of California ( Los Angeles ) is aided by bristlecone pines in checking bomtest effects . The trees are recording air pollution from Pacific Coast industries and traffic . Dated samples are being used to tell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forest growth , a man 's weather-modification efforts are succeeding or failing . And , says **28;1017;TOOLONG C.W. Ferguson , the sun is only rising the day of this marvelous tree 's contribution to human knowledge . The venerable bristlecone pine challenges our ability to learn from nature ? and inspires us to apply what we learn . The lifetime of a single tree encompasses the whole period of development of our urban technological culture . What can m build that will survive for 5000 years ? @#                     