@@485147

In essence , this is an attack on the American concept of equality , and an assault on the ideal of egalitarianism . Equality before the law and equality of opportunity Nisbet grants without question as rights bestowed by the Constitution and the courts . But equality of " result and condition " he condemns as corrosive of the values of Western civilization . By this phrase he means  --  to put it bluntly  --  the assumption of equality in areas where the presumptuous do n't belong . Blacks in the South used to know it under that threatening appellation , " uppity . " Nisbet quotes Burke extensively . " Believe me , Sir , those who attempt to level never equalize . " Then Burke 's warning that nationalism or patriotism that sought ' a foundation in the ruins of what Burke called " smaller patriotisms " ? that is , family , neighborhood , locality and region  --  was destined to fail . Again from Burke , " Woe to that country . . . that considers a low education , a mean contracted view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preferable title to command . Everything ought to be open but not indifferently to every man . " ( Burke 's italics . ) To make the point quite clear , Nisbet adds , " Hierarchy in some degree is , as I say , an ineradicable element of the social bond , and , with all respect , for equality before the law  --  which is , of course , utterly vital to free society  --  it is important that rank , class , and estate in all spheres become once again honored rather than , as is now the case , despised or feared by intellectuals . Certainly no philosophy of pluralism is conceivable without hierarchy  --  as open as is humanly possible for it to be but not , in Burke 's word , indifferently open . " To an extent , one can agree with this position . For example , when Senator Hruska , of Nebraska , arguing for the confirmation of one of Nixon 's nominees for the Supreme Court , was confronted with the widely held opinion that the man was a mediocre judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right to representation on the Court . For that matter , Gerald Ford is an example of a man ' incompetent in terms of the demands of " rank , class , and estate , " if " class " - he taken in its colloquial sense . But wha Nisbet means goes deeper and involves oncepts and 1 in the life of humanity  --  or rather , the role they have played and which have allowed men to be masters of their own destinies . To Nisbet , the actions of our courts toward a " New Equality " have produced a " New Despotism . " The evil of equality is that it becomes insatiable in its demands and is transformed into a revolutionary force . To rescue our lives from the overwhelming , total power of the state , from our cultural decadence , from a boredom relieved only by war , spectacle , crusade or riot , Nisbet calls for the restoration of authority and social initiative to groups , neighborhoods , localities , the family and such voluntary associations as people choose if permitted a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and our milieu as destructive of the Protestant ethic . Beyond these specifics is his theory of history as a succession of civilizations whose decline has been marked by what Nisbet terms their " twilight age . " For an explication of his view of our present condition , - he develops the chronicle of the rise and imminent decline of the nation state . The twilight ages have been marked by cultural and social decay , the " celebration of war and power , " and intense subjectivism . In Western history , he traces those twilight ages beginning with that of Athens in the period following the Peloponnesian Wars , then , still in the Greek world , the era which preceded the rise of Christianity . Rome during the first century B.C. was in that condition , as was Europe during the Renaissance . He rejects the term " Dark Ages " for the era after the fall of the Roman Empire ; feudalism has many attractions for him . Now we of the Western world are in a twilight age . Nisbet ' puts his aim clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of seeking to light up the present , chiefly the American present , in the historical perspective of twilight . It is hard to think of any other useful perspective in which to set the combined phenomena of sense of cultural decay , erosion of institutions , progressive inflation of values in all spheres , economic included , and constantly increasing centralization  --  and militarization  --  of power . If there were no other indicator , the impact of war and of the military on the West , especially since about 1940 , would be sufficient  --  that and the cognate spread of the kind of social equalitarianism which is bred less by the moral value of equality than by centralized power 's leveling effects upon the natural hierarchies of all social institutions . He sees culture itself as " inherently feudal , " by which he means that it derives from and is inspired by tradition and the groping of the artist , scientist or philosopher to reach out  --  but within the bounds of that tradition  --  until new discoveries , new experiments , new times force change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culture at the present time more manifest than in the general loss of confidence in knowledge : the knowledge that is associated with scientist as well as scholar , humanist , and imaginative artist . " His onslaught on the deterioration of language is particularly noteworthy . The historical roots of culture and personality , Nisbet insists , lie deep in neighborhood , family and religion , but . the modern industrial and political society have profoundly changed the position and influence of these types of community . This review of Twilight of Authority has reversed the customary order in considering a work . It has started with some of Nisbet 's conclusions rather than his reasons for them . It is a fact that the greater part of this book is brilliant both in its marshaling of information and its felicity of expression . Saddled as we are with Henry Kissinger , it is appropriate to quote Nisbet , " It is difficult to distinguish at times between the political and the military intellectual . " He can turn a phrase worthy of preservation in Bartlett 's : " Nostalgia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adds , " Having , as it were , lost the past from our present , we look back at it fondly , and so often vapidly . It is a poor substitute for the sacred . " What its author has done in this book is to begin with a catalogue of all the weaknesses , shortcomings , corruption and disruption of our civilization , and draw from them his critique of the equalitarian doctrines and the mindless radicalism which , in his view , all stem from Rousseau with his worship of equality . Most thinking people will not only recognize but also agree with much of what he finds wrong and even evil in our society , our ways and our po-litical and governmental institutions . It is too long a list to recount more than partially here : The dominance of bu-reaucracy which overpowers the individ-ual and the natural group , whether it be family , neighborhood or association ; the losg of credibility in the political process and its leaders ; the prevalence of mediocrity in social , economic , po-litical and cultural fields ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weakening and loss of the ideological foundations of our political parties ; the rise of a " democratic royalism " with the White House as its palace and its occu-pant the object of special pomp , and possessed of enormous power , especially since the " reign " of FDR ; the many evidences of corruption in both our social and political life . However , Nisbet omits the pervasive and omnipresent corruption of capitalist enterprise in both its domestic and international roles . His treatment of " the lure of military society " is most interesting for what it reveals about his insights and his blind spots . To him , the rise of militarism in a society means the twilight of authority in the civil sphere . Moreover , he believes that intellectuals are fascinated by the use of power in times of crisis ; and so are attracted to the military and to , war itself . Even the social welfare budget expands as the military grow in power  --  as did the " corn dole " in ancient Rome . He cites Condorcet 's suggestion that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and for that reason democracy itself is closely related to war . In contrast with these speculations , there is a stark fact : Nisbet appears to see no connection between capitalist enterprise and war . And yet a certain career officer , later president of Columbia University and President of the United States , saw it plainly enough to give it a lasting label . He called it the " military-industrial complex " and his name was Eisenhower . One must agree with Nisbet 's estimate of the erosion of patriotism and the defection of the young  --  but he sees some hope in their communes . He uses Hobbes 's famous words on the state of nature to describe how the American people now Hire " in continual fear and danger of violent death . " No longer is patriotism the force it once was , although it made possible our acceptance , of the dominant role which the political state has assumed in both social and economic affairs . He appears to prefer the role of the Church in feudal times , when all were under its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past several centuries . Nisbet considers the women 's libera-tion and the black civil rights move-ments to be genuinely revolutionary , al- ' though it is too soon to tell how far they will go and how great will be their consequences . Then he adds , " I am saying only that . .. these move-ments like all others known to us in history , have to be seen against a back-ground of prior destruction or erosion of key values . " How this makes special sense in relation to the demands of both women and blacks escapes this reviewer . Particularly disturbing is his treatment of what he calls " The Pains of Afflu-ence . " Agreed , that the middle class is aware of its riches in the face of poverty , and that it wants to keep its hands clean while the bureaucracy handles the dole . However , he insists that the ( fading of - the Protestant ethic and the political commitment to universal welfare are bound to reduce the actual , amount of work done by individuals and erode the age-old compulsion to work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unemployed  --  and probably more on the way to join them ? Nisbet writes that the ethic of work " can not for long have the compulsion it has immemorially had in a society now politically committed to unemployment compensation , food stamps , Social Security and Medicare . " ( He does agree that some degree of security may be a minimum essential for the human community . ) Nowhere in this work with its astounding fund of references and quotations is there a single mention of the corrosive effects upon our political and social fife of that most dominant of all institutions , the system of private enterprise , business , capitalism . In fact , Nisbet berates the intellectuals for their dislike of the businessman and his regard for profits , and finds them grievously at fault in denigrating the feudal society of the Dark and early Middle Ages . For him , apparently , those were the halcyon days . ( On Nisbet the " rust of nostalgia " must be very deep indeed ; scraped away , it appears to have been encrusted on a coat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scholastic 's gown . ) Let me not deny the brilliance of his attack . But that attack is no lonely sortie . Fortuitously or not , Nisbet is one of a group of academicians who are JUDAH STAMPFER Jewish creative writing in this country has developed a sour taste . That does not necessarily diminish its quality . From Jacobean satires to C , eline 's novels of diatribe , and indeed from ancient times , sour writing has had its own kind of usefulness . But the Jewish voice has grown pathetic as it has turned sour in recent times  --  full of howls , complaints , self-mockery , black humor , involved in a burlesque of older works and public events , with a haze of bathos hanging over it all . Elizabethan satire burlesqued a savage society ; modern Jewish writers burlesque their own experience as observers of a corrupt society . The literary instrument that has gone Judah Stampfer is completing a book entitled A Landscape of American Taste . He teaches at the State University of New York at Stony Brook . using all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of equality . While Gunnar Myrdal , in his Asian ' Drama and in The Challenge of World Poverty , makes the point that dominant among the demands of the peoples of the underdeveloped countries is equality , after all the generations of their oppression and exploitation by Western imperialism and their own elites ( and ' Myrdal makes the same point in regard to the American blacks in An American Dilemma ) , Prof. Robert W. Tucker , of Johns Hopkins University , in his essay " Egalitarianism and International Politics , " in a recent issue of Commentary , opens with a " rebuttal " of Myrdal 's statements of fact . And the Fall issue of The Public Interest is replete with articles in this vein . It is an ironic commentary on Nis-bet 's careful neglect of the role of capitalism in the deterioration of our society and the corruption of our political system that the magazine Business Week , by far the most influential of all business publications after The Wall Street Journal , should present in its issue of December 1 , 1975 , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Free Market . " To this reviewer , who is old and inured to threatening clouds , this still looks like something that might be called the Falange of the Academicians . Yes , Nisbet has a chapter of " positive " suggestions : To my mind , they are unreal and without worth . ?                     