@@278585

THANK GOD ! exulted the banner headline on the London Sun . It was , in a way , an expression of the nation 's collective relief . The massive march by Catholic civil rights protesters through the border town of Newry had been peaceful , with no repetition of Londonderry 's Bloody Sunday , which saw 13 people killed by British army bullets . Later in the week , Ulster remained relatively calm during a " day of disruption " called by Catholics to mark the first six months of the government 's policy of internment . Brief though it might turn out to be , the respite from violence and tension gave all parties concerned a chance to think again about whether a political solution was still possible for Northern Ireland . <P> Bloody Sunday had been a shattering experience for the government of Prime Minister Edward Heath , which has belatedly come to recognize Ulster as its most intractable problem . The tragedy destroyed Downing Street 's comfortable belief that it had time on its side in dealing with I.R.A . extremists , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boycotts . The pressures on Heath are clearly rising . Labor Party Leader Harold Wilson now believes that reunification of the two Irelands is inevitable . He has branded the Tory government 's internment policy a blunder , and has called on the government either to bring to trial the 760 suspected subversives now under detention or to release them . " Internment , " he charged , " has proved to be a recruiting sergeant for the I.R.A . " <P> Heath is also nettled by the growing hostility of the Irish Republic , which is giving increasing support to the North . With the Londonderry deaths , Britain 's hopes of getting Ireland Prime Minister John Lynch 's cooperation in curbing I.R.A . activities in the south virtually disappeared . Last week , reflecting the popular mood , charges were dropped in an Irish court against the leader of an eight-man Provisional I.R.A . team that allegedly fought a border skirmish with British troops last month . Boycotts of British goods have been reported throughout the Republic , and in some areas anti-British feeling is running so high that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <P> In Northern Ireland , the alienation of the Catholic third of the population is very nearly total . Adding to Britain 's problems is the ever-present danger of a Protestant backlash . The Orangemen have been remarkably quiescent during the recent weeks of violence and terror , but militant Protestants were angry and restive over the Catholics ' success at Newry in defying the Ulster government 's ban on parades and demonstrations . Last week William Craig , a leader of hard-line members of the ruling Unionist Party , announced the formation of the " Ulster Vanguard , " whose 60,000 members , he said , were prepared to make " the supreme sacrifice " to ward off any threat to the existence of Protestant-dominated Ulster as part of the United Kingdom .                     