@@287149

Italy last week braced itself for yet another government , a new Premier-and a political experiment that made some Italians and their Western democratic friends a little nervous . The government was a monocolore , or one-party Christian Democratic Cabinet , led by Giulio Andreotti , 57 , a cool and analytical Roman who in two previous tours has been one of Italy 's more effective Premiers . In order to form a minority government in the face of increased Communist strength following the June elections , Andreotti agreed to a parliamentary coalition in which Communists will be able to wield considerable veto power while remaining outside the government . " Andreotti believes collaboration in Parliament with the Communists is an experiment , " explained a none too eager colleague . " It 's never worked anywhere else in the world . " <P> On Warning . Whether the experiment would work in Italy was also uncertain ; but like an untested drug on a moribund patient , it seemed no worse than the alternative . The election was another Italian standoff . The Christian Democrats , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength to govern alone ; the Communists , with 34% , fell short of what they needed to command a formal role in the government . The Christian Democrats were unwilling to share power formally with the Communists . They were also on warning not to by Western allies , who at an economic summit in Puerto Rico in June agreed to withhold aid to Italy if Communists entered the government . Scratching for alternatives , the Christian Democrats considered another center-left coalition , but that was dashed when the Socialists , who got a poor 10% of the June vote , refused to join . <P> Stymied , Andreotti and Christian Democratic Party Secretary Benigno Zaccagnini decided to acknowledge shifts of power in Parliament , where Communist strength after the election nearly equalled the Christian Democrats ' . Veteran Communist Deputy Pietro Ingrao , 61 , in an agreement between parties , was named president of the Chamber of Deputies . And last week the Communists for the first time were awarded seven of 26 parliamentary committee chairmanships , including key posts in economic and fiscal areas . In return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his government by abstaining rather than voting against him when he submitted his monocolore Cabinet to the Senate this week for a vote of confidence . <P> The Communists have already indicated that they will seek legislation to crack down on tax evaders . They also want better pay for police , more schools and hospitals and a cutback on the sottogoverno , the maze of inefficient governmental agencies . Andreotti can accept most of the Communist proposals , although Zaccagnini warned Christian Democratic leaders last week " to avoid the danger that the parliamentary vote will constitute in fact that majority which we excluded on a political plane . " Bluntly , that meant they had to watch against the Communists grabbing command of the lawmaking process and slipping into the government via the parliamentary back door , a danger that Washington observers pessimistically considered very real .                     