@@283290

War by its nature raises some of the most difficult moral questions that men must face . Obviously , these dilemmas have grown infinitely graver as technology has equipped the allegedly civilized nations with the hardware for inflicting catastrophic destruction . Was Hiroshima necessary in order to save the lives that would have been lost in an invasion of Japan ? Did the firebombings of Dresden hasten the end of the war in Europe ? <P> The bombings of North Viet Nam also aroused doubts-moral questions that would persist even though the bombing was halted as abruptly as it began . At My Lai , most Americans believe , a handful of atypical G.I.s were acting " illegally " when they slaughtered several hundred Vietnamese civilians . Last week American bomber pilots were killing Vietnamese civilians-who in this case were fiercely defended by SAM missiles-but now it was official U.S. policy , ordered by the Commander in Chief . <P> The man-made devastation of North Viet Nam occurred at the same time as the natural cataclysm of the Nicaraguan earthquake . It was a haunting coincidence-American relief planes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rained 500-lb. bombs on the Vietnamese . <P> Many Americans could be forgiven if they entertained a fantasy from Kurt Vonnegut 's Slaughterhouse-Five . Unstuck in time , the character named Billy Pilgrim runs a movie of World War II in his head-backward : " When the bombers got back to their base , the steel cylinders were taken from the racks and shipped back to the United States of America , where factories were operating night and day , dismantling the cylinders , separating the dangerous contents into minerals . Touchingly it was mainly women who did this work . The minerals were then shipped to specialists in remote areas . It was their business to put them into the ground , to hide them cleverly , so they would never hurt anybody ever again . " The bombing halt fell considerably short of that redemptive fantasy , but it was at least renewed motion in the right direction .                     