@@284285

Prime Minister Harold Wilson is the Artful Dodger of British politics . Throughout his long parliamentary career , he has demonstrated an uncanny ability to move swiftly from position to position as the moment dictates . In the days immediately following last month 's election , Wilson sounded almost as conservative as Tory Leader Edward Heath in talking about the need for national unity to solve Britain 's economic problems . But last week , in the Queen 's speech from the throne outlining the government 's policy for the year ahead , Wilson seemed very much an orthodox socialist . <P> The change of heart , such as it was , was dictated at least in part by Wilson 's need to placate leftists in his Labor Party , who were worried that the Prime Minister had gone soft on business . Far from it . In the speech from the throne , which was written by Wilson and his top aides and delivered tonelessly to peers and commoners in the House of Lords by a crowned and jeweled Queen Elizabeth , the government lived up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and aircraft industries , put potential sites for housing under government control , and buy up 51% of the North Sea interests of companies drilling for oil in Britain 's offshore reserve . In addition , a National Enterprise Board will be set up to further nationalization , in whole or in part , of other industries . The board will offer cash-starved businesses the funds that they need to prevent bankruptcy , in exchange for partial government ownership and representation in management . <P> In fact , the troubled shipbuilding and aircraft industries are already heavily dependent on government support , but other parts of Labor 's package are more controversial . Critics of the government fear that taking over the North Sea oil might delay energy development that Britain desperately needs by causing the companies , mostly American , to look for safer , more profitable areas where they can place their capital . The National Enterprise Board , which will be run by Anthony Wedgwood Benn , the doctrinaire Minister of Industry , fills British businessmen with dread . They view it as a not-so-subtle tool for wholesale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his new program meant that Wilson was a captive of the left , he severely rebuked three prominent leftists in his Cabinet for publicly disagreeing with the government 's policy toward South Africa . If they could not support the government , he told them bluntly , they had one choice-to get out . As for the program itself , it remains to be seen how-and how fast-Wilson intends to carry out the program . In any case , as Heath quickly pointed out in the House of Commons , the government proposals are largely irrelevant to Britain 's present problems : how to slow inflation and boost the economy at the same time . Conservatives charged that nationalization of oil would only worsen Britain 's already serious balance of payments deficit , which is expected to reach $10 billion this year . Reason : buying majority interest in the American firms would only exacerbate the deficit by sending several billion dollars to the U.S.                     