@@493865

Calling Dr. Kahn Nobody dispenses the mother 's milk of politics more effectively than the dairy industry , whose Washington lobbying organization , the National Milk Producers Federation , just concluded its annual meeting in Seattle . The large amounts of milk money that have ! ubricated American politics over the years have helped produce an industry that presents in exaggerated detail all the ills the new school of Washington deregulators are trying to cure by bracing doses of the free market . Like many American businessmen , dairymen may speak highly of the free market , but they have no great desire to experience it themselves . The milk producing business is characterized by massive government subsidies , monopolistic practices and high consumer prices . Milk is a logical target for Carter administration inflation doctor Alfred Kahn , the hero of airline deregulation . Logical , perhaps , but unlikely . The dairy industry is too politically savvy . The federation consists of the major dairy farmer cooperatives , including the big four ? Associated Milk Producers Inc . ( AMP ) , Mid-America Dairymen Inc. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for nearly one quarter of US milk production . " Cooperative " has a nice ring to it , conjuring images of happy farmers working in unison toward the betterment of all . But a better word for the big dairy co-ops is " monopoly . " The co-ops tend to dominate local markets so that in a given region , one cooperative may control 80 percent of production or more . That means monopoly power and the co-ops use it . The dairy cooperatives have little to fear from Washington trust-busters or born again deregulators . The 1922 Capper-Volstead Act permits farmers to set up cooperatives without fear of the antitrust statutes , while ordering the secretary of agriculture to police them if they appear to turn into monopolies . Despite clear evidence of monopoly practices in recent years , no secretary of agriculture has ever taken action . The other arms of antitrust enforcement are n't much stronger . The Federal Trade Commission is so unsure of the legal issues that it wo n't act . Sporadic action against the co-ops by the Justice Department has had no effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry , Washington 's supine attitude is understandable . AMPI was the ninth largest campaign contributor in the 1978 elections , according to the Federal Election Commission figures . According to Common Cause , in 1976 the dairy industry was outspent only by the American Medical Association ? $1.8 million to $1.4 million . That put the milk lobby ahead of such traditional big spenders as the AFL-CIO and the oil industry . The dairy industry favors both Republicans and Democrats with its money . The test is narrowly self ' interested : does the candidate see the world the same way the dairymen see it ? That world view consists of high subsidies , low competition , and an easy attitude toward antitrust enforcement . In 1971 AMPI offered two million dollars to the Republican party in return for a decision to increase milk support prices . The administration increased supports . The GOP got its money . Dairy ideologues gave Democratic partY organizations $224,000 in 1976 . Jimmy Carter passed the milk test and got $11,000 for his primary campaigns . One of President Carter 's early actions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the advice of his own Council on Wage and Price Stability ( " Two Milk Duds , " TNR , July 23 , 1977 ) . In fact , milk price supports have gone up three times in Carter 's two years in office . The most recent increase was last October , and another increase is scheduled for April 1 . Most analysts conclude that higher supports translate into higher consumer prices for dairy products on about a penny-for-penny basis . Jimmy Carter is unpopular with most people in farm country . The grain farmers who drove tractors down the broad Washington boulevards last winter remain unhappy . Cattle producers are upset about Carter 's veto of a bill that would have restricted meat imports , despite the highest meat prices in years . But dairy farmers are generally happy with this administration whose dedication to fighting inflation does n't extend to their corner of the economy . Government aid to dairying is extraordinarily complicated and virtually complete . The government offers dairymen the equivalent of cradle to grave protection with no significant aspect of the business left to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political economy of milk is the federal milk marketing order . A milk order is simply a regulation issued by the secretary of agriculture naming a geographic region of the country and setting minimum prices that farmers will receive and dairies will pay for raw grade A milk in that region . At last count there were 52 different regions covered by federal milk market orders . The market order for each region is slightly different to account for local conditions , and is administered by a local " market administrator , " a federal employee . Milk market orders establish minimum prices for grade A milk at both wholesale and retail levels . As a side effect , they encourage farmers to produce more grade A milk than the market needs . The surplus gets channeled into what the industry calls the " manufactured milk market " ? milk for making cheese , yogurt and the like . This market , too , is regulated . The mechanism is the milk price support program . The Commodity Credit Corporation purchases manufactured dairy products in order to prop up prices on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amounts of surplus grade A milk coming in as a result of the effect of the market orders . Grade B milk ? which can only be used for manufacturing and not for drinking ? is unregulated , but grade A and B milk are interchangeable in manufacturing , though grade B costs a farmer somewhat less to produce . Without all this interference and manipulation , only enough grade A milk would be produced to supply the drinking market . Grade B would supply the cheese market . And prices would be relatively stable ? and lower ? in both . But the influx of grade A milk in the second market pushes prices for cheese down . Support prices then come into play to keep them from falling very far . A support level is established as a percentage of the parity price ? a concept loosely tied to production costs plus a healthy profit and defined in detail in the law . The political battles get fought over what percentage of parity the government will support . The support price has risen from $3.15 per hundred pounds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When Jimmy Carter took office , the support price was $8.26 . When the price falls , the CCC buys the amount of dairy products necessary to push prices back up . It is common for the government to buy five percent or more of total US milk production during a year to prop up prices . This intricate economic system produces some interesting and unfortunate social results . Predictably , high priced milk means lower consumption . Per capita consumption of milk and cream has dropped from 302 pounds in 1965 to 244 pounds in 1974 . During that time market order prices rose from under five dollars a hundredweight to over nine dollars , with consumer prices following closely behind . Walter McNamara , a lawyer writing a book about the milk industry , says , " The system does a good job of keeping this dangerous substance out of reach of our helpless children . " The current system also results in overproduction of manufactured dairy products , subsidizing cheese consumers ? increasingly the fast food industry ? at the expense of milk drinkers . Cheese consumption goes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are consumer prices . " A final effect of the order system , in conjunction with the price support program , " a Justice Department study concluded in 1975 , " is to elevate the general price level for dairy products , thus increasing the cost to consumers . " The political economy of milk also has some unintended effects on the people who produce and sell milk . Because the system pushes a farmer toward Grade A milk production , which is more expensive , it pushes him toward bigness . And because the system forces overproduction of milk , the system again mandates increasing size . In 1970 there were 648,000 dairy farms . Dairy economists are predicting that the number may be down to around 400,000 by spring . But production has increased over the years ( even as consumption goes down ) , meaning that the fewer farms are getting bigger and bigger . The dairy lobby tries to explain the fall in the number of farms as a consequence of bad times ? prices too low , costs too high , and all the usual commercial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the explanation that the current regulatory mess is the engine driving the industry toward concentration is much more persuasive . The market order system also drives the co-ops toward local and regional monopolies . Donald Randall , general counsel of the National Association for Milk Marketing Reform , charges that the cooperatives have so much power that they artificially push the price of milk above the already artificially high market order price , by imposing " so-called ' premiums ' representing the additional charges for milk above the federal order prices . " Randall 's association is a group of milk handlers ? dairies ? who pass on the high cost of the raw milk to consumers through higher retail prices . Randall says , " While national dairy mergers in the 1960s were halted by the FTC , co-ops continue their mergers , having almost doubled their fluid milk market share between 1964 and 1978 . " The growth in co-op monopolies flows logically from the milk market order system , which inhibits movement of milk from one marketing order area to another in response to demand . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " making generous use of their Capper-Volstead exemption and the federal order system , have achieved and exercised monopoly power . Without the federal system , none of this would likely have occurred and certainly would not have been allowed to persist . " What can be done about this regulatory nightmare called the milk business ? In its 1975 study , the Justice Department suggested several steps to begin moving the industry toward economic sanity . The comprehensive study by lawyers and economists in the Antitrust Division suggested " phased deregulation of milk marketing , " meaning gradually moving away from the stratified federal order system while creating a price support mechanism to cushion farmers against the shocks of deregulation . Combined with that approach should be antitrust action against monopoly co-ops through enforcement of the Capper-Volstead protections . But a detailed discussion of remedies is n't really very fruitful because a remedy frankly is n't politically feasible . The Justice Department study has been shelved , an inconvenient reminder of a prior administration 's zeal for regulatory reform . Insiders say they see little interest in deregulating milk from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ milk lobby finds itself in a pleasant situation , with friends in the White House , friends in Congress and a milk pail full of IOUs from the 1976 and 1978 elections .                     