@@279295

IT might have been an occasion of unambiguous joy : three American prisoners of war returning to their families after long months of imprisonment in North Viet Nam . Instead , the route home last week assumed the quality of an international morality play , an occasionally bitter and tearful business that caught the three pilots in a propaganda tug-of-war involving the North Vietnamese , the Pentagon and the American peace movement . All three sides were using the flyers as pawns in a larger drama of image and diplomacy . <P> Thus the welcome-home at New York 's Kennedy International Airport was clouded by recriminations . Understandably , the Pentagon insisted that the released pilots were still U.S. officers and should immediately enter military hospitals for medical checkups and debriefings . But its handling of the matter was often clumsy . Even before the men had left their SAS jet , the counterclaims of family and military produced an unpleasant scene . Mrs. Minnie Lee Gartley , mother of Navy Lieut , ( j.g . ) Markham L. Gartley , cried emotionally : " We just want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Navy , free of the press , free of the North Vietnamese . " Dr. Roger E. Shields , chief Pentagon specialist for prisoner affairs , replied : " He 's an officer in the United States Navy . " Mrs. Gartley began to sob . " I have n't cried since the day you called me and said my son was shot down , " she told Shields . Afterward Mrs. Cora Weiss , a member of the peace delegation that escorted the prisoners from Hanoi , said in angry hyperbole : " We have just witnessed a recapture scene , replacing one incarceration with another-a hell of a thank you ! " <P> The release had been a long , peculiar and occasionally bungled process . It began on Aug. 30 , when longtime Antiwar Activist Cora Weiss received a transatlantic call from a member of the North Vietnamese delegation to the Paris peace talks . Almost three weeks later , Hanoi released Gartley , who was shot down , Aug. 17 , 1968 , Air Force Major Edward Elias , a prisoner since April 20 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Norris Charles , a captive since Dec. 30 , 1971 . All three were placed in the custody of Mrs. Weiss and Antiwar Activists David Dellinger , Yale Chaplain William Sloane Coffin Jr . and Princeton International Law Professor Richard Falk . Charles ' wife Olga and Mrs. Gartley were also part of the American escort . Even though they were released from prison , the flyers were not immediately allowed to leave Hanoi ; instead they spent eight days relaxing , shopping and touring bombed areas in the North . <P> Mercy . The publicity surrounding these tours incensed the Administration . Defense Secretary Melvin Laird unjudiciously speculated about whether the released prisoners could be court-martialed for permitting themselves to be used for propaganda purposes by North Viet Nam . But he quickly added that while he was Secretary of Defense any judicial action against the three " will be tempered with a great , great deal of mercy . "                     