@@494911

/17 ' 1 lhe winds of change have come to the House , " Rep. Phillip Burton ( D , Calif. ) said last week , and indeed a hurricane seems to have struck the most powerful of the money committees on Capitol Hill , Ways and Means , and its chairman , Wilbur Mills , heretofore respected as one of the shrewdest and toughest operators in Wash ? ington . The committee drew its strength from the wile of Mills and the institutional structure he inherited and learned to dominate like a Godfather . Suddenly that authority collapsed , and when the dust settled it was seen that the old club of Dixiecrats that has ruled the roost in Congress for so long was a degree less influential and that a new club of genteel reformers elected in the ' 50s and ' 60s had moved several degrees closer to the levers of power . Rep. Mills stumbled several times this year but seemed to recover his balance until the poor man appeared on stage in Boston with a striptease dancer the day before Democrats in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The dancer was the same one police had seen come out of Mills ' car when it was stopped for speed ? ing last October , and jump into the Potomac River Tidal Basin . When Mills then visited his lady friend in Boston last week and told the press that " this wo n't ruin me . . . nothing will ruin me , " he was finished . The comic-tragic escapade , striptease and all , was played out on the network news , and House Democrats could not ignore it . They were shocked not by the damage Mills was doing to himself , but the damage he was doing to their image . So they voted to strip Ways and Means of its power to assign committee membership ; they elected a progressive caucus leader ( Rep. Burton ) ; they enlarged membership on Ways and Means by 12 seats , opening the gates to a flood of younger , more active Democrats . There was talk of replacing Mills with the next in line for chairman , Rep. Al Ullman ( D , Ore. ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself by en ? tering the hospital , at the urging of friends . He may resign . Mills ' peccadillos were n't the cause of the rebellion we are wit ? nessing , however . They were the insult added to injury that made it impossible for his supporters to come to his rescue . Organized resist ? ance to Mills and the rest of the tired House leadership began much earlier . One of the first signs that younger Democrats felt they 'd been badly treated was the formation in 1959 of a club of progressives called the Democratic Study Group . Gradually it broadened its efforts 6 and in 1973 the DSG became the most effective single bloc within the Democratic caucus . Under pressure from the DSG , Democrats made some key procedural changes last year , including new rules that most com ? mittee meetings would have to be opened to the public and that committee chairmen would have to accept amendments on the floor of the House if the caucus insisted on them . The latter was aimed directly at Wilbur Mills . Until this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control over complex fiscal bills that came through his committee . Mills treated tax legislation as his personal responsibility , and even his critics admitted that he knew more about the legis ? lation than anyone else . He was high-handed , decisive , informed . Ways and Means had no subcommittees and its proposals were invariably taken to the floor under a " closed rule , " meaning that Mills wrote tax law in the House almost singlehandedly , accepting no amendments once he had made up his mind . The ap ? proach had its drawbacks . It invited frustration and resentment , not just among outsiders , but also within Ways and Means itself . It also built up a backlog of leg ? islation , since there 's a limit to what one man and one committee can do in a session of Congress . Last summer the inevitable happened . Two mem ? bers of Ways and Means challenged the chairman in public . Reps . William Green ( D , Pa. ) and Charles Vanik ( D , Ohio ) , upset by the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil company revenues , asked the committee to consider a different plan . They wanted an immediate end of the oil de ? pletion allowance ( not a slow phaseout ) and an over ? haul of foreign tax credits . Their amendments were quickly rejected by Mills and the coalition of Republi ? cans and conservative Democrats that backed him up . Afterward the challengers gathered signatures and , invoking the new rule , Rep. Green asked for a decision by the party . The Green-Vanik forces won their battle but lost the war . The caucus voted overwhelmingly to force Mills to let the Green-Vanik amendments be con ? sidered when the tax bill reached ? the floor of the House . Mills thereupon seized on a technicality and threatened to take a position that could have sabotaged the entire bill . The challenge faded . Meanwhile Ways and Means narrowly escaped be ? ing carved up and redesigned along lines suggested by a special committee on House reform . These Bolling committee recommendations , as they were called after their author Rep. Richard Bolling , never had much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like Mills were able to have them set aside for " study " by the caucus . The report did draw attention once again , - however , to the old bosses ' determination to hold onto power at any cost , and it again publicized a miserable legislative record . Not one of the big domestic bills promised by Ways and Means in the last two years has passed . Tax reform , national health insurance , social security and welfare reform have all been left in limbo . The foreign trade bill did get through the House but was later held up in the Senate . Pension reform was enacted , but that law was drafted primarily - in the Senate . When the new congressmen arrived in the capital last week to vote in the caucus , they were n't interested in learning how to " get along by going along . " They demanded changes . Seventy-five of the freshmen organized as the " class of 94 , " elected Richard Ottinger chairman and vowed to make themselves heard in this and future party debates . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the restructuring of - Ways and Means and a change in the attitude of the party leadership . A new , unfamiliar boldness has seized even the mild-mannered Speaker , Carl Albert ,  --  who now says he favors the progressives and indicates that he hopes to ride the crest of the wave as far as he can . Optimists predict that a tax reform bill will be written and quickly passed by the House as the first order of business next January . How far will the new tide reach ? We wo n't know until next month , when the steering committee begins . to exercise its new authority and select committee members . Although there 's talk of unseating some of - the older chairmen ? W. R. Poage of Agriculture and Wright Patman of Banking , to name two ? a great deal still depends on what the party leaders want . Speaker Albert and Majority Leader Tip O'Neill can be counted on to do nothing dramatic . But the new caucus leader , Phillip Burton , is less predictable . At the outset he said flatly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unusual commitment to make so early in the game . When Mr. Albert brought Burton into his office the other night to meet the press , the Speaker ' chattered blandly about his " new partner . " Burton corrected him : " Junior partner , " he said quite solemnly . The upheavals of recent days signal a significant shift in the balance of power in the House . One of the kingpins of the old hierarchy has been subdued and his committee will be opened to take in a wide sam- - pling of younger members . The fresh air is welcome . New faces will be seen on the other committees as well , if not on the pinnacles of power . One congres ? sional aide engaged in the battle speaks as if the old leadership had been trounced : " We are dealing with a comatose body politic , - he says , " and the only ques ? tion now is whether or not to unplug the life support systems . " That is an overstatement , but it reflects the new feeling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the obstacles hindering congressional supervision of the Federal Bureau of Investigation . But the problem goes far be ? yond devising a system by which legislators can effec ? tively oversee covert activities of intelligence gathering government agencies . The truth is that little serious thought has been given on Capitol Hill to how any federal agency or program ought to be monitored . Within the executive branch there are 11 depart ? ments headed by cabinet members and 55 independ ? ent agencies . Who knows or cares what they are all doing ? Surely there ought to be some way by which committees and subcommittees of the House and Sen ? ate can at least spot-check key operations ? perhaps on a rotating basis ? of these numerous bureaucracies . Then also hundreds of laws are passed every year , ? each with a stated legislative purpose . Again there is no organized congressional oversight to determine if the enacted laws as implemented fulfill the purpose for which they were originally designed . All that hap pens is that individual legislators or subcommittee chairmen may or may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faring . What little oversight Congress does undertake rarely makes news , and since Congress tends to think that nothing happens until it appears in the press this lack of attention dampens the zeal to monitor the detailed operations of government . There are of course excep ? tions to this benign neglect . The Food and Drug Ad ? ministration is closely watched by a House Govern ? ment Operations subcommittee chaired by Rep. L. H. Fountain of North Carolina and by a Senate health subcommittee run by Sen. Edward Kennedy . Perhaps one reason for this , as congressional aides are quick to point out , is that FDA hearings are almost always covered by The Washington Post 's Mort6n Mintz , a re 1 porter deeply concerned about drug and medical prob ? lems and committed to writing about them . In contrast neither Rep. Wilbur Mills , during his 15 years as chairman of the House Ways and Means Com ? mittee nor Sen. Russell Long , chairman of the Senate Finance Committee , has had any interest in the super ? visory function of Congress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes , either of the general way the tax code works or of the impact a particular tax measure has had . Rep. Charles Vanik , a member of Ways and Means , has repeatedly and futilely attempted to get the committee to review one tax gimmick ? the domes ? tic international sales corporation ( DISC ) provision voted into law in 1971 . Its stated purpose was to stim ? ulate export trade to aid the US balance of payments . But according to Vanik , it has had a negligible effect on our exports and will cost the Treasury $740 million in 1975 . Two enormous government programs ? Medicare and Medicaid , and Social Security ? both both need careful reappraisal by Congress . They are n't getting it yet , though the enlargement of Ways and Means and the expected elevation to the chairmanship by Rep. Al Ull ? man may pave the way to the setting up of subcom ? mittees that will begin asking the right questions . Whether such undertakings are successful will in the end depend on the skill of the congressional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in ? quiries , whether or not these inquiries have publicity value . Last month as the UN General Assembly was pass ? ing resolutions in New York conferring legitimacy on the Palestine Liberation Organization , the United Nations Educational , Scientific and Cultural Organi ? zation in Paris , by excluding Israel from its European regional activities , was anticipating and , as Raymond Aron and Jean-Paul Sartre said in a remarkable joint statement , " justifying in advance Israel 's physical annihilation . " The Arab-inspired resolutions included terminating UNESCO 's small aid to Israeli cultural institutions and asked that UNESCO 's director general undertake to supervise educational and cultural insti ? tutions in Israeli occupied territories . But it was not the imagined threats of archeologists to the Omayyad palaces of Jerusalem that provoked the series of puni ? tive moves . That an international agency dedicated to intellectual freedom and confined by its charter to cultural concerns should be a vehicle for such political reprisals is disheartening . Scholars in the sciences and humanities , Nobel laureates among them , already have severed their ties with UNESCO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Giroud , refused to appear at a UNESCO session . Unfortunately the Vatican has gone forward with its plans to bestow on UNESCO the Pope John XXIII Award ? though Pope Paul VI sharply dis ? associated the Holy See from the organization 's anti-Israel stand . The Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted to cut a $16 million contribution to UNESCO from the foreign aid bill , the money to be restored only in the event that UNESCO rescinds its resolutions . Financial retaliation against an international organization is a crude way of expressing disapproval , reminiscent of earlier Soviet withholding of funds . But how else are the Communist , Moslem and Third World countries to have impressed upon them that by compromising the universality of the UN , which only recently admitted the People 's Republic of China to its ranks in the name of universality , they will in the end undermine the world organization itself ?                     