@@494838

DECEMBER 2 , 1972 representatives . 4 Make corporate officials personally and criminally liable for violation of any law enacted for the protec ? tion of the public . 4 Enable the Appalachian Regional Commission to fund cooperative or publicly owned power companies to compete with the " investor-owned " utilities that dominate much of Appalachia. 15 4 Establish an Appalachian Mountain Authority , similar to TVA but owned by the residents of Appa ? lachia rather than the federal government . The Au ? thority should be empowered to borrow money and to purchase , by condemnation if necessary , energy sources , land and mineral rights . Alternatively or additionally , there should be established public utility districts similar to those in Oregon and Washington . In June 1971 , an air force acquaintance told me that several officers had declared themselves COs and that most of them were Air Force Academy graduates . The following month I went to the academy and spoke with the superintendent , Lt. Gen. Albert P. Clark . He had " heard rumors of four or five .. . insignificant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " In the course of my visit I learned the names of four of the recent graduates who had applied for CO status and arranged to meet them . Lieutenants George Joyal and Richard Pavel ( class of 1969 ) were stationed in Omaha at Offut Air Force Base , the home of the Strategic Air Command ; Lieutenants John Thompson and Robert Webb ( class of 1970 ) were based at Lowry AFB in Denver . They told me of three other academy graduates who had become COs and esti ? mated the total might run as high as 20 . ( I now know the names of 10 . ) The secretary of the air force can release with honor ? able discharges those servicemen he finds sincere in their renunciation of all wars , and air force regulation 35-24 establishes the official procedure for processing CO requests submitted by officers and enlisted men . Nonetheless , when each of these four officers made his request , each was harassed . The key element in the harassment was a promissory note , obliging the signer to pay the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go unfilled as a result of his discharge as a CO . Joyal and Pavel were presented with notes which would have required them to pay the government $30,000 at six percent annual interest in monthly installments of not less than $100 . Both men refused to sign . The legal pretext for this promissory note stems from the failure of the academy graduate discharged as a CO to fulfill the five-year service obligation in his cadet contract . There is , however , an escape clause in that contract , written no doubt so the air force can get rid of an officer who does not want to leave the service . It says : " As a commissioned officer I will be required to serve until duly released by competent authority . " Under the regulation concerning COs , the secretary of the air force is clearly the " competent authority . " Offi ? cers can be given " early outs " for any number of rea ? sons , among them hardship , incompetence or consci ? entious objection to war . Yet , only those few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these promissory notes . When Joyal protested in a letter to President Nixon , the White House referred the matter to the air force . In a reply dated July 9 , 1971 , from the office of the sec ? retary of the air force Joyal was told that " any agree ? ment you make to voluntarily reimburse the govern ? ment is not posited as a precondition to discharge nor as a consideration in determining the merits of your application for separation as a conscientious objector . " Had the letter stopped there , no one could have called it harassment . But the next paragraph read : " The Judge Advocate General , USAF , informs me that since you received substantial educational benefits and now seek to be discharged of the concomitant obligations you voluntarily incurred , it is not deemed inappro ? priate to inquire whether you would be willing , in the event of discharge , to reimburse the government for such amounts of federal funds as had been expended in providing you with a college education and for which you would make no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be approved and you- decline voluntary reimbursement , I am ad ? vised that consideration will be given by appropriate officials to refer your case to the Justice Department for possible collection action . " Joyal then wrote John Stennis , chairman of the Sen ? ate Armed Services Committee . Stennis replied : " I have explored whether or not authority exists to re ? quire the execution of a promissory note in such cases which would , in effect , reimburse the federal govern ? ment for the expenses of the education at the Air Force Academy . I do not find any statute or regulation which imposes this requirement . " This lack of statutory authority did not deter the air force , and the government brought civil suits against two 1971 Air Force Academy graduates , Christopher Joy and John McCullough , who had been discharged as COs , in an attempt to collect $53,575 from each . The judge for the federal district court ( eastern district of California ) , Thomas J. MacBride , ruled that the " Air Force 's suit to recover the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either in the statutes , regula ? tions , or case law . " The air force currently is pondering an appeal , but if that does not succeed the military may seek a federal statute to make these promissory notes legal . Just before Congress adjourned , Repre ? sentative Carleton J. King ( R , NY ) introduced a bill to require academy graduates who are later discharged as COs to pay the government for the cost of their edu ? cation . If such a bill is enacted , the United States will have its own parallel to the notorious exit visas re ? quired of Soviet Jews who are permitted to emigrate to Israel . On the grounds that the Soviet state which educated them will not receive a full return on its in ? vestment , emigrating Jews have been charged as much as the ruble equivalent of $25,000 . ( Our air force has made no comment on this bit of extortion . ) But Mr. Nixon , speaking through his press secretary , indicated his " deep human concern " for Jews detained by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they be given a hearing before " an officer of field grade or higher who is knowledgeable in policies and procedures relating to conscientious objector matters . " Pavel was the first to get a hearing ; it lasted almost three hours . The hearing officer , Lt. Col. David F. Schafer , was convinced that Pavel was sincere in his renunciation of war and recommended he be dis ? charged as a CO . Joyal , who was stationed at the same base , had a hearing lasting 25 minutes , during which time the hearing officer , Lt. Col. Francis T. Tiernan , was interrupted by two phone calls and an intercomcall . In his report recommending against a CO dis ? charge , Tiernan wrote : " I am of the opinion that , al ? though monetary satisfaction of the obligation might cause a financial hardship on the individual , nonwill ? ingness to satisfy the obligation by any means which does not involve war , the use of force or violence serves to cast doubt on the sincerity of the conscien ? tious objection . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cere ; those not are insincere . There was also harassment at an unofficial level . Pavel wrote : " On one occasion when I was simply speaking to an enlisted man , I was called into a Lt. Colonel 's office at which time he accused me of pros ? elytizing his men and said that if he ever caught me again that he would get me . " . In August 1971 , Webb formally requested the base commander 's permission to distribute on base a mimeographed sheet called Getting Together . As underground papers go , it was rather innocuous : its purpose was to give servicemen at Lowry an opportunity to join discussion groups on topics such as the Vietnam war and GI rights . Webb , a distinguished graduate of the Air Force Academy ( upper five percent ) , realized his request might be turned down . He suggested , however , that Getting To ? gether " will provide responsible viewpoints and make available valuable information to people in and around the Lowry military community . " His request was refused . Faced with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ COs in its ranks , the air force did an about-face on August 6 , 1971 and instituted a love-it ? or-leave-it policy . In a message to all air force units , the air force chief of staff said : " When an officer recog ? nizes that his attitude , behavior , military bearing , lack of leadership qualities , or performance is such that it will result in deterioration of morale and mission ef ? fectiveness , he may request voluntary resignation . . . . Under reasons for submission , the officer must indi ? cate that the request for resignation is being submitted because he is convinced that his performance or atti ? tude will result in deterioration in mission effective ? ness , and that his unalterable convictions preclude rehabilitation . " Under this policy , an antiwar officer or CO should be able to secure his release from service if he is willing to declare himself incompetent or un ? enthusiastic . But because they felt the government should recognize the legitimacy of their CO requests , these four officers were initially reluctant to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been to their financial advantage to do so . ( One discharged as a CO loses certain veterans ' benefits : a fate shared by those who get dishonorable discharges . ) All four men are now civilians , but only Pavel was discharged as a CO . Joyal was turned down , he said , because the air force thought there was " some doubt as to the depth of my sincerity . " Joyal was later given a swift , but honorable , discharge following the appear ? . DECEMBER 2 , 1972 ance of a local newspaper article he wrote critical of the B-1 bomber . Webb tired of the bureaucratic hassle and submitted his resignation in the prescribed format , reciting the required litany of incompetence , nonen ? thusiasm , and failure as an air force leader . His resig ? nation was quickly processed , and the air force gave him an honorable discharge . Thompson stuck to his CO request for almost a year but was consistently re ? buffed . He believes the senior general at Lowry was trying to court-martial him but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a threat to the air force 's image and a possible detriment to its re 17 cruiting efforts . This June , Thompson was given a general discharge ( a step below an honorable discharge and a black mark ) . After Webb was discharged , he and Harvard theo ? logian Harvey Cox and 40 others visited the chapel at the Air Force Academy . The group was evicted from the campus when they tried to give some cadets a copy of the prayer of St. Francis of Assisi which begins : " Lord , make me an instrument of Thy peace . Where there is hatred , let me sow love . " For this offense , Webb has been banished forever from the grounds of his alma mater . In the year since the President 's order that Fort Detrick be rededicated ? from germ warfare to cancer research ? the massive and modern hospital-like structure near the fort 's main entrance has increased its operating budget by at least 50 percent and has augmented its staff . This must be part of the National Institute of Health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's the United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases ( USAMRIID ) , and its mission is not cancer research . According to USAMRIID 's com ? manding officer , Col. Dan Crozier , MD , the institute 's primary task is " developing workable medical defen ? sive measures against biological agents . " That appears to be consistent with the President 's 1969 policy state ? ment which allowed for continued research into " defensive measures such as immunization and safety measures . " But at the research level the line between offense and defense is blurred at best . " There is so close a relationship between offense and defense in any kind of fighting , " Dr. Theodor Rosebury , the author of Life on Man , observed in 1949 , " that it is not easy to deal with them separately . The defender must know the weapon with which he is to be attacked , and the attacker must understand the defenses he expects to breach . " Dr. Rosebury wrote that shortly after he left Fort Detrick , where he was in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The army acknowledges that it has trouble distinguishing between offense and defense . Col. Nel ? son W. Tobey , an army research and development offi ? cer , told the House Appropriations Committee in 1969 that " . . . security deletion percent of the work that we are doing under the CB program is offensive in nature , but it is very difficult to make any clear line of delineation between the two because there is such an Copyright of New Republic is the property of NON Republic and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listsery without the copyright holder 's express written permission . However , users may print , download , or email articles for individual use .                     