@@487954

Alain Tanner , the director of The Middle of the World , one of the better pic , tures at the 12th New York Film Fesbrochure ( Lincoln Center ) has issued a brochure to help us understand what he has done : " The content is the form . " It worries me , however , that the form of this film does not really embody its content Tanner goes on for pages  --  and he may have been assisted in this by his highly intelligent collaborator ( on the film script ) John Berger  --  explaining his aims through a pr  --  cis of his characters and of his esthOtique under such headings as " Technique and Ideology , " " The Spectacle and the Meaning . " Tanner 's film method is elliptic  --  which is also true in several of the other interesting films among the seven I have seen up to now . The elliptic style signifies an abstention fiom or an omission of specific evidence in telling a story or in making a sociological situation or individual psychology wholly lucid ? or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ultra modernism . Art is not logic , mathematics or science . What can be demonstrated or proved , according to this disposition , must either be banal or vulgar . To a certain degree I accept this premise . It does not trouble me that Joyce , Kafka , Picasso , Eliot and Beckett are not so readily grasped as Balzac , Renoir or Proust . Despite our difficulty with the strangeness of much in modern art we experience a sense of its reality . The same should be even truer in films . The imagery employed must possess a vital life , must absorb us , stir our unconscious into a super-consciousness . Having said this  --  and I shall return to Tanner 's picture later ? I must state flatly that several of the experimental films at the Festival thus far are of a kind that explode in our face and leave little but a bad odor . But there were still others which , while technically well made and worthy in subject matter , suffer from a rather self-indulgent ambiguity  --  intellectUal or aesthetic  --  which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ film makers . with the Nazis . Lucien has always enjoyed killing animals with his hands or a gun . He has a ball lapping up champagne with the thugs of the mince and terrorizing the humble country folk in his region . Though it is near the end of the war , 1944 , he apparently is totally unaware that his gang is now doomed  --  even when his mother comes to town to warn him of the fact . There are other minor discrepancies ( minor to American viewers , not to the French ) , such as the police headquarters which serve not only as torture chambers but as caf ? - bars and quasi-brothels . The main action shows Lucien , an " innocent " brute , " falling in love , " that is to say , becoming sexually aggressive with a Jewish girl . Her father , formerly a fashionable Parisian tailor , and her grandmother are in hiding under the protedtion bought from one of the Frenchmen associated with the police . The girl  --  she is named France  --  at first resists Lucien , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and so she yields to him ever more willingly . Her father , though he is rather ashamed of himself but unable to prevent the seduction of his daughter , says that he can not bring himself to hate Lucien . After the father 's arrest and deportation . to a concentration camp , we last see France and her grandmother in flight from the Nazis . France and Lucien for the moment dwell in a kind of idyllic back-to-nature peace in the woods . The final image fades out and we read a title that Lucien , soon after was executed by the Resistance . What the film finally conveys is that many , perhaps most , of the collaborators did not know what they were doing and were led - into committing the grossest villainies out of sheer stupidity and ignorance . There is a kind , of forgiveness in this ; but what about the declared theme , Santayana 's warning ? Are we to infer that since most folk are as dumb as Lucien we shall see the same thing happen over and over again , though some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ? We can not say , nor will the director tell . The picture is well cast , with a non-actor as Lucien and two very good actors , Holger Lowenadler as France 's father and Theresa Giehse as the grandmother . But there is something emotionally mute in the picture , as if Lucien 's obtuseness and the director 's oblique sympathy with him prevent any real sense of the sorrow and the pity to emerge .. Alain Resnais ' Stavisky is a handsome film which purports to visualize the passing of the era of hectic " happiness " in France between the two wars . The actual story line  --  told with much monotonously fancy cross-cutting and shifts backward and forward in time  --  is based on the infamous Stavisky scandal of the mid-1930s . Stavisky was one of those fabulous , high-living , crooked " financiers " who made and lost fortunes with the aid of the upper strata of the Establishment , including police , sharks of commerce , politicians and members of the Chamber of Deputies . Resnais assures us that his characters are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is a dodge . The picture is so full of general implications that very little is actually dramatized . All that is unmistakably revealed is that the FrenCh haute bourgeoisie was thoroughly corrupt  --  a conclusion that Balzac had reached a century earlier . Yet it is evident that Resnais wishes to say more . There are several " asides " : Trotsky is shown during his exile in France . What has this to do with the story 's main drift ? There is presumed to be irony or pathos in the presence of the pure and dedicated revolutionary ordered out of France while the country is rotten-ready for a great upheayal . The implication also is that if Trotsky had remained in France he might have guided the Left during the February riots of 1936 , and its first overt struggle with the Fascists . The event itself is not shown , and Trotsky  --  made absurd by a silly piece of casting  --  could not possibly have altered the trend of the times . All this is still window dressing . The heart of the matter is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a foreigner  --  the insulting French term is mOtequeof Russian-Jewish origin whose father , an honest little merchant , committed suicide because of his son 's criminal , be- havior . Stavisky is set forth as an imagi- native , pleasure loving , markedly romantic scapegrace who gets his kicks out of living ' dangerously . He has no roots and , most important , suffers from a death wish . Is this due to guilt feelings , alienation , despair , pathology ? We never learn ; there are only hints . What we see - aims at ' many targets without hitting any in a conclusive fashion . The performances by Belmondo , Perier and especially Boyer are as slick as can be , tion . But so much of it is so persistently dark and depressed , so obdurately resistant to anything but the most laconic utterance in speech or gesture that it forfeits the possibility of that pleasure which tragedy as much as any other mode must offer . To return to The Middle of the World : it is they story of an affair between a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the bar of a hotel in a small country town in central Switzerland , thOught of as " the middle of the world " ? also suggestive through the film 's title of the " norm " of Western civilization . The young man is sincerely enamored of the girl , treats her kindly , on her account even neglects his chance to be elected to a government post , and is eager to divorce his wife and marry the waitress , buy a proper home for her to live in , etc . But the girl , who seems to like him a lot and responds to him enthusiastically in the act of love , finally decides to leave the town and him  --  and then takes a job in a Zurich factory . Why ? Because , , as we assume and Tanner tells us explicitly in his program notes , the man , limited by his environment and its normal bourgeois habit of - life , fails , for all his good will , to realize that the girl wants to be known more profoundly than through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wants to be something more than the Object of his desire or protection . She wants to grow and change ; he presumably can not do so or guess at what she unwittingly seeks . ' As idea , all this is to the good , though now almostcommonplace . But most of the picture is devoted to repeated and very agreeably handled scenes of lovemaking interspersed with shots of the unchanging natural surroundings . The girl occasionally says she wishes to be by herself ; he does n't quite understand this , but acquiesces . We also see her take a long , carefree walk alone in a larger town . A voice-over instructs us that she does n't know what she wants , only what she does n't want . It is true that the girl is supposed to be largely inarticulate . But if the form of the picture were right in its visual specifics we ' would learn more about her than we can now gather from hearsay . We could intuit her state of being in the enacted minutiae of her behavior . In the elliptic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the man ca n't develop because of his bourgeois ' mentality and that the girl is seeking to become a true person ? an assumption which springs from a definite ideology with which we may abstractly concur but which in a film must be given cinematic substance even if only in silent- action . The Middle of the World is well-acted throughout by an entirely likable cast . Olimpia Carlisi , an Italian actress fluent in French , is particularly winning because she is not only very attractive but also quietly and naturally expressive . ( To be continued ) ART LAWRENCE ALLOWAY Not far from the Barbara Hepworth sculpture at the U.N . ( The Nation , September 21 ) is the Hammarskjiild Plaza Sculpture Garden . It is at the southeast corner of the intersection of Second Avenue and 47th Street . There have been sculptures here by others , including Robert Murray , Claes Oldenburg , Lila Katzen and Alexander Liberman , all within the customary range of hardware . Recently , sculpture by Anne Healy introduced material change : she uses fabric . Distant viewing conditions across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cantilevered traffic light . It is a portal , about 15 feet high , placed on a podium , somewhat above street level , reached by steps from two sides . The fabric is stretched on a frame , sharp-cornered like the architecture around , but dark red and dark blue . The sculpture flattens to a thin slice as you mount the steps but opens out again on the plaza as you walk toward it . The shiny fabric is fluted like the curtains that used to mask movie screens and it rustles in the wind . It is supported on four shiny steel ' struts and four guy ropes , a structural candor typical of Healy 's directness . Once on the plaza level you see more of her work behind the flow of reflections in the glass of the foyer . Two broad strips of nylon cloth , one blue and orange , one orange and green , plunge from ceiling to floor , where they crisscross and surround a pillar before culminating in two large arrowheads . They are fixed only at the point of suspension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a big blue disc , made y of three nylon cloth panels , suspended at eight points , back from the windows , and so less visible than the long banners which are set against the glass . Healy has achieved a spatial distribution of planes of color in logical variations : first a free-standing , though flat , piece ; then the hanging and crossing of the banners in three-dimensional space ; and the blue disc , parallel to the wall of the building but not touching it . The disc is therefore a kind of relief-sculpture , taut like the outside piece , rather than taking its own form by means of weight and gravity like the banners . The sequence of three Pieces is arranged in time , so that the spectator , in walking around , is aware of expectations and delays . The sculptures are nodes at which our paths change direction . The succession of the portal ( outside ) and the wall- ' and floor-occupying forms in the lobby ( inside ) , activate the area handsomely but without bulk . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of the tent- or pavilion-like forms of Healy 's earlier work . Their interplay of a veiled inner space and a soft outer form is developed environmentally . This work avoids the problem raised by the Hepworth down the street ; that is a monument dedicated to Dag Hammarskjiild but to me its commemorative function is unclear . Healy 's work carries no significative intention beyond that implicit in her work as a whole . If it signified something beyond the decisions of the artist herself in response to the given zone , it would have to be the benefits of corporate patronage ( in this case Linda and Harry Macklowe , the owners of the building ) . This is a fact of the commission , but it is not the content of the work which maintains Healy 's concerns with space and transparency and of unexpectedly resolute fragilities of material . Geometry has different meanings in Abstract painting of the last twenty years . After the Abstract Expressionists , for example , who used little geometry , a new tendency appeared in which geometric form is conspicuous though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , partly , with American artists not wanting to appear beholden to their European predecessors , and partly to a shift in the way of using geometry . Initially , the horizontal and vertical lines and the primary colors of Mondrian represented a shattering reduction of the formal resources of painting , but as time went on it emerged that Mondrian deployed the right angle according to a canon of asymmetry . That is to say , he retained a base in complexity . Most of the Abstract art that appeared between the wars ( such as the work of the Abstraction-Creation group in Paris and the American Abstract Artists group here ) was similarly based on a notion of diversified bits and pieces , contrasting rather than unified . The influence of the later Kandinsky , with his restless inventory of intricate geometric parts , compounded Mondrian 's asymmetry . Thus Abstract painters after the war were faced with the problem of solidifying their art , in opposition to the open , gestural surface of Abstract Expressionism , but without perpetuating a fussy mode of geometry . Several painters took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of means , disiti missing the intervening phase of dab-orated geometry . This act of reduction and condensation was made by , among others , Josef Albers , Max Bill ( at present , on view in a big show at the Albright-Knox Art Gallery , Buffalo ) and Alexander Liberman . " The Circle Paintings 1950-1964 " is the title of an exhibition of his work at Emmerich uptown ( until October 23 ) , a compilation of hard , clear pictures of great visual bite . These early geometric paintings are not as well-known as they should be , either for their historical priority or for their incisive visual presence . There are two reasons for this neglect : one lies with Liberman 's development , which has seemed - to veer somewhat between geometric and expressionistic forms of painting and sculpture ; the other is that the tolerance of the New York art world , though endlessly extendable to people like Tony Shafrazi ( the " Guernica " vandal ) finds it harder to forgive Liberman for being the editorial director of Conde Nast . Liberman 's early geometries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legible forms are remarkable . The components are pre-known , though subject to the corrosion of after-images and color vibration . He cuts back on the value of the invention of forms , previously esteemed as a prime test of the artist . Obviously his use of a symmetrical image necessitated planning the picture in advance , from which Liberman extrapolated the next step , that of having the picture fabricated . The sentiment against traces of handling , so strong in the 1960s , is clearly anticipated in these works , in which concepts are embodied in emphatic but depersonalized images . Equally , those paintings which the artist did himself have no more expressive value than those he did not touch personally . This unsentimental dismissal of " touch " was salutory , though not sufficiently emulated , as we know from the later history of Abstract art in general , including Liberman . Its future turned out to lie in Conceptual art rather than Abstract painting .                     