@@491296

In Xanadu did Kubla Khan A stately pleasure dome decree : Where Alph , the sacred river , ran Through caverns measureless to man Down to a sunless sea . - Samuel Taylor Coleridge One of the pleasanter aspects of being an archaeologist is that under normal circumstances your subjects have been comfortably dead for a few thousand years and are in no position to contradict anything you may feel like saying about them . Thus , it could well be some thousands of years hence , an archaeologist , coming upon the monumental remains of the spanking new Super-dome in New Orleans , might speculate along these lines , with the unerring inaccuracy of his kind : Obviously , here Man has either decided to rebuild the Garden of Eden on earth , or this is a small planet , wholly self-sufficient , which landed at New Orleans , in search of " jazz " - evidently a type of fish which originated here and which ancient documents say moved up the river to Louisville and Chicago . The Garden of Eden deduction seems to be the better founded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a planet not yet under his control , obviously decided to build a place where he could function as his own master . A religious theme is indicated . There is reference to saints tnarching in , and of man-made grass on which , as rules rushed in , angels ( from California ) feared to tread . There were evidently terrible battles at the Superdome , to judge by contemporary accounts . Giants were eliminated there upon several occasions . There were even bird hunts-flocks of St. Louis cardinals were soundly thrashed with bats , and then " shut out , " apparently on a very cold day as a form of avian punishment . It will also be noted that an enormous error historically has been righted , thanks to the Superdome . It had previously been thought that the Vikings visited America some thousands of years before Columbus in 1492 . Relics including war helmets indicate that the Vikings visited New Orleans with fair frequency during the 1970 's , undoubtedly drawn there by the warm weather from their winter-locked quarters in upper Minnesota . Records also indicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the same time and managed in some way to frolic in the Superdome ; perhaps with the jazz . The Garden of Eden theme is carried through by controlled climate , by a sky for the Super-dome itself , and by foods apparently grown on the very grounds . A huge choir of up to 80,000 singers evidently occupied the stalls during religious ceremonies , and munched on such favorites of that day as roasted canines ( " hot dogs " ) and even shellfish grown by a then Vice-President of the nation ( " Oysters Rockefeller " ) . Some fanatically religious devotees never left the Garden of Eden , it would seem : sixty-four private suites contained living quarters and large quantities of fermented grape and grain juice used to sustain the occupants . A final religious motif was struck in the building of the Superdome , when interred bodies were removed from the ground beneath it , and moved to another location . The Superdome itself-which , when translated , means literally huge head-is thought to represent all of these individuals and function as a giant skull @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a cult of priests , who provided the moola , a word apparently describing a kind of rock , for building the Superdome . Well , it might happen that way in the future and it might not . But one thing is sure , the State of Louisiana has come mighty close to erecting a Garden of Eden for the delectation of its citizens and visitors in New Orleans , and the Fathers in charge have managed to out-whopper every other city in America , in this age of whop , which features enormous-but really not as Super-domes in Seattle , Detroit , Indianapolis and Houston-undoubtedly with more to come , to befuddle our speculative friends of the future , the archaeologists . In this era of planned obsolescence , the Super-dome is the ultimate obsoletor . Like a giant button mushroom built near the Mississippi upon bayou swampland and set against the delta skyline , it looms majestically over streets named Bourbon and Basin and Desire-the perfect rebuttal to Houston 's decade-old Astrodome . Survivor of suits , strikes and escalating costs which have made its construction history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Continued on page 78 they will have big-league games of some variety by this summer . For baseball , the dome will seat about 64,500 . With a 280-foot-high ceiling over the main arena , any batter who manages to hit the roof should be automatically enshrined at Cooperstown , New York . almost ideal home for conventions is equally important . For conventions , trade association meetings and similar gatherings , there are fifty-two separate rooms available , ranging in capacity from 46 to 531 persons . By taking out removable partitions , as many as 2,535 persons can be accommodated for a meeting . Conceived in 1966 by David Dixon , a New Orleans businessman and former executive director of the Superdome , it carried a mere $35 million price tag when the voters ap proved it by a three-to-one ratio in 1966 . Even then , it was realized that public money was a must . At that time , it was to be a modest 50,000-seat edifice . That would , of course , have cast it in a runnerup role to Houston 's vast Astrodome . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the National Basketball Association ( NBA ) , is set to begin season play there next October . For cage play , a section of the stands travels on tracks across the Dome floor to make an arena-type configuration , seating approximately 19,500 fans . Similar arrangements can be made for hockey , circuses , rodeos and ice shows . Completely without windows , the Dome has a controlled climate produced by 9,000 tons of computerized air conditioning equipment . Most futuristic feature of the whole mind-boggling building is the giant-screen television system which will hang from the roof in a six-sided gondola weighing seventy-five tons and costing $1.3 million . Imagine yourself on a Sunday afternoon sitting in a north end zone seat in the Dome watching the New Orleans Saints and the Miami Dolphins in an NFL game . Suddenly Archie Manning throws a twentythree-yard touchdown pass to his wide receiver . But you have a problem , because the Saints scored in the south end zone . Or , rather , you would have a problem if you were in almost any other stadium . If you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Monday morning newspapers to get details of the touchdown . Not in the Superdome . There you would see an instant replay flashed immediately on one of the **28;3613;TOOLONG color TV screens , the one facing your seat . It also will provide the same kind of isolated camera and slow-motion shots which television viewers have become used to . So the fans in the Dome will have the best of both worlds . They will have the excitement of being present " live " and participating in all the action , without sacrificing the luxury of instant replays , isolation and slow-motion shots . While most people think of the Dome primarily as a sports center , its role as an Such a prospect did not satisfy Louisiana Governor John McKeithen , who put his considerable political weight behind enlarging the plans for the Dome to its ultimate gargantuan size . A great cry was set up against the ballooned building , and there were numerous attempts to block it through legal action . Just about the time Louisiana went searching for money to finance the projects , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of New York banks and investment firms failed to produce a bid on the Superdome bonds . James J. Jones , president of the First National Bank of Commerce of New Orleans , came to the rescue . He put together a syndicate of Southern banks which underwrote the construction revenue bond issue . To both Jones and Governor McKeithen , the growth of the Dome became " a symbol of economic progress and a cutting of the umbilical cord that has made Louisiana subservient to Wall Street for most of the state 's modern history , " as The American Banker phrased it . Another of the Dome 's most enthusiastic backers is New Orleans Mayor Moon Landrieu . What does the mayor of the City that Care Forgot have to say about the contention that the Superdome may prove to be a " white elephant " ? " Only time will tell whether we 're right or our critics are right . I 'm more optimistic today than ever before . We already have seen tangible benefits from the project . Now we can accommodate any convention . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of redevelopment . " Buster Curtis , the architect who headed the Superdome design team , says no one man could have designed it . " We picked the best brains in the country and then we used computers to build it , " he says . An average of more than 800 construction workers were employed on the project  --  when some or all of them were n't on strike ? but so vast is the building that it was difficult to find them with the naked eye . If statistics are your bag , the Dome spans 680 feet ( making it the world 's largest steel dome ) , the arena floor is 410 feet square , the buildingis 273 feet high at its center , 18,000 of the seats are movable on steel tracks to alter the configuration of the main arena for various events , the project pumped $107 million into the New Orleans area economy during the first twenty-six months of construction , estimates are that the hotel-motel tax will raise upwards of $2.5 million per year , and there are eighty-eight restrooms . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. Levy , a sixty-five-year-old native New Orleanian , who was previously chief Administrative officer for the city under two separate administrations before joining the commission staff in 1971 as director of construction and administration . He became executive director in February 1972 , after Dixon resigned . " This job was really the equivalent of building a castle on aswamp , " says Robert C. Hunt , chairman of the board of Huber , Hunt &; Nichols , Inc. , general contractors of Indianapolis , who have gained a reputation as a national leader in the construction of sports stadia . The first pilings the firm put down " sank out of sight . " Despite the huge quantity of 163,000 tons of steel used in construction , " you wo n't see a single piece of steel when you look at it , " pledged Hunt . The " skin-friction " type piling ultimately used for the building 's underpinnings goes down 160 feet into the squishy land . When they got about 10 feet down , workmen started discovering caskets and bodies stacked under the ground in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the work progressed . Workmen also kept encountering fancy apothecary bottles of all descriptions , leading to a theory that a bottle factory once occupied the Dome site . Hunt 's wife suddenly developed into an avid bottle collector and now has one of the finest assortments around , with some specimens dating back to before 1850 . Hunt 's firm took on the Super-dome project in a joint venture with the Blount Construction Company of Montgomery , Alabama , which is headed by former postmaster general Winfield ( Red ) Blount . The Hunt firm has a 60 percent interest in the jobs and Blount 's company a 40 percent interest . The Hunt firm has built more major stadia than any other in the United States . Their reputation was reflected in the Superdome Commission 's seeking out the Indianapolis firm to bid on the job . " We did n't go to them , they came to us , " Hunt says . Other Hunt projects have included River-front Stadium in Cincinnati , Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh , the Indiana University football stadium in Bloomington ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the University of Kentucky football stadium in Lexington , a new arena going up in the same city and The Market Square Arena in 1 ndianapolis . There 's enough concrete in the Dome to build a four-foot sidewalk 600 miles long . Steel for the building was floated down the Mississippi and other waterways by barge from U.S. Steel Company plants in Altoona , Pennsylvania ; Orange , Texas ; and Gary , Indiana . The air-conditioning equipment alone cost $6.5 million . The place certainly is going to be among the most colorful of stadia because no two adjoining seats are the same color . Thomas W. Fanning , recently wrote these lines to Louis J , Kaposta , public relations and advertising manager for the Dome : " Ever since the Civil War , I 've heard that ' The South will rise again , ' but I never dreamed of anything Iike the Superdome . " Yes , the South is rising to undreamed-of heights as the world 's finest sports arena meets the soft Southern sky . 73 ? 