@@285656

The Environmental Protection Agency last week granted automakers a year 's extension on the federal deadline for the removal of virtually all pollutants from the exhausts of 1977-model cars . The extension itself came as no surprise ; meeting the tough federal standards would have added another $445 to the cost of a new car for antipollution equipment that might have decreased fuel economy to boot . But in making the announcement , EPA Administrator Russell Train did not mention energy or recession . The major reason for the delay , he said , was the EPA 'S conclusion that the catalytic converter-the device installed on most 1975 cars to reduce noxious emissions-was itself a polluter . The converter , Train explained , produces minute amounts of sulfuric-acid mist that in high enough concentrations would pose a health hazard , especially to people with respiratory problems . <P> The one-year delay in meeting federal standards is the longest period that the EPA could legally allow the auto industry . So Train plans to turn to Congress " with full awareness that I may be erring on the side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enforcement of stricter auto pollution standards . His request , which was immediately denounced by environmental groups , would give automakers tune to make a virtually pollution-free car that would not require the catalytic converter . <P> Although they were pleased with the delay , Detroit automakers had mixed reactions to Train 's indictment of the converter . General Motors , which has spent some $350 million on the device , assured owners of 1975-model cars that the converter does not " pose any health hazard " for the near future ; GM believes that the sulfuric-acid threat can be solved by removing sulfur from gasoline in the refinery or in the car itself . Chrysler , which has consistently opposed the converter , indicated that it would now move at full speed to develop electronic timing and fuel-mixture controls that will reduce emissions to the federal limits without catalysts.                     