@@488015

John Davison Rockefeller IV , West Virginia 's Secretary of State arid a Democrat , has n't announced formally that he will seek to be the twenty-ninth governor of his adopted state . But he has said repeatedly that , were he leaning any further in that direction , he would be lying on the ground . And several weeks ago he declared that under no circumstances would he try for the seat of his fellow Democrat , Jennings Randolph , in the U.S. Senate . Whether or not the state 's senior Senator runs for reelection will affect the plans of Arch A. Moore , , Jr. , the second Republican to occupy the Governor 's office since . 1932 . The Governor , West Virginia 's Mr. Republican , enjoys anecdotes about his ability to walk on water . Capable , cunning , cocky , charming when he wants to be , unscrupulous , a speaker whose thunderous , machine-gun delivery camouflages paucity of thought as well as misstatements of fact ( to place the kindest interpretation upon his more outrageous contentions ) , Governor Moore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation . That may be one reason why his fellow executives last month elected him chairman of the 1972 National GovernOrs ' Conference . A single example should suffice to show how Moore operates : the back end of Charleston , state capital , was doomed to be torn apart for urban renewal , a water treatment plant and an interstate highway . The ' natives had long been restless . Governor Moore arrived with aides , plus his highway commissioner , marched through the district , shaking hands , answering questions , offering advice , extending promises , and snapping off orders to assistants . He ordered the road commissioner to move in seventy-five trailers , by nightfall if possible , to reduce relocation distress . That was in August of 1969 . The trailers , never materialized . Indeed , nothing resulted from the great man 's visit , but as an exercise in public relations activism the tour was another Arch Moore triumph , A foriner member of the House of Representatives  --  the lone Republican in a Democratic delegation ? Governor Moore prefers Washington to Charleston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ex-reporter Harry Ernst of the Charleston Gazette that what he really coveted was a Senatorial toga , but to realize that'objective he had to be governor first . At that time West Virginia governors could n't succeed themselves ; thanks to a constitutional amendment , they now can . Nevertheless , it 's unlikely that Moore wants another forty years of parochial headaches , coupled with two opposition party legislative bodies  --  even assuming that he could trounce Rockefeller , whom he delights in criticizing . No other Republican has a prayer against Rockefeller . If Moore ducks that challenge to combat Randolph , he wo n't endear himself to party stalwarts . If he goes for a vacated U.S. Senate seat , however , although he thereby bequeaths the governorship to Rockefeller , he will be attempting to diminish the majority party 's power in Washington  --  an endeavor ' acceptable to party faithfuls . So far , Moore has kept his own counsel . He probably does n't know which office he 'll , file for and wo n't know until Randolph decides . And there is now the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator , Robert Byrd , to the Supreme Court , which would also open the road to Washington for Moore . If that happens , America 's embarrassment will be West Virginia 's gain , for it would almost certainly assure Rockefeller 's election as governor . Rockefeller is convinced that Moore will be his opponent . He foresees a close fight , much more even than he had previously thought . ( He could lose , and the prospect ? sends shivers up the spines of the Democrats , who consider the transplanted New Yorker their sole hope to rescue their party 's sadly soiled record of state stewardship . ) Several polls suggest a squeaky Rockefeller victory ; none falls outside the margin of error . Furthermore , many of the old-line Democratic politicals , accustomed to reign ? ing in the style of a Suleiman the Magnificent , may decide that a continuation of Arch Moore would cause them less pain than a victory by a " rich young punk " who refuses to call VISTA volunteers hirelings of the Kremlin ; who thinks , as Robert Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't attend public school for lack of passable roads up inaccessible hollows , and who wants to keep ? what 's left of the state 's awe-inspiring wilderness pristine and safe from the curse of strip mining . At the last legislative session Rockefeller endOrsed a bill to prohibit strip mining two years hence . It was crushed , but strip miners have no relish for a Governor Rockefeller . He might not be able to proscribe their operations , but strict enforcement of existing law could chase many strippers elsewhere . Also certain to suspect a Governor Rockefeller are numerous businessmen . He 's no radical  --  not with that name  --  but he has tax ideas that fail to draw applause in the locker rooms of private clubs . Moreover , a conservationist would n't load regulatory commissions with the captains or sycophants of industry . As a member of the House of Delegates  --  today as tf elected secretary of state , whose duties are described in the phrase : " Keeper of the Great Seal " ? Rockefeller has been an eager student of government and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controversy , weighs thorny issues thoughtfully ( perhaps too thoughtfully ) , and is not afraicrtO ' speak out once he 's ? , made up his mind . The state office is managed efficiently by a staff of enthusiasts for good government  --  some of , whose tax-paid salaries are augmented handsomely out of Rockefeller 's personal fortune . ' In addition , he pays for a second office of some twenty persons , separate from and largely independent of his state office . There , a top-flight economist studies the ) - state 's economy ; one day , presumably , he will draft a blueprint designed to propel West Virginia into the mainstream of American affluence . Other experts study sundry problems affecting the state 's present condition and future prospects . Rockefeller does n't hesitate to hire brain power F when he thinks it is needed . Each staff includes several politically motivated individuals , but until several months ago there was none with 3 the qualification of " old-style " politician . To repair that deficiency , Rockefeller ' has employed Robert P. McDonough , John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is expected to inform Rockefeller who is for and who is " agin " him in the forthcoming primary and general election , and to enlist supporters whom Rockerfeller either would n't want to or could n't recruit himself . Such- a man was doubtless needed , but McDonough 's appointment played to mixed reviews . The head of the West Virginia AFL-CIO , Miles Stanley , whose nose " has been bloodied by Arch more times than I care to remember , " told me : " It 's the best thing Rockefeller 's done . Bob 's the only pro he 's got . " But McDonough is n't universally admired . He took bankruptcy eight years after borrowing $336,500 from the Small Business Administration . The loan was arranged a few months after President Kennedy took office . To young idealists that is n't the kind of political squire their knight-errant ought to employ . ( One idealist on the Rockefeller payroll quit immediately after the appointment . ) Lord knows , West Virginia has for too long been governed by rascals , but McDonough , whatever his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two dozen federal and state grand juries have returned hundreds of indictments for assorted crimes against the public interest . Not a hint of scandal has touched McDonough , and the truth is , had he been the scoundrel his detractors assert he is , his two printing plants would n't have gone bankrupt . They would have acquired all the state 's business and prospered as did so many easily corrupted enterprises during the Wally Barron years . ( Ex-Governor Barron is now in a federal penitentiary after confessing that he bribed a federal juror . ) For unknown numbers of state residents the McDonough hiring proves that Rockefeller is as morally fallible as he is politically ambitious . Yet in pursuing his ambitions , he has n't  --  to date , anyway  --  allied himself with the entrenched local Democratic machines of the southern counties , most of which are he earned their hatred by purging registration rolls of ineligible voters ( a responsibility of his office which heretofore was studiously avoided , on the principle that Democrats should n't disenfranchise Democrats , regardless of what the law required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be opposed to these . rotten-borough organizations . He also fought fiercely for a packet of honest ballot laws . Noah Floyd , chairman of a state Senate committee and a law unto himself in McDowell County , sabotaged one reform . Rockefeller was credited with engineering his defeat in the 1970 primary . Time alone will determine if Jay , as he is called by almost every West Virginian , will be the first Rockefeller and first resident of West Virginia to be President . If that is his goal , so he 's been advised by more than one political savant , his third step toward it ought to be in any direction except the one he now seems to be taking . Governor of West Virginia ? The problems are m , yriad and monumental ; money is scarce ; the legislature is difficult , and the electorate apathetic . There is everything to lose and little to gain directing a state whose electoral wallop lacks the authority of a charging butterfly , But the argument can be turned around : West Virginia having no national punch , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small bearing on his Presidential opportunities . In asking to be governor , Rockefeller is being courageous and principled . A Charleston industrialist and former Republican member of the state Board of Education , Joseph Jefferds , was present recently at a conference Rockefeller held with . four economists . Jefferds told me that the purpose of the whole meeting could be described in a question Rockefeller persistently asked : " What can I do in eight years as governor to help West Virginia ? " In this historically ill-governed state that is a unique approach . At this point ih his political career , Rockefeller can obviously do far more for the ordinary West Virginian by presiding over the state capitol , than by sitting in Congress . If he 's elected governor , he will enter office his own man , largely free of the obligations whereby business , labor , industry and other special interest , groups hobble public servants . Until Rockefeller , for example , the AFL-CIO and the UMW did n't confer , before primaries and elections . Now these two powerful unions , along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ try to work out differences . While preparing an article for his paper 's Sunday magazine , Richard Reeves , who during his years with The New York Times has encountered all manner of American politician , told me that Rockefeller was " the most honest politician " he had ever met ? " too honest , " he added , " for his own good . " Reeves was one of those who thought that Rockefeller should n't run for governor , and that was at a time he looked to be a shoo-in . Ironically , with Arch Moore for an opponent  --  but no one else ? Rockefeller may be forced , for the next four years anyway , to take the advice of the many persons who cautioned him against being governor . What then ? I asked him that question . As a West Virginian who thinks that the state is lucky to have him , I was happy to hear him say that he intends to live here , no matter what happens politiCally . That means that this state 's Democratic Party , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horseman 's sense of the word , will have to take Rockefeller and his machine into account . That way it may learn what real public service is all about . ?                     