@@315968

Back in November 1969 , President Nixon and Japan 's Prime Minister Eisaku Sato agreed to move toward an agreement that would let Okinawa-occupied by the U.S. since 1945-revert to Japan in 1972 . Nixon understood from Sato that in return the Japanese would formally consent to a limitation on the flow of synthetic textiles into the U.S. Nixon had promised in his presidential campaign to limit textile imports from Japan , so it seemed a good deal for the U.S. Moreover , Sato needed Okinawa to placate his anti-American opponents in the Diet , and the U.S. needed Sato as a solidly pro-American political leader in Japan . But then the woof got warped . <P> Because protectionism seemed good politics in a congressional election year , throughout 1970 the Administration , joined mainly by Southern textile magnates and their friends in Congress , pressed hard for a bill that would impose import quotas on textiles . House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Wilbur Mills , Arkansan and free trader , feared that any such law would wind up as a Christmas-tree bill for protectionists eager to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Official negotiations with the Japanese had ended , so early this year Mills began private bargaining-with the Administration 's knowledge-that resulted in a unilateral Japanese agreement to limit textile shipments to the U.S. ( TIME , March 22 ) . <P> Letter of Intent . Mills was understandably pleased with himself , but his smile soon froze . Nixon has been exasperated by Democrat Mills ' opposition to the Administration plan for sharing federal revenues with the states ; he also resents Mills ' undertaking personal diplomacy in the Japanese textile matter , though both Secretary of State William Rogers and National Security Assistant Henry Kissinger favored Mills ' unorthodox solution . No good , said Nixon , who reportedly feels that the restrictions obtained by Mills do not protect U.S. textile interests sufficiently . Now Nixon 's men think they have found a way around Mills . <P> It turns out that two weeks ago-two days after Mills got his agreement from the Japanese-Secretary Rogers sent the Senate Foreign Relations Committee a " letter of intent , " reporting that the President would soon submit a proposed treaty covering the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive agreement , which would not require any Senate action . Now reversion-like any treaty-will require a two-thirds majority of the Senate , and there are enough textile-state Senators to make passage difficult unless the Sato government makes a binding bilateral agreement to cut down on textile shipments to the U.S. " We are not trying to sandbag the Japanese with this , " a White House staffer insists . Perhaps Nixon is only trying to sandbag Mills , but he may hit Sato as well . That could be dangerous . In the unlikely event that reversion of Okinawa collapses because Nixon has tied it to textiles , Sato could fall as a result . But there is still plenty of room for all sides to maneuver before any such crisis could come about .                     