@@494924

Overseeing the Secret Services The principle of accountability to the public is at the heart of representative government . But it is a difficult principle to apply when those to whom broad authority has been delegated are shielded from public scrutiny . In these instances it becomes all the more important that shielded officials understand and observe the restraints a free society imposes on all officers of government . That applies particularly to the directors of our intelligence and investigative organizations ? the Federal Bureau of Investigation , the Central Intelligence Agency , the National Security Agency and the Secret Service ? and to a lesser extent to the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff . These men do not stand for election , do not have to defend or even explain their performance , nor are they subjected to continual , detailed public questioning by Congress or the press . Because they are not openly accountable day to day , they can command public confidence only when the public believes they have respect for the limits of power and are men of integrity and intelligence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The task of ensuring that enormous grants of authority to public servants who work mostly undercover are not misused rests with the executive branch , which directs the immediate work of these officials , and with the legislative branch , which has responsibility for what is called " oversight . " Given the disillusioning " oversight " record of the Nixon administration , it is primarily the Congress that is now expected to be the guardian of the clandestine guardians of our security . The congressional performance has heretofore not been one from which the public can take comfort . Although the Senate and the House each have had CIA oversight committees for years , they have been blind defenders rather than sharp questioners . For the 40 years that J. Edgar Hoover was its director , the FBI went its way with almost no congressional or Justice Department control . Hoover 's only regular appearance on Capitol Hill each year was before a House Appropriations subcommittee , where for half a day he would rattle off statistics and stories about the bureau 's " amazing " accomplishments . Allegations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in those sweetheart sessions , and no other congressional committee ever summoned the FBI chief to testify . Within the past year , however , news of FBI misconduct has surfaced from within the post-Hoover bureau . First there was the disclosure of 17 so-called " national security " wiretaps of newsmen and government officials . More recently details of a massive 15-year " counter-intelligence " program initiated by Hoover on his own authority came to light . Using a variety of techniques including forgery , the bureau had tampered with and attempted to destroy organizations and individuals engaged in " new left " activities that Director Hoover determined were contrary to the best interests of the country . And last week William Sullivan , once the number two man in the FBI who quit because he believed Hoover was getting too soft on Communists and radicals , submitted an extraordinary paper to an American Trial Lawyers Foundation conference . Sullivan wrote that " the FBI , as it is now structured , is a potential threat to our civil liberties .. . To be candid , " he added , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue nor was it an impediment to solving cases . It mattered not whether electronic devices or other techniques were used . . . The issues were black and white and crystal clear . The primacy of civil liberties on occasions gave way to expediency . " Given these disclosures , what has Congress done to put new vigor into its supervision of the bureau ? In the wake of the Senate Judiciary Committee 's confirmation hearings on former acting FBI Director L. Patrick Gray , chairman James Eastland last year set up an FBI oversight subcommittee with himself as chairman . One researcher was hired and the subcommittee ? using the part-time assistance of one committee aide ? talked about holding hearings on the controversial intelligence operations . The impeachment hearings brought that endeavor to a halt . Then , this May , FBI Director Clarence Kelley and Attomey General William Saxbe asked to meet with Eastland subcommittee to discuss a sensitive devel. ment . Thanks to a freedom of information laws brought by newsman Carl Stem , the FBI was bei pressed to disclose details of Hoover 's counterinte @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kel gave Eastland and Sen. Hruska , the subcommitte ranking Republican , the details of a Justice Departrn study of " cointelpro " and suggested the subcommit make the study public and hold hearings . ( To Saxi much in the Hoover program was " abhorrent in a 1 , society . " ) Eastland and Hruska declined the sugg tion and encouraged Saxbe to keep the whole thi quiet . Word of the cointelpro study reached members the House Judiciary Committee , who were at t time struggling with the problem of FBI oversig House Judiciary chairman Peter Rodino ? up to I ears in impeachment ? showed no interest , howev refused to be briefed on cointelpro by Saxbe and tun- , the responsibility over to a subcommittee headed Rep. Don Edwards , who , though a former FBI age has been critical of intelligence operations . Meanwh a second House Judiciary subcommittee chaired another FBI critic , Rep. Robert Kastenmeier ( D , Wisc was interested in what clandestine agencies are ur Fifteen separate bills sponsored by 50 members hi been introduced in the House dealing with natior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been pressing the FBI for detai Faced with the prospect of giving bureau files to tl GAO , cointelpro information to the Edwards subcor mittee , and facts about national security wiretapping to the Kastenmeier group , the bureau balked , refused both subcommittees any information . It began negotiating with the GAO over what it would or would not make available to congressional auditors . On Saturday , November 16 Saxbe and Kelley asked for a meeting with Edwards and the ranking Republican on his subcommittee , Rep. Charles E. Wiggins . The cointelpro report was to be handed newsmen that day and the congressmen were to get a private briefing on it ? three months after they first sought it . To add insult to injury , the cointelpro story appeared in a Washington newspaper before the private briefing could take place . The congressmen were furious and demanded a public appearance before their subcommittee the following week . It was pique that prompted calling that meeting . And it was pique that brought FBI Director Kelley , Deputy Attorney General Lawrence Silberman and Assistant Attorney General Henry Petersen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort at the start by subcommittee Republicans to close the hearing to the public and press failed , but only after a confused argument . Subcommittee chairman Edwards regarded the public session as a way of getting FBI Director Kelley and his Justice Department bosses on record opposing the reinstatement of cointelpro by the bureau . Reps . Charles Rangel and Robert McClory wanted to know why this group or that was singled out for investigation and infiltration . Rangel wanted to know which black groups were targets ; McClory thought he might want to see if the individuals involved were as dangerous as they had been described in bureau reports . Rep. Jerome Waldie asked for the names of " friendly media sources " to whom stories were given that would be injurious or embarrassing to groups under FBI scrutiny . Rep. Robert Drinan asked Silberman whether the Justice Department planned to inform individuals whose economic livelihoods were deliberately damaged by the FBI . Silberman , whose department had already discussed the inevitability of civil suits arising from cointelpro , refused an immediate answer . What should FBI oversight entail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials agree there should be a congressional role , but they have n't defined it . Congress as a whole has no idea what it wants . Senators balked at doing anything after being told of cointelpro ; FBI critics in Congress would probably hesitate if asked to clear controversial bureau operations in advance . William Ruckelshaus , who served briefly as FBI director , believes that Congress ? either through established subcommittees or through a new , joint House-Senate committee ? must get more deeply into the work of the bureau , for law enforcement officials left on their own ? particularly left to undertake a wide range of covert activities ? are bound to do things they should not . Congressional Record The 93rd Congress lurches toward adjournment with a large baggage of unfinished business on its back and little chance of unloading it before the session ends on January 3 . The sudden burst of activity since members returned from the election recess is a traditional endof-season attempt to get something done , and in some cases to make certain one 's committee is n't left holding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The real achievements have been few and uncontroversial . After the elections an emboldened Congress easily overrode President Ford 's vetoes of the Freedom of Information Act amendments and the vocational rehabilitation bill . The first of these sets deadlines within which government agencies must answer requests for documents , and the second provides another year of funding for federal rehabilitation programs . Even Republicans said that Mr. Ford was ill-advised to veto such popular bills as these . Since coming back to the capital , the legislators have also passed two new bills , one giving the Environmental Protection Agency power to set safe drinking water standards and another authorizing $12 billion in federal expenditures on mass transit . The transit bill , to be signed soon , is unlike its predecessors in that it permits up to four billion dollars to be spent over the next six years in federal subsidies for systems now in operation . Earlier bills have paid only for construction . It may be the only benefit the oil producing nations have conferred on us , for mass transit . The plan is basic to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alternative of riding the bus or subway , they ca n't be expected to drive a great deal less . Yet this necessary piece of legislation was nearly snuffed out in a domestic squabble . Remarkably , though the bill had been endorsed by the President , the Senate and leaders of both parties in the House , it could not be brought to the floor for weeks . The delay is a tribute to the power of committee chairmen . The House Public Works Committee , which drafted a nearly identical bill months before , became furious when it saw that its formulae were being " plagiarized " by another committee and grafted onto the bill approved by the Senate and urged upon Congress by the President . Senior members of Public Works reportedly threatened to withhold favors ( federal public works funds ) from districts whose representatives endorsed the plagiarized bill . Pressure from the White House later pried it loose . Two important pieces of legislation that still have a fair chance of passing are the Foreign Trade Act and reform of the Sherman Antitrust Act . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both the Senate and House . The President wants action on it before Christmas and will probably get it . It 's the first of its kind likely to pass in 20 years and will increase corporate fines for violation of the Sherman Act from a maximum of $50,000 to one million dollars and raise the maximum prison sentence for individuals from one to three years , making the crime a felony . Delayed for months because of Russia 's restrictive emigration policies , the Foreign Trade Act also appears to be on its way . It was released from the Senate Finance Committee in November after the USSR promised to let more Russian Jews emigrate . But even if the bill is approved , technical differences between the House and Senate versions will take time to smooth over , and time may run out . One of the prickliest pieces of legislation is the strip-mining bill . Work on it began three years ago , but Senate and House conferees have n't been able to reach a compromise since they began negotiations last August . At this writing the conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pass , or pass too late to escape a pocket veto by President Ford . In general the bill would for the first time set federal standards on strip mining of government land and require states to come up with similar standards elsewhere . Mining companies would have to restore stripped areas to their original contour , and stripping would be forbidden on land that ca n't be reclaimed . Conference talks have snagged on how landowners should be compensated for property that overlies federally owned coal . Some argue that ranchers and other homesteaders should be guaranteed the right to hold onto their land even though the government owns the coal underneath and wants to sell it to mining companies . Others say that requiring coal operators to get written consent from these landowners will only encourage speculators to buy property that overlies coal beds and hold it out for high ransom . Even environmental groups are not of one voice on the question , because they realize that if the bill runs aground on " written consent , " there will be no strip mine regulation and lawmakers will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programs already said to be out of the running are national health insurance , no-fault auto insurance , a national consumer protection agency , foreign aid ( an emergency extension will be substituted ) and the President 's ill-received energy-economic package . One that has shown unexpected vigor in the last two weeks , however , is tax reform . House Ways and Means , chaired by Rep. Wilbur Mills ( D , Ark. ) , suddenly after the election reported out a piece of a bill the committee has been working on for more than a year . It would , among other things , phase out the oil depletion allowance , impose a windfall profits tax , and give a tax break to individuals earning less than $1600 . If it passes the House it must still run the gauntlet of the Senate Finance Committee , chaired by Russell Long ( D , La. ) , a champion of independent oil and , ipse dixit , of the depletion allowance . An oil tax bill that suits him probably would not suit his fellow committeemen ? Mondale , Ribicoff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that limited agricultural supplies and inflation preclude increasing the amount of US food for the world 's hungry by a million tons , as recommended by Sens . Humphrey , Clark and McGovern . If that is true , which we doubt , why not reorder the priorities of our giving : to each according to his need ? Time magazine reports that " nearly half a billion people are suffering from some form of hunger ; ten thousand of them die of starvation each week in Africa , Asia and Latin America . " It is estimated that in Bangladesh , between 50,000 and 100,000 have died since August as a result of famine . The US has promised that country $53.5 million worth of food so far this fiscal year . By contrast the administration has contracted to send three times as much to Indochina ( $82.4 million ) , Egypt ( $68.1 million ) and Chile ( $17.1 million ) . This aid is officially designated as " security supporting assistance . " In 1973 South Vietnam exported 50,000 metric tons of rice . The Agency for International @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Sahel " an estimated 100,000 people have died from drought-related causes and approximately six million people have been affected . " And it says of Bangladesh , " it is estimated that one-half of the total population suffers from protein and caloric malnutrition ' which takes a tragic toll of life among the young . " Sahel and Bangladesh combined this year got $120 million worth of US food . Four times that amount went to South Vietnam and Cambodia , primarily to generate local currencies to bolster the Thieu and Lon Nol war efforts . Food for Peace shipments to Indochina went up by 250 percent this year , food aid for Bangladesh went down from an original request to Congress of $66.3 million to $41.4 million . Cambodia 's seven million people received nearly five times as much food aid as 75 million Bengalis. 99.8 percent of the Food for Peace delivered to South Vietnam came under " Title I , " not " Title II " ? humanitarian aid . That Title I food was placed on the open market , which did little for the destitute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million in 1973 ) was imported by local Chinese merchants who paid the equivalent in local currency to the Lon Nol government for use in paying troops and meeting other war expenses . And despite that aid , a survey of one refugee camp in Cambodia found 31 percent of the children under six suffering from " severe malnutrition , " and over 38 percent from " moderate malnutrition . " Had the administration chosen to reroute the 752,009 tons of rice and wheat that went to Indochina last year to areas like Sahel or Bangladesh , or stockpiled them for possible emergencies , the food would have been sufficient to sustain four million people for a year at DECEMBER 7 , 1974 500 grams a day per person . Congress has been taking a look at this lopsided arrangement and there may be some changes . It has already limited the amount of fertilizer that may be shipped to South Vietnam to $85 million , and the Senate has put a ceiling of $125 million on Food for Peace shipments to South Vietnam . A group of former goy. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warnke , recently condemned excessive food shipments to Indochina and called on the President " to declare as national policy that henceforth humanitarian , not military or political considerations will determine priorities for the distribution of food aid . " As matters now stand , however , 26.6 percent of the administration 's Food for Peace budget is earmarked for Indochina . Rhodes Going Nowhere John Rhodes , minority leader in the House of Representatives , expresses orthodox Republican sentiment when he states that overambitious federal spending is responsible for our economic miseries and that if the country is going to get better , the government is going to have to tighten its belt . But where would the squeeze be felt ? Judging from Rep. Rhodes ' voting record , he would not squeeze the defense establishment , though . it eats up enormous resources , including energy , produces little that can be consumed , and is in excess of what deterrence requires . George Kennan recently referred to this when he told the Senate Foreign Relations committee that " the immense size of the Defense budget and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our national economy have grown to have a distorting effect on national policy . . . Our whole governmental system is militarily topheavy . " How would arresting the increase in federal spending and restraining the growth of the monetary supply ( Rep. Rhodes ' prescription ) counter such trends as these : unemployment up from 4,100,000 in October , ' 73 to 5,513,000 in November of this year , and sure to go higher this month ; unemployment among blacks and other minority races running at 10.9 percent and 16.9 percent among teenagers ; a drop in the Dow Jones average of stock prices from 1005.04 on November 20 , 1972 to 609.59 the same day this year ; a 50 percent increase during the past year of the number of workers collecting unemployment insurance ( more than two million ) ; the fact that only about 40 to 50 percent of the jobless normally collect such insurance , and that millions of workers now face a shortened work week ; a consumer price index rise of 12.2 percent in a year and more than 50 percent over the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for example , where retail sales are up seven percent over the9 last year , but the food stamp lines , according to The Washington Post of November 25 , " have grown so long that some are closed off at 8:30 or 9:00 a.m. so that those already waiting will have a chance to be processed by closing time in the late afternoon ? " If the federal government were to play an even less , aggressive part in the management of the economy , how would the nation weather either its present oil crisis or the longer range challenges of dwindling resources and the need to develop , at great expense , new sources of energy ? Are mounting personal hardships , experienced by the jobless or the aged or the sick , to be remedied by a litany of balancing or trying to balance the federal budget ? How would that affect the 94,000 workers laid off by the auto industry in the week of December 18th , or the 30,000 more to be laid off by General Motors , or the additional 3000 furloughed by Ford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the serious slump in textiles , which in North Carolina resulted in a 6.9 percent unemployment rate during the week ending November 9 ? And has Mr. Rhodes some theory about how to reverse the decline in orders for durable goods  - -  down 7.5 percent over the past 12 months ? Can he tell us how to get the housing industry back on its feet ? Housing starts in September were the lowest since January 1970 . These are not rhetorical questions . We know of no surefire answer that will produce instant full employment without inflation . Nor are we sure that the Democratic majority leader of the House , Carl Albert , has one . He shies away from wage , price and profits contra which now seem to us advisable , or from any mandatory fuel allocation . But at least he is on the right track in suggesting an expanded public service employment program and an improved unemployment compensation system , more public works and public investment , and broad tax reform that would , among other things , cut excess profits of the oil industry . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as that .                     