@@286060

It was a stunning scene . Every time an opposition member stood up in the Indian Parliament to argue against Prime Minister Indira Gandhi 's June 26 state of emergency , almost the entire press corps , including nearly 300 Indian journalists and some of the 75 foreign correspondents , simply stopped writing and put away their notebooks . The reporters were obeying a savage gag rule imposed on them last week by the government in a drastic effort to tighten India 's month-old press control in time for the special parliamentary session . In effect , the rule forced newsmen to censor themselves . <P> By pledging to submit to the rule , the newsmen were signing away their freedom , since the new restrictions made it illegal for reporters to quote opposition speakers , refer by name to any political prisoners , including some 30 jailed opposition members of Parliament , publish anything " likely to denigrate the institutions of the Prime Minister or the President , " or even mention that published material had been censored . In sum , the press was left free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ journalists faced jail if they did not conform to the guidelines , but foreign correspondents , facing only expulsion , resisted . Three Western reporters , Peter Hazelhurst , 39 , Tokyo-based Asian correspondent for the London Times ; Peter Gill , 31 , the London Daily Telegraph 's man in Tehran ; and Loren Jenkins , 36 , Newsweek 's Hong Kong bureau chief , refused to pledge submission and were hustled out of New Delhi at dawn Tuesday on a Beirut-bound Pan Am flight . The New York Times , TIME , the British Broadcasting Corp . and CBS-TV also turned down the pledge . Said Richard Salant , president of CBS News : " If we sign , we are either lying or submitting to their rules for bad journalism . " A few reporters from United Press International , Associated Press , Reuters , the Los Angeles Times , ABC and NBC indicated that they were under orders from home to sign , if necessary , in order to stay on . However , most protested to Chief Censor Harry D'Penha . Replied D'Penha with Alice in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We are trying to establish a basis of confidence . " <P> Charade 's End . The pledge ostensibly ended the subtle charade that foreign reporters had concocted to evade the government 's jerry-built censorship . For a month some overseas journalists in New Delhi had escaped the censor 's leaden fist by telephoning or telexing their copy direct to their home offices , or by flying out of the country to file from Beirut or Bangkok and then flying back a few days later . The Indian government , while it barred distribution of some foreign publications like TIME and Newsweek , tolerated the practice .                     