@@491369

Medicine and Mao The compelling doctrine in China at the time of this visit was a total national obligation to implement the teachings or policies of Mao Tse-tung . Following his successful reaffirmation of the authority of these policies ( the Cultural Revolution ) in the late 1960s , the entire system of medical care and medical teaching has been changed and no longer can we use our Western terms and concepts to define what is the current , vigorously enforced health program in China . Among these major changes was the requirement that Western or modern medicine as we know it must be fully integrated with traditional Chinese medicine . Traditional Chinese medicine implies the full range of diagnosis and therapeutics based upon classic teachings of several thousand years , including pulse feeling , tongue observation , meticulous interrogation , a vast therapeutic variety of remedies of herb , mineral , and animal origin . mo xa , and acupuncture . The widespread acceptance has been made clear by recent reports by Snow and Horn , and it is estimated that fully 90 percent of the medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numbers , according to Snow , this becomes 400,000 physicians dispensing 90 percent of the health care for 800 million people . The attempt to merge the two systems is now fully underway . The medical school treats the two schools of thought as one , and the new curriculum begun ( subsequent to the Cultural Revolution ) in December 1970 exposes the student to anatomy , physiology , and biochemistry as we know these subjects , but equally teaches him knowledge of the full range of traditional medicine . It is important to understand that this is not simply a polite accommodation but a political require*To preserve the author 's use of medical terminology , a brief vocabulary appears on page 74. ment , and traditional medicine is now a formal component of the curriculum with faculty and departmental representation . This coordination is carried out similarly at all levels in the health-care system . All hospitals  --  teaching , special disease , provincial , municipal , factory , army , or commune  --  offer medical care through a combination of Western and traditional medicine . This program is still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their moments of friction . However , under my most critical questioning , the Western-trained Chinese physicians consistently endorsed this program and the therapeutic me rits of their traditionally trained colleagues . Recognizing that the obligation to work together is an official requirement , one may suspect that the enthusiasm of the modern-trained physician simply reflects his sane acceptance of the reality of the situation . However , as one observes the full program , it seems that the two practices of medicine are indeed working together and favorably influencing each other . The traditional physician has a major role in the outpatient clinic , is called in consultation on the inpatients , and in many hospitals has his own inpatient service . Every hospital maintains a large herb pharmacy and employs crude root , bark , leaf methods of extracting , and decocting . Acupuncture is uniformly available and prescribed . A rough but approximate appraisal would be that , for hospital patients , the diagnosis is based upon Western methods and therapy is a full combination of both schools . Further evidence of the scope of this national policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese National Academy of Science . This very respected organization and its highly trained staff of pharmacologists and chemists have reorganized their research program following the Cultural Revolution . They are working with the traditional doctors on the one hand , and the pharmaceutical companies on the other , to analyze and identify active ingredients in the immense array of traditional drug treatment and , when indicated , to get a calibrated , identified product on the market . In this report I can not make a personal appraisal of the results of this particular work , but came away from my experience with a definite respect . Repeatedly , competent Western physicians spoke with enthusiasm of new medications resulting from this new program . Internists and surgeons , publicly and privately , gave examples of specific treatment for appendicitis , rheumatic fever , , blood dyscrasias , hypertension , etc. , which they had learned from their traditional colleagues . I cite this not as bona fide data but to alert us to the potential of this program in which traditional lore is combined with Western scientific methods . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a Chinese herb and its active ingredient . The arena of applied clinical pharmaceutical research now going on in China has an immense potential . Much of it is not research as we know it , but is relatively unstructured day-in and day-out pragmatic clinical trial . One can only hope that the scientific skepticism of Western medicine acts as a filter and that adequate data accumulate for document a ti on . At the time of our visit , the entire effort was still too loosely structured . For example , publication of all Chinese medical and scientific journals has been suspended for a number of years , and national science communication has not yet found a new pattern . Equally , in this initial visit , I could not analyze the role of traditional acupuncture . By this I am referring to the placement of needles at strategic points rigidly defined by texts with 2000 years of authority as specific therapy for either acute or chronic conditions . in a previous article , I described the process essentially as a sim ple , superficial placement of a needle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minutes in duration . At the present in China , I learned that what I had previously described is now identified as the " old " method of acupuncture and that in very recent years a " new " practice has gained acceptance . This new practice relates not only to new points of insertion , and on occasion deeper placement , but also to constant manipulation of the needle . This manipulation of the needle can be described as a rapid up-and-down traverse of the needle over a distance of approximately one-half inch , simultaneous with a rapid to-and-fro twirling of the the needle by the thumb and fingers . The up-and-down motion is at approximately 120 " cycles " per minute . Although I spent one-half day observing this method of therapy as used in the treatment of deafness , I do not have sufficient facts to be accurate in this area . Samuel Rosen , M.D. , an otologist from New York City , also shared this experience at the deaf-mute institute , and specific questions in this area should be directed to him . Other major claims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ para . plegia , ) ileus , migraine , etc. , were vouchsafed by my Chinese Western-trained colleagues , and again I have insufficient data . The instant interruption of an episode of paroxysmal atrial tachycardia in himself was cited by one United States-trained Chinese " modern " physician . Still another " modern " physician emphatically described his personal experiences with migraine , in which'ergot and meperidine hydrochloride ( Demerol ) were ineffective but acupuncture at three specific sites brought relief . As with the herb program , therapeutic acupuncture is now used throughout China in close association with Western scientific method . A great degree of this effort is trial and error ; a great deal of it is plain psychotheraphy for psychosomatic complaints ; a great deal of the traditional method is being added innocuously to well-established Western therapy . In these latter circumstances , the patient is protected perhaps by the safeness of the harmless dosage of herbs and the benign location of the needles . Also in many instances the traditional physician is the respected , trusted physician and the patient is willing to accept his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the two methods , the traditional physician is able tointroduce laboratory and x-ray studies and , when indicated , endorse the presence of his modern colleague . Another control factor is that , by government rule and professional discretion , all herbs and needling methods must be tried first and adequately on the prescriber himself . I have no yardstick for appraising the thoroughness of this self-control Food and Drug Administration , but the presence of such a requirement was cited repeatedly to me by both lay and professional contacts . All of these factors are undoubtedly involved ; yet there is evidently , according to my reliable Chinese Western-trained physicians , also some therapeutic rationale to some phases of acupuncture . This seems true even when tempered by awareness of the immense pressure to comply and participate in the current Mao Thought program which is a fundamental requirement for life in China . There is still another area in which acupuncture has been widely used , and it is this use which I want to describe in considerable detail . I am referring to acupuncture anesthesia . Acupuncture Anesthesia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Reston have described major surgical procedures without evidence of anesthesia as we know it . It was this area of acupuncture anesthesia which I especially appraised and which my hosts made special efforts to clarify . Experiences at K wa ngtung Provincial People 's Hospital , Canton , China  --  On Sept. 16 , at the 700-bed Kwangtung Provincial People 's Hospital , Canton , China , we were invited to watch and study three operation s . Six patients were on the surgical schedule for the morning ; three procedures were to be done with the patient under acupuncture anesthesia . We were given masks , caps , slippers , gowns , and full freedom of the surgical amphitheaters . Patients ' charts and x-ray films were at hand . Logically , the charts were in the Chinese language . However , the format was completely international  --  history , results of physical examination , medication orders , temperature , pulse , and respiration sheet , laboratory reports , x-ray film reports , electrocardiograms , and consultation opinions . Laboratory determinations were in Arabic numerals . Medication dosages and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available . I realize that , for the initiated , the following // case histories will be repetitious but because these were my first experiences , I will describe these three cases in some detail . Case 1 . ? This patient was a forty-year-old man with a large nontoxic adenoma of the thyroid . On the night before surgery he had received at bedtime 400 mg of ? meprobamate ( Midtown ) . There were no preoperative medications . The patient walked into the operating room , took off his pajama top , retaining the pants , and stretched out on the operating table . One stainless steel acupuncture needle was inserted in the extensor aspect of each forearm , at a point approximately 4 inches proximal to the wrist , at a depth of 1 to 1% inches , between the radius and sulna . This point was carefully selected and identified as the most effective for anesthesia in thyroid surgery . A small clip was attached to the shaft of each needle and then connection made to a direct current battery power unit delivering 9 volts at l05 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current , or circuitry could not be supplied by the anesthetist . An intravenous drop of 5 percent dextrose was begun and to it was added 50 mg of ' meperidine hydrochloride . Typing and crossmatching had been done . During a twenty-minute " induction " period surgical preparation and draping were done . No other anesthetic agent was added . The patient remained fully conscious and normally alert . He advised me , through the interpreter , that he was noting numbness and tingling of both hands ; no motor change occurred . After twenty minutes surgery began and a skillful team moved rapidly through the operating procedure . At one point the patient took a sip of water . A large adenoma , approximately 2 cm by 3 cm in size , was removed and the wound closed . The patient sat up , had a glass of milk , held up his little red book , and said in a firm voice : " Long live Chairman Mao and welcome American doctors . " He then put on his pajama top , stepped to the floor , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? The second patient was a slender fiftyyear-old man with a nonhealing ulcer of the lesser curvature of the stomach . The procedure was to be asgastrectomy . This patient had not had medication at bedtime the previous night . He was given 60 mg of meperidine hydrochloride in 500 cc of 5 percent dextrose during surgery . Acupuncture anesthesia was introduced by placing four stainless steel needles in thespinna of each ear at carefully identified points . Again the needles were connected to a phasic direct current battery source , this time delivering 6 volts at 150 cycles per minute . Again the patient remained awake , alert , and chatted throughout the procedure . A subtotal gastric resection was done again by skillful surgeons , scrubbed , gowned , and disciplined thoroughly in modern or Western surgical practice . This patient required no additional anesthesia but did note some sensation associated with visceral traction . Case 3 . ? This patient was a woman , thirty-five years old , suffering from , thyrotoxicosis . Her principal preoperative medication was Lugol 's solution and she received an intravenous drip of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was added to an intravenous drip . Acupuncture stainless steel needles were placed in each forearm . These needles were not connected to an electrical source but instead were each hand-manipulated in the manner described above throughout the operation . After twenty minutes of up-and-down plus twirling motion , the neck incision was made and the subtotal thyroidectomy done without further medication . The patient remained relaxed and talked with a technical assistant throughout the procedure . The wound was closed and the patient walked away from the surgery . Following these three operations , we had a detailed conversation with Chen Tseg-ming , M.D. , Chief of Anesthesia . Dr. Chen is a modern or Western-trained anesthetist and has responsibility for the selection of appropriate anesthetic agent for all operations at this 700-bed hospital . During the lengthy question and answer period , he made the following points : They have now used acupuncture anesthesia as the anesthetic choice in 1500 cases . The " success rate " in these 1500 patients is 90 percent . By this , he meant that sufficient anesthesia was obtained with only the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the remaining 10 percent , there was either a breakthrough in pain or insufficent muscle relaxation , and additional agents were needed . In 504 consecutive cases of thyroidectomy , acupuncture anesthesia had been used with a 98 percent success , in terms of being the chief vehicle used for anesthesia . The first use in this hospital was in 1959 and , originally , only manual manipulation of the needle had been used . The introduction of phasic electrical stimulation was of recent origin . The electrical stimulation was solely to replace the manual burden on the acupuncturist . For example , certain surgical procedures required eight needles and the actual manpower requirement for manual manipulation of this array of needles had complicated the use of the procedure . The introduction of the electrical stimulation had thus been a major laborsaving assist . The degree of rate of anesthesia was similar , whether hand manipulation or electrical stimulation was used . Dr. Chen did not want us to think that he was a proponent of " needleism . " By that , he wanted to make clear that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ block , and inhalation anesthesia . These he used when appropriate . He pointed out that of the six cases on today 's schedule , only three used acupuncture anesthesia . Acupuncture anesthesia was least satisfactory when used in abdominal surgery because traction upon the viscera might produce definite uneasiness and , also , strong abdominal muscles did not become sufficiently relaxed . In slender patients , as with the above-mentioned patient who underwent gastrectomy , and with gentle surgical technique , acupuncture anesthesia was adequate , however . Throughout surgery , the anesthetist carefully watched all the usual measurements and maintained pulse rate and blood pressure records . Careful observation and conversation with the patient gave guidance as to the need for additional anesthetics . No attempt was made to " push " acupuncture anesthesia . Dr. Chen was simply convinced that it was a preferable form for obtaining patient comfort . He said that the merits of acupuncture anesthesia are the following : It is absolutely safe ; there is no interruption with the patient 's hydration . The patient can still receive fluid and foods . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and readily available . Chinese traditional physicians , skilled in acupuncture , added to the medical manpower available . For example , in the case of the third patient , the " anesthetists " were Chinese traditional physicians . The procedure produces no lowering of blood pressure and is a very effective agent for debilitated or weakened patients . There are no post-procedure respiratory tract complications . Although the degree of anesthesia is greatest for the specific surgical site selected , there is also a generilized increase in pain threshold . This is useful because if a cut-down is needed or a stab wound drain placed , the surgeons can readily proceed without administering additional anesthesia . To our question of how the acupuncture sites were chosen ( both ears for gastrectomy ) , Dr. Chen replied that the sites were essentially those that had been traditionally established on the ancient acupuncture charts but that they were now also identifying new locations . Adequate anesthesia could be maintained indefinitely . He had had experience on difficult cases ( brain tumor ) of up to six hours . The duration of anesthesia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the patient had distressing incisional pain , a brief reinsertion and manipulation would be used during convalescence . Decision to use acupuncture anesthesia depended upon the full enthusiasm and acceptance by the patient . If the patient was very tense and frightened , they simply went ahead with a general anesthetic because it was not fair to the patient to have him alert and conscious during the surgical procedure . Did he believe there was any element of hypnotism or autosuggestion involved ? He laughed and said , " obviously not . " The method was being used in every hospital in China by literally thousands of physicians and upon hundreds of thousands of patients . Did we think everyone was hypnotized ? If a patient with a severe fracture came to the emergency room , acupuncture anesthesia was routinely used , as they had found a much-decreased incidence of shock . Such patients had no prior discussion with the anesthetist , thus , there was no opportunity for autosuggestion . Did he have any explanation for the mechanism of action ? He did not have any fully satisfactory answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ viewpoint , the total safety of the procedure and now more than twelve years of dependable results had made a scientific explanation not too important . Incidentally , did we know how aspirin works ? Experiences at Third Teaching Hospital , Peking Medical College , Sept. 23 . ? This primary teaching hospital was built in 1958 . It has 606 general medicine and surgery beds . There is a staff of 600 . Since the Cultural Revolution , there has been a full coordination of modern Western medicine and traditional Chinese medicine . A prime example of this is acupuncture anesthesia . The physician responsible for acupuncture anesthesia is a modern , Western-trained physician , Chou Kuang-han . This institution has used acupuncture anesthesia since 1958 and to date has used it in 4900 cases . It is used almost routinely as the anesthetic of choice in operations on the eye , nose , throat , in " thoracotomy , cesarean section , ' craniotomy , limb surgery , and dental extraction . It is frequently used in abdominal surgery but in heavily muscled men may not provide adequate muscle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acupuncture anesthesia , was as follows : case 1 , woman , age forty years ; tumor in left frontal cerebral lobe , lobectomy planned ; condition of patient very poor ; case 2 , man , age sixty-nine years ; removal of senile cataract , left eye ; case 3 , man , age thirty-two years ; unresolved pulmonary tuberculous lesion in left upper lobe , lobectomy planned ; case 4 , woman , age thirty-one years ; lefbovarian cyst , removal planned ; case 5 , man , age fifty years ; chronic , recurrent appendicitis , appendectomy planned ; cases 6 and 7 , multiple tooth extractions . We changed into surgical clothes and then observed the anesthesia induction and surgery on these seven patients . I will describe three in detail . Case 1 . ? The patient with brain tumor had received phenobarbital sodium , 0.1 gm , and.atropine at bedtime the night before surgery . Mannitol , 20 percent , 250 ml , was administered to decrease intracranial pressure . Three acupuncture stainless steel needles were inserted subcutaneously . The first one was at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the second was behind the left ear ; the third was at the vertex of the cranium inserted obliquely , right and anterior . Finally a metal plate approximately 4 x 4 sq cm was attached to occiput and a biphasic pulse generator was attached to it and the needles . This instrument delivered 9 volts , from 120 to 180 cycles per minute . The patient was conscious but very weak . No other anesthesia was used . Respirations , pulse rate , and blood pressure were carefully monitored and recorded . Burr holes , craniotomy , and lobectomy were carried out uneventfully . Case 3 . ? This patient was of special interest as he was a modern , Western-style thoracic surgeon . Throughout his surgery , it was possible to visit with him and query him as to sensation and impression . A single injection of 10 mg of morphine sulfate was placed deep , at a recognized critical acupuncture site just posterior and inferior to left mandibular joint . One single acupuncture needle was placed in the left arm , at a point approximately mid-way between wrist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A Chinese female traditional physician maintained steady up-and-down , to-and-fro rotation manipulation of this needle throughout the hour-long operation . A thoracotomy incision on the left side , rib-spreading , dissection , ligature , and removal of the left upper lobe was smoothly carried out . The pat ient-physician was comfortable but constantly querying his surgical colleagues as to how the procedure was going and what they were finding . At the midpoint , everyone rested for a few moments while the patient ate some fruit . When the lobe was removed and free , it was promptly shown to him and briefly discussed . We watched his face carefully as the incision was made and when the pleura was incised , but there was no wincing or facial change . His pupils remained equally contracted throughout the procedure . No other form of anesthesia was used except the single , manipulated , forearm needle and the 10 mg of morphine sulfate . Case 4 . ? Phenobarbital sodium , 0.2 gm , had been given prior to surgery . The acu-puncture needle locations were complicated but essentially in two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each side of the spine , approximately 3 cm lateral to the third lumbar vertebra . These needles were placed fairly deeply but obliquely  --  a full 3 inches of needle length . They were then connected to a 9-volt direct current . The current was adjusted until regional muscle twitching could be seen . The patient complained of some dis-comfort and the cycles per minute were slowed from about 180 to 120 per minute . Next , three needles were placed in each lower limb , one at about the midpoint of the lower leg , slightly medial , the second on the back of the foot at approximately the site of the midpoint of the third metatarsal , and the third at the medial side of the juncture of the big toe to the foot . Identical place-ments were made in both lower limbs , and these were then connected to a 9-volt unit , separate from the one stimulating the needles in the back . Scopolamine , 0.3 mg , was then injected , half at each site , at certain acupuncture sites in the tower Continued on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right and left legs . This was described as a very efficacious site for this injection . ( This was one of several times that I observed this rationale . In a case of  --  nodal bradycardia , isoproterenol was injected at a wrist point ; in the above-cited thoracotomy morphine was placed at a critical acupuncture point . ) Over a period of some minutes , the rate of discharge and amount of regional muscle contractions were regulated essentially by seeking the amount that was compatible with patient comfort . The final adjustment in the limbs was 9 volts , 0.25 amps , 120 cycles per minute . After ten minutes the abdominal incision was made and an ovary removed , with the patient chatting throughout with the anesthetist . During visceral manipulation the patient complained of pain and procaine hydrochloride ( Novocain ) was instilled locally into the peritoneal cavity . An acupuncture needle was also placed in the ear . The operation proceeded . Following this , we had a long question-and-answer period with Dr. Chou . We asked for more details concerning the electrical current characteristics . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he was just an anesthetist , not an electronic specialist . He could say that their units were direct current , 9 volts , and 0.5 amperes . The discharge rate could be varied from 120 to 180 cycles per minute ; he assumed the contour of the wave form was a sine wave . We asked how the anesthetist knew if he had placed the needles at the right point and depth . He said ( and this same description was given at all seven institutions visited ) that the patient feels a " numbness , distension , heaviness , and hotness " at the site , and if the wrist is needled , for example , this sensation would extend into the hand . Patients occasionally were slightly sore at the needle site following surgery . Moderate'ecchymosis sometimes was seen . Dr. Chou had used acupuncture not only for anesthesia but for pain relief in patients with renal and binary colic and with toothache . He had not done research to determine the basic mechanisms but knew that there are two schools of thought , one , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the traditional channels as described by ancient Chinese acupuncture medicine are involved . He had made some observations . For example , following acupuncture anesthesia , there was some ) leukocytosis , and a faster circulation time . There was no temperature rise . The material of the needles ( steel , gold , silver ) was not important . Procaine injection at the acupuncture site did not produce anesthesia at the distant point . ProCaine infiltration widely around the acupuncture site did block the distant anesthetizing effect ; he considered this as evidence for a neural pathway . He had studied paired dogs , equally bled , and he was convinced that the dog which received acupuncture at the appropriate site would recover , while the untreated dog would die in shock . This study had not yet appeared in print . In cat , dog , and rat they had found that appropriately placed acupuncture could produce sleep and a sleep **28;3236;TOOLONG . Dr. Chou said that he , as well as practically every Western-trained physician that he knew , had been thoroughly skeptical of acupuncture anesthesia and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was only after repeated personal clinical experiences that he became convinced . Gradually , through guidance from his traditional associates , he had learned how to carry out the procedure , where to insert the needles , and what its limitations were . He believes that it is simply a method that Western physicians must now recognize and that the results of basic research explaining the rationale would be available soon . Peking Medical College , Sept. 24 . ? On this date we met with the faculty of this school and reviewed some of the class work in the schools of pharmacy and of medicine . We also met with two men involved in some research efforts to understand acupuncture . The work is being done along essentially three lines . First , they were conducting a study of the possible existence of some anatomical structure which would explain the traditional channels or meridians . A report from Korea had been checked by sending a team there , but they had been unable to confirm the Korean finding of a group of specially staining cells which seemed to be grouped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ using electro physiological techniques in rabbits , and by peripheral pain stimulation had produced a standard " induction voltage " in the cerebral cortex of 1 to 2 mm in height . Acupuncture w hen placed appropriately had proved to lower this cerebral induction voltage substantially , even though the painful stimuli application continued . They felt their preparation confirmed that acupuncture anesthesia did change the quantity of pain stimuli reaching the brain . Using humans and a standard stimulation of the tooth as the pain stimulus , they had found evidence that the recognized " t both " acupuncture anesthesia point on the back of the hand , near the attachment of the thumb , would effectively eliminate this pain stimulus to the patient . The third research approach was morphological and histological , especially pertaining to the ear . A cadaver study , in which the injection technique was used , had failed to demonstrate any special collection of blood vessels in twenty instances . Howeverolnyelin sheath staining had confirmed groupings of vagal nerve endings in the pinna of the ear . One study , now being done , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endings which when stimulated had changed the " electrical resistance " over the abdomen . They felt they were for the first time getting some suggestion of the possible neural mechanism for acupuncture anesthesia . These two men were Chow Chung-fo of the Acupuncture Department , Peking Medical College , and Dr. Li Chao-te , Department of Histology , Peking Medical College . Conclusion Personal observations made in the People 's Republic of China in September , 1971 , indicate that acupuncture anesthesia has found an accepted place in medical practice in China . Competent modern-trained physicians have accepted this procedure and consider it a definite advance . The stoicism of the Chinese and the current ideological indoctrination play a role but do not seem adequate explanations for the effective anesthesia ; the existence of a neural pathway has not been proved but is suggested . Chinese herbal medicine and " therapeutic " acupuncture are also undergoing intense and vast clinical use and analysis . Today , in China , modern Western medicine and Chinese traditional medicine are obligated to work together and combine their efforts in teaching , research , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the professional travail undoubtedly severe , the therapeutic evidence confusing . However , this immense ongoing applied clinical research may bring useful surprises to the rest of the world . rs This article reprinted by special permission of the author and the Journal of the American Medical Association . copyright Cl 1971 by the A.M.A. Also Illustrations on pages 70 and 72.                     