@@491230

The public is extremely cancer-conscious . However , the unfortunate thing seems to be that awareness does not always lead to sensible precautions . What can we do to convince our citizens to act prudently in a preventive manner so as to avoid cigarette smoking or protect themselves through early detection of certain forms of cancer ? The facts of the matter are that cancer is the second leading cause of death in the United States . It produces almost indescribable physical . psychological , and economic hardship for countless thousands of patients and their families . Cancer will affect 25 percent of the population and it will kill approximately 15 percent of our citizenry . Dr. Frank J. Rauscher , Director of the National Cancer Institute , recently noted that approximately 654,000 new cases of cancer and nearly 350,000 deaths from this disease occurred during 1973 . If the present trend continues , he indicated that by the year A.D. 2000 there will be 1.2 million new victims and approximately one-half million cancer deaths . Dr. Rauscher 's challenge is clear : we must do everything possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that these trends do not continue . In spite of cancer 's frequency , it is rarely understood by patient or even physician . This is an exceedingly complex problem , for what we glibly refer to as " cancer " may be in actuality many different diseases . There are certain ingrained reactions which seem to be the cause of this . To begin with , certain emotional ramifications about cancer are frequently induced early in the patient 's life when it is invariably referred to with repugnancy and in fear-promoting terms . This is understandable , but this stereotype is accentuated throughout life through old wives ' tales and other emotionally charged responses so that in some cases even mention of the word itself can evoke crippling anxiety and apprehension . Soberingly , it is not only patients who respond in this fearful fashion ; many physicians , including those who have devoted their lives to the problem , also experience a sense of alarm and trepidation when the subject becomes personal . Unfortunately , such reactions have contributed in a major way to delay in cancer detection , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this disease which are curable when detected in time . For example , the American Cancer Society has shown that approximately one-third ( over 100,000 ) of the more than 350,000 patients who died of cancer in 1973 could have been saved by earlier diagnosis than was the case . The delay was a major factor in the fatality . Most people simply do n't go to see their doctors for routine cancer detection examinations or at the first evidence of signs and symptoms of cancer . As a cancer researcher , 1 have studied the delay problem among a large number of patients undergoing treatment for breast cancer . These patients were either selected at random or were members of families with a high incidence of cancer . The results of these studies were shocking . Over half of the patients studied had delayed for an inordinate period of time seeing their physicians . This behavior demonstrates that many individuals who know that their personal risk for cancer is increased by delay nevertheless fail to heed early signs and symptoms of this disease . Thus , any discussion of risk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Your awareness of certain risk factors is crucial for rapid and early detection by the family physician to alert you to your specific cancer vulnerability . Certain organs show a high risk for cancer . It is not possible for physicians to perform cancer detection examinations for all vulnerable cancer organs in all patients who come into their offices , and therefore this situation emphasizes the need to distinguish those patients who are probable cancer targets . Risk Factors in Cancer " Cancer risk " is a term characterizing patients who are more likely to develop specific types of cancer , as opposed to risks for their peers in the general population . A " risk factor , " as a general medical term , can he assigned to any category , such as health or life expectancy . In the most simple terms , a drunken driver is more apt to have an auto accident which could result in death or injury to himself or others than is the average sober driver . In the area of cancer , we ascribe risk factors to a variety of circumstances including age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sex , occupation , race , family history , and countless other parameters including habit patterns such as the character and pattern of sexual activities . For example , in the case of cancer of the cervix , a cancer-risk profile emerges as high for the patient who has had early sexual experiences , multiple matings , poor prenatal care , with further accentuation of risk if she is of low socioeconomic background or a member of certain racial or ethnic groups . Similarly , it is widely accepted that middle-aged or older actively smoking males who have been practicing this habit for many years are high-risk lung cancer patients . Women are progressively entering this high-risk lung cancer category as their smoking patterns approach those of males . Cancer risk is increased when the smoker is employed in the asbestos or chromate industries , which involve inhalation of foreign substances . This chart , like any convenient device which keynotes major happenings , is not designed to provide a detailed description and therefore is necessarily incomplete . For example , prostate cancer , a disease of older males , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in order to emphasize the need for its earlier detection , particularly at a presymptomatic stage when there is the best hope for a cure . ( However other lesions of the urological system are also of clinical importance and could profit immensely through earlier detection , but due to space litnitations they have not been included in the chart . Cancer of the urinary bladder , for example , must Continued on page 30 oontinued from page 26 be considered as a possibility whenever an adult patient passes blood in his urine . Cancer of the testicle occurs infrequently ; however , the cure rate for this lesion could be increased significantly through more meticulous examination of this readily accessible area of the body during routine physical examinations . This lesion occurs more frequently in young individuals including children , and therefore it should be diligently searched for in youth . Wilms 's tumor , a form of cancer affecting the kidney , is also a disease of children and youth for which early diagnosis could have a very favorable outlook as a result of recent advances in surgery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found in children through the physician 's careful examination of the abdomen . ) Genetics and Cancer Risk There are several cancers and precancerous disorders affecting humans , which show classic hereditary patterns . These can be divided and classified as follows : a ) Dominant type . where approximately 50 percent of the affected patients ' brothers and sisters are affected and where ( except in the event of a new mutation or alteration in the genetic material ) one of his/her parents will be affected , and both sexes are equally affected . A single gene is involved . b ) Recessive type , where approximately 25 percent of the children born to pairs of unaffected or clinically normal parents but both " carriers " of a single deleterious gene will be affected and will have a double dose of the deleterious gene . Cousin marriages are more likely to involve the parents in recessive disorders , and both sexes are affected . c ) Sex-linked recessive type , where males are usually the ones to be affected and where females may be unaffected " carriers " of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mode as that of the more common forms of hemophilia ( which occurred frequently in certain inbred royal families of Europe ) . Among the dominant conditions with relatively high cancer predispositions , we find certain disorders which I shall have to list in technical terms for the sake of accuracy , which you may care to interpret through discussions with your own doctor if you are interested in learning more . They are the following : von Recklinghausen 's neurofibromatosis ( associated with sarcomas , pheochromacytorna , and brain tumors ) ; familial polyposis coli ( colon cancer ) ; Gardner 's syndrome ( colon cancer ) ; a syndrome comprising a certain type of thyroid cancer , pancreatic cancer , and pheochromocytoma ; and the multiple nevoid basal cell cancer syndrome , in which basal cell skin cancers occur with great frequency , particularly at a young age ( average age of first cancer occurrence about fifteen years ) . Autosomal recessive conditions include Bloom 's syndrome ( leukemia ) , ataxia telangiectasia ( acute leukemia and lymphoma ) ; ChediakHigashi syndrome ( lymphoma ) ; Fanconi 's aplastic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( skin cancers tending to occur at a very early age , particularly when the skin has been exposed to sunlight ) . Sex-linked disorders include the Aldrich syndrome ( leukemia and lymphoma ) ; Bruton 's agammaglobulinemia ( acute leukemia ) ; dyskeratosis congenita ( skin cancer and cancer of mucous membranes ) . These conditions , many of which are exceedingly rare , are cited because of their value in tracing cancer risk : they provide unequivocal examples of the inheritance in certain families of high predispositions to cancer . This does not imply that all individuals with a particular genetic pre-cancerous disorder will necessarily develop cancer . However . when their cancer rates are compared with those from the general population they may be exceedingly high . On the other hand , several commonly occurring cancers affecting human beings appear to aggregate in certain families , but precise inheritance patterns have not been identified . It is preferable to refer to these problems as " familial " aggregations since environmental factors common to the family members , genetic factors , and/or their interactions . may all be important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ risk for an individual is about three times that expected in the general population if he/she has a close relative who was affected . Cancers in this category include those affecting breast , ovary , endometrium , lung , stomach , colon , prostate . testicle , multiple rnyeloma , leukemia , lymphoma . Hodgkin 's disease , and cancer of the nasopharynx . There is no simple way to assess one 's risk for eventually developing cancer . The fact of the matter is that every human being harbors to sonic extent a possible chance for developing cancer . We hope to focus attention upon advances in cancer epidemiology , the science concerned with causal or contributory factors in cancer occurrence , and to relate these to typical patients such as the readers of this article . However , we must use caution when evaluating risk factors since simply because one does not find himself in a specific risk category does not implythat he is not in danger of developing cancer . In other words , what we are attempting to do is to characterize those patients who , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ types of cancer which exceed those found in the general population . Cancer Screening Programs It is difficult to define in precise terms what constitutes a thorough cancer-screening program . Objectives including specific diagnostic tests , may be modified significantly by certain risk factors in each particular patient , including specific habits and occupational exposures . These problems notwithstanding , a practical cancer screening program for the majority of patients should include meticulous examination of the mouth , including the tongue and all surface areas lining the mouth , the throat , and the lips , all portions of the skin of the body , lymph nodes . the neck including the thyroid gland , xeroradiography , thermography and self-examination of the breast , a pelvic examination including Papanicolaou smear , and examination of the colon and recturn with proctosigmoidoscope , and in males careful examination of the prostate gland . The age for beginning certain of these studies will vary in accordance with risk factors in the patient as well as the age when the tumor is more likely to occur . Thus , examination of the rectum and colon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but should an individual have symptoms , the examination should be done at the first evidence of these symptoms regardless of age . The family history may also modify the timeliness of examination . For example , familial forms of colon cancer , such as in polyposis cob may become manifested at a very young age . More detailed examinations , such as a barium enema ( colon X rays ) in search for disease in the large bowel , may be indicated . It would be desirable if every citizen in our country could avail himself of the services of a multiphasic cancer-screening program . In many situations detailed cancer-screening examinations are performed in the private physician 's office . However , in our experience a thorough multiphasic type of can-cer-screening is the exception rather than the rule for the average patient . This is often not the physician 's fault , since in so many areas of the United States the physician is severely over-worked and may barely keep pace with acute illnesses in his practice . He simply can not set aside ample time to perform multiphasic cancer-screening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facilities , though rare , have been utilized for explicit purposes of providing these types of cancer-screening examinations . For example , the Strang Clinic , 55 East 34th Street , New York City , and the Cancer Screening Clinic at the University of Minnesota School of Medi-cine in Minneapolis , are examples of this type of program . Our own group at Creighton University School of Medicine has a multiphasic mobile can-cer detection unit which is sponsored by the American Cancer Society and travels throughout Nebraska performing cancer-screening examinations . In addition , the National Cancer Institute , in conjunction with the American Cancer Society , has become engaged in a program devoted to breast-cancer screening through the organization of more than twenty units throughout the United States which provide some of the most sophisticated methods available posing to skin cancer . Avoidance of cigarette smoking and other forms of tobacco would serve as a major preventive measure against cancer of the lung and oral cavity . To repeat with emphasis the theme of this article : Knowledge of cancer-risk factors could prove beneficial to everyone of us we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more thorough examination in areas where we are most vulnerable . 23 for screening cancer of the breast . However , the total number of programs available make up only a minuscule portion of the true need for cancer screening with the goal being the earliest possible detection of this serious disease . Anyone desiring more information on the availability of cancer-screening programs in their area should consult the American Cancer Society or state and county medical societies . Cancer control is a two-way street involving both patient and physician . The doctor is highly skilled in the diagnosis of cancer of many of the accessible organs of the body . However , the only way he can possibly succeed in his endeavor of improved cancer colitrol is if you , the patient , come to him early , prior to invasion and widespread manifestations of this disease . Finally , in certain circumstances preventive measures can be exercised by patients . This could involve genetic counseling in certain of the hereditary or familial cancer-risk problems . In environmental risks prevention is more practical . To take a few familiar examples @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with fair complexions , particularly those with blond or red hair , freckles , and those of Northern European ; : nd Scandinavian origin , should assiduously avoid excessive sun exposure . In reality all sun worshippers are in jeopardy of developing skin cancer , as are those individuals involved in outdoor occupations where they have frequent exposure to the sun . They should realize that a suntan is not a sign of health ; rather it is the sign of skin overexposed to sunlight . Getting a dark tan year after year will also lead to prematurely aged skin as well as predis- 