@@494684

Friends And Enemies There are rumbles about a dangerous drift in this country toward neo-isolationism . The danger is real , but it is not the Senator Fulbrights who are responsible for it . They do want to pull out of a degrading war in Asia , for that ruinous conflict itself is a major cause of revulsion against any and all foreign entanglements . But the Fulbrights do not want to isolate America from the East or the West . It is not they who , in their dreams , see mankind divided between saved and sinners , choosing for America only the very exclusive company of the former . It is the President of the United States who dreams that dream and is driven by it to withdraw into a contracting circle of " friends . " We had an example of this last May , when the Administration jumped on Henry Ford for having accepted an invitation to visit Russia to discuss building an automobile plant there . It jumped on him because Defense Secretary Melvin Laird claimed that the Russians plotted to use Ford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some trucks might have been shipped to Hanoi ; the Soviet Union does supply North Vietnam . But those supplies are dwarfed 3o to 1 by American aid to Saigon . And anyhow , the Russians wanted the trucks for themselves . Nevertheless , Ford had to abandon its project , and Mr. Ford commented somewhat bitterly that the Soviet invitation had been accepted in good faith , " because it is the expressed policy of the United States government to encourage trade with eastern European countries : " That had been the State Department 's impression , too , which is why it okayed the Ford deal in the first place . But Mr. Laird , not Secretary Rogers , had the ear of the President . In September , Universal Oil of Chicago lost an order to build part of a Polish refinery , because the Administration refused to grant an export license ; Poland trades with our enemy , North Vietnam . Here again , the arrangement had State Department blessing ( the Rumanians received identical American equipment back in 1967 ) , but the Department was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Poles were asking for anything free ( as our " friends " do ) ; nor were they asking to be handed blueprints for the latest US anti-ballistic missile . Why the White House refusal ? What prompts the Administration to bIoi:k even such small steps toward normal trade relations ? And how , given decisions such as these , can the President hope to move from confrontation and toward that era of negotiation ; he promised us in his inaugural address ? ' Indochina , of course , has distorted our perspective ; that is not new . To be a - friend " of Lyndon lohnson was to refrain from open skepticism about his Vietnam operations . But Mr. Nixon 's behavior , and not only toward Communist regimes , suggests that Vietnam is not the full explanation . What we see re-emerging is the Richard Nixon of low , the Cold Warrior . It is not only that the President builds no bridges ; he detonates plans to lay bridges . That could not be his intention ; he could not deliberately be seeking to Foreclose opportunities for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a widening gulf not only between America and what used to be called " the Communist world , " but between America and Europe , America and Africa and Asia , and even much of Latin America . For the world moves , and even the World 's Greatest Power can do little to stop it . Eastern Europe , following Rumania 's lead in io0e , is headed toward full diplomatic relations with ) Vest Germany . France , Italy and West Germany are helping the Polish five-year development plan , a vital component of which is the Plod ( Oil Refinery where the Nixon Administration barred our participation . Fiat is building cars in the Soviet Union and would if it could , happily build the trucks Mr. Ford will not build . The Iron Curtain that has divided Europe has not been dismantled , but it is getting ; to look more and mere like a sieve . And vet , the list of American exports to Communist countries that require licenses under the Trade Administration Act longer than that of any other NATO nation . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NATO allies have much use for the idea of throwing a noose around Castro Cuba 's neck . And no matter how ardently we play on their sympathies ( or their dependence ) , fewer and fewer of our " friends- have any faith in the American determination to - contain " Communist China . Last week , Canada and Italy joined the growing number of nations which have envoys in Peking ; Belgium and Austria are likely to follow . West Germany is already mainland China 's largest trading partner . The barriers erected against China at the door of the United Nations are breaking down . Yet the most the Nixon Administration is willing to concede is that it might not oppose China 's entry to the UN , if Taiwan is not expelled . Meanwhile , Chiang Kai-shek is given another Si ee million worth of arms ; his aging troops cm Taiwan have cost the American taxpayer about $e billion to date ; and Americans still participate in his military rehearsals , named " Forward Thrust , " which are aimed at the mainland . Sometimes the Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ineptness . Thus , its recent snubbing of India , Zambia and Tanzania . The leaders of all three have been critical of our policy in Vietnam . India in particular has called for unconditional withdrawal of US troops . But that is flimsy justification for the cold-shouldering of Indira Gandhi by US officials , both in New Delhi and in New York , when she flew to the United Nations ' .2C th anniversary . And when Mrs. Gandhi declined Mr. Nixon 's invitation to dine at the White House with other government heads , it was not just because of personal pique . The Administration 's resumption of arms to Pakistan fighter and bomber aircraft and other weapons h.as the Indians thoroughly alarmed ; they are unpersuaded that the arms are necessary to prevent Pakistanis getting too chummy with Peking . Pakistan , naturally , will take the aid and go right on backing mainland China 's entry to the United Nations . I laving discombobulated Mrs. Gandhi , Mr , Nixon then pulled last minute switches on the presidents of Zambia and Tanzania . Both Kenneth Kaunda and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the UN meeting . It was the second time in a Year the White Ifouse bad turned down Nverere , and Mr. Nixon was Inc busy campaigning in the South to rind time for Kaunda . China , meanwhile , is building Zambia and Tanzania a railroad ( to employ 14,000 Chinese ) , and is busy elsewhere in Africa , while the Nixon Administration 's policy centers on trying to replace Belgian financial influence in the Congo with Arnelei - and on keeping Ethiopia on " our side . " The US donates Se00. per Ethiopian soldier , compared to per head for economic aid to all the rest of Africa . The United States is far from being alone in the world ; neo-isolation has not gone that far . Spain is to . receive fighter bombers , artillery and American instructors ; the full-scale military aid to Greece that President Johnson halted has been resumed ; Thailand , Laos and now Cambodia get big US subsidies ; we are tied to Thieu-Kv by an investment of around Sioobillion so far , and watch the next two budget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we are buying trouble . The Gag Conies off Kent There was no legal basis for muzzling witnesses or preventing peaceful demonstrations against the county grand jury which indicted 25 persons on riot charges , while clearing the National Guardsmen who killed four Kent State University students last May 4 . So ruled a US District Court in Cleveland November 3 . The order of silence , the court said , had been " overly broad . " It may have been legitimate to ask witnesses not to disclose what they had said or learned in the grand jury proceedings , but it was a violation of the First Amendment to require them to be mute in the face of a one-sided report . That report , said the court , " goes far beyond considerations of the offenses on which the indictments are based " in its criticism of persons who were not indicted ( the president and administration of Kent , professors , students ) , university procedures , and academic freedom itself . The grand jury had not limited itself to indicting or refusing to indict but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " which merit public debate : " If there is a rebuttal to be made to the report , " said the court , " now is the time that it must he permitted . " The Portage County Common Pleas Judge , the District Court implied , had used " an axe when a scalpel is required . " He might reasonably have restricted the size , the route , the time and the location of demonstrations , if he saw in them a " clear and present danger . " He might have insisted on " compliance with local licensing " procedures . But to prohibit only those demonstrations pertaining to the Kent grand jury , constituted " selective discrimination , " illegal prior restraint , and a violation of the right to peaceful assembly . The Cleveland Court thus restored First Amend-indict but had raised " social , political , and moral ment rights to the Soo witnesses . Demonstrations are again legal in Portage County . The President of Kent State , Robert White , had been singled out by the special grand jury as bearing major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His administration had been too " permissive . " In Washington last week , White delivered his long-awaited rebuttal . In a statement remarkably free of personal rancor , White said that " the grand jury report was inaccurate , disregarded clear evidence , and if pursued in all its nuances , would eventually destroy not only Kent State but all major universities in America . The right to dissent is not the right to destroy . The academic community is not to he considered a sanctuary for those who wish to disobey the laws . But neither is the academic community a place where ideas ? no matter how offensive ? are to be suppressed . . . . The comments in the grand jury report about campus speakers are judicially naive as well as fundamentallyunworkable and ultimately undesirable . " But White would not be pushed further . The grand jurors had " made every effort to report honestly , " though they exhibited a " misunderstanding " of higher education . He did not suggest that the Guardsmen who fired the shots should be indicted . He granted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the general public . " White himself is the defendant in several damage suits arising from last May ; his wife " has been through hell " ; a Kent alumnus is demanding his replacement on the grounds that he is a " permissivist libertarian . " It 's a bad time for university presidents . " Someday , " White told a reporter , " I am going to come clear . " Charles de Gaulle Few generals are great statesmen . In our age only three come to mind ? Charles de Gaulle , Kemal Ataturk and Jan Christian Smuts . And of the three , de Gaulle will surely rank first in history , in part because he wrote his own history in magnificent prose as well as deeds . He was , as Montgomery said of him , " a triton among a multitude of minnows in the Western world . " He was a difficult man , because he had strong opinions and the character and leadership to make them stick . He set out to modernize France , and if he did not succeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not the grand design of Washington . Our policy makers envisioned a United States of ( Western ) Europe , tightly tied militarily to the United States of America ; de Gaulle envisioned a Europe " from the Atlantic to the Urals , " but a Europe of sovereign states , with France at least first among equals . He had unshakable confidence in his personal destiny and in the grandeur of France . Yet he willed that he be buried with the greatest simplicity , and it was he who extricated France from empire and saved France from civil war . He had learned from the bitter French experience in Indochina and tried , fruitlessly , to pass along that learning to the United States . He was difficult , but he did not deserve the treatment he received at the hands of the Americans . Franklin Roosevelt ignored and abused him , and Mr. Roosevelt 's successors did little to heal the wounds . The prejudice against de Gaulle was extended to all of France . The Eisenhower Administration might have been a bit more enlightened toward the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Administration apparently had in mind permitting France . to share atomic secrets , putting the French , finally , on the same basis as the British . But that intention was squashed by the Congressional Joint Committee on Atomic Energy , which insisted on writing into a bill to provide for nuclear sharing with the allies , a specification which only the British could satisfy . The Kennedy Administration did no better . Much of former Secretary of Defense McNamara 's famous Ann Arbor address was directed to the need for a tightly controlled , centrally managed NATO deterrent which had to be American . In the course of his exposition , the Secretary condemned the French nuclear effort as expensive , ineffective and stupid . It is not at all remarkable that de Gaulle was so peevish about America throughout the post-war era ; Americans were peevish about de Gaulle . Who Won , Who Lost ? Readers might be interested to know what happened to the 216 peace and new priorities " preferred " candidates for the House and Senate listed in these pages October 24 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just under 53 percent ( 114. winners and 102 losers ) . Ninety-nine of the 216 candidates were incumbents , 117 challengers . Overall , antiwar incumbents were reelected ( with important exceptions including Senators Gore , Tydings and Goodell and Representa- tives Allard Lowenstein and Daniel Button ) . Among preferred incumbent House Democrats , there were 68 winners and two losers . Among 14 House Republicans , 13 winners and one loser . In the Senate , incumbent Democrats did similarly well 12 of 14 NR-recommended candidates were reelected ; of 12 Democratic nonincumbents , four won , S lost . Among 97 nonincumbent Democrats running for House seats , 17 won , So lost ; we listed only one Republican nonincumbent , James W. Shue of New Jersey , and he was defeated . The gist of these figures is that there was great strength in incumbency ; in the main , new priorities and peace candidates already in office were given another term ; for the most part , the challengers were beaten back . Nevertheless a few old faces will be gone ( and not missed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and four new Senators who , in our opinion , show great promise . As a footnote , in seven contests ? two in the Senate and five in the House ? we listed two candidates , so we inevitably scored 5o percent there . In New York , where we listed Goodell and Ottinger , the third man , Buckley , picked up the marbles . In six races we preferred third party candidates ? Liberals and independents . All of them lost . Democratic Unity The split in the Democratic Party looked as formidable as the San Andreas . Rift up until four days before this November election . Then antiwar commandos joined with former Johnson capos to ! end , if not give , their support to Senator Edmund S. Muskie as the party 's spokesman on national television . " Nobody could have brought us together but Richard Nixon , " said Geoffrey Cowan , the young Washington attorney and former McCarthy backer who started it all . Learning that Mr. Nixon would try to squeeze political juice from the San Jose stoning incident , Cowan called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? to suggest that Senator Muskie be encouraged to rebut Nixon on election eve . Califano got in touch with Sam Brown , McCarthy 's youth coordinator in 1968 , who in turn contacted W. Averell Harriman . More Democrats were enlisted , including Harry McPherson , another former Johnson aide , and Jay Rockefeller , a Kennedy type and West Virginia 's Secretary of State . All were convinced Muskie was the man . An ad hoc group , the " Committee for National Unity " ( financed mainly by a repayable loan from former Ambassador Harriman ) , was hastily raised as an umbrella for the group 's efforts . The Muskie machine began preparing ? or the opportunity that would raise the Maine Senator to the rank of undisputed frontrunner for the 1972 Democratic Presidential nomination . Dick Goodwin , itinerant speechwriter and acknowledged as the best in the business , was recruited . Humphrey 's 1968 media man , Robert Squier , handled the taping of Muskie 's 15-minute broadcast . The result juxtaposed Muskie 's calm appeal for common sense with Mr. Nixon 's arm-waving dip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nor Mr. Nixon in worse form ? partly as a result of the Republicans ' selection of a poor tape of a campaign speech to a large crowd in Phoenix . Will the Democrats ' ad hoc coalition stay together ? Probably not . Already , some Muskie loyalists have downgraded speechwriter Goodwin 's contribution to the impressive speech . Cowan , who triggered it all , says he really does n't support Muskie for President . Nevertheless , Muskie is now ao laps ahead of everyone else for the nomination . Which goes to show what the Nixnew power of negative thinking can do .                     