@@488024

Mr. Goldman , professor of economics at Wellesley College and associate of the Russian Research Center , Harvard , is the author and editor of Controlling Pollution : Economics of a Cleaner America ( Prentice-Hall ) , and of the as yet unpublished Environmental Disruption in the USSR ( MIT Press ) . From June to October of this year , at least seventeen international conferences have been called to discuss one or another aspect of pollution . These sessions provide a foretaste of what promises to be the most dramatic of all scientific-political conferences  --  the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment , scheduled for next June 5-16 in Stockholm . Having attended three such warm-up conferences in the last fifteen months , I sense both hope and hazard in the struggle to come to terms with our environment . This duality was particularly apparent last summer at the eight-day International Conference on the Environmental Future , sponsored and arranged by the government of Finland , the Finnish National Commission for UNESCO and the Jyvaskyla Arts Festival  --  with an able assist from the editor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a city remote and apparently untouched by environmental disruption , seemed a strange gathering place for several dozen Jeremiahs , the bUlk of whom were convinced that the death of the planet is near , though each has his own pet theory as to how it will occur and why . However , Jyvaskyla turned out to be a remarkably apt selection : first , because it served to recall how pleasant life can be in a relatively unsullied environment ; and , second , because it was discovered that even the lovely lake at the foot of idyllic Jyvaskyla was after all polluted with mercury and other wastes from nearby paper plants . For Americans , who are used to believing that their problems are always the biggest in the world , it was com forting , if somewhat frightening , to encounter the growing /4,4 ranks of those from other countries who think that their environmental disruption may be just as serious . For those of us who take pride in leadership , there will probably be some compensation in the fact that the United States is still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem and in the public awareness of what is happening . Nevertheless , more and more scientists , economists and citizens all over the world are being aroused by the dangers of pollution . This almost global anxiety was reflected at the conference in Finland , and it was notable that , when confronted with the specter of environmental disruption , the participants from most of the developed countries were willing to forget old political slogans and conditioned responses . Environmental disruption is not just the result of capitalist greed ; Socialist - greed has proved to be just as hard on the environment . Although representatives from the Socialist countries were seen caucusing once or ' twice , there was almost no exchange of polemics between the representatives of the East and West as to which form of political system : had worked more harm on the earth . Moreover , there was mutual concern that sewage and oil discharge from Estonia affects the fate of the Baltic Sea as much as does sewage and oil discharge from Sweden . Nor did the , Scandinavians care whether the polluted air over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important thing was that the air be cleaned up . - The only people at the conference interested in stirring up the old debate were a few Finnish student radicals who periodically took the floor to level a blast at the United States in ' general and its international conporations in particular . For these radicals , the United States and its corporations were the key to all the world 's pollution . Whenever such charges were made , the representatives from the Soviet Union , Romania , Czechoslovakia , Hungary , and even East Germany sat by in embarrassment , waiting until they could resume discussion of the difficulties in their own countries . Even the Chinese Academy of Science in the People 's Republic of China sent a telegram from Peking expressing its regret that no Chinese scientists were able to accept the invitation to attend the conference , but indicating their concern about the problem and suggesting a willingness to participate in the future . . If one wanted to , one could also find muted overtones of the cold war when the East Germans rose to speak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the East Germans had been invited . Only a few months before , in Prague , they had turned up at what was supposed to be a pollution conference called by the Economic Commission for Europe of the United Nations . When the Russians insisted that the East Germans remain , even though they were not members of the U.N. , the issue was resolved with a compromise whereby the supposedly more prestigious designation of " conference " was deleted and the proceedings were , classified as a " symposium . " In the new openness and welcome at Jyvaskyla , the two East German representatives were not quite sure how to behave . Unlike everyone else , they seemed unable to refrain from attaching political footnotes and lamentations to some of their public statements . Thus the need to monitor and control pollution was important , they agreed ; but how , they kept asking , could it be met unless all the countries of Europe were included in any monitoring and control program ? A good question , and no one disputed the contention , although one such proposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including all the other adjacent countries . Strangely enough , the most radical and iconoclastic voices raised , on behalf of the environment at the conference came from the Americans . Most of the other participants were incredulous that a randomly selected group of Americans could always agree with one another and be so uniformly distrustful of governmental assertions that all is well with the environment . Yet because of the disquiet engendered by the war in Vietnam , the distrust evoked by the Pentagon Papers and the feeling of having been misled by governmental authorities , on the merits of the SST , the Americans who spoke were openly skeptical , if not distrustful , of almost any official claim regarding the innocuousness for the environment of some new invention or project . That David Brower of the Friends of the Earth should respond that , way was not too surprising , but that such Establishment types as Stewart Udall , former Secretary of the Interior , or the scholarly Raymond Fosberg of the Smithsonian Institution should share his views puzzled otherwise sophisticated Europeans . On the other hand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the passivity of other participants toward the activities of their own governments or industries . We asked , for example , why virtually no representative of the United Kingdom , France or the USSR questioned the wisdom of their countries ' continued determination to build their SSTs . Did n't they realize that &they; pursued their efforts , they might resurrect the SST in the United States ? Some of our scientists asserted that the daily flight of commercial SSTs ( not to mention military SSTs , which are ' already flying ) could set in motion a process which could destroy much of the ozone belt shielding the earth froni the full intensity of the sun 's ultraviolet rays ; they warned that too many potential hazards were ' connected with the SST to permit its further development anywhere . Yet the English , French and Russians were filled with national pride at their technological prowess , or at best were unworried by it . In any case , the silence about the SST , even the support for it , - bewildered the Americans . Almost as great a gap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between conservationists and industry . Most of the British scientists failed to understand the ferocity of some of the Americans toward industry , and the delight that some American conservation groups take in filing lawsuits and bringing industry ( and government ) into court . To the British this seemed not only undignified but nonproductive . In response to a particularly slashing attack by Charles Wurs- : ter of State University of New York at Stony Brook on the effects of DDT , several Englishmen and a Canadian ques= tioned whether the menace was as serious as the speaker ' indicated , and whether excesses in the use of pesticides and other chemicals could not be curbed by simply approaching industry and discussing the matter intelligently . ' This approach , they claimed , had produced a good measure of success in the United Kingdom , where the level of such chemicals in animal and fish life had fallen sharp-l y in recent years . It was later pointed out that we in the United States of course use reason and dialogue , quite effectively at times ; but that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use . Except for the issue of the SST , however , , the infighting between the developed countries was of secondary importance to the main battle lines that evolved at the conference , and which promise to be even more disruptive next year at Stockholm . The problem is much less a conflict between capitalism and socialism , or between the United States and the United Kingdom , than it is the hostility of the developing countries toward the whole notion of environmental control and , strangely enough , the resistance of the United Nations agencies to the changes environmental control would seem to make necessary . , ? The attitude of the developing countries is based partly on the fear that environmental control is also a device to impede industrialization and economic growth among the poorer countries of the Southern Hemisphere . They , see laws requiring the installation of emission controls as a way to impose higher production costs on infant industries , which then will not be able to compete with more established producers in the developed countries . The two opposing positions clashed most sharply over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pending extinction of American bald eagles and peregrine falcons and the likelihood that DDT has a carcinogenic effect on human beings , spokesmen for the developing countries warned that banning the production of DDT ? the chemical choice for combating malaria was viewed as genocide in their countries . Nor did it quiet the debate to point out that the curbing of malaria may be good for the individual , but it has also caused the Populatfon explosion in much of the world . This only invited charges of racism and raised perplexing moral issues which this conference was not equipped to solve . The fact remains , however , that just as environmental disruption within the boundaries of one European country often spreads over into another , so it crosses the boundaries of the developing countries . The long life of DDT and its failure to dissolve readily means that its widespread application in India builds up in the food chain and may have a deleterious effect even on those who have banned DDT within their own borders . Because the natives thought it wasteful , the oil companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methane gas wastes at oil installations throughout the Middle East . As a result , the methane gas level in the earth 's atmosphere has increased by something like 30 per cent . Massive projects which seek to restructure and improve on nature have sometimes set off reverberating effects that wipe out the anticipated benefits . The Aswan Dam has not only produced a higher incidence of such diseases as bilharzia and schiStosomiasis but has also disrupted irrigation patterns , raised the saline level of the soil , and adversely affected the river bed downstream of the dam as well as the fishing in the Mediterranean . There is even concern that the new hybrid seeds of the Green Revolution may expose the world to a massive ecological catastrophe if new diseases should suddenly strike the few selected seed strains now being used over vast portions of the earth . In effect , we have put all our seeds in one basket . As intractable as these opposing approaches were , there were areas of mutual concern and action . One of the most intriguing was suggested in a paper by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After careful study , Bryson found that shortsighted agricultural practices in developing countries like India had generated massive dust clouds . These clouds negatively affected the weather , so that there was less rainfall , and that in turn affected agriculture . Indeed , measures of particulate matter over some desert regions of India were four times higher than those recorded over Chicago . In other words , by reducing air pollution , India stands to gain from increased agricultural production . Similar attempts were made to show that steps to assure clean air and water are most easily and cheaply put into effect at an early stage of industrialization . Nevertheless , no matter how rational it may be from the long-run point of view , it is hard in the short run for a poor country to invest in electrostatic precipitators rather than in electric power generators . . Increasingly , however , the richer countries are imposing their environmental codes on others , whether the latter like it or not . Even though the Japanese say it is still safe to eat , we banned their swordfish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use of skins from exotic and rare animals that are hunted in developing countries . Foreign auto manufacturers must meet U.S. exhaust standards , even if they do not observe them at home . Many foreign manufacturers see this as a device to curb us stood up and predicted disaster . We pointed out that the same shirking of responsibility takes place in the United States , where the federal government blames industry for pollution , industry blames the states , the states blame the cities , and the cities blame the federal government for lack of effective environmental control . In fact , each party has failed to do its share  --  and that includes the individual consumer and taxpayer who resists the higher prices and taxes which come with greater pollution control . In the same way , all countries are responsible to some degree for what has happened , and so are all U.N . groups . We must all become less defensive and parochial . Although it seemed an impossibility , the conference ended on a positive note . Despite the verbiage , the adroit dodging and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement , the participants suddenly coalesced and strengthened their resolve with a forceful conclusion at the last minute . A ' weak statement on the SST was rejected in favor of a strong declaration which urged the cessation of production , not only of civilian supersonic planes but also of military planes  --  at least until it could be shown that such planes would not have a deleterious effect on the environment . This statement was remarkable in two respects . First , the Russian delegation did not oppose it . In fact , the senior Russian acknowledged to some of us his concern that there might be something to the theory about the elimination of the ozone layer . And like the rest of us , as long as there was a reasonable doubt , he felt that the SST should be challenged . When told of this , journalists for The Times of London and The Observer obtained similar statements of doubt from the Russian participants . Such acknowledgments deserve wider circulation . Second , the principle was accepted that the manufacturer ( state and private ) bears the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from his activities . Traditionally the burden has fallen on the public to show how it will be hurt . The conference also adopted a statement that there was urgent need for population control in both developing and developed countries . Population growth in , for example , the United States , may be slow , relative to that in many developing countries , but each American has an impact on the earth 's ecology approximately fifty times greater than that of a Chinese . The conference also urged that an effort be made to include more of the true social costs of pollution in the price of what is produced . Finally , it was suggested that wherever possible substitutes be found for the more toxic insecticides such as DDT . In any case , such materials should be used more selectively . A call was also made to prohibit the use of defoliants . While action on these resolutions is not likely to be taken overnight , the findings of the conference did represent a big step forward for prinCiple over pettiness . Irksome and pretentious as international conferences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when they are a novelty in the host country . The Finnish news media carried , long stories about every detail of the Jyvaskyla meetings , and the TV news was filled for a whole week with environmental disruption and how concerned foreign experts were about local conditions . In March 1970 , such a conference in Tokyo set off a nationwide uproar over the problem throughout Japan ; since then , pollution has become one of the leading domestic issues in the country . Something similar seems to have happened in Finland . ?                     