@@485611

The advent of not only a new year but a new decade usually calls for some exercises in retrospection and prophecy , but there will be plenty of time for that in the weeks ahead . Instead , in this issue we publish three articles on , urban America , a subject that provides as good a focal point as any for an instant portrait of where America has been and what it is becoming . The American future , it has been said , has picked up and moved to the burgeoning cities of the Sunbelt . Bob ' Gottlieb files a report on Phoenix , a " developer 's city , " its runaway suburban spill soaking up the Arizona landscape . Real estate 's the name of the game in Phoenix , but it is ' an old American game . Back in 1816 , an Englishman named Morris Birbeck , traveling through Ohio country on his way to found a utopia , complained that the town boomers were as thick as trees : " Gain ! Gain ! Gain ! ? that is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in America . " The Western boom town is no new thing either ; the landscape is littered with the bones of the mining towns of the last century , abandoned when the gain ran out . Phil Primack describes the impact of a newer energy boom in coal , oil and uranium on the old residents of the South Side in Rawlins , Wyoming , for whom growth is a mixed blessing . As the town 's city engineer put it : " We are broke from the growth and we are getting further and further behind . " The people living in South Boston and the other neighborhoods of this old Northeastern city also wonder where they fit in with the inner-city business revival known quaintly as " gentrification . " Edward D. McClure and Kirk Scharfenberg tot up the credits and the debits . The old conflict between gain for the few and jobs , livability and community for the many continues ' in America 's towns and cities . D.O.E . ( SPELLED I.O.U . BIG OIL 'S WASHINGTON SUBSIDIARY FRED J. ' COOK Despite Jimmy Carter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax , the American Petroleum Institute , the registered ' industry lobby for Big Oil , has infiltrated ; and , virtually runs , the Department of Energy . The pervasive influence of the oil industry on the department has two interrelated causes . High-level administrative positions are filled with corporate executive types , many of whom have direct ties , to the oil industry ; and the major work of the department is leased out , most of it through no-bid , deals , to private consulting firms that , in turn , are consultants for the oil industry . This obvious conflict of interest , given the structure at the top , does not disturb the department , which has said time and again that it makes , no effort to determine the private ' business ties of its hired advisers . On April 29 , 1977 , the White House made public Carter 's much-ballyhooed National Energy Plan , which Carter has upbraided Congress for not passing . Unmentioned at the time  --  and , indeed , ' virtually unrecognized until Daniel Guttman , a Washington lawyer and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subcommittee last October  --  was the fact that the basics of the plan were prepared by D.O.E . consultants who were also oil industry consultants . A firm called Energy and Environmental Analysis , received two contracts  --  one for $194,000 , a second for $34,800 ? to work on the plan . Although the D.O.E . did not inquire into E.E.A. 's other associations , Guttman dis-covered by ' reading the firm 's own brochures that its clients include Exxon , Shell Oil and Standard Oil of Ohio . A second consulting firm ; ( Continued on Page 688 ) EDITORIALS . Criminal Record ohammed Reza Pahlevi finally departed in a United States Air Force jet last week for a well-deserved exile in Panama . But the recrim-inations of his visit are still with us . The hostages remaiddetained in Teheran and the alleged crime of the Shah And his American accomplices remain an issue . Certainly , whatever the resolution of this interminable crisis , the claims OfiligiCiry demand an impartial investigation of the Pahlevi regiMe . The formation of some kind of interna-tional judicial institution to investigate crimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a world too often brUtalized by police states . But in the absence of such an impartial investigation  --  we have reservations about any tribunal appOinted by Ayatollah Khomeini  --  we have turned to Amnesty International for an interim . report on the charges of criminality brought against the Pahlevi regime . Aside from a report by the International Commission of Jurists , issued in 1976 , nearly all the known facts about human-rights violations in Iran have , been gathered by Amnesty International . An official of that organization , Anne Burley , provided a summary of its findings . Torture of political prisoners had been practiced for a period of fifteen years , a 1978 Amnesty International mission ' to Iran concluded after interviewing more than sixty people  --  released prisoners , relatives of prisoners and lawyers . Most torture was carried out by Savak agents in Evin Prison in Teheran and other detention centers . Methods of torture included falanga ( the beating of the soles of the feet ) , whipping with cables , electric shock , burning with cigarettes , candles and lighters , extended sleep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heated metal grill , tying of genitals with fine cable and sexual abuse of various kinds . Hundreds of political prisoners died under torture , although Amnesty International was not able to provide evidence of specific deaths or to say how many occurred during the whole of the Shah 's reign . In April 1979 , however , a minister of the new Government showed Burley a file said to have been compiled by Savak , which documented cases of people , who had died under torture . Writes Burley : " The contents of this file , which I believe was genuine , were horrifying . Each loose-leaf page contained a photograph of the victim before torture and photograph taken after death . The latter showed in every case horribly distorted features and mutilated bodies . The victims were of both sexes and were all young . " Although asked many times to estimate the number of political prisoners held in Iran during the time of the Shah , Amnesty International was unable to do so because of the difficulty of obtaining detailed and reliable information about arrests and releases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at any one time ; the Iranian Government usually admitted to a figure of 3,000 , but even if this were accepted as being correct , it would only refer to prisoners who had been tried and sentenced . Many political prisoners were never brought to trial , but were detained for some months , tortured , then released . Arrests were arbitrary ; Savak could directly order the arrest of any person suspected of a political offense , without court approval or informing the prisoner of the charges as required by Iranian constitutional law . Political trials were shams , and invariably resulted in a verdict of guilty . The Shah 's official rationale was that all political prisoners were terrorists , but Amnesty International knew of many prisoners , including Moslem theologians , writers , theater directors , actors , students and university teachers , who had engaged in no violent activities . Many of the present religious leaders in Iran were imprisoned , as were many of those who are now in opposition to them and , therefore , in danger of being reimprisoned . Amnesty International remains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the following extract from the Amnesty International Report on Torture 1973 may explain why the Shah is still so vehemently hated in Iran today . " Iran is a constitutional monarchy . Parliament is theoretically sovereign , but in practice the- Crown is the sole source of authority . The Shah is also commander-in-chief of the army . Because of this , opposition within the country and outside is concentrated on criticism of the Shah and his policies . " Doomsday Option T he nuclear-attaCk alert of November 9 received such sketchy and transitory press coverage in this country that few Americans realized that it was n't the first time our defense computers mistakenly warned of a Russian mislle attack . Or that the Pentagon war plans call for a dangerously inflexible response to a warning of a Soviet attack . The sketchy reports on the November 9 false alarm noted merely that the computer 's mistake was quickly detected ( it took six minutes ) and that neither the President nor Secretary of Defense Harold Brown had been notified at the time . Defense Department spokesman Lieut . Comdr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aloft but refused comment on reports that the alert set in motion operations at bases around the country and abroad . Actually , a number of other significant steps toward war were probably taken between 10:50 and 10:56 A.M. , November 9 , beyond ordering ten jet fighters into the sky . First , all of our ICBM bases were placed on " low-level alert , " according to the November 11 New York Times . A former missile launch officer says that this means an alarm buzzer sounded at all the underground launch control centers. , The launch officers unlocked a special strong box , removed the " attack verification-code " and the missile launch keys and inserted the keys into their slots . When two keys ten feet apart are turned within two seconds of each other , the warheads blast off and start toward targets in Russia . News of the alert also reached the Strategic Air Command . If the computer error had not been detected , standard procedure called for 116 B-52 nuclear bomber pilots to be in their planes gunning the engines , according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scrambled " ? meaning the pilots were told to man their planes  --  on American air bases across the country and on at least one in England . The pilot and crew of President Carter 's E-4 jet command center , which is kept on constant runway alert at Andrews Air Force Base near Washington , manned the plane , according to reports in the British newsmagazine NOW and American Government sources . Federal Aviation Agency air traffic control centers across the United States were also alerted . Warning buzzers rang , and controllers radioed all commercial craft in their sectors , telling them to be prepared to land at the nearest airport at a moment 's notice . During air alerts , the F.A.A. is charged with clearing all nonmilitary traffic fiom the skies . At Washington area air traffic control centers , some controllers feared for a few minutes that a nuclear war was imminent . Meanwhile , in the computerized underground center of the North American Air Defense Command in Colorado Springs , Colorado , officers were working intensively to verify the signals of Russian attack . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been triggered by an electronic war game gone awry . A computer tape simulating an attack had somehow gone , ont as he real thing . The November 9 incident came to the public 's attention only because Paul Clancy , a reporter for The Washington Star , happened to be at the Washington F.A.A. center preparing a feature article . But it was not unique . A former Air Force missile launch officer , now an . academic expert on nuclear warning and launch systems , estimates that incidents of computer errors triggering nuclear alerts happen " every couple of years . " He recalled living through one himself while on duty in late 1973 . In that case a computer erred in predicting the trajectory of a Soviet test , missile launched from Tyuratam , near Iran . The missile landed in Kamchatka , Siberia , but the American computer had predicted it would land in California . An alert went out to all American ICBM and SAC bases and lasted until the error was detected . Testifying before Congressional committees , Pentagon officials have several times acknowledged that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lieut . Gen. Lee M. Paschall , director of the Defense Communication Agency , told the House Ways and Means Committee in 1973 : " Computers tend to fail for various reasons  --  this is unpredictable . " The Pentagon Public Affairs Office , however , refused to confirm that computer errors have sparked military alerts in the past . And Defense Department spokesman Peterson termed this month 's incident " minor . " He said that the evidence of a Russian attack was taken skeptically from the outset and argued that the error 's quick detection shows that the system 's double-checking procedures prevent accidental war . Such an argument is hardly reassuring . If the evidence of an attack were taken skeptically in this case , it was probably because the United States and the Soviet Union do not appear on the brink of war . That may not always be the case . In a climate of extreme international tension , jittery generals and a jittery President might regard erroneous signals of an attack with less skepticism and set in motion a drastic and irreversible procedure . Among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Single Integrated Operations Plan- ( - S.I.0.13. ) ? its package of war plans  --  is the launching of . our entire land-based missile force upon receiving a warning of a Soviet attack . This is the only choice the President has , if he chooses to launch on warning . The British press took a much less blas ? attitude toward the episode than did the U.S. media , running stories with headlines such as TEN MINUTES TO DOOMSDAY . Even the staid Economist expressed alarm . For some reason the British seem to regard the threatened end of civilization as a legitimate news story , and to resent the . prospect of being milled helplessly into annihilation through the foibles of an ally . The United States , however , has apparently stopped worrying ' and learned to live with the bomb . CHRISTOPHER HANSON Christopher Hanson is a reporter for The Washington Stai who helped to break the story on the false nuclear alert . Zimbabwe Peace S o at last British troops are being sent to Rhodesia  --  the very troops which , if they had been sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settler uprising and the subsequent war , It was a Labor administration that let Ian Smith get away with it on that occasion ; pow the Conservatives have finally undone the fifteen years following the Unilateral Declaration of Independence . Perhaps- it really is true that only the right and the establishmenrcan make the important concessions  --  like de Gaulle over Algeria , Begin over the Sinai and ( to some extent ) Nixon over Indochina . We are not yet , as they say , out of the woods . But the agreement reached in London does correspond pretty fairly to what is called in peace-conference jargon the . objective situation on the ground . It meets the need of Zambia and Mozambique for , an end to the economically crippling blockade and the endless disruption of their societies by refugees and by vindictive bomber strikes against their camps . It meets the need of the rural population of Zimbabwe for an end to the vicious fighting , the cycle of reprisals and the threat of starvation , and mass unemployment . It meets the need of the Patriotic Front @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to end the massive loss of life among its mainly young and untrained guerrilla fighters . It meets the need of the Muzorewd regime to bow gracefully out of power before it is driven out and strung up from a tree by the enraged and insulted populace . It meets the need of Britain to end its longest and last colonial hangover . Some jagged bits remain . The Lancaster House " summit " has not yet resolved the question of the many competing armed forces in the country . These comprise , at the time of writing , the following . First comes the small but deadly white-led army and air force of the former Muzorewa-Smith authorities . This force comprises certain special units which have made themselves so hated that they must be disbanded . It also comprises a number of foreign mercenaries who must be sent home . Next are the two armies of the Patriotic Front ; one ( ZAPU ) basically deployed over the border with Zambia and the other ( ZANU ) concentrated in the eastern provinces that neighbor Mozambique . There are tribally distinctive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shona  --  the majority tribe . The fusion of the Patriotic Front into one unified party is the biggest single unresolved issue of the war , and it is not yet clear whether ZAPU and ZANU are gOing to contest the elections as one ticket or two . Then there are the " auxiliary " forces of Bishop Abel Muzorewa and of the Rev. Ndabaningi Sithole . These two men , who threw in their lot with the dying white regime , both maintain private armies that loosely cooperate with the security forces and have a splendid reputation for helpVictims of the Federal Bureau of Inves-tigation 's tainted Cointelpro operations continue to A urfac6 . Consider , for example , recent revelations about the case of Elmer ( Geronimo ) Pratt , brought to , light by Representative Paul McCloskey , a Republican from San Mateo , California . In 1970 Pratt , a former Black Panther Party leader , was charged with the slaying of a white woman on a tennis court in Santa Monica . From the time of his arrest to the present , Pratt has insisted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , attending , a national committee meeting of the Black , Panthers when the crime occurred . Three party members testified that he was indeed in Oakland . Pratt was convicted largely on the testimony of the woman 's husband and a woman . who was near the scene , both of whom identified Pratt , and the testimony of a former Black Panther member , a one-time deputy sheriff named Julius Butler , who testified that Pratt had confessed the slaying . Apparently the jury had serious doubts about Pratt 's guilt , for it deliberated ten days before finding him guilty in June 1972 . Currently lie is serving a seven-years-to-life sentence in San Quentin Prison . Recently released documents disclose that Pratt had been a target of Cointelpro 's program to " neutralize " certain Black Panther Party leaders . One document , dated six months before Pratt was indicted , states that " constant consideration " was being given to the possibility of utilizing counterintelligence measures " with efforts being directed toward neutralizing Pratt as an effective B.P.P. Black Panther Party functionary . " Some 200 documents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the jury nor Pratt 's lawyers had all the facts . Then , too , Representative McCloskey contends that he has six documents that indicate that the witness Butler , who now serves as an aide to a Los Angeles City-Councilman , had once been an F.B.I . informant , a charge that Butler denies . Also , the defense now contends that the murdered woman 's husband twice identified someone other than Pratt as the killer immediately after the murder ; in fact , he did not pick Pratt out of a police lineup until almost two years later . The new evidence does not , of course , conclusively prove that Pratt is innocent , but it certainly demonstrates that he did not have a fair trial . The jury had gone through ten days of deliberations , and at one point reported itself deadlocked . Finally it convicted Pratt of the $30 robbery and murder of the victim , Caroline Olsen , but some of the jurors obviously did not find the evidence against the defendant totally convincing . At any rate , Representative Ronald Dellums , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the full weight of his office behind . Pratt 's effort to win a new trial . Of particular interest in the recent disclosures is what they reveal about the depth , continuity and intimacy of the relationship between the F.B.I. , the Los Angeles Police DepartCAREY McWILLIAMS ment and the State Attorney General 's office when it came to keeping political targets under close surveillance . One witness has testified , for example , that the L.A.P.D. 's written reports to the F.B.I . occupy a section of bookshelf space nearly 7 feet high by 12 feet wide . The Chief of Police has said that the department destroyed " a tremendous amount of files " in 1977 that related to Pratt ; what these files might have revealed the defense will never know . In San Francisco , a U.S. magistrate who had ordered the Los Angeles Police Department to make its files available has said that he received fourteen documents delivered by mail without comment but was told nothing about files having been destroyed . The State Attorney General 's office turned over some of its files only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by law to do- so and then that it did n't have any ! San Francisco U.S. District Court Judge Samuel Conti has been sharply critical of the Attorney General 's office for its uncooperativeness on the files . The evidence thus far disclosed reveals a long-standing pattern of close surveillance of political targets in which the F.B.I. , the Los Angeles police and the Attorney General 's office exchanged information and worked in close concert . sSuch. disclosures are not surprising , but what is surprising , arid-disconcerting , is the evidence showing how difficult it has been for Pratt 's lawyers to get the full facts from these three law-enforcement agencies . The Attorney General 's office first refused to deliver files and then stated that it could not find any bearing on the Pratt case , while the Police Department delivered certain documents without disclosing , that it had destroyed many more . R epresentative McCloskey has stated that he will press for a Congressional investigation of ' the F.B.I . ' s role in the Pratt case , as well as other similar cases , if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the facts , ILcalled , . the hearings will be chaired by Representative Don Edwards , a San Jose Democrat who heads the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Civil and Constitutional Rights . Regardless of what happens in the Pratt case , the subcommittee should go forward with the investigation and find out just what Arty tricks were employed by those in charge of the Cointelpro program to frame individuals who were on the F.B.I . ' s " hit list " because of their political views . Such an investigation could unearth invaluable evidence  --  if it is notrAestroyed in the meantimebearing on the coordinated clandestine operations by Federal , state and city la , w-enforcement agencies designed to " neutralize " political activists . William H. Webster , the new head of the F.B.I. , should support such an investigation . If individuals like Pratt were indeed victims of frame-ups , then they are entitled to vindication and compensation for the grave injustices they have suffered . And the rest of us are entitled to reassurances that , as the F.B.I . said of the shocking Jean Seberg case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ? I ( Continued From Page 677 ) ing themselves to local women , food and medical supplies . The danger represented by these competing forces was brought home to me last week when my friend Cephas Msipa , representative of the still illegal ZAPU in Salisbury , had a high-velocity bullet fired through his window , followed by a threatening telephone call in a European accent and an ad for a rifle in a local paper giving his telephone number as the seller 's . The advertisement described the high-velocity weapon and added " will be used twice . " There is , in short , some danger of a final parOxysm by the ' extremist whitesettiers similar to that in Algeria . The British troops , who will have instructions not to engage in any local quarrels , will be ' put in an awkward position if this does take place . ' Finally , there are the South Africans . It has been obvious for some time that they were giving covert support to the Rhodesian armed forces  --  especially in maintaining their crucial monopoly of air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Prime Minister Pieter Botha has gone further to say that no , government in Salisbury that includes Robert Mugabe will be acceptable to him . This means that there could still be  --  probably after the British have wound up and left the reins with a new Government  --  a destabilizing intervention from - the south . One of the results of the Muldergate scandal has been to strengthen the position of the hard-line military right wing in South Africa itself . This faction believes that " buffer states " are now necessary , and that Namibia and Zimbabwe must not be allowed to go the way of MozaMbique . South Africa , vastly strengthened economically by the rise , in the world price of gold , has been able to purchase a clientele among African politicians in Salisbury , and has always enjoyed close links with a wing of Smith 's Rhodesian Front . The potential for trouble from that quarter , then , should not be underestimated . In the other scale are the quarter-million or so of Zimbabwe 's youth who have been living in exile in camps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to return " will be a decisive weapon . ini the armory , of the nationalist movements . In many ways they are " the best and the brightest " of their generation , and they have been brought Ur- : - 2ry hard school indeed . Their influence on their parLius and-relatives  --  many ofwhom will only now find out if their children are alive or dead  --  will also be crucial in the election . The situation is complicated even further by the fact that the rainy season is now beginning . Apart from the fact that , until the beginning of March , this makes roads and communication very difficult , it also covers Zimbabwe in luxuriant green foliage ; , Many of the guerrilla detachments who have been operating out of contact with headquarters for months will therefore be hard to reach . A cease-fire will be extremely tricky to enforce under these conditions  --  but at least it will be harder for the Government security forces to carry on any last-minute vendettas . It will also be that much more difficult for the authorities to intimidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaigners  --  when the British Governor legalizes political activity by the P.F. Muzorewa 's election campaign began two weeks ago . In a way , though , all this is quibbling . The main point is that , after fifteen years of suffering and massacre and exile , the nationalist elements have been strong enough to force a recognition of reality on Britain and on Salisbury . It is only a few short months since Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said she would recognize Muzorewa . The fight has been a long and tenacious one , and the Patriotic Front is a very imperfect organization . But for all that , and at long last , " the boys and'girls " - are coming home . CHRISTOPHER HITCHENS Christopher Hitchens is the foreign editor of cthe New Statesman . Indira 's Comeback 1 ndia 's midterm elections will be held the first week of January , and former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi , who was thoroughly discredited in the 1977 victory of the Janata Party  --  hailed at the time as a triumph of democracy over authoritarian rule  --  is reported to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present contest are , first , Charan Singh 's Lok Dal Party , which has formed an alliance with the " Official " Indian National Congress Party , the two Communist parties , the Communist Party of India and the Communist Party of India-Marxist and other left groups . Although Singh is considered to be an opportunist  --  it was certainly his personal ambition to become Prime Minister that hastened the split in the ruling Janata Party last year  --  and is seen also as the chief representative of the " kulak class , " the land-owning farmers , he is preferred by the left as the lesser of two evils . The other evil is the Jana Sangh element in Jagjivan Ram 's Janata Party . It is considered to be communal and Hindu chauvinist . The Jana Sangh 's support of Ram , an untouchable , is dismissed as expedient politics . Although the Communists have support in West Bengal and a few other areas , the main strength of both the Lok Dal and the Janata is in the Hindi belt and ' along its periphery . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( " Indira " ) Party , which at present has strength only in the state of Andhra Pradesh . What makes the current talk of a comeback by Mrs. Gandhi credible is the breakup of the Janata into the two separate contending parties . Even in the 1977 elections Mrs. Gandhi received about 30 percent of the vote . In a three-way contest , a change of even a few percentage points in her favor will mean the difference between defeat and victory . Mrs. Gandhi also enjoys another fortuitous advantage : the drought . Hitting hardest in the Hindi region , it is the worst in over a century . Its daily miseries must in some measure distract the poor people from remembering Mrs. Gandhi 's rule , which they resoundingly repudiated in 1977 , focusing their discontent on the more recent Janata and Lok Dal Governments . Other concerns also play a role in the coming elections , but their full significance wo n't be felt until afterward . The Janata Government did achieve an important shift in emphasis of India 's development priorities . The earlier capital-intensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , agricultural and small-business problems . Mrs. Gandhi had allocated roughly 25 percent of Government expenditures to the rural sector of the economy , where 80 percent of the people must make their living ; the Janata Government increased the figure to about 40 percent . Both Ram 's present Janata Party and Singh 's Lok Dal would continue this new orientation , Singh the more aggressively . Mrs. Gandhi challenges this new economic emphasis . And she has not repudiated the authoritarian measures she used during her Emergency rule . Rather , she continues to defend her actions and has gathered around her many of the same coterie of advisers she had during that time , most particularly her son Sanjay . Even before the Emergency , her rule was characterized by two objectives : to have complete contr of over her party , and to run the country from New Delhi through the bureaucracy , the police and political appointees w hose chief virtue was loyalty to her . She has given little reason to believe that her policies have changed . Mrs. Gandhi is not taking any chances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her " home " in Rae Bareli in Uttar Pradesh and in a " safe " constituency in Andhra Pradesh . At least one thing is certain : whatever the final outcome , Mrs. Gandhi will be in a stronger position after the elections than she is now , commanding only sixty or so of the 542 votes in Parliament . We can only hope that despite the drought and despite the three-way race , and despite the uninspiring Janata record , the people in the countryside and . in the hutnients of the cities will for a second time save India from its politicians . Yet even if the Janata Party or the Lok Dal separately , or together in some new expedient coalition , win enough votes to thwart Mrs. Gandhi again , the same aging figures and rivalries will continue to dominate Indian politics . And of course Mrs. Gandhi will continue to be active , gaining ever more legitimacy with each election she contests , skewing the political process still more in the shape of her personal obsessions . More than the rains are needed to end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                