@@480051

THROUGHOUT LATIN AMERICA , the political doctrine rational . izing the acquisition of enor-mous wealth by a few men through the continued exploitation of workers and peasants goes under the rubric of " anticommunism . " Any demonstration of popular discontent , in. eluding labor and student strikes , is therefore a " communist conspiracy . " In the more sophisticated regimes , such as Brazil and Argentina , the anticommunist rationale is dressed up in complex economic arguments . ( On closer examination these turn out to be yet another excuse for corruption and exploitation . ) Yet both these governments look down on the old-fashioned dictatorship of General Alfredo Stroessner in neighboring Paraguay as a crude throwback to the nineteenth-century cauclilin . Whatever may be said of Stroessner , he has the courage of his convictions , never having pretended that his government existed for any reason other than to satisfy greed through systematic corruption . Brazil 's wealthy generals may talk about technology and efficiency in government , while privately enjoying such privileges of office as butlers , lakeside chalets , and unlimited expense accounts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : they support Stroessner for what they can get , and in addition to land , this includes govern-ment graft , contraband , and revenue from narcotics and prostitution . General Alfredo Stroessner has ruled Paraguay since 1954 through a shrewd combination of corruption and force . A burly man with an amiable public air , Stroessner has survived longer than most Paraguayan dictators because he has never trusted either general or politician to share his power . Even today , at the age of sixty-six , Stroessner makes all major decisions and many minor ones , even choosing the days when cattle should be slaughtered , based on his hunch about market prices . Like most Paraguayan dictators , he is a social upstart , the son of a Bavarian brewer from the river port of EncarnaciOn . There is nothing of the intellectual about him : his political philosophy is a crude mix of Latin American conservatism and German Nazism . Educated in the army , he demonstrated his courage and leadership in battle as an artillery officer in the 1932-35 Chaco frontier war with Bolivia . Stroessner also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ palace revolutions , although at one point , from 1949 through 1950 , when there were seven successive coups , even he found himself on the losing side , and for a while he was known as " Colonel Trunk , " after being driven to the Brazilian embassy concealed in the back of a car . Following yet another coup , he was appointed commander-in-chief of the armed forces , a position he used to seize the government in 1954 . Unlike Nicaragua 's Somoza , however , Stroessner has not monopolized the fruits of power , sharing the graft with the military , the police , and the leaders of his tame Colorado Party . So long as his henchmen do not question his supremacy , they are free to terrorize the rural and slum populations and to carry on their lucrative businesses in the contraband and narcotics traffic ? always , of course , with a kickback to the government , as is customary in Latin America . J UST AS " COMMUNIST " is a catchall for any government critic , repression of " communists " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics . Most Paraguayans would privately agree with Frisco Gilchrist , a U.S. Protestant missionary who worked in Paraguay for twenty-four years , when he says that " very often , employment , the ownership of land , commercial in- 20 BEHIND CLOSED BORDERS terest or advantages to be gained in contraband transactions are the real cause of repression . " The publicly acknowledged contraband trade , for example , is run by military men and a few privileged civilians . Most of the goods come from the United States in large transport planes crammed with cigarettes , whiskey , liqueurs , perfumes , and other expensive items that land at the AsunciOn International Airport . in the special contraband section . ( One of the smaller countries in Latin America , Paraguay is the world 's largest importer of American cigarettes . ) The goods are reshipped to neighboring South American countries , either in Paraguayan air force planes or on navy landing ships that cross the Paraguay and Parana rivers . Narcotics are almost totally controlled by the police in charge of the torture centers and Stroessner 's spy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neighboring Bolivia , run by another right-wing general ; heroin is brought in from Europe . The drugs are reshipped through Buenos Aires or sent direct to the United States . As a State Department report wryly notes : " it seems to be difficult for some officials of Paraguay to understand the importance of the effort of the United States to terminate the illegal drug traffic into our country . " One of the more obtuse officials by all accounts is Police Chief Pastor Coronel , head of the country 's Criminal Investigations ( read Torture ) Department and a prominent organizer of the heroin trade . Coronel was a key contact of Auguste-Josephe Ricord. the AsunciOn-based Corsican kingpin of Latin America 's U.S.-bound heroin traffic , whom Stroessner steadfastly refused to extradite to the United States despite seventeen months of arm-twisting . ( He eventually agreed to Ricord 's deportation in 1972 after Washington threatened to cut off $5 million in aid . ) Another lucrative source of income is government bribes . Most foreign businessmen accept such bribery as routine , but a number of international foundations have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to such conditions . One representative of an international aid agency , which was considering a $5million grant for rural programs , describes how he was wined and dined and offered his pick of a bevy of lo . cal beauties at AsunciOn 's plush Ita Enramada Casino by Stroessner 's oldest son , Gustavo , the heir apparent and the government 's " chief bribe collector , " in the words of the agency representative . When he turned down Gustavo 's incredible suggestion of a $2 million bribe , plus $50,000 as his own fee , the man was literally booted out of the casino . " It 's a terrible place , " he said of Paraguay . " At the bottom of the pit with Haiti . " The Brazilian government is not so squeamish . Diplomatic sources report that in order to secure Stroessner 's approval for the construction of the $7-billion , 12.6-million-kilowatt Itaipu hydroelectric project on Paraguay 's Parana River , the Brazilians paid the government $150 million in bribes . In view of the terms of the agreement , however , this would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sell all of ltaipu 's output to Brazil for fifty years at the same price of 2 cents a kilowatt hour . In today 's nationalistic Third World , even the most Neanderthal multinational would think twice about such a contract , since , sooner or later , it is bound to cause the local resentment and acrimonious arguments over revision that often lead to nationalization . Some Brazilians , at least , fear such a possibility . Itaipu " could be our equivalent of the Panama Canal , " warned Marcones Ferraz , former head of the Brazilian state electrical company , Electrobras. ltaipu is the biggest , most controversial sellout to date , but there are plenty of other , smaller deals for the ambitious : for example . land sales to Brazilians , even though these entail the eviction of Paraguayan peasants by the military . In one incident near Villarrica , 250 peasants were forced at gunpoint to abandon 2,500 acres , so that the Paraguayan real estate firm Ruis and Jorba could sell the land to a Brazilian company . When the AsunciOn daily , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carpinelli , one of the largest landowners and head of the II Military Region headquartered in Villarrica , the editor was sentenced to two-and-a-half years in prison . Unable to endure the degradations of Paraguay 's " pirate state , " as the country 's bishops describe the Stroessner government , one out of every three Paraguayans has fled the country , including a high percentage of the labor force . Half the country 's doctors have abandoned Paraguay , where there is now only one doctor for every 6,600 people . By fat the largest number of Paraguayans live in Argentina , but while better off economically , few have security , living in daily dread of expulsion by the Argentine government or arrest by Stroessner 's secret police , who work closely with the Argentine regime . A S MALCOLM LOWRY remarked in Under the Volcano , the sickness that engulfs Latin America came to the New World with the Spanish and Portuguese conquistadors . Only when seen through the prism of colonial Spain and Portugal can the ongoing atrocities be understood . Thugs and adventurers for the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a society that has survived wars of independence and industrialization . Today the principal values of the ruling class in Latin America are still those of the white conquerors ? brute force , or machismo ; a contempt for the law ( businessmen are expected to pay bribes but not taxes ) ; disdain for manual labor ( only the poor work with their handsl ; and racial discrimination ( the level of education , income , and social standing is directly related to the color of a Latin American 's skin , avowals to the contrary by white govern . ment officials notwithstanding ) . As elsewhere in Latin America , Paraguay 's exploitation dates from the first Spanish settlers , who enslaved the Guarani and Guayaki Indian tribes . Portuguese raiders called marnelueos destroyed tribal settlements in the frontier regions . Independence in the early nineteenth century changed nothing for the Indians , who continued to work as serfs on the Spanish haciendas or to serve as cannon fodder in Paraguay 's periodic wars with its neighbors , including a disastrous venture in the 1860s against the combined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country most of the male population . One tyrant succeeded another , most of them upstarts , thanks to the anthropophagous habits of the ruling cliques that periodically massacred each other in bloody palace revolutions . Thus the only tradition to survive was " macho " violence . Or in the words of one brief-lived dictator : " There is always a dynamite bomb under the presidential chair . " From this tradition of violence there developed a fatalism not just among the Indian peasants but at all levels of society . Foreigners frequently remark on the Paraguayan attitude to imprisonment and torture . " They do n't seem to feel any rancor , " marveled one U.S. diplomat . " As if it were a normal part of Paraguayan life . " Paraguay is often held up as an example of racial fusion between Spaniards and the Guarani Indians , with 48 percent of the population speaking both languages , but Spanish is the language of the government , the schools , the news media , of technology and money , and Guarani is the language of the kitchen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the divisions between these two cultures more apparent than in the countryside , where 60 percent of the people live . Most are illiterate Guarani peasants , with little or no land and an annual per capita income of $85 . White ranchers own 87 percent of the country 's arable land and pay below-subsistence wages of less than 50 cents a day . Such exploitation would not be possible if the peasants were organized and had a minimum of education . but rural schooling is deliberately discouraged by the government , which views the education of peasants as subversive . U.S. historian Robert Alexander describes a revealing conversation on this subject between a Paraguayan general and a peasant leader who thought to dispel government suspicions about his cooperative by explaining to the general that " one of the things we are doing is reading the constitution to the people . " Replied the general : " Well , the constitution is a subversive document and you should n't be doing that . " Cooperatives especially are viewed with hostile suspicion : every time a movement gathers strength , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countryside , sending in troops to destroy the rural farm cooperatives , burn the peasants ' huts and crops , rape the women , and kill or imprison the men . During the last such reign of terror , in 1976 in southeastern Paraguay , some 3,000 people were arrested and several cooperative leaders murdered . Peasant leader Constantino Coronel , for example , was decapitated by government troops in the presence of his wife and eight children . The Catholic Church also was severely punished for sponsoring some cooperatives : twenty-four priests were jailed . tortured , and expelled . Landless and illiterate , the Indian peasant is daily reminded of his inbred inferiority : in the western Chaco scrublands , for example , the word for such Indians is " pig . " The Right Reverend Anibal Maricevich , the Catholic bishop of Concepciim , reports that on many ranches the peasant has " less value than a horse or a cow . " Even in the Mennonite colonies . which were founded in the Chaco as an outpost of religious freedom , the Indian is underpaid , cheated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Indian peasant does not protest these distinctions , say Paraguayan anthropologists , because he believes himself a guarango , the white man 's insult for someone without principles , stupid and uncultured , who speaks only one language ? Guarani . Yet wealthy Paraguayans are genuinely indignant at any suggestion that the peasants are mistreated . " They 're just dirty animals ! " exclaimed the wife of a large rancher , as if I were some far-out advocate for the ASPCA . This insensitivity is partially a defense mechanism , but it also is " bred into you from youth , " claims a Paraguayan journalist . In a society where crime is socially acceptable , the lawmakers themselves venal , and government simply a test of the strongest or most " macho , " morality is a definite handicap . " Most of my friends lost any idealism by the time they were eighteen or nineteen , " said the journalist . " Whether they wanted to or not . they were drawn into the contraband traffic and the rackets , either by their fathers or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the casinos , the bars , the whorehouses , the promise of power and unlimited money : they were deliberately corrupted . The few who held out were threatened with either jail or scandal ? say , compromising photo montages sent to all one 's friends and relatives . Why ? Be cause anyone who is not corrupt is a threat to the system . " 1 j ATIN AMERICA , Lowry said , is a land without compassion overrun by predators . " First , Spaniard exploits Indian , then , when he had children he exploited the halfbreed , then the pure-blooded ... eriollo , then the mestizo exploits everybody , foreigners , Indians , and all . Then the Germans and Americans exploited him ; now the final chapter , the exploitation of everybody by everybody else . " The same theme runs through Latin America 's new fiction . Decadent oligarchs , corrupt public officials , and oafish soldiers vie in their cruelty to one another in the novels of Mario Vargas Llosa . In Gabriel Garcia Marquez 's One Hundred Years of Solitude , the army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " There were n't any dead , " they say ? even as the corpses are being carried away in railroad cars . Yet the reality today is worse than fiction : in the Dominican Republic a political prisoner has a heart attack and dies in his filthy cell after he discovers that the exceptionally hearty meal he has just eaten was his murdered son 's flesh : in Uruguay and Argentina political prisoners are shackled in a barbecue pit and slowly roasted ; in Brazil a three-month-old baby is tortured to death in his parents ' presence ; and in Paraguay prisoners are forced head downward into the pileta , a tub of excrement and urine , until nearly asphyxiated . Stroessner 's Paraguay is not the exception but the rule in Latin America . Though Stroessner 's rule has been brutal , no Paraguayan will claim that he introduced the use of torture or assassination . In the aftermath of the 1947 civil war , for example , several thousand people were arrested and killed , torture was commonplace , and no Paraguayan could safely walk the streets without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But if Stroessner continued a tradition , he also refined it . With the help of the United States , which supplied $160 million in aid , he modernized and expanded his surveillance system , until there was no sector of Paraguayan society not directly under his personal control , save the Catholic Church . Doctors ' and lawyers ' associations , businessmen 's groups , even soccer and theater clubs were subjected to government control , as were naturally the unions , student federations , peasant groups , and newspapers . Like similar systems in other Latin-American military regimes , Strocssner 's network of surveillance depends on the social attitudes engendered by centuries of exploitation , particularly the fear born of fatalism . " It 's better to do nothing ! " or " Do n't complain because you 'll find yourself on the losing end " are heard everywhere in Latin America , in the marketplace . the factories , the jails , the courts , but most particularly in the homes of the poor . The result of lung experience , this fear to protest feeds the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Amnesty International concur that , with few exceptions , Paraguayans are too frightened to risk public denunciation , preferring to bury their dead and to nurse the victims of torture without revealing the cause of their suffering . Nor is arrest the only fear . There is the insecurity of the unemployed and the homeless , and this , too , works in favor of the system . Less because of greed than need , hundreds of Paraguayans work as part-time police spies , or pyragues , reporting on the activities of neighbors , friends , even relatives . The maximum that most receive in return for this service is a small tip or an occasional free meal at the local police commissary , but such is the want . and so widespread the . corruption , that pyragueisrno forms a sub-industry for the prostitutes , maids , newspaper vendors , and others who do not earn enough to eat . As cannibals in the service of the government , the pyragues fulfill a second function , a fifth column for the rancher and businessman who can continue to exploit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more prepared to betray the solidarity of the poor for a pittance . For those who can not be bought , there is the threat of selective repression : sixteen university intellectuals were arrested in July , 1977 : nineteen Christian rural labor leaders in December ; thirty workers and doctors at the beginning of 1978 ; three opposition political leaders in the fall ( twoothers were expelled from the country , six threatened with expulsion ) . The majority of those arrested eventually are released , but their ordeal in prison , including the electric prod and repeated submersion in the piieta , usually ensures their silence , as well as that of family , friends , and neighbors . Since Stroessner came to power in 1954 , " thousands of political prisoners have been held for months or years without official trial , " reports the U.S. Congressional Record , yet so little is known of their cases that no one can say with certainty how many died or survived , not even the government , which lumps political prisoners together with common criminals . Some , such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prison . On his release , Maidana reported that during fourteen of his nineteen years in jail he was not allowed any reading or writing material , in order to " paralyze my mind . " Prisoners are kept in police stations or barracks , often chained to each other or to the wall for months at a time . Others are incarcerated in solitary cells so small that they can not stand . Such was the fate of Celsa Villagra , who was tortured and kept in one of these calabozos for three months despite , the fact that she was pregnant . In April , 1976 , she gave birth to a son in prison . Both are still in jail . According to one ex-prisoner , " Some police are like wild beasts . They derive pleasure from the sheer physical contact of a beating . " A favorite club used in the Police Department of Investigations , he said , was referred to by jailers as the " National Constitution . " In addition to beatings , electric shock , and the pileta , other commonly used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whipping with a cat-o ' - nine- tails with lead balls attached to the thongs and burning of sensitive parts of the body with cigarettes and hot iron bars . Amnesty International also reports children being tortured in the presence of parents and vice versa . Paraguayan defense lawyers complain that justice depends on the whim of the government , random prisoners being released without a hearing , others by executive decree , even though the courts had sentenced them to prison . Thus judicial actions have no value . Only thirteen of the estimated 1,900political prisoners released in 1977 , for example , were charged under Paraguayan law . As in South Africa , ex-prisoners remain in civil limbo , unable to obtain a passport or work permit and subject to re-arrest for association with a politically independent group or professional organization . Second offenders are judged more harshly as a warning to other ex-prisoners . Dr. Juan Felix Bogado , a young physician who gave free medical aid to the Asunchin poor , was sentenced to two years in prison in April , 1978 , for collaborating with a critical cultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the five other defendants , who received one-year sentences , Bogado previously had been arrested for political activities . As is traditional in Paraguayan courts , the sole evidence for the convictions came from police reports , including a confession by Bogado that he said was extracted under torture with the threat to torture his pregnant wife . Such police actions are allowed under a state of siege in force since Stroessner seized power . The Para . guayan Supreme Court justifies this extraordinary situation as " convenient for executive authority to be able to take preventive measures " " Unaccountability is also highly convenient , " the court says . Whether tried or released by executive order , former prisoners are marked for life , having lost their land , jobs , and friends , who are afraid that they , too , will become suspect if seen in the company of alleged subversives . And with good reason : one of the government 's newest ploys is to publish two-year-old , torture-induced " confessions " of selective ex-prisoners in the government newspaper , Patric . The mere mention of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can tarhrush the person as a " communist , " " the worst epithet that can he used in political and military circles , " says university professor Rainim Juste . Yet very few Paraguayans have the slightest notion what communism is , least of all the soldiers arresting " communist " peasants and priests . When asked to explain communism , a security agent faltered , " Well ... it 's ... it 's something very complicated , and I would n't know what to tell you exactly . " I N PART BECAUSE OF the seeming hopelessness of their situation , in part from habit , many Latin Americans look to the United States to deliver them from dictators . In fact , there is a definite limit to how much Washington can or wants to do . The State Department can deny the right of men like Stroessner to call themselves old and loyal friends of the United States . Washington also can question the credentials of those regimes that claim to be democratic governments . In Paraguay , for example , the State Department argues that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country is as tranquil and democratic as Stroessner says . A more convincing argument in Latin America is the threat to withhold military and economic aid and to veto loans from such international lending agencies as the Inter ? American Development Bank . But even here the effects are marginal unless the United States is prepared to go all the way . While the Carter Administration has suspended aid to Paraguay and vetoed three loans from the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank , there has been no noticeable improvement in the human rights situation , because these days Brazil , not the United States , calls the shots in Paraguay ( as well as in Uruguay and Bolivia ) . In order to pressure Stroessner , Washington must pressure Brazil . This it is unwilling to do , not because of diplomatic niceties but because U.S. corporations have invested more than $3 billion in Brazil , most of it since 1964 , when the military seized power . Though just as corrupt and brutal as the Stroessner dictatorship ( even the generals themselves are likening the government to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regime has been exonerated on economic grounds . Paraguay , on the other hand , has no important U.S. investments , and therefore Washington has no reason to condone the thuggery of the Stroessner government . On the contrary , Stroessner 's friendship is a liability . But because the Carter human rights policy is selective , it is having no effect even in those countries where the United States can afford to be sincere . Stroessner is not in the least persuaded by Washington 's arguments , because he can always turn to Brazil for arms and aid .                     