@@431959

 | How to get a Good Night 's Sleep FEW TOPICS command more attention or generate more questionable advice than the search for a good night 's sleep . The reason ? Epidemic desperation . An estimated one out of every three Americans over the age of 15 has been plagued with insomnia ( literally , " without sleep " ) . Even physically healthy , active people , pressed by stresses , depression or frustration , fight nightly battles with the bedclothes . The best sleep probably occurs for most people when they are in junior high school , according to Stanford University professor of psychiatry and sleep specialist Dr. William C. Dement . Determined to recapture those early years of deep slumber , many wade bleary-eyed through a flood of " prescriptions , " from boiled lettuce compresses and warm milk to yoga , sex and water beds . They count sheep , consult psychiatrists or learn to meditate . Most of all , they gulp sleeping pills , in spite of consistent evidence that barbiturates and tranquilizers can be dangerous and , for the average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do exist , however ? a result of years of research into sleep by a small group of specialists , many of whom are members of the Association for the Psychophysiological Study of Sleep . They have found that a safe , successful journey to Nod begins with factual " sleep sense , " and an understanding of some widespread truths and misconceptions . Some samples : Everyone needs sleep . TRUE . In a few rare cases , men and women have been known to thrive on 90 minutes of sleep a day , but for most people ,  | even a night 's missed slumber dulls perception , reduces neurological reaction time and memory , and may impair judgment as well as increase irritability . Everyone needs eight hours of sleep . FALSE . Just as sleep requirements differ among animal species ( some gorillas sleep 14 hours out of 24 , some elephants only 2 ) , so do the requirements of individuals within a species . " The natural range of sleep for normal human adults is five to ten hours , " says sleep specialist W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Florida in Gainesville . " The average is about seven and a half hours . " There is a " right " amount of sleep for everyone . TRUE . Quality of sleep is more important than the number of hours spent in bed . " The way to tell if you 've had enough sleep , " says Professor Webb , " is to consider how you feel when you wake up . If you feel refreshed and able to get going , it 's enough . " Studies of students conducted by Dr. Gordon G. Globus of the University of California report that people who sleep too late in the morning may wake up feeling lethargic , exhausted , depressed and headachy . " Too little sleep is detrimental to human functioning , " he says , " and so is too much sleep . " Women have insomnia more often than men . FALSE . Women complain about insomnia more often than men do , but recent studies at Stanford University show that women actually sleep better than men . Insomnia is purely psychologic FALSE . At a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arthritis , angina p ton 's , ulcers , migraine , Parkinso disease , thyroid disorders , alcoh ism and drug addiction may prod insomnia . According to Dr. Deme three " primary " sleep disorders t ca n't be traced to specific physical emotional causes may also ca insomnia : nocturnal myoclonus , patterned jerking of the legs t awakens sleepers ; sleep apnea , a f quent cessation of breathing t awakens the sleeper ; and dist bances of natural biological rhyth such as those caused by jet lag . Most sleep researchers agree t insomnia is not a disease in itself b a sign that something physical , em tional or behavioral is preventing normal , cyclical mechanism from o erating . The causes may range fro interference with the production naturally occurring brain " sleep chemicals to too much caffeine , t wrong bed or lack of exercise . Much insomnia , according to thea Wagman of the Maryland Ps chiatric Research Center , can dealt with effectively through beha for modification or habit trainin Experts offer these tested tips : ? Make sure you really do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bed , and keep a sleep to for a week , marking when you na when you go to bed and each ti you wake up . Try to note the tot sleep you got and whether you we able to go about your daily activi  | ties . The results may be reassuring . ? Get a checkup to be certain you have no hidden medical condition to account for sleeplessness . Beware of prescription drugs . If used regularly , sleeping pills can wreck the natural , vital stages of sleep . ? Do n't be afraid of a temporary period of insomnia . " Phobic insomnia " occurs when people , afraid they ca n't sleep , make their fears come true . " When you 're tired enough , you 'll sleep , " says Professor Webb . ? Establish a nighttime ritual , and retire at the same time most nights . One man spent the last halfhour before bedtime wandering about the house checking each of the doors and windows . His wife thought this was a waste of time , so he got right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Result : insomnia . Wandering provided him with a " winding down " time that said , " IJow it 's time to sleep . " ? Avoid heavy exercise and large meals before bed . Both excite too many hormonal , metabolic and circulatory processes . Lovemaking , if tense , may do the same . ? Avoid " replacement " naps . There are two kinds of naps : The 15-to-20 minute " catnap " that refreshes and restores is okay occasionally ; but he deep-sleep nap , taken in a state of daytime exhaustion after a sleepless night , leaves the napper feeling worse than before , and further interrupts the individual sleep cycle . If you miss a night 's sleep , try to stay up until your regular bedtime the next night . ? Choose your bed carefully . Beds should cradle you . You should be able to move easily . Watch the temperature and humidity . Moderate temperature ( 6o-65 ? F ) and relatively high humidity are best . Try " white noise . " Sometimes the hum of an air conditioner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soft rustling or " shooshing " noises , can induce sleep . ? Watch your diet . Coffee , cola , tea and chocolate all contain the stimulant caffeine . On the other hand , some experts say ( although this is controversial ) that tryptophan , an amino acid that is a precursor of a natural brain sedative , may help . Foods such as cheese and milk contain tryptophan , so Grandma 's prescription for " warm milk " at bedtime may not be far off . ? Drink alcohol sparingly . It is a sedative , but it can make sleep fitful . PERCEIVING SLEEPLESSNESS as a plus may be too much to ask of most insomniacs . But it 's almost certain that sleep has been vastly overrated by a leisure-loving society with time on its hands . " Sleep , riches and health , " author Jean Paul Richter once said , " to be truly enjoyed must be interrupted . "                     