@@488016

Diane was an attractive young divorc  --  e with two children , ' a fianc ? and a7drug addiction problem . John , the young man , talked the matter over with Diane 's parents and they agreed that only drastic steps could help . He went to the police narcotics division office , reported Diane to Patrolman X and helped X to arrest her . It was a bitter course of action , but John reasdned that it would mean for her compulsory treatment and a new life . The new life came , all right , but its main feature was Patrolman X. He saw Diane every day or so , having listed her officially as an informer so that the continuing association would not be questioned . It soon became apparent that he was supplying her with narcotics . When John complained to Patrolman X , he was beaten up and threatened with havihg his had blown off . Soon thereafter , another patrolman , Y , began to come around , also supplying Diane with narcotics and enjoying her company . A short time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a narcotics wholesaler . They told her that they had 100 bags of heroin which she was to sell . When she protested , she was told to cooperate or they would " take care of her kids . " The proceeds from the sale were split three ways among Diane , Patrolman X and Solly who  --  it later turned out was another narcotics officer . When an official complaint r. was made , the plot turned even thicker . The policemen partners in crime kidnapped Diane and held her in an apartment for several days in a futile attempt to stop the investigation . It is encouraging to report that X , Y and Solly went to prison for their actions , but the extraordinary fact is that so bizarre and cruel a crime can occur . Yet it and other recent drug-related incidents , in which policemen Police morale is only part of the drug picture . American troops in Vietnam , now returning home , have been infected in epidemic proportion ; the generation gap seems widest over the issue of drug restrictions and there are estimates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least marijuana  --  an activity which is labeled as criminal and vigorously prosecuted as such . Changes are occurring in the once-loose world of the drug - salesman . One hears rumors of new criminal organizations coalescing around narcotics distribution . The word in from the campus centers is that drug peddling is no longer an informal matter which any young entrepreneur can blithely try for fun and profit . The hijacking of small dealers has become common , and tough men  --  well protected  --  are beginning to emerge as the local campus distributors . The same decline in golden opportunities for ambitious youth is being noted in amateur smuggling . A New York Times article of June 27 spoke of the 1,189 Americans in prison or awaiting trial in foreign countries . Of these , 747 were under custody for narcotics offenses . Information comes , also from a different source . The underground press has been noting that the youngster who goes to some glamorous foreign city to buy the kilo that promises amazing profit has about equal possibility of being " ripped off " by criminals or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chances are good that the smuggler was spotted on a tip from the seller . Competition between the forces of law and of lawlessness for such information is brisk enough that whether the traveler in contraband winds up in a ' Tijuana alley or before a federal commissioner is largely a matter of the economics of information . The lesson is clear : the day of the amateur deald is over and the push is toward organization . Unfortunately , the pressure for narcotics that is pulling crime into new forms of organization , ' is also breaking up the police . There have been some notable exceptions : the federal-local strike forces , with their pooled information and manpower , have made impressive seizures and arrests , and one can assume even greater effectiveness in the future . The sad fact , however , is that these rather glamorous forays constitute only a small part of the total police activity against narcotics violations . The major , - more routine , day-to-day work is so structured that it automatically fragments a narcotics division and drives it into a position where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even close to impossible . The usual official statement divides the world of narcotics offenders into users , and dealers , the former pathetic , the latter hard and evil . In practice , one can elaborate on that distinction . Real sellers are not only evil ; they 're hard to catch and they comprise by far the-smallest segment of the narcotics arrests . Users are not only pathetic ; they 're very easy to arrest and they comprise the bulk of the catch . No one has given a very convincing argument for concentrating on the users , other than that sometimes they can be made to supply information . Certainly we do n't rehabilitate them , and arresting them has done very little indeed to cleanse a community of narcotics . When it comes to the dealers , the conventional script describes them all as being of the same stripe , and it is assumed that every arrest of a dealer is a blow to organized narcotics crime . Although that is the only view that could validate the common police practice of caseby-case enforcement , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  number of those arrested for selling drugs are " accommodation " or " subsistence " sellers , people who sell only small quantities , , either to accommodate a friend ( who may turn out to be a police agent ) or on a rather infrequent basis to support their own habit . Some of those arrested are ambitious greenhorns . The college youth who buys a supply of marijuana or even of heroin with dreams of setting himself up as campus distributor is one such person , as is the " alienated " type , who believes he can take $1,000 down below the border and come back with enough drugs to become a big operator . The amateur dealer is a criminal , but hardly a master or important criminal . He does stupid things ; he has no background in crime ; he does n't know how to deal with the realities of an arrest or an interrogation . He 's likely to be bright , educated , contemptuous of law officials and the law , and totally unequipped to survive in a very tough game : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crime and organized law enforcement are allied . When he plays the criminal , he deserves to be treated as such ; but aside from his na  --  vet ? he differs from the professional in one important respect : the pressures on his life are such that maturity may push him back into the square world , especially if , drug dealing does not yield fun , profit or a criminal label . These " accommodation , " " subsistence " and " amateur " dealers perform one important function . They supply law officials with closed cases , results . If it were n't for them , police efforts against narcotics offenses would look very unprodnctivp . The real problem is the professional . He corrupts and he combines with others in criminal conspiracies and organizations . He may have little formal education , but he usually knows his business and he pursues it seriously . He never makes the mistake of personally attacking the police . Operating in the narcotics or gambling field , he must know the system , including the basic fact that since he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many people , he must corrupt the cops to enjoy any security . He can be seriously endangered only by organized effort . However , America 's police agencies were founded in a day when their task was seen as that of reacting to isolated events which disturbed the order of the community , and in a society simple enough so that this activity was adequate to maintain the peace . The present situation is utterly different , but police work is still largely a matter of individual battles against individual criminals over individual crimes . Detective A listens to a complaint , investigates , makes an arrest if circumstances warrant , and closes the case . Detective B " catches " and processes the next case . Following this route , police departments and policemen individually see their work as the total of all the small tasks performed by the multitudes of " detectives A and B. " Narcotics sales , for example , are recorded as though they were all the same kind of operation . The overall picture is given in terms of ( I ) the number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( usually as compared to the number reported in the previous year ) ; ( 2 ) the number of arrests ; often given as a percentage of complaints , to achieve an index called the arrest rate ( the index is much better for narcotics sales than for most crimes , because few such sales are reported unless an arrest is made , whereas the police ' are notified of most burglaries or other serious " victim crimes " ) , and ( 3 ) conviction rate ; that is , the percentage of convictions to arrests . Instead of seeing all-important patterns , the viewer dealing with such statistical information sees thousands of isolated , indistinguishable , incidents . The criteria of good police performance become much clearer and easier to express than they should be . The police look better under the following circumstances : if fewer crimes are reported ? whether or not fewer crimes occur ; if a greater number of arrests are made  --  whether or not the arrests are of important criminals ; if there is a higher percentage of convictions  --  whether or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criminals . The emphasis , in other words , is on quantity rather than quality . This approach means low police efficiency , even when the crimes are related only because common pressures influence the personally unrelated victims or offenders . It is important , even then , to see the existence and significance of trends or of factors newly emerging . But when the crimes or the criminals are related by organized activity , ' police failure to note the connections utterly frustrates anti-crime activity , since the organization is always much more important than any of the individual crimesit commits . Law-enforcement agencies have finally realized this with respect to gambling offenses , but they know much more about the gambling organizations than they do about those in narcotics . Beyond the obvious probleni of never seeing the overall picture , police operations are seriously distorted by the " case-by-case " approach . To begin with , each investigator controls his own investigations , develops his own sources of information , and quite frequently his private files . A narcotics unit working under such ground rules is not ari @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grouping of individuals , each licensed to fish in the sea of narcotics crime . The other side of this coin is that the investigator is judged as an individual producer rather than as the member of a team . Combine that with the quantity-over-quality emphasis and it becomes obvious that he must be concerned more with his " batting average " than with the needs of the community . The pressure on the investigator is not to eradicate or reduce crime but to develop his relationship to it so that he can secure the number of arrests and convictions that will prove him to be a good performer . Possibly the most serious weakness of the case-by-case approach is that it transfers the really difficult problems and decisions about crime control from the police administration to the individual officer . Ten years ago , before the Mapp decision , when illegal law enforcement was both " legal and demanded " in half the United States ( New York included ) , , the police administrator did not want to be told of illegal searches or kicked-in doors . Except for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty " did not matter as Jong as the policemen wound up with the evidence . The great number of Supreme Court-originated restrictions which were established during the last ten years changed the long-existing pattern of arrests , searches , evidence , convictions and , police accountability . In Mapp , the Court found that evidence tainted by illegal arrest procedures could noebe accepted , as it had been accepted in almost half our states , particularly for vice , gambling operations against crimes in those areas were affected . I was in charge of a midtown Manhattan patrol division at  --  , , that time and I saw case after case thrown out of court . We searched frantically for ways to bolster those plummeting conviction rates . . .4. ) that In retrospect , the real problem of that period was r. ? e ' the individual policeman of average background and train- ing was asked to make , on the spot , decisions of the sort ... ) that police administrators and the courts were agonizing over in the process of adjusting police department policies io to new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the , police in those days could n't give them guidelines for legal day-to-day operations . All we could ask for were results . I 1 ' know that the consequent pressure meant that questionable tactics were used . I would like to believe that the men acted illegally ' only for good objectives and that they were ? personally unstained . But I wonder . In the field of drug law enforcement the case-by- s- case approach raises new , unpleasant problems . For a start , the lone or paired investigator is forced by his Ern ' ited resources to concentrate on relatively easy arrests , a. the users and the nonprofessional dealers . In the police I tradition , he relies heavily on criminal informants , and LI- the most available source of information is the user who t is at least a small-time seller . Sometimes such a contact occurs through the official trade-off routine ? " We arrested L , t , X for selling and we 're asking for leniency on the ground that he cooperates . " That relationship arises often , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the users who ? can be arrested are really good potential informants . A 7 valuable informant , one with whom a long-time relationship is worth establishing , has a lot to offer , and members of a detective 's own squad , as well as of other federal , L. state and local narcotics units , are in competition for his 4 services , If the policeman is to get information of value , and even if he follows the most stringent professional ; i- ' guidelines that have been proposed , he must pay well and ! he knows that the payment money ' will go into narcotics . , ? ' In theory , the agent pays for the information and the IA informant knows that he will be arrested if the agent gets wind of any further narcotics violation on his part . Prac , tically , such a position is so unrealistic that it borders on the ridiculous . Consider the following factors : Good information always justifies giving immunity rt to a user , and this ordinarily covers at least some sales activity . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by members of the drug squad or even k , from arrest by the officer or team with whom the inform-ant works ; but immunity usually stretches with the value of the information . Most police agencies authorize only very small ex ) pense accounts , and in the absence of big money the most acceptable medium of payment is drugs . That is particularly true when a fairly big case is in the offing . It is diffi- 1 cult to conceive of a situation wherein a sophisticated informant knew that a substantial seizure of drugs was likely to result from his information and , as long as he had a few hours to make the contacts , did not ' arrange to receive a portion of contraband as his payment . Compared to an ounce of heroin , any conceivable money payment for information is trivial . Once an officer starts paying in narcotics , he must get them from somewhere . On an occasional basis , associates may help . The hearings of the New York State Commission . on Investigation elicited from several police witnesses the statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another member of the squad . For continuing needs , however , it would seem that only two sources are available : the officer may confiscate drugs from a user or seller and let him go , or he can hold out on evidence . Obviously , the drugs supplied as a favor by other officers must have come from similar sources . The nature of narcotics adds another element to the ethical problems that always arise where there is a continuing association between the police and a criminal group . A certain corrosion comes from all such " business " contacts , but , while other criminals have only a professional interest in their dealings with the police , police pressure or tolerance literally means the difference between what the addict accepts as a good life and the hell of drug deprivation . People who have worked with intelligent and aggressive addicts speak of their cunning , their single-mindedness and their absolute amorality where their drug supply is involved . It is difficult even for a medical professional to deal with such people without being manipulated . The investigator -- Lwith a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than those afforded the therapist  --  is more prone to , possibly eager for , seduction . Opposing such pressures are very few guidelines for proper conduct of narcotics law enforcement . Narcotics units have proliferated so rapidly that there has been no chance for an unofficial ethic of good practice to develop and , for reasons which have been discussed , very little ethical guidance has been available from above . What with the officer 's power over the addict , the addict 's desperate and single-minded attention to his own need , and the standard practice which places the policeman who has a narcotics assignment in a continuing illegal relationship with a series of user/seller informants , the overall risk for the ' honest policeman is , like that of living in a leper colony  --  infection may not occur but the possibility is extremely high . How to emerge from the social damage of the narcotics traffic and the futility of the present struggle to end it ? The first need is perspective . We must stop seeing the narcotics ' problem as one big issue , whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absolute debauchery or to continue on ' the sterile road ' of blindly stiffening narcotics law penalties and increasing police budgets for more of the enforcement ' practices that have been used in the past . We must separate the questions of moral judgment from the questions of necessary social control . We might start by considering whether we can afford to criminalize more than 10 per cent of our population ? and that 10 per cent including a large percentage of the youth of our country  --  through the continued enforcement of the marijuana usage laws . Freed of that enforcement , we should no longer be haunted by the realization that about half of our young adult sons and daughters have a high probability of being among= those arrested during the next year . Without that enforcement , the police could initiate a positive relationship with the young , who are also among their employers . It should be made clear that the important questions are not , " Should we legalize marijuana usage ? " or " Is marijuana harmful , immoral , etc. ? " They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scarce and very expensive police and corrections resources " ; " how can it concentrate on the most serious problems " ; " how can the police gain public support ? " We might even inquire ' whether the arrest of narcotics users is justified  --  even though they sometimes ' give information  --  until we begin rehabilitation programs which at present are not even envisioned . After thirty years in the field , I still do n't see anything other than " get-rid-of-thederelicts " or " **25;2161;TOOLONG " benefits . We 've spent a lot of money to prove that even those inhumane results are not achieved . I should make it clear that I 'm only against arresting addicts as addicts . A great part of the total number of crimes for profit are committed by addicts to meet their needs . There are probably important ways whereby these drug-motivated crimes could be tackled with some effect , but we do n't get at the problem by locking up the users in the conventional fashion . Obviously , if drug usage were made noncriminal , more addicts would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintenance , which could reduce their need to commit crime . This is no longer the position of wide-eyed idealism . Even such a relatively conservative organization as the National Council on Crime and Delinquency has taken the position that " crimes without victims " should be removed from the statute books . One intermediate step might be for the police to get the kind of executive directiOn that would allow them to stop enforcing some of these laws , at least those relating to marijuana . Something very similar to this was done in New York City in 1969 when , at Mayor Lindsay 's direction , the police abandoned their long-established custom of seeking out homosexuals to arrest . By the mere fact that police no longer appeared as complainants in such cases , a large amount of enforcement energy could be directed to other activities . The New York City Department may already have taken a step in this direction with respect to narcotics enforcement , since there has been recently . a noticeable decline in user arrests . A second step  --  a real possibility only if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than police approaches to nonprofessional ( drug dealing and , in a broader perspective , the wholequestion of youth culture drug usage . These problems are much bigger than mere policing issues , and we are certain to lose as long as we keep trying to answer them ' only in terms of crime control . Such an approach would involve much work with the universities , to determine the best possible means of enlisting campus communities and the youth communities against drug usage. - It would be a waste of time , however , to take such an approach k ' ' ' against the smoking of marijuana . At the heart of the issue is the desperate need j that law-enforcement authorities give us a realistic picture of the problems they face and the actions they take . How ' t much money is spent on marijuana enforcement or drug- .. c , user arrests ? How many arrests are being made for the one or two marijuana cigarettes found after a search , . - .1 " with permission , " of a car driven by a long-haired youngster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ i overview of the narcotics problem or are they waiting , 1 blindly for the next scandal to emerge ? The evidence is strong that any large group of nar-cotics enforcement , officers , dealing as individuals with " small-fry " users and dealers , are vulnerable to corruption , and it can almost be guaranteed that they will do , nothing to cure the basic narcotics problem . New York City has been tarred by an investigation which could 4 probably have been duplicated wherever there is a major narcotics problem . In some measure , scandals will sur-face in any city where the police use the case-by-case approach to narcotics law enforcement . Anything that an individual can do , working by himself in this area , is ' probably hardly worth doing . Certainly , it could be done ri , a lot better by organized , directed and responsibly controlled investigation . . 0 Specifically , what would be involved in such a change of policy by police administration ? First , investigators now working on their own would be grouped and assigned to cases or information-gathering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be independent 4 operators . Every arrest and lead would be milked fors its content of information and that content analyzed and recorded . Policies as to enforcement emphasis should be based on such analysis , with special attention going to the organized criminals . An important part of such a system would be to define a workable distinction between professionals " c and nonprofessionals ( the " accommodators , " the " sub-sisters , " the " amateurs " ) among those suspected or arrested for drug abuse . For the unorganized  --  usually unimportant  --  dealers and the drug user , a sampling , quality-control type of police activity might ' be used . The massive and heavy , . , 4 **34;2188;TOOLONG proceduie , which is properly used against professionals engaged in an organized criminal activity , is not justified for the nonprofessional . It should be remembered that it is just as useful to frighten or coax the nonprofessional out of the criminal area as it is to arrest him . And as previously noted , there should at the same time be a strong emphasis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and nonprofessional criminals would be stressed and developed more than professional informants . Nothing would be done to block information that professional criminals wished to supply about their nonprofessional competitors ; the difference would be that no police favors would be , paid for such information . ' Regional or even greater federal emphasis seems clearly le indicated . There are implications even at the international level . Only a few weeks ago forty-five members of an , 1. - tinternational narcotics organization which had sent large amounts of heroin into the United States were arrested in Europe on the basis of information developed by U.S. agents . Most of these criminals never left Europe and would have been absolutely unreachable by the United States without foreign police and judicial cooperation . That , then , is the challenge : either police administration accepts the responsibility for the reasoned , sophisticated control of narcotics law enforcement , or it accepts responsibility for continued inefficiency with regard to the important criminals , continued overstress on nonprofessional criminals , and corruption on a scale that no body of public servants can endure .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          