@@281591

' Violence is nothing new in Argentine politics , but it has now reached proportions that are staggering even by local standards . Last Sunday night terrorists scattered more than 50 bombs round Buenos Aires , mainly at automobile showrooms , banks and financial companies . Two men , including a policeman who was trying to dismantle a bomb when it exploded , were killed and several others wounded . Next night , before the city had recovered from the first onslaught , 60 more bombs were planted . Earlier that day the bullet-riddled body of Atilio Lpez , a leftist labor leader and former provincial vice governor , was discovered along a highway 45 miles from the capital . The following afternoon Alejandro Bartosch , a police physician , was shot to death as he stood in front of his home . <P> Since Aug. 1 the toll from both left-and right-wing terrorism has averaged one death every 19 hours , and it is rising steadily . That chilling statistic is only one sign of Argentina 's turmoil . Late last week two members of one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were kidnaped by left-wing guerrillas in the Buenos Aires suburb of La Lucila while a trainload of commuters looked on in horror . <P> Strange Bedfellows . In large part , the wave of violence is a consequence of President Juan Pern 's death on July 1 . When his widow Isabel succeeded him as President , her most pressing task was to maintain some semblance of unity among the diverse political factions that had supported her husband . Peronism had always been more of a personality cult than a cohesive political ideology . With El Lider gone , the danger was that his followers , who ranged from conservative businessmen to radical students and unionists , would realize what impossibly strange bedfellows they made . The inevitable splintering of the Peronist movement , whose fundamental divisions were clear long before Pern died , was briefly forestalled by a period of intense national mourning that united Argentines . As the current violence attests , the widow 's " honeymoon " is now definitely over . <P> Earlier this month the Montoneros , a leftist guerrilla organization that helped return Pern to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and oligarchs " and then declared war on her government . Issuing their " War Communiqu No. 1 " at a clandestine press conference , the Montoneros threatened a terrorist campaign of arson , assassination , sabotage and bombing . As a chilling reminder of their past exploits , they also released a detailed report of how they kidnaped former President Pedro Eugenic Aramburu in 1970 , stuffed him into a truckload of hay , and transported him to a ranch outside Buenos Aires , where he was summarily tried , sentenced and executed . Although the Montoneros are not the sole purveyors of Argentine violence , they are widely believed to be responsible for most of the recent bombings .                     