@@487945

As cars streamed into the- stadium lots for the first football game of the fall season in Boise , Idaho , they were greeted by young Volunteers for Church and Andrus ( Cecil Andrus is the incumbent Governor ) . Each volunteer carried two sets of bumper stickers : " Church for Idaho " in red , white and blue and " Andrus " in bold white letters against a blue background . Church is seeking a fourth term in the Senate and Andrus a second term as Governor . Both Democrats , they are doing much of their campaigning in tandem . In the East Lot a co-ed knelt at the rear of each car , peeling the stickers and smoothing them side by side on the bumper . The few who declined the stickers did so politely , until the twentieth car . After accepting " Andrus , " the driver 's heavy , buckskin-clad wife stormed against Church . " How can a sweet gal like you be for Church ? " she asked . " Are ya really for Church ? " " Sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ co-ed , curious but chiefly seeking diversion from the kneel-peeland-smooth routine . " Have ya heard of the Seabed Treaty ! You better look inta that Church . He 's just like Nelson Rockefeller . They 're both out to destroy this country . " The Seabed Treaty . It is not a normal topic of conversation for Idahoans , but it does appear in a- long litany of charges leveled against Church in a pamphlet prepared and circulated throughout Idaho by the John Birch Society . Recently some legislators , including Church , had discussed the possibility of financing the United NaLoch Johnson is a political scientist at present on leave from Ohio University to observe the Idaho Congressional elections . He has contributed a chapter on Senator Church 's foreign policy to A Psychological Approach to Political Man ( Her-mann and Milburn , editors ) to be published by the Free Press early next year . tions with mineral rights from international waters . The Birchers- fear this so-called ' Seabed Treaty proposal as a pro-Communist plot to subjugate American oilmen and fishermen to the whims of an ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on world affairs is an enemy , and this year they intend to do something about their enemies . At the top of its enemies list the Birch Society has placed three incumbent U.S. Senators ; they are all Democrats and were all " doves " during the war in Vietnam . One is Mike Gravel of Alaska , whom the Birchers despise for reading the Pentagon Papers on the Senate floor . C.R. Lewis , a member of the Birch Society national executive board , has won the Republican nomination for U.S. Senator in Alaska and faces Gravel in November . Another is Alan Cranston , whose record of pro-Communist activities , according to the Birchers , is " longer than an income-tax form . " But the prime target is Frank Church . The Birch Society sees a rare opportunity in , Idaho this ' year . The state 's fiercely independent voters have shown signs of a pronounced shift to the right . In 1972 John Schmitz , the right-wing Presidential candidate ( American Party ) , , won his ' largest vote in Idaho  --  almost 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' left in the upper ranks of Idaho politics . In 1972 a right-wing Republican with strong Birch ties was elected to Congress , joining a similarly inclined U.S. Senator ( McClure ) elected two years before . Earlier this year the other incumbent Congressman , a moderate Republican friendly toward Church , was defeated in the primaries by a conservative Republican who is now favored to win the seat in the general election  --  if he can survive cur-ren t investigations into his campaign financing . In short , Birch-oriented politicians have a good chance to dominate the Idaho delegation in the next Congress , at least numerically . The major obstacle to a clean sweep for the Birch Society is Idaho 's senior Senator , and they believe that he is vulnerable . Not only is Church 's voting record generally liberal but , unlike the popular newcomer Andrus , he has been in politics eighteen years and has - inevitably made some enemies . All of these years , moreover , have been spent in Washington where the decisions are more far-reaching and controversial than those faced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Idahoan distrust of the federal government , no doubt Oinforced by Watergate . The size of Idaho makes Church unusually vulnerable to a Birch attack . The voting population is relatively small ( around 300,000 ) and concentrated , making it more susceptible to outside influence than would be the case in larger states . A reasonably effective attempt to persuade the California electorate to vote against Cranston would cost the Birchers $1 million at least . The California population is immense and mobile , and the advertising market is expensive . In California , $250,000 would buy a fair amount of media space and time in Los Angeles during the last week of the election ; in Idaho , the same amount can finance an entire statewide campaign from beginning to end . If a quarter million dollars can make a dent in California , it can be decisive in Idaho . An added Bircher incentive for focusing on Idaho is the realization that Church may soon become chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . He is next in line after aging John Sparkman ( 75 ) and Mike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radical Right views ? the prospect of the Church chairmanship as the disastrous resurgence of " comrade " Fulbright 's pro-Communist policies . Now 50 years old , Church could lead the Foreign Relations Committee for the rest of this century . The defeat of Church and Gravel  --  and possibly Cranston  --  would be a major coup for the John Birch Society and would serve , it believes , to intimidate other members of Congress . Thus far their tactics in Idaho have been twofold : to distribute their attack against Church 's record and to ' support Church 's conservative GOP opponent , Bob Smith . More than 100,000 copies of the article attacking Church have already been distribUted throughout the state , one for every postal patron in many areas . It originally appeared in American Opinion ( March 1974 ) , 2a monthly published and edited by Robert Welch , founder and head of the John Birdh Society . The distortion , misrepresentation ? and innuendo displayed in the article demonstrate that the tactics of McCarthyism linger on . The article begins with an attempt to discredit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making him appear hypocritical . It quotes Church as saying in a 1965 speech that America 's " commitments solemnly made must be kept , whether wisely or unwisely . " However , the next sentence in his speech is conveniently omitted : " But there never , at any time , has been any commitment on the part of the United States to fight the war in South Vietnam . " As columnist J4ck Anderson has aptly observed , " This is a little like quoting Abe Lincoln as saying he would carry on his work ' with malice , ' without adding the words toward none . ' " ' A second allegation is that Church enthusiastically endorsed Cesar Chavez , head of the United Farm Workers Union , who led the nationwide lettuce boycott . Actually , Church has consistently opposed bOycotts against any farmproducts , and has been criticized by some Idaho liberals for not being more sympathetic to Chavez 's fight on behalf of migrant farm workers . Church 's vote at the 1972 Democratic Convention put the Idaho delegation on record in opposition to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support a Chavez-led boycott of Idaho potatoes , which is as . likely as a Kansas Senator declaring on Meet the Press that corn is hazardous to your- health . The Seabed is a favorite Birch target . From Church 's point of view , the mineral resources that lie beyond national jurisdictions hold promise as an important source of revenue for the financially faltering United Nations . Funding the U.N . in this manner would permit a reduction in the substantial U.S. contributions to the organization , and release money that is badly needed for domestic programs . Of course , any proposal looking to improve the affairs of the U.N . is anathema to the Birchers . They term the U.N . a Communist organization ; after all , several ' Communist nations are members . Simplistic de= ductions appear to be an identifying feature of extremist groups . The most fanciful  --  and shamefill  --  of the Birch allegations is the slur upon Church 's administrative assistant , Verda Barnes . A daughter of Idaho Pioneers and a government case worker on Capitol Hill for years , Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whereby , the Communists control Church . She is a mainstay on the Senator 's staff , but for none of the reasons suggested by the Birchers . A. fence-mender par excellence , her days are spent on the phone to Idaho , cultivating friendships for the Senator and smoothing the ruffled feathers that inevitably arise in any Senator 's constituency . Her advice on Idaho political questions has been wise and helpful to Church ; however , when it comes to foreign policy or any of the other issues which so provoke the John Birch Society , Frank ? Church makes up his own mind with little staff assistance . The Birch article bases its slurs . against Mrs. Barnes ? on the " research " of Frank ( Fxancis A. ) Capell , an American Opinion contributor . In 1965 Capell was indicted and pleaded no : contest to a charge involving conspiracy to defame former Republican Sen. Thomas Kuchel of California with a phony allegation of homoiexuality . Thenty years earlier , Cipell was convicted on a felony charge for conspiracy to ask , accept and receive bribes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Church staff believes that , like the other Bircher allegations , this attempt to damage him by attacking Mrs. Barnes will fool only those who know nothing about the facts . They worry , though , about the many ' newcomers to Idaho who know little about Mrs. Barnes 's integrity or Church 's true , position on the issues raised by the Society . The John Birch Society relies on the susceptibility of these new arrivals . Still , Church remains confident that the smear attempt will fail . " I have devoted all of my life to the service of my country both in war Church won a Bronze Star in-World War II and peace , " he recently - told an impromptu press conference , " and Idahoans are much too fUir-minded to be taken in by the efforts to taint me as some kind of pro-Communist . " ( Bob Smith , the GOP and John Birch Society candidate against Church , is an easy ally for the right wingers . Though his speeches contain less of the rabid anti-communism typical of Bircher publications , he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially its hatred of collectivism and the federal government . Most of all , Smith fears the demise of the free-enterprise system in the United States , and he attributes its decline directly to the growth of the federal government . Anti-federalism , coupled with a relentless hunt for Reds , is the backbone of the Birch organization , too . What makes Smith an attractive spokesman for this and other right-wing groups is that he is sufficiently articulate , sophisticated and attractive to give his anti-federal philosophy considerable appeal . With degrees in political science at the College of Idaho , theology at Northwestern , law at the University of Idaho , as well as a certificate in Chinese from Yale University , Smith has been a Methodist missionary in Malaysia , a practicing attorney in Idaho , and the manager of a successful Congressional campaign in 1972 for Rep. Steve Symms . Most recently , Smith was Symms 's administrative assistant in Washington . ( Symms is a favorite speaker at Birch Society gatherings and was the keynote speaker at the 1974 Birch Society banquet in Chicago . ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the " mixing " abilities of a ' preacher and some political experience . In public Smith steers clear of some of the more bizarre Birch positions ( e.g. , Nelson Rockefeller is part of an " inner circle " out to control the world ) , and stresses subjects having a broader appeal:1 cutting back on federal taxes , red tape and bureaucratic regulations . Church , too , has anti-federal strains in his philosophy . He is against federal gun controls , for example , and in 1967 was the first to warn of the growing Caesarism in the White House. , In fact , every Idaho politician , has a healthy dose of anti-federalism ; but , whereas Smith and the Birchers are completely negative about government , Church sees the possibility of its positive use , as , with Medicare and Social Security legislation . Smith tells audiences that our way of life and possibly even the survival of modern civilization is in jeopardy since our tradition of ' free enterprise and limited government is under the most massive attack in history . " I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stop the stampede to socialism " ( one is reminded of Goldwater 's phrase in 1964 about " stagnating in the swampland of collectivism " ) . Taking heart from recent Arkansas history , Smith is convinced that voters across the country will send other incumbents to join SenatOW Fulbright in the political pastures . " This year people are concerned with having too many incumbents who 've been there too long , " Smith told a meeting of the Nez Perce County Republican Central Committee . " They just want to get rid of career politicians . " He promises to resign after two terms , if elected . This is a difficult dog to make hunt since many Idahoans understand the value of Church 's seniority . As chairman of the Senate Internal Subcommittee on Water and Power , Church has successfully defeated several attempts to divert Idaho 's precious water southward . Church has other strengths which Smith will find difficult to combat . He has dotted the Idaho landscape with agricultural , conservation and sewer projects ; he has assiduously cultivated constituent ties over the years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a regular basis ; and he is one of the nation 's best orators and debaters . Church also has the usual advantages of the incumbent . Smith , then , faces a battle , even if the political trend in Idaho is swinging to the right . Thus far he has condoned the Birch smear on , Church and has even defended the Society as " a whipping boy to be attacked by liberal candidates who , need to divert public attention from their own philosophies . " This rigid tie to the Birchers goes beyond Smith 's own deep-running doctrinaire conservatism . Members of the John Birch Society 's national council are funding Smith 's campaign and these dollars , apparently , are a strong binding adhesive . Also , Smith seems to be betting that the Birch attack will work its poison through the state . So the battle shapes up as between a talented young conservative and a talented , experienced liberal . Whatever the outcome , the voters of Idaho are being offered this year a choice , not an echo . ? ,  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          