@@316270

EVEN as a " new Europe " is trying to stitch itself together , an old one is doing its best to pull the Continent apart . For all the talk of unity , Europeans have not yet surmounted the chauvinistic prejudices that permit Belgians to think of neighboring Dutchmen as supercilious stuffed shirts , Germans to regard Italians as hopelessly unambitious and inefficient . As for the French , all too many are still reared with an overweening sense of cultural and linguistic superiority that Jean Cocteau once described with the confession : " When I was little , I believed that foreigners could not really talk at all , but were only pretending . " <P> There is , however , an even greater threat to the realization of Charles de Gaulle 's loftily imprecise dream of a Europe des patries-a Europe of the fatherlands . That is the persistence of myriad old tribal and regional interests and loyalties lying within and across the Continent 's national frontiers . <P> Forgotten for much of the postwar era , Europe 's sub-and transnational minorities have been making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it seems , many if not most of Europe 's central governments face what British Author Anthony Sampson describes in The New Europeans as a " long , untidy " period of internal struggles in " many different forms , from regionalism to anarchism to sheer eccentricity . " <P> The phenomenon spans Europe from Britain , still grappling with Welsh and Scottish nationalism and the bloody war in Ulster , to the Soviet Union , troubled by ethnic unrest in Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania . Yugoslavia , where uneasy equilibrium has been upset by a violent upsurge of Croatian nationalism , may be the only European nation whose existence as a single , unified state seems directly imperiled . But others have been rattled , to a greater or lesser degree , by a variety of unhappy minorities : Switzerland 's Jura separatists , Sweden 's Lapps , Rumania 's Transylvanian Hungarians , France 's Bretons and Corsicans , Spain 's Basques , and myriad ethnic groups of Italy-the German-and French-speaking pockets in the north and the Sicilians and Sardinians in the arid mezzogiorno ( southland ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Europe 's national boundaries no longer make much sense , if indeed they ever did . The present map of Europe was carved out by warring armies-and postwar diplomats-only in the past century and a half . In 1830 there were no such countries as Greece , Belgium or Norway . Italy and Germany are scarcely a century old , while Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia date back only to 1918 . Underlying Europe 's somewhat artificial frontiers is a patchwork of ancient tribal and economic enclaves divided by geography , culture and what Italian Sociologist Francesco Ferrarotti describes as " the greatest single non-unifying factor in Europe , an excess of history . "                     