@@491471

' YEE ME y WILLI/1M She was a slender woman with watchful grey eyes . And that graven face of a tragedy that might not have been . " He was never what you would call a ' good ' boy - he had too much mischief and love of life in him , " she said . " But he was a boy who was full of love , of giving . He had this  --  this trust in what you were and what you did . " The home was stucco , in the sun-country tradition , filled with alternating sun and shadows . An old home on an old road where trucks coughed into high gear and autos sped remorselessly to the Interstate a mile or so away . " You do n't think of a boy being ' sick ' because he 's into mischief all the time , " she said . But this boy was ; he was a hyper-kinetic child . That meant he was filled with an irrepressible , almost inexplicable , energy : he could n't be quiet , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led to what others called " mischief . " It was not because he was " bad ; " it was because he could not be quiescent . " The hyper-kinetic child just never stops , " said his mother . " He just goes and goes and goes . " He is not mentally retarded : the hyperkinetic child is average or above in IQ , is high in verbal skills but low on re ? warding and learning skills . The reason : he has a very , very short attention span . " He never seems to be looking at you ; his eyes are always darting around the room . " He has difficulty coordinating what he sees and hears , but he talks a blue streak and , if he does not get what he wants immediately , he might throw a temper tantrum . His greatest difficulty is that , though he is eternally restless , he lacks muscular coordination . He has a passion for handling things and , because he tends to be clumsy , drops them and breaks them . " But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He never gives a thought to anything but his goal for that moment  --  he plunges on towards his goal and never looks this way or that . " At least in sports . " If he 's chasing a ball and it goes into the street , he 'll never think to watch out for cars . If he 's playing football , he 'll never look for a way to go around a tackler . He 'll try to run right over him . It 's like he 's got blinders on his eyes he goes single-mindedly for that goal and does n't mind this way or that . " In time , usually in his early teens , the hyper-kinetic child outgrows this surging restlessness . Perhaps it is because of some subtle maturity in the chemistry of the brain . Until then , he must be given help , not simply to quell his restlessness but to help bolster his learning processes . For if his learning patterns are warped or delayed until his teens , then he will be hopelessly behind other children of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " We knew how to take care of our boy , " says the mother , " or we thought we did . " The " way " is through use of certain medicines , including amphetamine . This is a legitimate drug used for legitimate medicinal purposes . It is also an abused drug : there are people who gobble it down habitually ? seeking the " high " of drug abuse or the simmering sense of fitness that amphetamine might produce . In the street slang of drug abuse , amphetamine is an " upper . " It is a mystery of " We thought we 'd experiment by reducing his dosage , " said the mother . " We did n't give him quite as much medicine as the prescription said . We thought we could take him ' down ' from what the doctor prescribed  --  we could make sure he was n't an addict . " As they reduced the dosage , bit by bit , to almost nothing , they saw the old problems recur . His grades went down , his teachers complained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house was shattering . But they felt that these problems were endurable . " Addiction " was not . The tragedy struck one glowering twilight when the boy , now almost twelve , was playing football with some other boys , with the end zone out in the street . " He loved to play the game  --  he 'd just put his head down , if he was carrying the ball , and never stop until he got to the end zone . " Even when he had to challenge a couple of trucks in that " end zone . " " He never saw the truck . He did n't look one way or the other . He just kept on bulling and charging . " She wonders whether he would be alive today if he 'd had the medicine , so that the bull-charge syndrome of the boy would have been alloyed with enough caution to make him look both ways . Here  --  in one of the calamitous ironies of our times  --  was an extension of the " drug crisis " that nobody anticipated : a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a rare or unknown event . It has become one of the bizarre burdens facing society and the pharmaceutical industry today  --  how tohandle the " fear of medicine " that the fear of drugs has inspired . To be sure , there have always been patients who improperly administer their prescriptions : in one study in Ohio , it was shown that 51.7 percent of the prescriptions under study were misused , unintentionally , by the patients studied . The difficulty today is that more and more people are allowing their alarm about drug abuse to affect their attitude toward much-needed prescription drugs , sometimes cutting down on such vitally needed medicines as digitalis for certain heart ailments or insulin for their diabetes . " 1 take my vitamins every day , " one woman in a small town in Ohio was overheard to say not long ago , " but I do n't take my medicine because it has drugs in it . " The fear of drugs and of legitimate medicines led one mother in Washington to tell a psychiatrist of the guilt feelings she suffered over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medicine for the disease but one also used as a drug of abuse by the irresponsible and weaker elements of society . " 1 feel , " said the mother , " as if I 'm turning my child into a drug addict because of her epilepsy . And I 'm not going to do that . " The psychiatrist , as a doctor of medicine , could only do what doctors often have to do : reassure her of the positive value of properly used medicines . For an underdose would do more damage than good . In another eastern city , the same lesson was learned by a patient suffering from chronic con-gestive heart failure , who decided to stop taking his medications . Since his wife 's death , he had lived alone in an apartment building , even after a massive congestive heart failure the previousyear . Now he wondered whether his reliance on digitalis , the drug that was largely responsible for his recovery , did not reflect a weakness in character . Was he becoming enslaved to it ? Did he value it so much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ? These are questions that those who abuse drugs should ask themselves . But this man 's health depended on his digitalis dosage . And his decision to skip his doctor 's appointment and to discontinue the medication had sorry consequences . He began to have trouble breathing : even at rest he would wheeze , cough , and sweat . And he was very tired , almost too weak to move . To sleep , he sat up in a chair all night , because his lungs filled up with fluids when he would lie in bed . His feet and ankles were swollen to twice their normal size . In short , he began to experience all the symptoms of acute congestive heart failure . It was only the timely arrival of the janitor ? who persuaded the man to call his doctor  --  that spared the story a tragic ending . Thus a decade of distrust and suspicion is climaxed today by a nightmare of misunderstanding . In the last decade or so , even before the macabre reality of drug abuse , the pharmaceutical industry has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The result was not a breakdown of trust in the industry , which may have been the goal of the accusers , but a breakdown of trust in their product-medicine . Somehow , out of all the assaults-political and other kinds-of the last decade , the notion arose that it was the drug , not the disease , that was dangerous . This misapprehension about medicine has become " a health problem for all of society , not just a problem of industry , " says Mrs. Sue Roe Kaplan , Assistant Vice-President , Consumer Affairs , for the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association . But-in the crisis of drug abuse today-perhaps the sternest test the industry has ever faced is to find the response that best serves society . In examining the industry 's fitness to respond to this test , it is useful to see how it has faced the welter of charges and countercharges of the recent past . ? The charge : The pharmaceutical industry is deliberately foisting off a series of new drugs on the public , including the mood-altering drugs , with a single motive-profit . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the prescriptions written today are for medicines that did not exist a half-generation ago . It is also true that many of the mood-altering drugs came onto the market in that period seventeen or eighteen years ago . But the worth and impact of those medicines is easily measured . The death rate due to polio and whooping cough has gone down almost 100 percent because of the new drugs introduced to treat or prevent them . Similarly with tuberculosis , dysentery , and hypertensive heart disease : in a ten-year period , the death rate due to these diseases declined between 50 and 60 percent . Or take asthma , meningitis , rheumatic fever , and appendicitis : the death rate in that period declined for all of them between 30 and 36 percent . Infant deaths went down 20 percent in that period and we are just now beginning to realize the benefits of the measles vaccine . Perhaps the most significant single claim is that the chief cause of death for persons under thirty-seven is no longer disease ; it is accident . Thus the industry 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society-as some critics have claimed-its new products were designed to provide society with great benefits : better health and longer life . The record on mood-altering drugs is also suggestive . When tranquilizers and other antianxiety agents were introduced in 1954-55 , there were 558,000 persons in mental institutions in the United States . The best estimate at the time was that their number would rise to 800,000 by the early 1970 's , and that the cost of new buildings to house them-leaving out day-to-day medical care-would exceed $3.6 billion . But the success of tranquilizers and similar compounds made it possible to treat anxiety and other mental problems more effectively , Indeed , it became possible to help the anxious and afflicted without locking them away into mental hospitals . The result is that there were 347,768 persons in state and county mental institutions , a reduction of 37.68 percent from the pre- tranquilizer days-not an increase of 45 percent . " Rather than question the use of psychoactivemedicines , " says Mrs. Kaplan , " we should question the society which produces some degree of mental illness in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today that there are medicines that enable many of these persons to function more normally than they otherwise would . " The troubling thing about the newest challenge of drug abuse is that it is unlike anything that preceded it . It is multiphased and multifaceted . As in the past , it involves underdose and overdose . It involves legitimate and illegitimate drugs as well as a welter of products lying around the house-naphtha , paint thinner , and a grotesque variety of elements shot into the veins from catnip and white wine to mayonnaise and peanut butter ( " You do n't hear much about halting the advertising and production of peanut butter because some irresponsible kids shoot ' it , " says Mrs. Kaplan ) . It involves , through neglect or irresponsibility , polit cians who were so busy in the 1960 's attacking the doubtful inequities of drug prices that they failed to perceive the vast iniquities of drug abuse . It involves adults so indulgent that they accepted drug abuse in the young as an expression of an existing new life style . The latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their habits , however grotesque , to academicians-a few of whom campaigned actively for drug abuse to parents who ignored the problem altogether or who accepted it in the feeling that it had rewards for them . Not too long ago , one doctor specializing in youngsters hooked on drugs told me of one who was a member of a fine high school swim team near Chicago . " He got hooked on amphetamines as a result of trying to do well in swimming , " says the doctor . The youngster started taking the " speed " first to get " up " for competition . Then he began taking more to get " up " for the daily practice sessions . Then he began taking more in order to abort the severe " down " that follows the use of speed- a " down " that would hit him about the time he tackled his homework . " I feel that the boy did not really want the speed ' - that he 'd rather give up swimming than take this drug , " says the doctor . " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sat down and told them of his concern . t o get them to order him to quit the drugs , even if it meant quitting the team . But the parents never responded to the signals . They wanted him to stay with the swim team . His mother in particular seemed to need very much the success that the boy enjoyed in his competitive swimming . " So the youngster figured his parents wanted him hopped up on speed , and he went into drug abuse in a more dedicated way . Until he sickened of it and sought out medical therapy . The complicity of adults is evident in more di-rect ways . One Manhattan businessman , age t h irty - three , says that he keeps " a supply of pills for entertaining just the way I keep liquor . " A maga-zine editor who commutes between New York and Los Angeles admits that he sometimes " shoots " amphetamine directly into a vein in order to meet the test of his work : " It 's the only thing that keeps nie going , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forty-seven-year-old housewife who has twenty bottles of pills in her kitchen , plus a kaleidoscope- " for my LSD trips . " In a small town in the south-ern Piedmont in the Carolinas , a group of about twenty persons in the forty-to-sixty-year-old range are known to gather to smoke pot and experiment with LSD . Most of them are businessmen and six of them are women . And there is tragedy on the adult level of drug abuse . In Cali-fornia , the secretary of a Protestant bishop died of acute barbiturate poisoning after taking too many " downers . " In Oregon , six women died after taking large doses of " weight-reducing " pills that con-tained amphetamines and five other chemicals . On Long Island , an adult male mainlined some heroin shot it into his veins-then went out and drove a station wagon into a collision in which seven persons were killed . So the new challenge troubling the pharmaceutical industry is a complex problem of society , not just of the industry . Nevertheless , the industry is deeply involved in it , as something more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be said of the industry response in the early days is that it was an authentic reflection of society : no better , no worse , and in fact it was - like society-overwhelmed by the problem before it understood its evolving nature and scope . For the problem which started as a ghetto problem involving heroin and other illicit opiates now has become one of the white suburbs and has broadened to include amphetamine and barbiturates and other legitimately produced medicines . As it became clear that legitimate drugs from legitimate companies , intended as medicines , were falling into illegitimate hands , the critics shifted to a new angle of attack . Drug abuse , some implied , was the fault of the drug companies because so many of their medicines-amphetamines and barbiturates-were getting to drug abusers . How many ? Without offering proof , some critics alleged that as much as 50 percent of all legitimately produced drugs were being diverted into illicit hands . This wild charge did not stand up under scrutiny . Evidence cited by the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs in May , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contraband materials " sent for analysis to the BNDD had any legal medical use  --  i.e. , were legitimate medicine as well as drugs of abuse . Furthermore , it could not say just how much of this 16 percent was illicityl produced or how much came from legitimate U.S. drug companies . It is known that manufacturers in other countries , as well as marginal companies in this country operating under the cloak of technical legality , sell products that have appeared in the illicit market . Also there has flourished from time to time an underground drug industry that produces only for the illicit market . In one month a few years ago , federal agents found four such laboratories  --  in Seattle , in Birmingham , Alabama , and in the New York-New Jersey area  --  producing the equivalent of twelve million pills ; later on they raided the " home laboratory " of a chemist near San Francisco who had produced ten million tablets of LSD . ( LSD is an illegal drug . No pharmaceutical company makes it . ) But the fact remained that any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too much , either for the industry or for society . To the credit of the drug industry , most manufacturers and certainly the major producers of medicines follow elaborate security procedures to preclude diversion . But there were companies that were lax in their operations and diversion occurred . It was not much consolation that it apparently took place without the knowledge or consent of the company management . One drug company found that 500 pounds of methamphetamine  --  the " speediest " of " speed " ? was stolen off its loading dock one day . In another instance , a college chemistry major used a fake address and credentials to get shipments of amphetamine from three different companies , claiming that he was a legitimate researcher doing research on the action of this drug . In still another case , a company found through the agents of BNDD that the street address of an amphetamine customer in Mexico was actually the eleventh hole of the Tijuana golf course  --  that the customer was merely picking up the shipment there and filtering it back into the hands of drug-pushers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chemicals and capsules which he-took home . Then , he resold them illegally . He was caught , but not before he had made a small fortune . It was clear that some pharmaceutical producers would have to tighten security considerably , both in identifying customers and in manufacturing products . The shock of these disclosures brought a general tightening up by the industry . In cooperation with the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs , manufacturers monitored sales of items with abuse potential and reported instances of unusual quantities or frequency in orders . The pharmaceutical industry can not easily screen such orders itself and it is proscribed by law from collective arrangements among its members , even though intended to control drug abuse rather than competition . But the responsibilities of the pharmaceutical industry demanded that security procedures found effective in major companies also be instituted in others . In companies where this had not been done before , employees in certain areas suddenly began wearing smocks and uniforms without pockets in them . They were forbidden to carry purses or attache cases in or out of the work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of abuse out of the plant bit by bit . Moreover , plant floors were marked off clearly into certain walkways and security areas ; visitors to the plant could not move off those marked paths and even employees had to have permission to circulate in sensitive areas . Certain entrances were closed to normal traffic and employees had to pass inspection via closed-circuit TV , particularly when reporting to work in off hours . Former FBI men were being hired throughout the industry to help redesign and enforce security procedures . Consider the stringent precautions found effective at Eli Lilly and Company : ? All powders susceptible to abuse are kept in prisonlike vaults until they are ready for filling into capsules . ? Finished products are kept in fenced-in areas to which only one man , a group leader , has a key . The group leader himself moves the hand truck loaded with the products into a cage where they await bottling and labeling . ? Shipments to wholesale distributors are made in containers that are , on the outside , completely unidentified as to contents or sender @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the stenciled name of the customer . Thus a hijacker or truck driver has no idea which of the packages contain drugs with a potential for abuse . A thief on a loading dock or a hijacker could n't even tell which packages contained drugs . ? Employees on loading docks are assigned to load trucks on randomized schedules so that collusion with truck drivers would be difficult . ? All labels , including those to go on bottles or boxes of drug-abuse products , are kept in a label lockup to which only a supervisor has a key . They are transferred to production lines in sealed plastic envelopes in quantitites only sufficient for a packaging run , and only after appropriate transfer documents are signed . ? All empty gelatin capsules  --  which Lilly produces for use by other companies  --  are similarly kept under lock and key , on the chance that somebody might make off with a few thousand empty capsules , and match them later with a drug that 's been manufactured in some hippie 's basement . ? In production and intermediate storage areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ containers having inner sealed plastic sacks . These sacks are closed with tapes that can not be removed without tearing them . The tapes are color-coded to indicate which department last handled the product . No department will accept an unsealed sack , and a torn tape immediately ignites an investigation into the handling of the product . To make sure that nobody tears off a tape , grabs some capsules , and then reseals the package with a fresh tape , all tapes are kept under lock and key until they are needed . Then a strict accounting system is attached to their movement and use in the plant . Some companies were so concerned about the abuse of certain products that they took drastic steps . When the Burroughs Wellcome Co. became aware that any form of methampheta mine found in illicit trade was being misidentified as Methedrine , one of its products , it simply stopped producing the compound altogether . Wyeth Laboratories stopped producing an inhaler that drug abusers were buying or stealing  --  largely off drugstore counters  --  so that they could get their kicks not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a whole . amphetamine producers agreed to a demand by the federal government that production of these drugs he cut by 80 percent . The government felt there would still be enough to take care of the vital medical needs of the nation . It was a remarkable , even unprecedented , agreement ; it was as if the automobile industry had agreed to a demand from Washington that auto production in the United States be cut by 80 percent , from I0 million cars a year down to two million , because autos kill more than 55,000 persons a year and maim a million more . But all of this was essentially preventive in nature . What were the pharmaceutical companies doing to take the offensive against drug abuse ? They were doing what such companies should do best : searching for a chemical that would combat addiction . But as the drug-abuse crisis deepened , they responded to a government invitation to expandthese efforts and coordinate them . A special task force was set up within the pharmaceutical industry to coordinate work in the industrial laboratories with that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government . The goal is a " cure " for addiction to heroin and other opiates . ( The government is providing $75 million over the next three years to help finance the research . ) It is not an easy task . " We do not see the ' miracle ' drug to cure addiction as a near-term possibility , " Thomas M. Rauch , board chairman and president of Smith Kline &; French Laboratories , told a congressional committee last year . One reason : killing the craving  --  both physical and psychological  --  for certain opiates is more complex than conquering the bacteria or viruses that cause disease . Here are some of the ways they 're going about it : Methadone : This is the drug used to replace heroin for addicts . Properly administered , it satisfies the craving for heroin . There is no demand for ever-increasing " highs , " no need for ever-increasing amounts to keep the addict 's system stable . But it is a narcotic , just as heroin is . If an addict does not take his methadonetreatment every twenty-four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two ways to use methadone in combating heroin addiction . Both are experimental , with their investigation being conducted on a broad scale . One way is to wean an addict away from heroin by giving him methadone , and then , by reducing his dosages of methadone methodically , to wean him off drugs altogether . The other is to maintain his addiction on methadone , which costs only pennies a day , instead of allowing him to continue on a hundred-dollar-a-day heroin habit . The fact is that there are many heroin addicts in their thirties and forties who are looking for a way out of a drug-dominated life that forces them to go on hustling and stealing to obtain money for heroin every day . The heroin habit can cost up to several hundred dollars a day ; the methadone habit , only 1.0 cents . Through methadone , the addicts ' craving can be quelled and they can go out into the world and work at a job and maintain a reasonably normal family life . The aim is to turn addicts around so that they can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pursuing a self-destructive course . Narcotic antagonists : These are chemicals which are outright " enemies " ? antagonists  --  of heroin , morphine , and the other opiate drugs . They are not themselves addictive , which makes them different from methadone . They eliminate any pleasure that heroin gives an addict ; indeed , after he 's taken one of these antagonists , he can inject heroin into his bloodstream , mainlining it , and not feel a thing . The theory is that the craving for heroin will diminish and disappear with the loss of its pleasure . However , the proof of this theory may be many years away . Two narcotic an tagonists of some promise have been in use in experimental trials . One is Cyclazocine , a product of the Sterling Drug Co. , which will block the enjoyment of narcotics for a day ; after that , its impact lessens . It has some unpleasant side effects , such as dizziness , nausea , headaches , insomnia . These tend to disappear after the drug is used for several weeks , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They rationalize that it 's easier to go back to the heroin " kicks " than to suffer the side effects of Cyclazocine . The other is Naloxone , produced by Endo Laboratories , Inc. , a subsidiary of DuPont . It has no conspicuous side effects but its narcotic-blocking effect lasts only for a very few hours unless it is given in enormous dosages . And the problem there is that it is in relatively short supply , and likely to remain so . It is made from a derivative of opium that exists in only one part in 100 , and our government is actively trying to suppress further opium production around the world . The obvious need is for a chemical that is longer-lasting than Naloxone , and more available , and that has fewer side effects than Cyclazocine . Endo Laboratories and Bristol-Myers are at work on cousins of Naloxone ( chemicals with small differences in the molecular structure ) in just such a search . Ciba-Geigy came up with yet another compound which it submitted to the government for clinical tests in human beings . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ techniques : One way of extending the usefulness and convenience of drugs like methadone or Cyclazocine would he to develop a time-release form so that the active drug can he released into the body over a long period of time ( not unlike drugs for relieving cold symptoms , such as Contac , which is reported to have a twelve-hour impact ) . In this case , the chemical would be packed into a plastic capsule implanted surgically in the body . A heroin-blocking implant would release its medicament gradually over a period of one to three months . Thus there would be no need for daily or semiweekly treatment . Several companies are hard at work on this concept , but the basic problem that of finding the appropriate drug  --  is complicated by that of finding the appropriate form for uniform release . Present implant casings have to be inserted and removed surgically , once the chemical they contain has been exhausted . Repeated surgery on an addict tends to limit the usefulness of such a treatment . So the research effort is to find a plastic type of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in exactly the quantities needed every day or so over a period of many months , and that will ( b ) itself dissolve when empty and be completely absorbed by the body , or discharged as a biological waste product without complications . The troubling problems in this search for a chemical " cure " for drug abuse are philosophic and governmental as well as scientific . Philosophically , there are questions as to whether the cure should be rooted less in chemistry than in the character of man . It suggests doubt that all the answers to the problems of society , even that of drug abuse , can be found in a drug . For in time a new drug might be found to have as many problems as the old drug of abuse did . " Do n't Americans always substitute one problem for another ? " asks James Allen , a one-time heroin addict who kicked the habit , without help from a chemical " crutch , " and became director of Harlem 's Addict Rehabilitation Center . The basic philosophical objection is that drug addiction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that these problems need to be solved in order to solve the basic need for drugs . The conclusion is inescapable , therefore , that the danger today is not in the medicine itself  --  it is in the abuse of the drug . One of the worst aspects of this is in the illicit making of drugs by the homebrew method ? throwing them together very much the way grandma used to make soup . The " acid head " gets to be a taster in his own drug kitchen , and by the time he is through , he often has built up a tolerance to , - , ay , LSD , in which , to get any effect at all , he has to pour a truly dangerous dose into himself . The drug companies , although very much aware of this , can do very little about it , except to take notice of their own housekeeping , and to put checks ical combination that doctors expect when they write out a prescription . Another company runs 1,057 checks on certain of its products . McNeil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ product , 408 on an anti-anxiety agent ( only fifteen would be required under FDA regulations ) , and 358 on Tylenol , a nonaspirin analgesic ( only seventy-four are required by the official compendia ) . Yet another company has a product which takes three months to produce ; it devotes all but two weeks of that time to quality control and testing . It is this devotion to a constant quality and safe dosages that distinguishes the ethical drug industry from the illicit drug-abuse market . Thus the danger is not in the medicine today ; it is in the abuse of the drug . The doctor who issues a prescription is outlining how best to use , not abuse , the drugs that he is recommending . A peripheral but important aspect is the effort of some of the ethical drug companies ( i.e. , those that produce drugs for prescriptions ) to alert the public to the difference between its drug and the one that goes into the illicit drug-abuse market . Eli Lilly and Company has encountered great trouble in the street-slang name used by drug @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " after Seconal , the barbiturate product of Lilly . But little of Lilly 's product falls into the hands of drug abusers . Lilly deliberately uses uniquely shaped capsules ; on one end the capsule is tipped like the bullet in a rifle , so that it can be immediately identified by law-enforcement officials should it turn up in the illicit trade . And so that it can likewise be immediately identified as a legitimate product by legitimate users of Lilly 's Seconal . All Lilly capsules and tablets also bear a script " Lilly " and code symbols that enable anybody in medicine or law enforcement to find in a code book what the pill contains . The effort to maintain the integrity of legitimate products , and to help the general public recognize legitimate products , is practiced by many in the industry : Smith Kline &; French , for example , uses a hexagonal shape for certain of its products , among them the barbiturates . ( It also makes the capsule in blackand-white , so that it can not  --  in street slang  --  be grouped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " ) All of the 11 5 companies in the PMA are now marking their tablets and capsules so they can be quickly identified and differentiated from those in the illicit market . In the long run , the effort must be ot only to maintain the quality of the legitimate product but to ease the nation 's growing " fear of medicines . " For that fear could be more destructive of the individual and of society than drug abuse itself : the fear of medicine might prompt some families to ignore the protection that the polio and flu and diphtheria and measles vaccines provide and thus enable ravaging epidemics in one or all of these diseases to occur again . A strong and unwavering purpose within the pharmaceutical industry might in some measure avert that horror , but our ultimate salvation must come from the clear minds and strong fiber of the society the industry serves .                     