@@487999

Senator McGovern 's campaign strategists in Pennsylvania believe that they will need 100,000 votes froni Pittsburgh and Allegheny County and 250,000 from Philadelphia to carry the state next month . Two facts make fulfilling that need difficult at best . First , through the magic of electronics and the majesty of the Presidency , Richard Nixon has , in effect , been campaigning in Pennsylvania for nearly four years . Senator McGovern 's campaign did not really get started until September 13 , when the Senator and his nonrunning mate , Edward Kennedy , drew 10,000 to 15 , - 000 persons to a noon rally in Pittsburgh 's Market Square . The expectation of seeing Senator Kennedy , " live and on stage , " attracted much of the crowd and kept it waiting - under a hot sun until the two men arrived , forty minutes late . Speaking first , Kennedy eleVated the audience to an altitude of partisan excitement which McGovern generally had been unable to elicit from crowds . But then McGovern demonstrated that , once his audience has been boosted by the Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people 's level of excitation and maintain it on his own . The Ted-and-George show came off equally well before an even larger audience later that day in Philadelphia . " That 's the day the campaign started in Pennsylvania , " said Harvey Thiemann , state Democratic chairman , The second difficulty is unprecedented in the recent history of the state . Philadelphia Mayor Frank Rizzo , a Democrat , backs President Nixon who , by way of thanks , announced the day after the McGovern-Kennedy appear- , ance that Rizzo would receive $52.3 million in new federal aid for Philadelphia . And at the other end of the state , in Pittsburgh , Mayor Peter F. Flaherty sits quietly . Flaherty , also a Democrat , has studiously maintained an " I 'm nobody 's boy " independence from party politics and " special interests " since his election in 1969 . Clearly the single most popular politician among voters of both parties in the county ; Flaherty declined to join other leading Democrats in meeting McGovern and Kennedy at the Pittsburgh airport ( an omission which Kennedy aides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help a rival Pittsburgh Democrat defeat Flaherty in the mayoral primary next year ) . The Mayor was also conspicuously absent from the Market Square rally , although he did meet privately with McGovern and labor leaders that day . McGovern faces in Pennsylvania , then , a Philadelphia Democratic Mayor pledged to Nixon and a Pittsburgh Mayor pledged to , no one . A third McGovern problem in Pennsylvania is ; similar to one he appears to have been facing elsewhere : it is to match his campaign issues to the actual concerns of most voters . Intellectuals , New Politics exponents and thoughtful young people believe the issues should be Indochina , defense spending , poverty and the Supreme Court . State Democratic politicians believe that McGovern can find the true issues in supermarket aisles , in the political manipulation of Nixon 's Pay Board , and among the unemployed . The first greiup won the Miami Beach convention and the party for McGovern . Realpolitik is forcing the idealists to give back the party and part of the campaign to the professional p  --  liticians , almost all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the conversion to Realpolitik is not complete . In Philadelphia , for example , McGoveni 's state coordinator ; Vick French , says : " A strong impression I have is that blue-collar workers make a connection between their pocketbooks and the war . " French , a former aide to Sen. Fred Harris and a lobbyist for Common Cause , believes that , because there is no huge defense-related industry ' in Pennsylvania , McGovern 's strong statements against the war and for cuts in defense spending will not estrange the state 's voters . However , Eugene Coon , Allegheny County Democratic chairman , says that the " war is not the issue . " Athnesty for draft evaders is , he thinks , more of an issue . Above all , the economic issue is the most important one . Coon is particularly pleased with , and likes to repeat , McGovern 's statement about the nondeductibility of the worker 's bologna sandwich . A candid source among Nixon campaigners is Robert Peirce , Jr. , Allegheny County Clerk of Courts . A young , liberal and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that $1,000 McGovern was going to give every person , even though he 's dropped the idea . I was at a party of Iron Workers where it was said that the Democratic Party used to be for the ' Workingman , but now it 's just for the very rich and the very poor . " The Nixon people in Pennsylvania are playing to that idea . Peirce appears to have come closest in detecting the actual mood of the average local voter . He recalls , also , that he was scheduled to debate Vic Papale ; one of McGovern 's three coordinators in the Pittsburgh area , at Duquesne University . But the students never showed up . Then ? Peirce spoke at the University of Pittsburgh and Papale at Chatham College . After those three engagements , Peirce claims be and Papale agreed that the campuses are a waste of times Papale denies that the colleges are apathetic , but Peirce 's advice to the Nixon people is to concentrate on the high schools " because those kids seem easier to motivate . " Papale maintains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important among a lot of people . So are taxes and unemployment . Its not simply ' that the people are angry about them but that they want to hear a candidate who can propose a long-range solution . " Papale says , however , that nothing strikes him as " a dominant issue  --  just a sentiment among voters of dissatisfaction . Bussing hardly comes up . It may be that people do n't think that between McGovern and Nixon there are astounding differences on these issues . " As if to lend a touch of credence to Papale 's partisan optimism , on the same day that he offered that observation , his candidate , , McGovern , endorsed federal tax credits to parents of children in church schools . By thus eliminating the difference between himself and the President on parochial-school aid , McGovern could conceivably retrieve the large numbers of Eastern and Southern European and Irish Catholic voters who , in Pittsburghand Philadelphia , seemed to have deserted to Nixon . As could be expected , Harvey Thiemann sees high prices and high unemployment ( 6.3 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of summer ) and not the " war as the key ' issues . Fact sheets on food prices and other bread-and-butter issues , compiled from what Democratic chairmen around the state telephoned or wrote to Thiemann 's office , have been ' mailed outto voters by the state party , not the McGovern headquarters . The McGovern forces also try to emphasize the economic issues in their mailings to voters , but they almost invariably link the wage freeze , inflation and unemployment to the war . If the Democratic regulars like Thiemann and Coon ' wish McGovern would stop bleeding over the plight of the Vietnamese people and concentrate exclusively on Middle America 's concerns , McGovern himself seems to have adopted in Pennsylvania a compromise strategy . He makes concessions to the Jewish , Catholic and working-class votes without failing , however , to emphasize the horrible vindictiveness and stupidity of the war . At a $100-a-plate dinner in Philadelphia in late September , he , struck savagely at the atrocities of the war . Addressing about 600 supporters , few of whom ' came from the ranks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he would " force the American people to examine the evils in Southeast Asia . " He touched only lightly on inflation , unemployment , crime and drug abuse as by-products of the war . Instead , he illustrated his concern for the destruction of innocent Vietnamese by displaying several of the more vicious types of anti-perk sonnel bombs which the United States uses on the Vietnamese . It is on the war and waste in defense spending that McGovern still conveys the greatest sense of fervor and sincerity . They are what differentiated him from his competitors in the primary and what make him look different from Nixon now . But the professionals keep telling him that those issues are not where the Presidential campaign is . And the , consensus , even among many anti-war newsmen in the state , is that the " pols " are right . At McGovem 'S side at the Philadelphia dinner , for example , were Sen. Edmund , Muskie and Gov . Milton J. Shapp , originally a Muskie supporter . Shapp and Muskie took softer approaches in their dinner speeches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . It seems to be Sargent Shriver , rather than Mc , Govern , who has been assigned to make . the strongest pitch on the economic issues in Penngylvania . He has been staking out plant gates ' across the state and reminding those workers who would listen ' to him that Nixon 's economics had shrunk the buying power of their pay checks and frozen their wages . The problem at the mill gates in the Pittsburgh area was Shriver 's low-recognition factor . Four years ago , Hubert Humphrey drew hundreds of workers to him wherever he went , mainly because he had long been an elected national political figure closely identified with the cause of labor . Shriver 's work as an appointed official in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations was in ' areas  --  anti-poverty and the Peace Corps  --  that were neither highly visible nor of much interest to working-class men and women . Nevertheless , Shriver 's vigorous , aggressive approach to workers pleases the state 's party regulars . " I think Shriver 's coming across , " says Coon . Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differs with both fellow party regulars and the McGovern- staff on another issue : the effect of Rizzo 's endorsement of Nixon . He thinks " there 's no question that Rizzo is going to cut McGovern down in Philly . I fully expect the city payrollers ' there to be told to vote Republician . " For that reason , Coon suspects that Allegheny County may have to carry McGovern by as much as 150,000 instead of the 100,000 which McGovern headquarters say is necessary to carry Pennsylvania 's twenty-seven electoral votes . Chairman Thiemann does not believe  --  or at ' least says he does not believe  --  that " the situation in Philly will have much of an effect on the McGovern campaign . " Thiemann points out that Rizzo won the mayoralty by fewer votes than anyone else in recent history . Vick French agrees . " Rizzo 's support of Nixon has been rhetorical rather than that of intervention in the Democratic City Committee or the approaching of ward leaders and muscling them into carrying , the election for Nixon . " One reason , according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which wo n't be satisfied within the GOP . He has to stay in the Democratic Party . Rizzo will conclude that if he wants the governorship , he 'll have to run as a Democrat . He ca n't , therefore , turn off the regular Democrats . " Peter J. Camiel , Philadelphia Democratic city ' chairman , says that Rizzo has not and will not use the influenCe of the mayor 's office to keep Philadelphia contractors , who normally contribute heavily to the Democratic organization , from donating to the McGovern cause . Although Coon 's cynicism is probably more prophetic than the optimism of French , Thiemann and Camiel , there is some political logic in the thesis that RizzO can not afford to go overboard for Nixon . Rizzo probably will see no advantage in switching to the GOP because of Republican Dist . Atty . Arlen Specter of , Philadelphia . A former Democrat , Specter is state chairman of Nixon 's campaign . It is said that John Mitchell called Pennsylvania Sens . ' Hugh Scott and Richard Schweiker to say that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Re-elect the President , but told them further that he wanted SpectelL to be the real chairman . The White House was thus making it clear that it , was interested in Specter , as a Philadelphia Jew and former Democrat , for the governorship in the future . Spetter himself claims that he could not get Rizzo to stump for Nixon or even to sign al pro-Nixon letter for mailing to Italian-American voters . If it is uncertain how much weight Rizzo 's endorsement of Nixon will carry with Philadelphia Democrats and independents , it is equally unclear to some observers how much Kennedy can help to get McGovern votes instead of just crowds at rallies . Some Kennedy ' aides same respect that McGovern had shown Daley in Chicago . Camiel objected that McGovern 's voluntee'rs ignored the rest of the Democratic ticket , so McGovern reportedly directed his state coordinator Vick French to tell his people to campaign for the whole ticket . More likely , however , French , who has the political savvy to know that the ideological purity which won McGovern the nomination would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Camiel-McGovern prodding to persuade his volunteer staff that they must regard the Democratic " pols " not as devils but as comrades in expediency . In Pittsburgh , similarly , Vic Papale " made direct efforts to educate our people to accept the , regulars ' after the primary . " On the regulars ' side , Coon - said , " When I came back from the convention , I laid it out to the McGovern ; coordinators that they 'd have to work for the Democratic ticket . I told them they ca n't look down their noses at some people just because those people are part of a political organization . I told them that there are some who have been working , in party politics longer than you are old . " That exigent confluence of mainstream and new-stream ' politics is precisely what is most interesting about the 1972 campaign. - The question is not whether the volunteers will be soiled and " wiser " from organization contact , or whether the professionals will learn something from the high-niinded idealism of the volunteers . From talking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the professionals will come out of it lIncleansed and with some converts from the volunteers , majority of whom are likely to retire to personal careers and leave politics to the professionals and the next generation of volunteer-challengers . One can imagine with what cynicism , for example , those volunteers swallowed the replacement of the liberal Jewish middle-class state representative , Norman Berson , as chief coordinator of the McGovern campaign in Philadelphia . His replacement was Wendell Young , president of ' the Retail Clerks ' union . Berson and Peter Camiel 's organization had long been at ideological odds . The Pittsburgh campaign has also fused regulars and McGovernites into a joint committee which includes Mrs. Garrett , Sheriff Coon , Commissioners , Staisey and Foerster , and labor leader Joe Sabol . The McGovern headquarters in Pittsburgh expects to add four more paid staff workers to its present eight and to reach a total of about 5,000 volunteers this month . They work out Of ten district offices , each with two telephones . Papale says that the campaign contributions are coming in , from such events @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gift shops . Chairman Coon , however , says the financial situation is bad . On the Republican side , Richard Wright , Allegheny County chairman of the re-elect committee , says he has about 37,000 volunteers ( compared to the McGovernites ' 5,000 ) and hopes for 60,000 . Wright claims to be spending about $100,000 in the county , raised mostly from volunteers , but admits that all his bills are paid by the Philadelphia re-elect committee which , in turn , gets its money from the national committee . His committee has twenty-two offices countywide plus four telephone banks 366 of fourteen telephones each or 140 phones compared to McGovem 's twenty or so . The GOP strategy in Pennsylvania de-emphasizes television and billboards and relies on computerized information about every voter , whom it plans to reach by telephone , by knocking on every door and by sending every registered Republican a telegram just before the election . Pennsylvania 's Republicans , Democrats and McGovern volunteers all agree that the Republicans have the money and the White House and that , after the election , they will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volunteers across the state sound convincing when they say that they will have the White House after November 7 . The organization Democrats ? " and this is not for attribution " ? will be satisfied if they still have their jobs . fl                     