@@479716

LESS THAN AN HOUR after he had been threatened with assassination in Sacramento last September President Ford spoke to the California State Legislature about the troubling rise in crime in the United States . Under the circumstances it was a disappointing speech . The little of it that was quoted in the newspapers suggested that the President contented himself with platitudes . " Peace on Tenth Street in Sacramento , " he said , " . . . is as important as peace in the Sinai Desert " ; " a man or woman or child becomes just as dead from a switchblade slash as from a nuclear missile blast " ; " the billions of dollars spent at all levels of government since 1960 have not done the job , " et cetera . The President had looked into the barrel of a heavy caliber pistol and seen the nearness of his own death I a witness reported that his face " turned completely white " ) , but he apparently failed to understand that he also had seen a magical transformation . With a single gesture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dressed in the red robe of an imaginary religious order , had become a national celebrity . Within a matter of hours it became necessary to know about her early sorrow and unhappy childhood , about her belief in " the people 's court of retribution , " about her squeaky voice and her devotion to the person and murderous fantasy of Charles Manson . By nightfall she had acquired a publicity value temporarily equivalent to that of Joe Namath or Mary Tyler Moore . On the following Tuesday Time and Newsweek printed her photograph on the covers of 8 million magazines , Time taking the trouble to buy space in the New York papers announcing " exclusive photos and passages from Squeaky Fromme 's unpublished memoirs . . . the world of the social misfit and psychological cripple .. . fascinating , penetrating reading in this week 's Time . " Even when drunk and trying for savage irony I doubt whether Nathanael West could have invented so grotesque a billing . Unhappily for Mr. Ford 's expensive efforts to reduce the national crime rate , the transformation accomplished by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jackpot number in the $1-million lottery or being discovered by Russ Meyer in Schwab 's drugstore ) constitutes a debased but popular interpretation of the American dream . As yet only a few people ( among them Arthur Bremer ) have been willing to pay quite so high a price for the first five minutes of the six o'clock news , but if the rewards continue to get bigger ( book contracts , major motion picture deals , product endorsements , talk-show appearances ) I see no reason why their number should not increase . I would have felt more hopeful about the President 's speech if he had said something to the effect thathe presides over a country in which crime so often leads not to poverty , death , or disgrace but to record box-office attendance and high public office . The society that guarantees the profit of criminal enterprise ( whether in the form of a Mafia gambling casino or a corporation 's theft of its own common stock I can expect to find a great many people wandering through the streets with guns in their hands . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can well understand Mr. Ford 's reluctance to do so , but unless he begins with the facts of the matter , I do n't know how he can expect to do anything useful . The pretense of virtue obliges the government to spend additional billions of dollars to prove a false premise . The parallel is with Vietnam or with King Canute commanding the ocean . I do not mean to suggest that the United States has descended into anarchy or that most of its citizens do not obey the law . For the most part they do , but for reasons that can be ascribed to common sense rather than to the exemplary conduct of people who hold positions of trust and authority . E E'EN A CURSORY reading of the newspapers during the past few years would in-cline a fair-minded man to confuse certain kinds of crimes with national policy and stan-dard business procedure . The CIA employs Mafia assassins to arrange the killing of Fidel Castro ; the United States Air Force carries forward a secret bombing of Cambodia . In Viet-nam the U.S. Army encourages a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigation , that the entire burden of guilt rests with Second Lieutenant William Cal-ley . Mr. Ford 's predecessor in the White House forswears his oath of office and then retires on a govern-ment pension and sells his memoirs ( both as a book and a television special ) for $6 million . A dismal succession of business corporations ( among them Gulf Oil , American Airlines , United Brands , Braniff In-ternational , Goodyear Tire and Rub-ber , Lockheed , Northrop , and Ash-land Oil ) admit to various charges of bribery and illegal campaign con-tributions , but in most instances the responsible officials receive a syrnpathetic vote of confidence from their boards of directors . New York City bankrupts itself because a succession of municipal administrations endorse fraudulent accounting practices ; in the same city the United Federation of Teachers follows a policy of extortion ( if you do n't give us what we want , we will close the schools ) , and the Board of Education discovers that it can do nothing but pay the ransom . In the less public-spirited quarters of society the drug trades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much as $50 billion a year ) , and the funerals of police officers become more or less commonplace events . In New York the odds on being convicted of a crime stand at one in five , and a conviction for felony murder results in an average jail term of ten years . If Mr. Ford has any further doubts about the amusements of the crowds with which he so eagerly shakes hands , he might consult the bestseller lists or the Neilsen ratings . his fellow citizens take a romantic view of crime and hold the successful criminal in high regard . More often than not the big money properties require the presence of a heroic predator ? the Godfather , Joe Kennedy , Xaviera Hollander , James Bond , John D. Rockefeller , Aristotle Onassis , Meyer Lansky , a great white shark ? anybody or anything that takes what it wants and shows an appropriate contempt for something so chicken-hearted as the due process of law . A similar ruthlessness is an admired characteristic of the government prosecutor who abuses the rules of evidence in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( always noble ) justify the means ( sometimes treacherous ) corresponds to the idea that anything worth having can be bought for money . To the extent that this is true ( i.e. that high government office sells at prices asked for houses in the Bahamas ) the extremely rich man becomes equivalent to the idealist commissioned to serve the higher law . Both kinds of men induce in their followers the euphoria of omnipotence . It is the same feeling that surrounds a known killer or a victorious politician on election night . For the time being the people within his sphere of influence believe themselves safe from death , pain , taxes , and disease . A FEW MONTHS before he was shot to death in Urnberto 's Clam House , Joey Gallo , the well-known Mafia figure and bon vivant , enjoyed a brief vogue in New York as a fun sort of person to have around . He occasionally appeared at a restaurant frequented by people employed in the manufacture of national images ( journalists , movie directors , fashion photographers , et cetera I , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to drop away into abrupt stillness . Over a period of years I had seen a procession of celebrities walk in and out of the same restaurant , but the cognoscenti always managed to preserve an attitude of disdain , pretending to continue their conversations as if they had noticed nothing out of the ordinary . Gallo never failed to impress them , and they could not prevent themselves from offering him the homage of silence . The presence of a man so closely associated with violence and notorious crime carried with it the same kind of giddy excitement that accompanies the first news of a political assassination . T IIE PRESENT ADMIRATION of the criminal ( both the act and person who commits the act ) no doubt arises from what the sociologists would describe as a condition of alienation . As the law becomes a game for lawyers , so also does it lose its meaning for anybody who ca n't afford the balls and the court and the racquets . If the state can be perceived as hostile abstraction ( far away in Washington where the politicians are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no memory of family or can not conceive of a nation held together by a common idea of justice , then we must make do with the primitive loyalties of the Mafia . The collective glamorization of organized crime seems to me analogous not only to the psychotic fantasies of the Manson family but also to the wistful longings of those intellectuals who wish that the world could be restored to the spiritual purity of the late Middle Ages . I can understand the desire for simplification , but the celebration of the criminal is a confession of defeat . The predatory mode of doing business depends upon the equation of something for nothing : draw the three of diamonds and live happily ever after ; steal another man 's invention and sell it into the mass market ; borrow from the government and let the next generation pay the debt ; fake the soundtrack and try to fix the critics . All well and good , and maybe even successful , but to what purpose ? If think of the thieves , whores , and confidence men whom I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their lack of interest in anything beyond the next day 's scam . Contrary to popular report the criminal mind is remarkably dull . Because it believes in nothing , it does n't take the time or the trouble to make anything of value ? not families , books , laws , nor civilizations . The grand predators come and go like so many lizards in the desert , killing and feeding and leaving nothing to their heirs except a tape-recorded conversation with David Frost . No doubt it is unfair to expect President Ford to think of such things at the moment when Squeaky Fromme pointed a gun at his stomach . One virtue of the politician is his willingness to learn slowly , changing his opinion to conform with the opinions held by a majority of his constituents , but unless Mr. Ford learns to recognize his enemies in all their personae ( as corrupt judge as well as demented girl ) , he must bear the constant risk of assassination . Some people might say that a President accepts such a risk with his office , that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be congratulated for the risk that he also imposes on everybody else in the country . Possibly true , but it is the courage of lost causes and inevitable defeats , the courage of the man who prefers to die with his stupidity rather than try to find a way out of the desert . The newspapers gave the distance between the President and Manson 's " main lady " as two feet , but the distance in time was much greater . It was the distance between the neolithic hunt and the articles of the American Constitution , between the ritual sacrifice of the Aztecs and the science of celestial navigation . The distance is worth preserving , but it is a difficult thing to do in a society that makes celebrities of the people who would destroy it                     