@@479257

PROFESSORS , UNITE ! Union organizers are raiding the academic groves for dues-paying members . The professors . surprisingly , are only too happy to sign up . IF YOU THINK CAMPUS UNREST is a thing of the past , consider this scenario : It is late summer , sometime in the ' 70s . For months , union representatives of the 2,000 faculty members of the State University at Muddy Pond ( SUMP ) have sparred with the administration over a new contract . Now union officials dourly inform the press that a faculty strike is a real possibility unless there is some " give " by the administration on salaries and fringe benefits . Asked where the money is to come from , a union spokesman hints at higher student fees . Then , just as the SUMP administration is about to approve this solution , the executive secretary of the University Union of Students calls a press conference and reads the following statement : The 40,000 students of SNIP have had enough . They now pay an average of $2,000 each in tuition . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the university budget . Aside from the fact that higher fees will drive hundreds of needy students of the campus , we are appalled at the faculty union 's persistent refusal to accept student participation in faculty evaluation . We have also noted with growing concern the administration 's effort to raise dormitory rents and cafeteria prices . The executive committee of the student union has therefore unanimously voted in favor of a mass refusal to pay any tuition at all if it goes up as a result of the faculty union 's intolerable pressure on the administration . We support adequate faculty compensation . But any increase at this time should be contingent upon real faculty accountability and should be fixed only through bargaining in good faith with the University Union of Students . The student spokesman means business , and the faculty union representatives know it . For one thing , the student union has an imposing war chest : $20 dues are paid each year by about 20,000 students . For another , the student union has lately filed ten lawsuits against various professors , alleging that their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loss of reputation for the student plaintiffs . Even pro-strike professors do n't want to see student unionists sifting through their lectures , examinations , and grades for evidence of incompetence or unfairness . And so , behind the scenes , a compromise is worked out . The strike threat by students and faculty is resolved by agreement on a modest raise with no immediate hike in tuition . The students also get a faculty-administration pledge to disclose certain data on grades . And the student and faculty unions agree to undertake a joint lobbying effort to increase SUMP 'S legislative appropriations . Faculty solidarity T O MANY AMERICANS , the most incongruous figures in this scenario would be the faculty . Students are assumed to be activists who dominate weak and confused administrators . But professors supposedly have no business belonging to unions and threatening to strike . It 's little wonder the public thinks so , when most professors do also . Or did until the past year or two . Unseemly or not , the unionization of college and university faculties will be one of the most important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be sure , the trend is still a modest one . At the start of this school year , only about 50,000 ( or 6 per cent ) of the country 's 836,000 faculty members were employed under the terms of a union contract . And the collective bargaining that went into those contracts involved only about 180 campuses out of a U.S. total of 2,700 . Only six universities had contracts ? Southeastern Massachusetts , Central Michigan , Rutgers , the City University of New York , Long Island University . and the University of Wisconsiri ( for teaching assistants ) while most of the rest were community colleges or technical institutes . Even so , professorial collective bargaining is on the rise throughout the country . As the 1971-72 academic year began , the Senate Professorial Association ( an affiliate of the National Educa-tion Association I was bargaining on a single contract that will cover twenty-seven public in-stitutions of higher education in New York . In Pennsylvania , an election was scheduled for October 6 , to determine who would represent the faculties of thirteen state colleges and one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions as the University of Rhode Island , Wayne State University , and the University of Hawaii . In California , which has the nation 's biggest public campus system , roughly two-thirds of the faculty in the state colleges now favor unionization and collective bargaining , compared to less than half in 1967 . In assessing the pace of professorial unionization , one must remember that it took only nine years to organize 65 per cent of the nation 's schoolteachers for collective bargaining . Two teacher unions , the National Education Association ( 1,000,000 members ) and the American Federation of Teachers ( 250,000 members ) achieved this result in fierce competition with each other for teacher members . Both the NEA and the AFT ( including their state and local affiliates ) have made impressive gains in salaries , fringe benefits , and working conditions by hard bargaining and willingness to take other militant job actions . It is virtually certain that college and university faculties will follow this pattern in the 1970s . Faculty members have always been concerned about money and security , but they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rewards privately with deans and department heads . That they should now be bargaining collectively like auto workers or longshoremen or custodians at their own institutions requires some explanation , but it should n't he surprising . One reason is that the legislative situation is vastly more favorable to collective bargaining in higher education , and will be even more so in the future , than it was in the 1960s for public-school teachers . In 1962 , only Wisconsin had formally legalized collective bargaining by public-school teachers , whereas by the summer of 1971 , about fifteen states had enacted legislation authorizing collective bargaining in higher education . Many others are likely to follow if federal legislation does not resolve the problem soon . Indeed . federal jurisdiction over labor relations in private institutions of higher education ( which employ about one-third of all academicpersonnel ) is a recently accomplished fact . A 1970 ruling of the National Labor Relations Board held that the NLRB would assume jurisdiction over employment disputes in private institutions of higher education , provided that the institutions had a significant impact on interstate commerce . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over labor disputes in private institutions with a gross income of $1,000,000 or more . This ruling placed more than two-thirds of private higher education under NLRB jurisdiction and greatly stimulated unionizing activities in private institutions . In self-defense ANYONANYONE FAMILIAR WITH Iabor-management E elsewhere in the economy can readily understand why professors are rapidly seizing their opportunities to bargain collectively . A collective-bargaining contract provides much better protection against capricious or unfair management than a policy statement adopted unilaterally by management . By the same token , policies on academic freedom that are adopted unilaterally by boards of regents can be changed unilaterally . And this is what often happens when a policy comes under severe political or economic attack , precisely when protection is needed most . Then , too , a professor 's grievance may not be with the policy of a governing board , but with the way the policy is being carried out by the administration . Suppose , for example , that a board adopts a policy that guarantees a twelvehour teaching load " except in emergencies . " The faculty might have been agreeable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpreting " emergency " so broadly as to undercut the policy . Without a collective-bargaining contract , the faculty could do very little about this kind of interpretation . With such a contract , faculty members could take their grievances to an impartial third party for binding arbitration . Such procedures are normally used by unions to prevent management from interpreting away rights presumably granted in the collective-bargaining contract . Many other positive features of collective bargaining are attracting professors into unions . But unionization and collective bargaining are also a defensive reaction to the fact that education is no longer a fair-haired boy in the competition for public and private support . Everywhere , higher education is under unprecedented budgetary pressure threatening basic salaries and tenure , as well as traditional professional perquisites such as sabbaticals and travel allowances . Even cutbacks in the number of faculty , unthinkable in the education boom of the ' 60s , are a reality on some campuses . In many fields ? English and physics , for example ? there are many more Ph.D.s looking for jobs than there are openings . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ younger faculty members especially apprehensive and in-terested in unionization . Conditions vary from campus to campus , but virtually all observers expect the next few years to be particularly difficult . A recent study of seventy-six public institutions indicated that ten expected to finish the 1970-71 school year with a deficit , with the number likely to increase substantially in the near future . The measures these schools are taking to meet the financial squeeze include deferring maintenance , eliminating new programs , and freezing or cutting back on faculty . In private higher education , the financial picture is typically more critical than in public institutions . In both sectors , therefore , faculties sense a coming assault on privileges and perquisites they have enjoyed for years : they are organizing in self-defense . While the American Association of University Professors ( AAUP ) seems confused and ambivalent on the issue , the NEA and AFT are more than eager to organize faculties for collective bargaining . This was not always the case . Back in the early ' 60s , when the drive to organize public-school teachers for collective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the presumption ( widely held among teachers themselves ) that " professionals " simply did n't bargain collectively , no matter what the potential benefits . The NEA was overwhelmingly committed to a legislative instead of a collective-bargaining approach to terms and conditions of employment for teachers . But when the AFT won the right in 1962 to represent teachers in New York City , the NEA , though squeamish about the union label , galvanized itself to union militancy . To their growing role as passionate suitors of the professorial hand , the NEA and AFT bring imposing assets . NEA already has more than one million members , and its annual budget exceeds $29 million . Although its membership in higher education is less than half the AAUP 's 90,000. the NEA is enrolling professors at a much faster rate , and its members typically pay much more than AAUP members in state and local dues . At every government level throughout the country , the NEA and its affiliates have staff and N THE IMMEDIATE FUTURE at least , the NEA 's I main opposition will come from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the AFL-CIO . AFT prospects will depend largely upon the financial crisis in higher education and the legislative attempts to limit or abolish tenure . to increase teaching loads , and to cut back on other faculty conditions of employment . At the senior college and university level , the federation 's best opportunities appear to be in urban institutions . The AFT is also a strong contender PA UL DAVIS in community colleges , especially where faculty often come from an AFT local and tend to look to it for organizational support . Rather surprisingly , private higher education represents another promising area for federation growth . The desperate financial crisis in private institutions is forcing most of them to make an all-out effort for public support . AFT and AFL-CIO policies favor such support ; the NEA has been silent . The AFT also stands a good chance this fall of winning representation rights for the regular full-time faculty at the twenty institutions constituting the City University of New York . Such a victory would be an extraordinary boost to AFT affiliates elsewhere , especially at the senior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growth will be hindered rather than helped by system-wide bargaining . In a number of states , the AFT could probably win a majority at one or more institutions but be unable to gain a majority in the state system as a whole . If each campus is considered a separate bargaining unit , AFT affiliates will gain bargaining rights on those campuses where it has a majority . If bargaining is on a system-wide basis , the AFT 's prospects will be less favorable , since it is not so likely to win statewide elections . The American Association of University Professors is currently running a poor third in the race to represent faculties ; its affiliates have bargaining rights on only 6 of the 180 or so campuses where faculties bargain collectively . The reasons for the AAUP 's poor showing thus far seem obvious to everyone but leaders of the association itself . The leadership at first opposed the inclusion of professors under state laws granting bargaining rights to public employees . When such opposition proved fruitless , the leadership tried to exorcise the evil at its 1968 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention may never be equaled . The convention adopted a policy statement asserting that because of its " special characteristics " the academic community should beware of " dependence on external representative agencies , " i.e. , faculty unions . The statement did accept a kind of collective bargaining , but proposed that the professors should be represented by so-called faculty councils . Since the weakness of faculty councils is one of the major causes of faculty unionization , the statement served only to make one thing perfectly clear : the AAUP was completely befuddled by the ? whole business . The AAUP 's statement also asserted that " the Association believes itself , by virtue of its principles , programs . experience , and broad membership , to be well qualified to act as representativeof the faculty in institutions of higher education . " Actually , the AAUP is badly handicapped by the weakness of its state and local affiliates , which are mostly paper organizations without funds , facilities , or personnel experienced in bargaining . Indeed , many of the grievances processed by AAUP 's national office over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and most of the others would have been settled much sooner , at less cost , and with more equity to the employee , under binding arbitration . These considerations , coupled with the association 's grudging and confused acceptance of collective bargaining , make the AAUP 's claim " to be well qualified to act as representative of the faculty " seem pompous nonsense to many faculties . These comments may seem unduly critical , but they hardly begin to tell it like it is . In absolute terms , AAUP membership was slightly less in 1971 than in 1968 . Since the total number of faculty eligible for membership had increased by 89,000 since 1968 , the AAUP has actually been enrolling a declining proportion of the professoriate in recent years . Even if its policies change , it may take years before the Association can compete successfully with NEA and AFT . In fact , it may not get that chance . Consequences T HE STAKES IN THE RIVALRY are enormous . By 1980 , institutions of higher education will employ approximately one million academicians , excluding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about $100 million ) to the three million teachers paying about $300 million in dues by 1980 , and you have a powerful lobby for the cause of education in local , state , and federal legislatures . Whether the lobby will also gain better instruction for students is a debatable question . Nevertheless , we can point to certain consequences of faculty unionization that seem inevitable at this point . They will affect all of us , as parents , students , and taxpayers . Let us look at them briefly . ? The end of " faculty self-government . " The concept of " faculty self-government " translates differently at different institutions . In practice , it may be anything from total institutional or departmental anarchy to the right of an individ : ual faculty member to do as he pleases , regardless of institutional or public needs and interests . The most widely accepted statement on the subject was adopted in 1966 by the AAUP , the American Council on Education , and the Association of Governing Boards of Universities and Colleges . This statement included the following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as curriculum , subject matter and methods of instruction , research , faculty status , and those aspects of student life which relate to the educational process .. . . The governing board and president should , on questions of faculty status , as in other matters where the faculty has primary responsibility , concur with the faculty judgment except in rare instances and for compelling reasons which should be stated in detail . This statement goes far in explaining why higher education is one of this country 's most irresponsible institutions . When a faculty controls tenure , promotions , courses , and grades , if only by exercising a veto . to whom is it responsible except itself ? What can be done about a tenured faculty that approves the appointment of incompetent professors ? About academic departments or individual professors who use their entrenched positions to offer more courses in trivial subjects ? Under " faculty self-government , " nothing can be done about it . As long as faculties are the sole judges of their own actions , it is hopeless to expect higher education to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unionization and collective bargaining is bound to inject a measure of management accountability into these matters . Despite what professors may think , decisions on personnel or programs are not right just because the faculty makes them . If they are right , it is because certain criteria were applied in making them . The crucial question becomes , therefore , not who made the decisions , but who is responsible for the criteria being followed . Under collective bargaining , the faculty has , of course , a major role in establishing the criteria . What they lose under collective bargaining is the operational responsibility for making and carrying out the decisions made according to those criteria . But their loss will be higher education 's gain . The role of a faculty should not be to administer an institution but to ensure that administration is fair and equitable . Unfortunately , pathetic confusions about professionalism have misled faculty members into believing that professors at each institution are entitled to make management decisions . The tragedy is that so many administrators . governing boards . and legislatures have been conned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professors out of administration , but administra tors will be monitored by faculty unions in the performance of their administrative duties . This brings me to a second major consequence of faculty unionization . ? College and university administrators will be forced into a management role , while boards of governors and trustees will lose power . Most institutions of higher education , both public and private , are governed by boards of trustees or regents , who are distinguished , rich , politically influential , or perhaps all of these . Such boards usually enjoy broad latitude in conducting their business . If , for example , sabbaticals are on the agenda one month but other items seem more urgent at the time , the board has no difficulty in postponing consideration of the sabbatical question until the next meeting . Under collective bargaining , this open-ended approach to the terms and conditions of faculty employment will no longer be possible . The very nature of bargaining requires that such matters be considered as a package by a fixed date . If agreement on a package is not reached , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action of some sort . And in the absence of an agreement , neither the administration . nor the board , nor the faculty will find it easy to go about their business as usual . More significantly , negotiators for the governing board must have authority to negotiate . A faculty union , like any other union , will not bargain with management representatives M-io are no more than messengers . Thus the dynamics of bargaining leads to a shift in power from the board to a bargaining team that will he part of the administration . As administrators confront their management responsibilities , we can expect them to take a growing interest in educational productivity . " Productivity " has an unpleasant ring to most professors . Many contend that you ca n't measure it at all and should n't even try . Nevertheless , a recent study sponsored by the Carnegie Commission on Higher Education concluded that the cost of producing a credit-hour of instruction rose about 3 per cent a year between 1930 and 1967 . Even most professors would be slow to claim that quality has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outcome of collective bargaining will be to force administrators to question the means they use to attain institutional objectives . In the long run , this will lead to a painful but necessary analysis of the objectives themselves . Do we really need this section , this course , this program , this building , this dormitory ? Once collective bargaining forces administrators to think hard along these lines , we can expect substantial changes in both the goals and operations of higher education . ? Faculty unionization will be accompanied by a tremendous growth in organizational staff and resources . Collective bargaining requires an enormous amount of work . Though professors have more time for these tasks than most people , they recognize that the do-it-yourself approach is not very effective . As faculty unions strive to become bargaining agents , they need personnel to assess the issues , prepare and distribute organizing literature , plan the strategy , and deal with a host of logistical , legal , budgetary , and tactical problems . This full-time professional staff will present administrators with some serious problems . Administrators who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are veterans at the game . The early bargaining results , therefore , are likely to have unfortunate consequences for students and taxpayers generally . Collective bargaining will be an expensive adult-education course for administrators willing to spend money to get out of trouble , but not willing to spend it to stay out of trouble in the first place . ? There will be greater political activity by professorial groups . Right now , professors are highly organized by subject matter or field of interest . There are hundreds of local , state , and national academic societies . As a group , however , academic organizations wield relatively little political influence . A convention of sociologists may denounce Congressman Claghorn , but Claghorn knows that the sociologists have no organization that can turn out the vote in his district . A denunciation by a faculty union with full-time staff at all levels of government would be something else again . As unionization gains momentum , the political influence of professors will increase correspondingly . The reason will not be their brilliance , a thought that would occur only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will come from their dollars and availability as leg workers . Professors are relatively affluent in our society . Whereas assembly-line workers can not suddenly take off for New Hampshire or California to work in a primary campaign , professors often can . Sooner or later , however , some political leaders are going to raise embarrassing questions about professors suddenly dropping their duties to push some professorial cause far away from the classroom . ? Finally , as suggested in our opening scenario , faculty unions will stimulate the organizaOCTOBER 197 tion of student unions . The student population at many institutions is certainly large enough to support an independent student union to protect and further student interests . These unions will be financed and directly controlled by students . In most cases , they will employ permanent professional staffs who will provide continuity in student representation . The student unions will seek to participate in bargaining between the faculty and the administration , and they will often be the decisive factor in resolving disputes between these groups . In these disputes , students will usually line up with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in the best position to know when professors cancel classes to " consult " in Washington , or when graduate assistants turn back sloppily graded and unannotated term papers . Students also know when professors assign their own textbooks in class , thereby collecting more royalties . If a student union decided to stop this practice , it might easily uncover state laws prohibiting public employees from getting kickbacks . It 's just that no one ever thought of applying these laws to professors . In any case , the viability of student unions will depend on their ability to act effectively on campus issues . If they can do this , they could have a beneficial impact on higher education . Let me conclude on an optimistic note , justified more by collective-bargaining experience elsewhere than by limited experience with it in higher education . Unionization and collective bargaining are conservative processes , especially in public employment . If one believes , as I do , that our society should always be on guard against arbitrary and capricious acts by public agencies , then strong and independent employee organizations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians and public administrators explain their actions . They must be able to protect their individual members . They must be able to expose and criticize the shortcomings of particular employers . Individuals can not do these things ; neither can faculty organizations controlled by the administration . The paradox of faculty unionization is that although it is a faculty initiative , perhaps its most salutary effects will not be what it does for professors , but what it will do to make administrations more efficient , more alert to innovation , and more responsive to the public interest . Unionization and collective bargaining are conservative also in the sense that they are well-established institutions in our society . The ultimate paradox is that such a conservative process , by being introduced so late into higher education , will have such revolutionary outcomes .                     