@@494901

22 There are two ways to keep from losing your shirt on a music festival . One is to grab as many star attractions as possible and program them to the public 's taste ( this the Salzburg/Edinburgh model ) , hoping to sell enough tickets at high enough prices to pay a reasonable fraction of the bills . The other is to scale down the costs of the performances offered , hoping to lure audiences by low prices and by the quality of the ideas around which the festival is constructed . The first approach always loses more money ( sometimes much more money ) , because star attractions are almost as good as OPEC ministers in setting outrageous prices ; and from the point of view of an impresario who must also operate in non-festival weeks , the star system wastes talent that could just as easily sell tickets at other times . But the second approach requires an all but impossible quality of talent and intelligence in performing arts management to convince people that they are really participating in a " festival " despite the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man in the world who can successfully stage this second kind of festival is Martin Feinstein , executive director for performing arts at the Kennedy Center in Washington , who has built such occasions around Shakespeare and Venice , modern composers and the music of Mozart . His " Haydnfest " for the three weeks around October 1st could serve as a model for the genre . Haydn is a composer of supreme importance in the history of music , perhaps the most original fully professional musical artist who ever lived , inexhaustibly witty and delightful . From his 100-plus symphonies , 50-odd piano sonatas , dozens of quartets and vocal works , no more than a handful get programmed in any one city in any one year ; the idea of a long , steady rain of Haydn is intrinsically interesting . It gets talked about in ways that draw not just any old audience , but an audience of some distinction , which presumably stimulates performers . To help along the quality of this audience , Feinstein sponsored a musicological congress and critical seminars to accompany the festival . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Haydnfest to join four other critics in receiving instruction from Laszlo Somfai , a young , aggressively exact and brilliantly musical scholar who made his reputation with work on the Haydn operas and maintains an interest in all things Haydnesque though he is now director of the Bela Bartok Archives in Budapest . During the final week of the festival , a much larger group of academics would gather to hear papers presented by scholars from all over the world and to participate in discussion sessions on performance problems in 18th-century music . The scholarly component was funded in large part by the National Endowment for the Humanities . An oddity of the congress was the presence of the Dane rather than the Hamlet , for H.C . Robbins-Landon , the great American Haydn scholar , had opted out , and the conference was directed by Jens Peter Larsen of Copenhagen . There are feuds in progress between the Robbins-Landon school and the Larsen school ( the one that surfaced was on the provenance of the op. 3 quartets , which RobbinsLandon 's friends wish to reattribute to Haydn after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hofstetter ) , and presumably somebody 's nose was out of joint . Among the more attractive aspects of Kennedy Center programming is the use of student performing groups from our best conservatories , and for the Haydn Festival they came from no fewer than seven American schools ? including Philadelphia 's Curtis Institute , Yale and Indiana University ? plus the Hochschule fur Musik in Vienna . Before my arrival the Curtis orchestra had bowled everyone over with the performances of the fascinating early symphonies in Morning , Noon and Night , directed by Alexander Schneider . I did hear Yale 's Philharmonia Orchestra play two middle-period symphonies with considerable elegance under the baton of Otto Werner-Willer , and Indiana 's Opera Theatre present Haydn 's silly but often lovely comic opera based on Goldoni 's 11 Mondo della Luna . Tibor Kozma conducted , the singers were all more or less adequate in difficult roles ( sopranos Jeannette Jung and Edith Vannerette made the best impression ) , the production was legitimately charming ? but what really made the evening was the performance in the pit , the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hell of a show at a $4.95 top . Even bigger bargains , of course , are the free concerts that are so admirable a feature of Kennedy Center 's presentations the year round : that 's real community service , and builds loyalties that will be available when needed . There were 16 such freebies in the Haydnfest , including the Yale concert and the concerts by Vienna 's Melkus ensemble , and most of the performances of the Masses . Normally Kennedy 's free concerts present semi-professional or student talent , and they may not meet the very highest artistic standards . In the Haydnfest , however , many of them did meet such standards ; indeed one of the foreign visitors suggested that future Haydn festivals should use student musicians exclusively , because they played so much better ? more accurately and more musically ? than the pros . The comment , I fear , was not entirely a tribute to the students , for the Haydnfest was weakest where it should have been strongest ? in the performances by the National Symphony Orchestra under the baton of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and small , the results were little short of disastrous . The most important novelty on the program ? the American premiere of II Ritorno di Tobia , the oratorio that was Haydn 's first big success in Vienna ? was destroyed by insensitive conducting ( including an insistence on taking every blasted repeat in the score , which made every aria last at least 10 minutes and dragged the piece on till 12:10 in the morning ) . This is a formula-ridden work at best , despite some great beauties in the choruses and some pretty phrases in the opening statements of the arias ; eager to satisfy the sophisticates of the big town , Haydn in this score seems to have minimized his originality and totally suppressed his sense of humor . Still , though only one of the singers was up to the job ( a newcomer named Linda Zoghby , who revealed both voice and training ) , the evening would not have been such a drag if the orchestra had not played so raggedly , the continuo had not been realized so lumpishly , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fine fellow and a good conductor , who plays some pieces as well as anyone now active ; but the vast majority of the pieces he plays best were written in the first quarter of this century . He became a Haydn " expert " by accident , when the Philharmonica Hungarica , an organization of 1956 refugees that has kept itself going by free-lancing around Europe , received a commission to record all the symphonies and asked Dorati ? the most eminent conductor to have befriended them in their hours of need ? to assume the stick . The resulting recordings have won all sorts of prizes , but not , I must say , from me : I think they deny the variety of the works . Dorati knows he is supposed to take Haydn seriously , but he ca n't think why . A comparison between his recordings of the London symphonies and the recently issued Jochum set ( or the Szell set of the first six ) will demonstrate the problem immediately . Haydn 's recapitulations are often very slightly different from his expositions , 24 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did the first time : he remembered it all just about ( but not quite ) exactly . Even in fairly well-known symphonies , Dorati as conductor remembered nothing ; he did not even feel secure with the immediate repeat of an exposition , and would flip the pages back to keep his nose in the score . As a result he was always conducting the score rather than the orchestra : when he signalled an entry to a section , he did not trouble to look at his musicians and see how they were doing . Ignored by the maestro , the men grimly and joylessly ran through the notes ? and not always all the notes , at that . The National 's contract with its union permits the division of the orchestra into separate ensembles , and gives extended vacations to the first-desk players . Thus Dorati was working on different nights with different groups , neither of them led by their usual leaders , and neither anywhere near so well rehearsed as they would be during the regular season . It was hard not to feel that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a way to get another three weeks of engagements to help fill out the year-round commitment , and the sooner everybody got it over with , the better . Without climbing all the way up on my high horse , I think it worth suggesting that the National should not make such a display of its weaknesses before visitors from around the country and around the world . Next fall there will be no theme-centered festival . As part of its extraordinary bicentennial program ( which is being put on without government subsidy ) , Kennedy Center will offer instead the Paris Opera and the Teatro alla Scala , both making their first trips to the United States . ( Scala did a Verdi Requiem in New York on a run-out from the Montreal Expo , but that does n't count . ) When festivals resume the year after next , perhaps the National Symphony will be willing to match the care and quality of Kennedy Center 's festival planning with an effort for greater care and quality in musical execution .. 