@@494912

Paris The United States and Europe lack coherent energy policies for opposite reasons . For the resource-rich United States the matter has not been thought urgent enough in the short run , while for resource-poor Europe the matter is too urgent . The Europeans ( along with the Japanese ) were the people really held up to ransom by the Arab embargo in 1973 ; OPEC 's 10 percent price hike last September could cost the EEC countries an extra five billion dollars over 12 months , as opposed to two billion for the US . The nations of Europe have moved forward individu ? ally and as a group much more rapidly than the US . The summit of the heads of government of the nine community countries in Rome at the beginning of December brought important new progress . The French at last overcame their fear of offending producers , making it possible for the nine to agree both on a floor price to protect non-OPEC sources , and on an emergency oil sharing scheme within the framework of the community . In turn the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand for a separate seat at the North-South dialogue that opens in Paris on December 10 . What the Europeans have done and are trying to do is of considerable importance not only for them but also for us . The misguided chauvinism of Project Independence obscures the real necessity ? it is less important that the US become self-sufficient than that Western Europe and Japan become Daniel Yergin is a frequent contributor . relatively more independent and less vulnerable to the whims of the oil cartel than they were in 1973 ; the Europeans have already moved in directions that will help undermine OPEC 's hegemony over the world economy . In 1972 the European Community was already publicly warning about the grave dangers of depen ? dence on Middle Eastern oil . The fears were fulfilled in October 1973 . In response , the Commission of the European Community devised a series of ambitious goals for reshaping the energy picture by 1985 , including a heavy emphasis on conservation . Among its points : that energy consumption in 1985 should be 15 percent less than pre-embargo forecasts ; that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and that almost half that electricity should derive from nuclear power . " Going nuclear " is one of the key thrusts of the European planning ? officials say that half of Europe 's total energy consumption should be satisfied by nuclear sources by the year 2000 . Coal production is to be maintained , and the supply of natural gas ( the fastest growing fuel in Europe ) is to be increased . All of this is meant to reduce dependence on oil ? from he percent of total energy requirements to 40 percent , and at the same time reduce dependence on foreign oil from 98 percent in 1973 to 70 percent by 1985 . The aim behind all these goals , as one commission report explained is " To create a structure in which no one decision center can have such importance for supply that it can compromise the overall stability of deliveries , in quantity or in price . " To date , however , many of these goals remain merely paper , of the kind Brussels specializes in , without any formal commit ? ment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community 's Energy Directorate . The outsider , however , is struck by how much has been done . The EEC guidelines offer a framework in which individual countries can work , and important progress has been made . Every indicator points to much greater success in conservation within the member states than anyone might have predicted two years ago . For instance imports of petroleum in the first six months of 1975 by France , Germany and the United Kingdom averaged 23 percent less than in the first half of 1973 . The UK 's total energy consumption dropped 4.3 percent between 1973 and 1974 ( while the US 's rose 5.2 percent ) . Britain 's 1975 total energy consumption is down still further , to 1969 levels . Germany 's total energy consumption in 1975 works out at eight percent less than 1973 and it is now recognized that recent official German estimates for total energy consumption in 1980 will in fact not be reached until 1983 . Three reasons are normally given to explain such drops ? two mild winters in a row in Europe ; economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or by government intervention . The weather probably had only minimal impact . " After last winter we saw that there was a saving of energy , " said Jacques Lambotte of the French Energy Conservation Agency . " Many people said that the reason was that the winter had not been very hard . in fact , this was not true , In the North of France , the winter was not very bad ; but in the south , it was a very hard winter indeed . " The recession with its decline in industrial output has , no doubt , been responsible for some significant part of the decline in demand . But conservation measures must be given equal credit . Different methods have been used in different countries . The Europeans have been consistently much more active than the United States at the level of exhortation and advertising . The French have even established an Energy Conservation Agency , which , in addition to propagandizing , pursues such matters as energy " audits " of industrial firms . Price itself has been used as an important discipline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to let all energy costs , including electricity and coal , rise to " economic levels " ? meaning jumps approaching 100 percent in some cases . The French have resorted to such measures as restricting the volume of heating oil that may be sold . Price has not proved a straightforward discipline . Gasoline consumption appears to respond only tempor ? arily . For instance , after major hikes in gas prices in Italy , consumption fell sharply ? but only for a few months . Soon it was rising toward its old levels . Similarly English petrol consumption , down for a time , is again increasing . Such evidence suggests caution independing too heavily on price at the pumps to restrain consumption dircrtly . Where people can save money by controlling their thermostats or putting insulation into their factories , they will do so . When they already have a fixed investment in a car , they will make other sacrifices in order to continue using it . The impact of raising gas prices is more indirect ? when the consumer comes to make an investment in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mileage results ( which has after all also been happening in the United States ) or he does not buy a car at all . Considerable emphasis has been placed on saving energy in buildings . Up to 50 percent of primary energy in the UK is consumed in one form or another by buildings ; and it is estimated that six percent of UK primary energy can be saved simply by better insulation and changing some fuel mixes . The British government now gives 100 percent tax allowances for insulating industrial buildings . The French government also provides such tax deductions to this area . " The easiest way to conserve is in domestic houses , " said Lambotte . A French taxpayer can deduct 7000 francs ( $1750 ) per year for insulation , plus 1000 ( $250 ) francs for each person in the house . Over the longer term , many more savings will result from conservation . The normal generation of electrici ? ty in a power plant does not convert more than 30 or 40 percent of the total energy potential in oil ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creates pollution problems in lakes and rivers ) . Meanwhile the electricity is sent over an elaborate wire network merely to be turned back into heat at the other end ? especially for hot water . An alternative is " district heating " ' ? whereby hot water is piped from the power plants directly to homes . Sweden has the most highly developed such system in Western Europe ; both Britain and Germany are looking very closely at it . District heating dramatically increases the efficiency of power generation . Substitution is another method for reducing depen ? dence upon OPEC oil . Production is beginning to build up from the Norwegian and British sectors of the North Sea ; and the community can assume that by 1981 about 30 percent of its total oil needs will be met from those two producers . Recently the Italian oil company ENI has hit some promising deposits at deep levels in the Po Valley , near Italy 's industrial heartland ; and there are indications of oil off the Irish and French coasts as well , For Europe , substitution also means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the postwar years has been matched by a decline in the importance of coal . That trend has now been reversed . Governments are now investing heavily in restoring and modernizing old mines and in developing new ones ; in West Germany , Belgium and Britain , the number of coal miners has actually increased for the first time in 15 years . The West Germans are building new coal-fired power stations . With new technologies apparently coming along every 20 or 30 years in coal mining , the Germans estimate that their coal reserves will be good for 100 to 150 years . ( But what happened to the wartime German capacity for making gasoline from coal ? " Much of the technology was lost , " said Wolfgang Zugschwert of Germany 's Federal Ministry of Research and Technolo ? gy . " The patents were secret , and in many cases it has been necessary to start from the beginning . We ca n't find many of the people who worked on it in the past . The publications that do exist do n't make much sense . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very primitive . After all , cost was not a factor . " Be it noted , however , that South Africa is now building a plant that will produce 25 percent of its gasoline requirements from coal conversion . The process depends upon what remnants of the wartime German technology the South Africans collected 25 years ago . Some say that the enterprise is made economically viable only by the fact that South African coal is cheap to produce . ) Even in the northern attitudes , there is optimism ( extending even to Sweden ) about solar heating for individual homes . A happy computer lives in a house near Aachen in West Germany ; it opens and shuts windows , cooks meals , turns on and off the hot water ; all of this in order to better determine the requirements that solar heating will have to meet . " A family does not keep such good records as a computer , " explained an engineer involved in the project . The most controversial and least defensible aspect of the community 's strategy is its emphasis on nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percent of total energy from oil by 1985 can not be reached without rapid development of nuclear power , " said a senior official in the community 's Energy Directorate in Brussels . " No doubt , we must introduce all safety measures that are necessary . But we live in a dangerous world , and we can control these risks . With the increase in the world of both population and industrialization , we will have no choice for the years after 2000 but to accept nuclear energy . Everybody is convinced that after 1980 nuclear energy will develop very quickly . " On the contrary fewer and fewer are convinced of that . It is becoming increasingly clear that the nuclear targets will not be achieved . " There is too much emphasis in the community upon nuclear technology , " Prime Minister Harold Wilson has bluntly said . The British along with the Danes and the Dutch have actively resisted this emphasis . " Brussels is very keen on nuclear energy , " said one British diplomat . " It 's typical of a body of Eurocrats in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the doorsteps of the power plants . " Even those who eagerly embraced nuclear expansion in the immediate aftermath of the October 1973 embargo have become calmer and more cautious aboutmaking huge investment for very uncertain benefits . The French initially announced a goal of 50 atomic power plants by 1985 ; now the target seems to be under 20 . The cutback has resulted from both political and economic pressure . Belatedly a major national debate has begun on nuclear safety and security . In addition French officials now admit that they can not forecast long-term energy demands because of the many uncertainties , including the price of oil in 1980 . They have begun to face up to the possibility that the landscape in 1980 could be littered with half-completed nuclear plants , on which construction has ceased because of changes in demand , supply and technology . The huge costs of " going nuclear " have also induced caution . The investment required to meet the commu ? nity 's target goals for nuclear plants could be in the order of $150 billion . The Italian Ministry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1990 . Subsequent calculations have indicated that those plants would cost six billion dollars more than conventional plants ? a sum that would produce many more jobs , and other benefits for the Italian economy , if invested differently . This proposal has also been undermined by the fact that the Italian Electrical Power Agency , which would build and operate the plants , appears to be bankrupt . The community is finding more success in its efforts to harmonize its oil markets . " Today we have nine separate oil markets , and if there are nine separate oil markets , then there are nine separate oil policies , " said one Brussels official . " That means our influence as Europeans will be weaker . " The community in particu ? lar wants to assure free circulation of products within the nine countries and hopes to see prices come into line and wants a great deal more information from the companies as to their true costs . The foregoing might be seen as the technical aspects of European energy policy . As might be expected , it is more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dialogue is stalled to a significant degree because the Arabs are less interested in dialogue per se than in pushing the EEC countries into anti-Israeli positions . At the moment the " common energy policy " is most troubled by the fact that the British are pretending to be the new Gaullists . One of the major arguments of the anti-Common Market forces in England last spring was that the community would usurp Britain 's North Sea oil for some unstated but nevertheless nefarious purpose . Although the market received a resounding victory in the referendum , the North Sea still forms a focus of opposition . The latest expression was the insistence of Foreign Secretary Callaghan , backed up by Prime Minister Wilson , that Britain should have its own seat at the 27-nation North-South extravaganza , entitled the Conference on International Economic Cooperation , that opens in Paris on December 16 . This particular rendition of the " dialogue " is a French creation . France and the rest of the EEC members had assumed that it was all agreed among themselves the community would take one seat and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in October , Britain wanted its own seat . Why ? As Prime Minister Wilson had said a month earlier , " In a conference of producers and consumers , we should be sitting on both sides of the room . " In other words the English are claiming that their oil and coal reserves make them different from all other countries in the community . " It is a rather primitive , tribal reaction , " said one Netherlands official . The Dutch have in turn rather angrily reminded the British that they , and not the British , are in fact the community 's largest energy exporters right now , supplying something like 40 percent of all of Europe 's natural gas . Britain dismissed this contention as spurious and maintains instead that the community could not adequately represent its interests as a potential major oil producer . Britain hardly needs to worry about its interests being sold out . It certainly would have a very powerful voice in establishing the community 's position ; beyond that , the Conference is most unlikely to accomplish anything but to commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in preparations for the conference said : " My expectations for material results from the dialogue are not overwhelming . But when you discuss , you do n't shout . It helps to keep things quiet . " The British efforts to undermine efforts to create a common energy policy are not altogether wise , for at the same time the UK is trying to get its fellow members in the community to agree not only in principle on a high floor price for oil to protect its North Sea investment , but also on a specific figure ? as high as seven dollars a barrel . Wilson and Callaghan have been responding to what they see as strong domestic political forces . They feel that they must go through this Gaullist charade to quiet old-fashioned British nation ? alists , new-fashioned Scottish nationalists , and left wing Labourites , and it is a charade , for Wilson formerly surrendered the demand for a separate seat on December 2 and agreed that the community could speak with one voice ? although the British will retain the right to speak at certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like the French formerly did ; the French are still French . They have refused to join the international Energy Agency , the coordinating group of 18 industrial nations formed in November , 1974 that just happens tube based in Paris . The absence has occasioned suitable bitterness . " In order to provide enough Frenchness to be France , " said one senior official at the IEA , ' France needs a unique external policy ; and the only way left is to be unpleasant to the United States. - The major French objection seems to be the dominant role the US is playing in the lEA . " The ! EA is a method of exporting internal debates in the US , and that will be the case until Washington has resolved its own debate , " countered a French official . " You do n't have policies because you do n't have the political leadership . We want an EEC policy , not a policy that is a subsystem of a global policy . " Of course , the French have also decided to base their future on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arabs , and want to avoid anything that looks like confrontation . There is some feeling among other participants that the US has been a hit imperial in the EA . " The Americans are unbelievably good at proving the French right , treating the EA as a kind of energy NATO , " suggested a British official . Neverthe ? less the silliness of the British in seeking their individual seat is matched by the silliness of the French on the EA . The nine Common Market countries work out a common policy to cover their participation in the ! EA , and the French participate in that exercise . Thus they are indirect members of the LEA . The lEA has a number of important achievements to its credit . It has worked out a sharing plan for the next crisis , in which the new EEC arrangement is a major element . The lEA has also pursued a broad program of information-sharing on conservation and research . The conclusions of the lEA 's comparative study on conservation are searingly critical of the US . The lEA is trying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community , it is working toward the establishment of a floor price , both to protect more expensive sources like coal and the North Sea against an abrupt break in the cartel price , and also , in the words of an ! EA official , " to demonstrate to ourselves and to the rest of the world , including OPEC , that we are taking serious steps . " European Energy Policy " may well be too grand a phrase , but a lot has been done since October 1973 . Nine significant consumers are working toward cooperation and unity , a process that improves the position of the entire industrial world in bargaining with OPEC . The nine countries have found that it is possible to refashion structures and habits , that it is possible to do a good deal by working with the tools at hand , thus making less pressing the need to rush into expensive and uncertain nuclear technology . It is of course too soon to speak of a coordinated European energy policy . " What do you coordinate ? " asked Lord Balogh , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 're all struggling ? struggling not to be too dependent , struggling to get our coal into shape , struggling toget a nuclear program , to cooperate on research , and so on . " Their struggle ? unlike ours ? has brough some signifi ? cant results . European petroleum consumption will probably remain almost constant in 1976 , while American oil consumption will increase by more than four percent ? and 41 percent of all the oil used in the United States will be imported next year . Any American energy policy that does not , in the first instance , direct itself to conservation is , in the final analysis , rubbish .                     