@@493955

Jimmy the Cynic In 1976 , Jimmy Carter campaigned for president enveloped in a self-generated aura of moral righteousness , promising that he would make the government as good as the people , restore trust and integrity in Washington , and rescue us from politics-asusual in the governance of the nation . We duly elected him , but for most of his nearly three years in office we have received more than we bargained for : not just honesty in government , but innocence . Carter has spent most of his term fumbling at the levers of power . His relations with Congress have been a shambles . He has been unable to persuade Congress or the country to adopt a coherent energy policy . His management of the economy has contributed to a 13.5 percent inflation rate which the Federal Reserve , an independent , unelected body , has been forced to combat with interest rates that will almost certainly produce a recession . Before the Iran crisis and the weakness of Senator Kennedy 's challenge boosted his popularity , the country 's judgment of Carter , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but incompetent . Now , in announcing his candidacy for a second term , President Carter is telling us that he has made mistakes , but has learned and will do better next time . We will have to wait out the Iran crisis and its post mortems to see whether the president 's handling of it changes our view or the country 's view of his competence . At the same time , his approach to the only other matter that seems of any importance to his administration ? the 1980 elections ? convinces us that Jimmy Carter is not , after all , the decent , moral , upright man that he made himself out to be in 1976 . When it comes to getting himself elected , he is just another politician . Worse than that , because he is a politician who will disparage seamy politics in one election , and then indulge in it fully four years later , Carter emerges as a cynic . The Carter administration has not even been apologetic about its tactics . On the contrary , it has offered its embrace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matured in office . This kind of loss of innocence we do not need . Before the Florida Democratic caucuses in October the Carter administration drenched that state in federal money and attention . Normally it takes a year or more to process major loan applications for rural electric cooperatives , but a $1.1 billion guarantee for a Florida project went through the federal bureaucracy in less than three months this year : approval arrived just before the caucuses . According to the New York Times , Florida also got 21 community development block grants , including $10.7 million for Miami , six million dollars for Tampa , and four million dollars each for Polk , Orange , and Hillsborough counties . Dade county got $19.9 million for 10 public housing projects in September , and another $31 million was approved for 949 other housing units for the elderly in other cities in the state . Orlando 's airport received five million dollars for a people-mover . This was not all the prizes Florida won for inventing a meaningless political popularity contest that President Carter was afraid to lose . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , went to Miami 's " Little Havana " to announce a one-milliondollar grant to promote tourism in the city 's Cuban section . Other administration officials making " official " ( that is , wholly or partly government-paid ) trips into the state in the weeks before the caucuses included the secretaries of Labor , Defense , Housing and Urban Development , and Health , Education and Welfare ; and the heads of the Veterans Administration , the Federal Aviation Administration , and the White House domestic council . Oh , yes , and the first lady , the vice president , and the president , too . There was movement of people in the other direction , too . Three hundred Floridians were invited up to Washington for high-level briefings on foreign and domestic affairs , concluding with a reception in the White House East Room . Influential Florida Catholics were invited back for the White House reception for Pope Paul II . And still others were asked to take important posts in the administration or to serve on federal advisory commissions that provide them an opportunity to help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occasional expense-paid trips to the nation 's capital . On one level , the administration 's performance in Florida was inspiring , even breathtaking . It bespoke extraordinary talent , somewhere in the White House , for timing , logistics , coordination , administration , and the devising and execution of tactics and strategy . Why has the country not seen this mastery displayed before in the solution of its sundry problems ? We can only suspect that it is because what really brings out the energy and imagination of the top people in the Carter White House is not governing , but electoral politics . And the election season is only beginning . You can rest assured that the care , finesse , and resources that went into buying the Florida caucus victory are now being husbanded for Iowa , New Hampshire , Minnesota , Illinois , and the other 30-odd primary or convention states , Eventually , practically the whole country will get the attention it deserves from the top officials of its government . It will just get attended to one election state at a time . Iowa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already getting the Carter treatment . About 250 " community leaders " ? mainly Democratic politicians ? were invited in October for one of the White House 's day long " briefings " at which officials who ought to be busy tending to the country 's problems each spent an hour extolling the president 's record . The officials including National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski , Agriculture Secretary Bob Bergland , White House domestic adviser Stuart Eizenstat , White House chief of staff Hamilton Jordan ( described by participants afterward as embarrassingly ignorant on all matters of government policy ) , the vice president , Mrs. Carter , and the president . Lunch was paid for by the Democratic National Committee , which makes not the slightest pretext of neutrality in the battle for the Democratic presidential nomination . After each White House official tells the Iowans what IMP the president has been doing for the country , Vice President Mondale follows up with what a participant described as an " all-out political pitch " urging everyone to ignore the president 's low poll ratings and stick with him . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quoted as saying . Participants at these " briefings " ? of which the White House has put on dozens ? do n't only get their ears filled . All of the Iowans had their pictures taken with the President and Mrs. Carter , and later received autographed copies of the photo ? in the White House envelopes postage paid by the US government . A short time later , each received another mailing , containing a letter on White House stationery from one of the president 's aides and a copy of one of two booklets the White House has prepared on President Carter 's record . Several thousand of these booklets have been mailed out , also at government expense . One chapter in each booklet , taxpayers will be pleased to learn , describes how the president has " restored basic American values , " including " integrity and openness " in government . As the election race intensifies , Democratic politicians in primary states are being given the choice of whether they want to receive booty from the administration and enhance their own chances of reelection , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mayor Jane Byrne , as we all know , is being punished for endorsing Senator Kennedy when she previously indicated she would endorse President Carter . On the other hand , Mayor Carl Officer of East St. Louis , Illinois , was visited by White House aide Jack Watson recently and in a little ceremony Watson announced administration support for a new $7.8-million courthouse for the city , a $100,000 grant for something called the Metro East Conference of Black IN , Mayors , and restoration to city control of more than 100 Labor Department job training slots previously withdrawn because of mismanagement . On the very day of Watson 's visit , Mayor Officer endorsed President Carter for reelection . There are conflicting reports whether President Carter 's strong support among mayors is the result of carrot-and-stick , threat-and-promise tactics with federal grants or the product of hard work by Watson and other urban-affairs officials in the administration . One theory given currency at the National League of Cities convention in Las Vegas last week is that Carter has made a special effort to woo the nation 's black mayors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from suburban areas , where Republican presidents tended to focus it , to downtown areas and slum neighborhoods . If this theory is correct , it should be a lesson to Carter : good government can be winning politics , making bribes and threats unnecessary . The sad fact is that Carter 's policies have been so inadequate in so many other areas that he has been forced to play sleazy politics in order to have a chance of winning the election . In the case of Congress , for example , three years of administration attention might have earned overwhelming support . Instead , the White House has been forced to take control of the appointment of 275,000 jobs as census-takers next year , instead of leaving these patronage plums in the hands of US representatives . Legislators who support the administration will be given the right to make census appointments in their districts ; opponents wo n't . " We 're giving our friends everything we can , those not supporting us as little as possible , and we 're negotiating in the middle , " said a White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be downright petty , as when Carter departed for Washington from a " nonpolitical " visit to Rhode Island and left Representative Edward Beard , a Kennedy supporter , standing at the airport . Carter has not been able to win unquestioned loyalty and affection in his own administration , and has been forced to serve notice that sub-cabinet officers who were not prepared to campaign actively for him should quit . The extent to which election-year politics has seized priority in the administration was most shockingly demonstrated in the case of former senator Dick Clark , who was appointed special ambassador in charge of refugee relief . With hundreds of thousands of Cambodians facing starvation , Clark was told that he was expected to go out to Iowa , his home state , to campaign for Carter . Clark quit to join the Kennedy campaign . Lawyers supporting Kennedy are searching through the statute books to discover whether any of the Carter campaign 's strong-arm or candy-bag tactics violate federal laws . Under an old law it is an offense for a federal official to use his official authority to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But it 's a bit late to start enforcing that one literally . Nothing we have seen so far exceeds traditional political standards to the extent that it warrants prosecution . It 's just the brazenness of it all , especially when contrasted with Carter 's form of verbal piety . Let 's not blink at what 's going on . The Carter administration is using federal money and services to help the president 's election prospects , and is doing so on a huge scale . The president 's press secretary justified it all with a grin . " That 's how a president campaigns , " he explained . But that is n't how a president should campaign , and that is n't how a good president would have to campaign . If this ca n't be stopped by a complaint to the Federal Election Commission ? as seems likely ? then it ought to be stopped by Carter 's opponents and the press making it a major campaign issue . So far , the press either has been ignoring Carter 's campaign shenanigans or treating them as evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics is played . That 's not true . What 's happened is simply that this innocent , disillusioned by his morality 's failure to take hold , has turned cynical .                     