@@290742

Renaissance writers insisted it destroyed grass , tarnished mirrors and dissolved asphalt . The sight of it , Australian aborigines believe , can turn a man 's hair gray . Until 1967 , campers at Glacier National Park were warned that its odor can incite bears to attack . <P> It is menstrual blood , and it is the source and symbol of a universal taboo . In most cultures , menstruating women are shunned as dangerous or vaguely contaminated . Throughout history , they have been isolated in menstrual huts , forced through purification rituals and sometimes beaten if they ventured into male company during their periods . Exactly why is a mystery . Some think the taboo arose from a general repugnance of having sex with a bloodily discharging woman . Others see it as caused by primitive man 's sense of awe-and fear-at the sight of blood that does not clot and signifies neither illness nor death . Freud thought man made the taboo because bleeding women awakened his dread of castration . Karl Menninger saw the taboo as male anxiety over heightened female emotionality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her new book Menstruation and Menopause ( Knopf ; $10 ) , Feminist Paula Weideger goes a step beyond Menninger . To her the taboo represents man 's historic fear and envy of woman and a desire to keep her from gaining equal status . Argues Weideger , an M.A. in psychology and a staff associate of New York City 's Women 's Health Forum : " The taboo fills certain psychic and economic needs of men . It is alive , it is flourishing . " <P> Weideger 's book is the latest sign that menstruation is a fast-rising issue among feminists , who contend that the taboo teaches women self-hatred and worthlessness . Today , some Jewish women pass on the taboo with a hard slap to the face of a daughter at her first menstruation . Most other mothers , says Weideger , deliver the slap in psychic form , teaching daughters to feel shame about a natural process ( the periodic shedding , brought on by a drop in hormonal production , of the lining of the womb when the ovum has not been fertilized ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ menstruation ? The traditional explanation is that they are caused by hormonal changes . In 1970 Senator Hubert H. Humphrey 's personal physician , Dr. Edgar Herman , created a flap by announcing that " raging hormonal influences " made women unfit for high-pressure jobs . The most impressive work on the effects of menstruation-by Endocrinologist Dr. Katharina Dalton of London 's University College Hospital-seems to lend plausibility to the Herman thesis . In studies over a 20-year period , Dr. Dalton found that the grades of female pupils showed a 15% drop when exams fell during days of " premenstrual tension . " She also reported that about half of female job absenteeism , suicides , police arrests , traffic accidents and admissions to mental hospitals occurred in the four days before and four days after the onset of menstruation . Her conclusion : the physical changes of menstruation can affect judgment and slow reaction time .                     