@@491478

The new explosion of controversial research By Mark Lane This spring , I spoke at thirty-five colleges or universities . This is now more than eleven years after the death of John Kennedy , and when one speaks to some who were six or seven years old at the time of the Kennedy assassination , their knowledge of this event is primarily through the history books which say , " John F. Kennedy , the thirty-fifth President of the United States , was assassinated by Lee Harvey Oswald , on November 22 , 1963 , in Dallas , Texas . " And that 's how they learned about the Kennedy assassination . They read the lie in their history books . But evidently they never really believed it because they do n't believe it now . At almost every college and university where I 've spoken , the largest group in the history of the school has come to hear this lecture . At Purdue University , for example , I called for a vote , as I have at every school , asking those present to indicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the facts surrounding the death of John Kennedy and a Congressional investigation into the cover-up by the CIA and by the FBI and it was clear that every hand went up for that . I also asked if anyone was opposed and one person said he was opposed ; he wanted to explain his vote and he said , " I do n't trust Congress . " It seems we 've gone from acceptance to cynicism without having passed through reality . At Northeastern Louisiana State University , not a giant school , we started out in a good-sized hall , but they sold that out so they moved it to the largest hall , sold that out , so they moved it to the coliseum in Monroe which was just about large enough  --  it held 4,500 people . People came from four different states . In Arkansas , people came from 150 miles away . It 's been this way everywhere . I 'm not talking about New York and Boston and San Francisco , but about what is referred to as the " heartland " ? Indiana , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me that when I spoke in Madison , Wisconsin at the university there , we went to the largest theater in town , and when we got there a half hour early , traffic was tied up for five blocks . The Attorney General of the state was there and after I spoke he issued a poll to Congress to conduct an investigation . hi fact , he went beyond that and said if it was an investigation in which the FBI or CIA were involved , he would not trust the results . Well , I was n't really surprised about Madison . That 's a college town . But many cities where I spoke are not college towns and in middle America the response there has been even more incredible . People come because they are interested but they 're not sure . But by the time it 's over , they 're sure . I have to point out to my audiences that there is no process to get the facts . The U.S. Attorney General 's office has the basic obligation . It 's clear that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warren Commission met behind closed doors and released the information that it wished to release ; and the Rockefeller Commission is doing the same thing with the same personnel . David Belin , who is executive director of the general counsel for the Rockefeller Commission , was counsel for the Warren Commission also . He was the person most tenacious of the position that Oswald was the lone assassin . We need a public , open Congressional investigation where we could see the evidence ourselves and not rely upon leaks or press statements by the officials involved . The only way one can make the apparatus of government work in this case is to form committees , to meet with members of Congress , to meet with their representatives in the Senate . And that 's happened at more than twenty schools . They set up local citizens ' commissions of inquiry ; they are circulating petitions ; there are articles in newspapers ; they are meeting with members of Congress ; they are meeting with their senators . Senator Baker appeared recently several times on radio programs in Tennessee and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he received eighty letters from constituents from around Tennessee demanding that the committee look into this question . We 've seen the same thing happen to Representative Downey in Virginia . He was at one of my lectures down there some time ago , and he 's just out now for a congressional investigation . I 'm urging people to become a part of such a process . Students are really very moved when I tell them that the assassination of John Kennedy is not a spectator sport , that we have to see this as a part of our history . We have not had an election in this country which has been unimpaired by violence since that time . In 1968 Robert Kennedy was making a strong bid and he was killed . Then Wallace was shot . When you get back to it , the last time we had an election when bullets did not play a part and the man was permitted to finish his entire term after he had been elected was in 1956 . That 's twenty years . We can say on our 200th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a country , and it 's the last percent . Students , I think , pick that up and are really concerned about it . There are some who are cynical and think it 's hopeless , but I try to deal with that . I say this is not the place  --  we 've learned in the last few years that this is not the country that we thought it was , but it certainly can be and it depends on our ability and our commitment . We are at a very delicate stage now in terms of our national consciousness : you can say almost anything that is derogatory about the government and most people will believe it now . This places a great responsibility upon us to be absolutely factual . Biographies of Leading Researchers Robert B. Cutler , a Massachusetts architect , was attracted to the case by a draftsman 's instinct that the published trajectory of the bullet was peculiarly nonaligned . In The Flight of CE 399 ( 1969 ) he exposes the Single Bullet Theory ; in Two Flightpaths ( 1971 ) the traverse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depository the rifleman first shot the governor . In Crossfire ( 1975 ) , the theory is postulated that the shooting came from a nine-shot fusillade of five rifles . Donald Freed is co-author , with Mark Lane , of Executive Action , novel of the JFK assassination . The authors based their account on interviews in Dallas , New Orleans and the nation 's capital . Freed is to discuss the JFK case . Paul L. Hoch , a painstaking researcher , who , along with Peter Dale Scott , another faculty member at the University of California , Berkeley , has devoted much study to the assassination , is currently writing a book which not only checks out the evidence the Warren Commission failed to investigate properly , but also shows an understanding of the workings of the Commission as reflected by their internal papers . The work will also focus on the role of the FBI in the investigation and its connections with Oswald . Mark Lane , attorney , author , controversial filmmaker , Professor of Law at Catholic University in Washington , D.C. , is currently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a group dedicated to the release of all classified documents relating to the death of John F. Kennedy . He is a touring lecturer whose main theme is " Who Killed JFK ? " He published Rush to Judgment , a critique of the Warren Report , in 1966 , and directed a documentary film of the same name . He also co-directed Executive Action , an interpretational account of the shooting in Dallas , which starred Burt Lancaster and Robert Ryan . David S. Lifton was co-author of the 30,000-word " The Case for Three Assassins " in the January , 1967 issue of Ramparts magazine . The article deals at length with the shots , trajectories and wounds and for the first time gives a detailed public airing of the problems relating to the motion of the President 's head during the shooting . With the background of his researches into the National Archives , he has posed as a devil 's advocate for two semesters in a UCLA law class which discussed the findings and deliberations of the Commission . Sylvia Meagher , author of the much-acclaimed Accessories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Report , now out of print , as is her Subject Index to the Warren Report and the Hearings and Exhibits , has written numerous articles on the assassination for such magazines as Esquire , Commonweal and the Texas Observer . In her long study of the Warren Report and the testimony she became convinced that Oswald had no motive , no means and no opportunity to shoot the President . Jerry Policoff first became interested in the JFK assassination in 1966 and has devoted much of his spare time to research the event since , notably the role of the media , with special emphasis on the coverage in the New York Times . In articles in leading magazines he has dwelt on the distortion and omission of facts , on the uncritical acceptance of " official " versions of the assassination in the media . He is presently writing an article on David W. Belin , Executive Director of the Rockefeller Commission and counsel to the Warren Commission . Richard H. Popkin was chairman of the Department of Philosophy at the University of California , San Diego @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philosophy at the time of the assassination and became interested in the tragedy because of the discrepancies in the original reports . As a result he compiled his findings and views in The Second Oswald , published in 1966 . Active in the Committee to Investigate Assassinations , he is presently Professor of Philosophy and Jewish Studies at Washington University in St. Louis . L. Fletcher Prouty , a retired USAF colonel , who for many years had been associated with security arrangements for VIPs , was appalled by the lack of security measures for the Kennedy motorcade in Dallas . An early member of the Committee to Investigate Assassinations , Prouty has lectured and written on his research . His book , The Secret Team ( 1973 ) , discusses the role of the CIA and government and touches on the JFK killing . One of his many questions asks why the 112 Army Intelligence Unit was told not to guard the motorcade . Howard Roffman graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1974 and is now attending law school at the Holland Law Center in Gainesville , Florida . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years old . He became convinced that the conclusions of the Warren Commission were inadequate and journeyed to the National Archives to study the files , the youngest researcher ever to see them . His highly regarded Presumed Guilty , a scholarly treatment of the controversy , has just recently been published . Vincent J. Salandria , a Philadelphia labor lawyer and one of the earliest researchers into the assassination , published his first article , " The Warren Commission  --  Analysis of Shots , Trajectories and Wounds  --  a Lawyer 's Dissenting View , " in the November 2 , 1964 issue of The Philadelphia Legal Intelligencer . Later articles buttressed his theories of a conspiracy . In a December 1971 and January 1972 article for Computers and Automation , he postulates that the CIA was responsible for the planning of the assassination . Ralph Schoenman , who organized the " Who Killed Kennedy ? Committee " in London in late 1963 , has been actively engaged in research and publicity regarding the assassination . Involved in gathering evidence for the Clay Shaw trial in New Orleans , Schoenman is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submit to the Rockefeller Commission for a reopening of the case . He is writing a book on evidence for conspiracy involving governmental agencies in the murder of the President . Gary R. Schoener began researching the JFK assassination in 1964 , working in the National Archives and interviewing witnesses . He has made over 300 radio , TV and lecture appearances on the subject . Besides the articles he published in 1967 , he co-authored " The Watchman Waketh But in Vain , " which was serialized through most of 1968 in The Midlothian Mirror , a newspaper then edited by Penn Jones , himself a key researcher who has delved into such oddities as the number of material witnesses to the shooting who have died strangely . Richard E. Sprague , a recognized authority in the field of computers , has published over thirty articles in Computers and Automation ( now Computers and People ) magazine , including a detailed analysis of the biases in media coverage . A co-founder of the Committee to Investigate Assassinations , he was one of the early researchers and lecturers on the photographic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts to obtain congressional action in reopening the case . Josiah Thompson , a member of the philosophy department at Haverford College , Pennsylvania , published Six Seconds in Dallas in 1967 ( excerpted in The Saturday Evening Post , January 14 , 1967 ) . Thompson sought to bring a positive approach to the inconsistencies of the Warren Report . If it was wrong , what was the probable way the killing actually happened ? With the renewed interest in reopening the case , he has recently testified before Congressmen to aid the passage of the Gonzalez and Dowling resolutions . Cyril H. Wecht , M.D. , doctor , lawyer , author , is coroner of Allegheny County , Pennsylvania and an active member of a group of leading pathologists who are seeking to reopen the John F. Kennedy case . He has published detailed forensic analyses : " Pathologist 's View of JFK Autopsy : An Unsolved Case " ( 1972 ) , " The Medical Evidence in the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy " ( 1974 ) , " JFK Assassination : A Prolonged and Willful Coverup @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latest available evidence . Harold Weisberg , a leading researcher into the unsolved inconsistencies of the assassination , has spent years researching and publishing documents that had until then remained " Top Secret . " With James Lesar , junior counsel for James Earl Ray , he has taken the government to court for the release of this information . In his recent book , Whitewash IV , he provides an annotated transcript of the proceedings of the Warren Commission for January 27 , 1964 ? which it took six years for him to wrest from Washington . David R. Wrone , a historian at the University of Wisconsin , Stevens Point , became interested in the assassination ten years ago because of its similarities to other events in . American history . He wrote The Assassination of John F. Kennedy , An Annotated Bibliography . Wrone supports the conspiracy theory and is working on an article detailing the consequences of the failure of the Warren Commission . He is also writing a history of the Freedom of Information lawsuits . A Bibliography for JFK Buffs During the twelve years since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared . The following is a compilation of some of the major works by serious students of the assassination : FROM THE OFFICIAL RECORDS : after it published the Warren Report , the government released these twenty-six volumes of testimony and evidence collected by the Warren Commission . Eight thousand sets of the Hearings were printed and sold to interested researchers for $76 each . Now long out of print , the Hearings are the basic source material for all students , researchers and critics of the Warren Commission . Occasionally a set of the twenty-six volumes becomes available in the used-book market . With the recent renewal of public interest in the case , demand has driven the going price to several hundred dollars . The public libraries of some large cities , and the libraries of most major colleges and universities have a set of the Hearings in their reference collections . The National Archives and Records Service , General Services Administration , Washington , D.C. Approximately 25,000 pages of the Warren Commission files were excluded from the published twenty-six volumes of the Hearings . These were turned over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission dissolved itself in 1964 . Initial comments by Archives officials indicated that this unpublished material would be held secret for seventy-five years , i.e. , until the year 2039 . But in response to public outcry and the suits of individual researchers under the Freedom of Information Act , much of the unpublished material has become available during the past eleven years ; and virtually all of the recently published studies of the assassination have drawn upon it to some extent . The declassified , but unpublished , Warren Commission materials are available to any serious researcher . Mr. Marion M. Johnson of The National Archives is custodian of the documents , although he does not have the authority to release any of the still classified items . Within the constraints placed on them by the Department of Justice and the Central Intelligence Agency  --  which control the classified materials  --  Mr. Johnson and his associates provide the individual researcher who writes to or visits the National Archives with friendly and cooperative service . They have published a twenty-eight-page Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the President 's Commission on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Basic Source Materials . These publications are available from The National Archives . BOOKS OF CLASSIC DISSENT : Rush to Judgment by Mark Lane ( Holt , Rinehart &; Winston , 1966 ) . Lane 's dissent from the official explanations of the assassination began early . Within a month of the Dallas shootings , he published an article raising serious questions with the Dallas Police Department 's case that Oswald was the assassin . Rush to Judgment was the first book to focus wide public attention on the defects in the Warren Commission 's findings . Accessories After the Fact by Sylvia Meagher ( Bobbs-Merrill , 1967 ) . Although it is virtually unknown to the general public , Meagher 's book is familiar to all serious researchers , and is widely held to be the single most meticulous , thorough and balanced criticism of the Warren Commission . Meagher , an executive with the World Health Organization , spent years in indexing and analyzing The Warren Report , the twenty-six volumes of the Hearings , and all other available documents . For the reader with time for only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analysis of the official theory . Inquest by Edward Jay Epstein . ( Viking , 1966 ) . Epstein wrote his book as a master 's thesis in government at Cornell University . His goal was to study the functioning of a government organization in an extraordinary situation , in which there are no rules or precedents to guide it . Epstein interviewed several members of the Warren Commission and its staff , and was granted access to the personal files of one former staff member . Inquest presents a startling and disquieting view of the inner workings of the Warren Commission . Six Seconds in Dallas by Josiah Thompson ( Bernard Geis , 1967 ) . Controversy regarding the ballistic , photographic and medical evidence , and its use in reconstructing those final tragic seconds of the presidental motorcade , has formed the basis of almost every critical study of The Warren Report . Six Seconds in Dallas is a lucid and readable presentation of that evidence , plus the author 's own analysis and interpretation of it . The Second Oswald by Richard Popkin ( Avon , 1966 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imContinued on page 110 // J.F.K. Bibliography continued from page 53 personating Lee Harvey Oswald during the weeks prior to the assassination deliberately created a trail of evidence to link Oswald to the crime . Whitewash I , II , III , IV by Harold Weisberg ( published by and available from the author , Route 8 , Frederick , Maryland 21701 ) . One of the most dogged and tireless of the assassination researchers , Weisberg has waged a ten-year battle with the federal government for release of the unpublished documents of the Warren Commission . A fiercely individualistic man with a quirky and often difficult style of writing , he has found it necessary to print privately much of his own work . Unfortunately , his self-published books are largely ignored by reviewers , the news media , and some students of the assassination . Nonetheless , the four Whitewash volumes contain some of the most valuable source materials and painstaking analysis of the documentary evidence in the case . Defenders of The Warren Report : November 22 , 1963 : You Are the Jury by David W. Belin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former member of the Warren Commission 's staff who has assumed the role of militant apologist for The Warren Report . You Are the Jury reaffirms the Report 's conclusions , quoting at length from the Report and selected portions of the published testimony . Regarding his book , Belin recently wrote : " Unfortunately the Warren Commission Report did not go into the heart of the testimony of the key witnesses , and that is why I undertook to write my book so that people who really wanted to take the time to find out the truth could go to the heart of the evidence without laboring through the entire twenty-six volumes of the Warren Commission material . " Portrait of the Aqcnssin by Gerald R. Ford and John R. Stiles ( Simon &; Schuster , 1965 ) . In 1963 Gerald Ford , then a member of the House of Representatives , was appointed to the seven-member Warren Commission . Portrait of the Assassin appeared shortly after the release of The Warren Report , but well before controversy over the Report had become widespread . Thus Portrait is less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . Using portions of the testimony of witnesses who knew Lee Harvey Oswald , Ford and Stiles try to develop a profile of Oswald 's personality which encompasses a motive for his presumed actions . One of the more notable features of the book was its revelation of previously classified Warren Commission discussions of evidence that Oswald had been an FBI informer . The Assassination of John F. Kennedy : The Reasons Why by Albert H. Newman ( Clarkson N. Potter , 1970 ) . Like Ford and Stiles , Newman attempts a psychological postmortem of Lee Harvey Oswald , to explain why Oswald wanted to assassinate President Kennedy . New-man 's argument is based on a lengthy analysis of Oswald 's diaries , associates , and news items that Oswald may have read . The Advanced Course : Going deeper into the subject The Flight of CE 399 ; Two Flightpaths ; Crossfire by Robert B. Cutler ( Mirror Press ; 1969 , 1971 , 1975 , respectively ; available from Cutler Designs , Box 1465 , Manchester , Massachusetts 01944 ) . Cutler is an architect who has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , i.e. , trajectory angles in relation to the available medical and photographic evidence and the physical layout of the assassination scene . JFK Assassination File by Jesse Curry ( American Poster and Printing Company , Dallas , Texas , 1969 ) . Curry was Chief of the Dallas Police Department at the time of the assassination . His book contains some official Dallas police records not published elsewhere . While Curry is not an ardent dissenter , he admits that he feels some doubts about the Warren Commission 's evidence that Oswald was the assassin . Forgive My Grief I , II , HI &; IV by Penn Jones ( available from the author , Box 1140 , Midlothian , Texas 76065 ) . Jones is the award-winning former editor of the Midlothian Mirror with a long record of courageous journalism . He was the first to point out that many of the material witnesses involved in the case were dying before their time , often in suspicious circumstances or as the clear result of foul play . A Citizen 's Dissent by Mark Lane ( Holt , Rinehart and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book recounts the author 's experiences as the earliest and best known critic of The Warren Report . Dissent also carries forward some of the arguments Lane offered in Rush to Judgment . Assassination Bibliographies : Selective Bibliography on Assassination by Bernard Fensterwald et al . ( Committee to Investigate Assassinations , 927 15th Street , N.W. , Washington , D.C. 20005 ; 1969 ) . A Bibliography of Literature Relating to the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy by William C. Thompson ( W.C. Thompson &; Son , 731 Riverside Drive , San Antonio , Texas 78223 ; revised 1971 ) . The Assassination of John Fitzgerald Kennedy : An Annotated Bibliography by David R. Wrone ( State Historical Society of Wisconsin , 816 State Street , Madison , Wisconsin 53706 ; 1973 ) . Current Works  --  Two new books on the assassination of President Kennedy have been published in 1975 . The Assassination Tapes : An Electronic Probe Into the Murder of John F. Kennedy and the Dallas Cooerup by George O'Toole ( Penthouse Press Ltd. , 1975 ) . Reviewed in the May/June issue of The Saturday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Assassination of President Kennedy by Howard Roffman ( Fairleigh Dickinson University Press , 1975 ) . Now a law student in his early twenties , Roffman took up his study of the assassination while in high school . His book is meticulously written and documented and is one of the most thorough step-by-step critiques of the official case that Lee Harvey Oswald was the assassin of President Kennedy . Although most of his material is derived from the official record and hence familiar to serious students of the assassination , Roffman has contributed several valuable new insights into the meaning of that evidence , especially in the ballistics and medical areas . The author limits his book to the question of Oswald 's alleged guilt in the assassination , and does not address related areas such as the murder of Dallas police officer J.D. Tip-pit . But what he has done has been done extraordinarily well .                     