@@277790

AMERICAN distillers operate within so dense a thicket of state and federal laws that many a seasoned drinker might think that the ghost of Carry Nation continues to haunt the industry . But the real reason behind all the regulations is not a spirit of Prohibition , which is in retreat almost everywhere , but the fact that liquor is the second largest source of revenue for the Federal Government ( after the income tax ) . It is almost as important for hard-pressed state governments . Officials are understandably eager to keep close control over such a rich source of cash . Whisky makers complain that rigid , archaic regulations have blocked them from following the changing attitudes and tastes of the nation 's 93 million liquor drinkers . Now , some of the rules are being relaxed , partly to enable domestic distillers to meet growing foreign competition . As a result of decisions by the Alcohol , Tobacco and Firearms Division of the Internal Revenue Service , the American liquor business is in its greatest period of ferment since repeal . <P> Lately distillers have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they cost more than glass bottles and have less sparkle , lightweight plastic containers are cheaper to ship , offer vast possibilities for imaginative shapes , and are easier for consumers to carry , particularly in the half-gallon size . For convenience some bottles are made with handles . In another major move , designed to create more competition and lower prices in the vodka market , the Government has gradually relaxed its regulations over the manufacture of the drink ; for example , Washington no longer stipulates that vodka has to be filtered through charcoal . The decision has opened the way for small companies , especially in the Midwest and on the West Coast , to nip in with a cheaper product . <P> Let There Be Light . By far the most important measure was the Government 's decision to permit U.S. distillers to make a totally new kind of tipple called " light whisky . " Pale in color , varying in strength between 80 and 90 proof , and bland-tasting enough to get lost in the mixer , it will come to market in July 1972 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warehouses , and the inventory is expected to reach 200 million gallons by introduction time . <P> The new drink represents a billion-dollar gamble , the industry 's biggest since repeal . The prime plungers : Schenley , Seagrams , National Distillers , American Distilling and Publicker . They are betting that the drink will appeal to changing American taste , especially among young people and women , who generally demand a " light " liquor . No one can even predict with certainty how light whisky will taste until it has matured a legal minimum of four years ; in its present unripened state it somewhat resembles whisky-flavored vodka . Prices will range between the cost of a popular Scotch like Johnnie Walker Red Label and an inexpensive blend like Imperial . Some new brands will appear , but many of the larger companies will bottle their new drinks under old , familiar labels .                     