@@292652

A " colonized " Baluchistan yearns for autonomy <P> Once major trouble spot on the crescent of crisis is Pakistan . Less a country than an idea for a Muslim republic that has never quite worked , Pakistan is a federation of four provinces , each of which has a formidable sense of regional identity . The largest ( 133,000 sq . mi. ) and most turbulent of these jostling fragments is actually part of a tribal nation without defined borders , whose people also inhabit the eastern fringe of Iran and the southern tier of Afghanistan . This nation was literally quartered by the British map makers who brushed in arbitrary political boundaries during their heyday of 19th century imperialism . Like so much of this part of the world in the late 20th century , this " country " can no longer be ignored . Its name is Baluchistan ( pronounced Ba-loo-chi-stan ) . <P> The tribal reality of Baluchistan has caused trouble not only for the Pakistani government but also for Iran . The dour , nomadic Baluch tribesmen who make up 60% of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kin in eastern Iran and perhaps 300,000 more in Afghanistan . In 1972 Pakistan 's Baluch launched a revolt against the regime of former Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto , who retaliated harshly over the next four years . At the peak of the fighting , the Shah supplied helicopters and pilots to help 70,000 Pakistani soldiers put down the rebellion of 55,000 bearded , turbaned Muslim guerrillas , who were mostly armed with local versions of Britain 's Edwardian-vintage Lee-Enfield rifle . Since then , the Baluch have been relatively quiet . But members of a Marxist Baluchistan People 's Liberation Front have found sanctuary in Afghanistan , and resentment of Pakistan 's unfulfilled promises of greater freedom lingers . So too does concern among some Western analysts that future upheaval in Baluchistan could lead to an extension of Soviet influence south to the Indian Ocean . TIME Correspondent David DeVoss , after spending ten days in Baluchistan , last week filed this report on a triangle of turmoil : <P> Flinty , arid Baluchistan is a sparsely populated land that only its sons could love . Corrugated by rugged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in. of rain a year , usually all at once , vs. 36.5 in. in more fertile northern Pakistan , near Kashmir . In summer , temperatures can rise to 130 F. In winter , they can fall to subfreezing levels . Desert scorpions and other noxious fauna abound . Prolonged exposure to Baluchistan can be fatal : when the army of Alexander the Great marched across it on the way home from India , two-thirds of the men died . But local folklore has it that Baluchistan 's towering hills are carpets covering vast troves of mineral wealth . " We have a saying here , " beams one local leader , the portly Khan of Kalat , " that a Baluch child may be born without socks on his feet , but when he grows every step he takes is on gold . " The fact is that Baluchistan has a bit of oil , coal and natural gas , but not much else .                     