@@485210

TERRA NOSTRA . By Carlos Fuentes . Translated by Margaret Sayers Peden . Farrar , Straus &; Giroux. 778 pp. $15 . ANTHONY HEILBUT In one of the many explanations this novel provides for its extraordinary complexity of structure , a painter presents himself as a master of the imagination , " and imagination is what changes . " Terra Nostra with its range of 2,000 years of history recovers the amplitude and humanity of many earlier novels  --  its literary antecedents are as much English and German as French and Spanish ? but it is always as if the themes , myths and insights of the past have been reimagined and made brand new . Fuentes 's obsession with historical cycles and his appropriation of earlier literature may startle some readers , but his novel offers a variety of pleasures missing from most recent North American fiction . In a novel where one and two are subsumed in three , first , second and third person narrative become interchangeable . Nrair laW cut ; WC waa , bvs ... ausw you are who you are and are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the least realized , the most abortive , the most latent and desiring of all histories " is " that of Spain and Spanish America , " and the you clearly identifies Fuentes himself . His vision of history , both Marxist and mythic , informed The Death of Artemio Cruz and A Change of Skin . Terra Nostra carries dedications to almost all the great leftist writers of Latin America and their spouses ; implicitly and explicitly this novel is a communal effort . But although other novelists , particularly Garcia Marquez and Donoso can match or surpass Fuentes 's surreal inventions , who among them ranges so widely into philosophy , art and literature ? This immensely learned novel can baffle and drain the reader and yet even at its most obsessive it contains a spectacular image or insight on each page . The combination of the surreal and quotidian may be quintessentially Hispanic but Terra Nostra often recalls the great novels of Proust , Mann and Musil with their similar transitions from intel-. lectual discourse to distilled , almost emblematic action . Like these novelists , Fuentes 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one that usually wins favor with Anglo-American readers . The novel begins in a nexus of science fiction and fable that sets the tone for 778 pages . It is Bastille Day 1999 . Polio Phoibe , a one-armed sandwich man , wanders through a Paris strewn everywhere with death except where numerous women give birth in public to twelve-toed babies with red crosses on their backs . Polio indulges in games of trivia while characters out of Balzac and Hugo dart behind corners , and medieval flagellants troop down the Boulevard Saint-Germain . He receives a note advising him that Ludovico and Celestina expect him , but as he encounters the girl , he accidentally slips into the Seine , not to return for 730 pages . The novel then leaps back over 500 years to the court of Felipe El Senor , the son ( historically the grandson ) of Philip the Fair . A religious fanatic and necrophiliac , Felipe is building the Escorial as a monument to death and medieval Catholicism ; the novel makes the linkage of the two very plain . Equally grotesque are those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the embalmed , castrated corpse of her husband in caravans that crisscross Spain ; his wife , Isabel ( Elizabeth Tudor , the Virgin Queen ) , a victim of courtly love , worshipped but untouched by Felipe ; and Guzman his huntsman , the " new man " produced by the spirits of commerce and imperialism , who massacres Belgian heretics and Mexican Aztecs . Guzman 's cruelty , and its origin in a trail of real and imagined insults , recall the villains of 19th-century fiction but the novel 's scope forces us to see him as a proto-Fascist . Felipe is less overtly sadistic ; rather he is the religious masochist whose one colossal cruelty was the youthful betrayal of a band of heretics . The only survivors were the four people with whom he shared the happiest moments of his youth . Each one had a singular vision : the revolutionary Pedro dreamed a world without arbitrary power or economic division ; the priest Simon , a world without illness ; the student Ludovico , a world without God where each man is his own source of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a world , where love is free . Celestina and Ludovico are briefly Felipe 's lovers ( the few paragraphs showing the birth of the one love out of the other are among the most sensitive and erotic ever written on bisexuality ) and the symbols of his best self . The novel is at its saddest and most surprising in those moments when Felipe apologizes to the companions of his youth , in absentia , as if realizing that they are the only gods he can betray . While Felipe is building his monument to death three young men make their appearance on a beach , ? the Cabo de los Desastres , each one bearing the red-cross mark and the twelve toes of the Parisian mutants . After brilliantly presenting the erotic and Messianic hopes they evoke in others Fuentes reveals the three to be brothers , the products of Philip the Fair 's rapes of a she-wolf , his daughter-in-law Isabel and Celestine ( in this incarnation a peasant girl though she later returns as a witch , the Indian Lady of the Butterflies and a rejuvenated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Luaovico in an environment of hermetic and Cabalistic lore , share the capacity to dream each other and in turn the great episodes of Felipe 's realm : his last battle , the destruction of the Adamite heretics in Belgium , the literary career of Miguel de Cervantes , and the discovery of New Spain which comprises the second volume of the novel . Terra Nostra clearly inhabits a world of history and fantasy which becomes a kind of revisionist history . Even as he presents the most loathsome cruelties of Western civilization , Fuentes suggests that alternative possibilities have always existed . He actively celebrates all the religious heretics from the Pelagians , with their denial of original sin or the need for rituals and sacrament , to Felipe 's contemporaries , the Waldenseans and Adamites . Almost worshipfully Semitic in his praise of Moslem and Jewish culture , Fuentes makes the novel 's central statement of belief out of the Cabalistic notion that " nothing changes completely . Everything is transformed . What we believe to be dead has but changed place . What is , is thought . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is beautifully dramatized in the Venetian Valerio Camillo 's Theatre of Memory . Fuentes admits his debts to Frances Yates 's study on the art of memory , and the Theatre of Memory provides the most haunting and poignant of Fuentes 's many visions . The theatre presented not , only what was but what should have been , not only what will but what can be . If " what is thought , is , " then Camillo 's alternative memories required a future to make them past . In one of the great episodes in recent fiction , Camillo shows Ludovico a world where history is rewritten , Cain forgets Abel , Helen returns home , Satan never leaves , Mohammedans occupy Paris , Pelagius defeats Augustus , Dante marries Beatrice , a baby girl is born in Bethlehem , and Pilate pardons her . This is heady stuff but Fuentes moors it to the real world . His alternative vision is also economic : he always shows that the splendors of Roman , Spanish or Mayan civilization are paid for with the lives of impoverished peasants and workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of political rebellion . The alternative philosophy the novel affirms most deeply is not hermetic but female , and Celestina is its prophetess . The love she incarnates goes beyond the Cabalistic glorification of three by turning two into one . We can see all of this and more in " The First Testament , " ene of the novel 's great chapters . Here a concrete , historical fact the invention of the printing press  --  exemplifies for Felipe the desacralization of the text . And , as if to dissolve the uniqueness of The Word , Felipe himself imagines an alternative testament , inspired by Gnostic and Nestorian heresy , where the human Jesus and divine Christ are separate , where Jesus is a radical agitator and the lover of both Mary Magdalene and John the Baptist ( whose spurning of Salome is demoted from heroic sacrifice to a divergence in taste ) . Even more blasphemous is the presentation of Joseph as a grouchy , macho craftsman who refuses to be cuckolded by a dove and hammers his son 's cross himself ( as God plots the murder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is Mary , released , as Celestine would put it , from a history composed by men , revealed as the daughter of the House of David , the goddess of earthly love , and the guardian of " real time , ... woman 's time , simultaneous time , " the time of this novel . The alternatives are always defeated but ; sever destroyed , and their resonance provides the hope that Fuentes identifies as our only freedom . When late in the novel , Ludovico begs Felipe to reject Guzman 's counsel and not allow the massacre of a new band of heretics andrebels , he offers him the chance to " earn your own freedom and everyone else 's , " by proving history need not endlessly repeat itself . As the soul song says , rather than plunder the New World , as Guzman desires , Felipe can turn his ships around . Of course he refuses , and Fuentes like Milton makes us suffer the working out of ends we already know . But this paradise of thought can be regained : the novel ends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Mexico , with a new world ushered in by an androgynous Polio Phoibe , the two finally transcended in one . The visual arts are crucial to a novel where the most recondite and hermetic symbols are rendered visual . Fuentes 's interconnection of symbols is always a meditation on history . So the television screens of a Mexican dictator in 1999 dissolve into the smoking mirrors of Aztec myth ; the phantoms that plague Felipe come from the past ( he dines , accompanied by the mummified relics of his ancestors ) but the USAF planes that strafe Mexico with napalm are manned by the descendants of Felipe and his creature Guzman . . . and carry the name Phantom ; the insects and mice that devour Felipe and Isabel are the dybbuks of the microbe world that conquer Western civilization . In an excremental vision , excrement has its place . Felipe comes upon German mercenaries defecating in a Flanders cathedral before a golden altar , and Fuentes wonders more imaginatively than Freud which is the greater treasure : gold from the earth 's entrails , or excrement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth , and the earthly paradise of the next world will again return us to dust , but this time " without sin , and with pleasure . " But these are epiphenomena , and Fuentes 's greatest pictorial accomplishments are both more expansive and more human . They serve as the visual equivalent of the objective correlative in a highly cinematic manner . At the end of Ophuls 's Memory of Justice , there is a freeze shot of a French Resistance worker leaving the Nuremberg courtroom and turning her head , possessed of the sudden thought that she will never again see the accused Nazis so close . Xs Marie Claude Vaillant-Couturier stares , the camera captures an experience that hours of talk can not fully elucidate . I think Fuentes pursues such moments  --  as when we see Pedro , the aged revolutionary , finally landed in the New World , spitting into the Pacific as if his insult will swim back to Felipe . Fuentes uses the visual to transcend itself . Julian 's portrait of Jesus and the naked townsman strips away twice to reveal first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's court . An even more astonishing expansion of the senses takes place when the Pilgrim to the New World makes love to the Indian Lady of the Butterflies . In this perfect union , the two become one as he speaks out of her mouth . All the senses are fused and transformed into a supreme moment of touch . Then he returns to normal , and " with every new flash of light , with every new odor , with every new crashing sound , " the union separates into its components and the lady disappears . Terra Nostra dramatizes European history , both political and artistic : its vision comprehends Greek sculpture and Roman chronicles , Baroque paintings and Bunuel movies . But its primary aesthetic mirror is Spanish literature . Don Quixote , " a double victim of reading , " could only conquer the world he had misread when he became an object of its reading , the first hero to read about himself . Cervantes 's aesthetic becomes the novel 's most ambitious credo : " I shall create an open book where the reader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is written . " Fuentes 's new imagining of the great traditional fictions of Europe makes the earlier writers not only our contemporaries but their own , calling to one another across the centuries . So one of the three red-cross brothers assumes the dream-mantle of Don Juan , and is literally exposed as a creature of mirrors , Oedipus , and one who remembers everything and desires and understands nothing . He also pays homage to Anglo-American writing : the grotesque cripple , Juana la Loca , is worthy of Dickens ; the descriptions of land- and seascape would honor Melville ; the merging of multiple confessions suggests Faulkner . At his most audacious , Fuentes shows Cervantes writing and discarding Kafka 's first paragraph , and so appropriate to the novel are the images of bugs , dreams , and metamorphosis that Kafka becomes an extension of Cervantes , re-imagined by Fuentes for this novel . Fuentes manages his universe of discourse through his striking mastery of perspective and timing . Perspective is located in art and human psychology , as imagination is both the product and culmination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently argued that multiple perspectives and simultaneity are Blake 's salient characteristics , and they are appropriate to Fuentes 's post-romantic vision . In another reclamation of literary history , Fuentes shows Tiberius Caesar 's court chronicler , Theodorus , experimentally melding the third and second person narratives . Like Garcia Marquez in his latest novel , Fuentes shifts pronouns with bewildering fluency . But what most deeply animates his perspectives is the subtle use of prepositions . From the first vision of a red-cross brother , awakening on the beach and staring up and around him , everything in the novel is seen from an angle . The mastery of pronouns and prepositions induces in the characters and reader a sense of constant suspense and surprise : in this multifarious universe , anything can literally come from anywhere . Mystery is Fuentes 's subject , and it saves his novel from the claustrophobia threatened by " eternal unity in eternal multiplicity . " Particularly appropriate to the demands of mystery and his vision is his habit of placing effects before their causes . But when causes are discovered , their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Theatre of Memory , the present tense is illuminated by the past and realized in the subjunctive . So the Biblical Christ who makes El Felipe 's life an orgy of masochism and necrophilia is revealed midway through the novel as the unnatural union of a human Jesus and divine Christ ; but for Fuentes two are not enough and the real solution is three : late in the novel we learn the two thieves hanging beside Jesus were his brothers . Similarly the origin of the three brothers reared by Ludovico exfoliates in stages , much like the paintings that strip away to reveal a Spanish court or an earthly paradise . After El Felipe has dispatched the three brothers , he discovers their origin in one earlier figure who was actually two , a murdered Caesar and/or his slave . But in a coda , Fuentes presents the descendants of this one and three : every child born in the last days of 1999 . The novel 's structure suggests that there is always more to be known , and that the final knowledge will be shared by everyone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ androgyne formed from Cervantes ? Polio Phoibe ? Pilgrim and Celestina . Reading Terra Nostra is one of the great experiences of the 1970s . If we are forced to draw comparisons with other works , it is because Fuentes calls upon all our resources as readers , his assumption being that his open book reads us and him simultaneously . His novel contains episodes of cruelty and necrophilia that turn the stomach , and its historical vision is one of despair , those Spanish boats and American planes never turn around . For all this , Terra Nostra can make one positively happy : like two other great visionaries , Milton and Tolstoi , Fuentes 's most amiable vi sions are homely and human . Milton sensed the angel 's wing and the shepherd 's heel ; Tolstoi imagined Napoleon ransacking Europe and a teenage Natasha dancing at her first ball . In a characteristic episode , Fuentes has the girl Celestine come upon a she-wolf giving birth to a human child . The incident is surreal but the girl 's response  --  as the wolf suckles her infant , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knew a lot , I was still a little girl " ? is not . Terra Nostra is particularly Latin American in its hatred of the Catholic Church , here the embodiment of social , political , emotional and sexual repression . Yet it shares a trinity with the Church , though one swept by a grace that is completely human . Good and bad , life and death , the great opposing duos require a third , mediating agent : the spirit that resides in man 's art and memory . This is a holy ghost that ? breathes in all of us . When the painter Julian tells El Felipe " imagination is what changes , " he also says , " My art is unsigned " because it " does not represent an affirmation of stupid individualism but an act of creation . " Fuentes clearly shares his accomplishments with his peers and friends , but he assumes that those who can not realize them can dream and remember . This novel , the most profound meditation on human memory since Proust , goes beyond Proust in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illuminate a remembered past , in Fuentes 's theatre of memory , rehearsal is both repetition and preparation . .                     