@@278795

An ancient Washington gag is that an unsuccessful weapon is about to be renamed " the civil servant " because " it wo n't work and you ca n't fire it . " That derisive opinion of federal employees may now have to be changed . For the past year a Government task force has been conducting the first survey ever made of output per man-hour by Uncle Sam 's hirelings . Last week Labor Secretary James Hodgson announced that the results were " a pleasant surprise " : the bureaucrats in Foggy Bottom and environs have been getting bigger productivity increases out of their workers than have bosses in private industry . Between 1967 and 1971 , the report showed , productivity in the Federal Government rose an average of 2% a year , v. an average annual improvement of 1.5% in the non-farm sector of the private economy . <P> The federal self-report card has some huge gaps . For one thing , it did not measure how productive-or unproductive-Government employees were at the beginning of the four-year period . Many taxpayers may suspect that federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year and still remain something less than models of efficiency . Also , the task force made no attempt to assess what has caused the rise in output per man-hour . Government officials speculate only that the ever-present specter of budget cuts and hold-downs has forced federal managers to figure out their own ways to get more out of their workers . <P> " What is most important , " says Hodgson , " is that we now have a new and useful yardstick to help us improve our performance . " Altogether , some 600 standards were devised to gauge efficiency in such Government operations as the minting of coins , distribution of Social Security checks , processing of FHA mortgage applications and printing of federal documents . They cover slightly more than half of the 2.6 million employees in the federal work force . The rest , including NASA scientists , FBI agents and the Supreme Court Justices , perform jobs whose productivity is still unmeasurable.                     