@@485144

As the Pan American Highway winds down through the Andes of central Ecuador , it passes a small town called Sicalpa , which quickly disappears from view . There is nothing to lure the traveler off the paved highway onto the town 's potholed dirt road . The Indians are ragged and dirty , not the least picturesque ; even the Church , which is a tourist attraction in Ecuadorian villages , is here run-down and architecturally disappointing . Beneath Sicalpa 's dusty , somnolent exterior , however , lies a seething snake pit : the town , in Chimborazo Province , is at the center of the long struggle for Indian land rights in Ecuador . All of Sicalpa 's inhabitants have some Indian blood , but in Ecuador there is a rigid class distinction between the mestizo , who is part white and who wears shoes , and the barefoot untouchable Indian , who is " not a human being but a beast of burden . " The mestizo is in turn exploited by the white estate owner who uses him to bully , beat and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are disgruntled mestizos to side with the Indians and the town thus divides into camps for and against the untouchable barefoots and their local spokesman , Father Delfin Tenesaca , an Indian priest alternately described as a " Communist agitator " and the " Indians ' savior . " Two Sicalpa youngsters explained all this to me as we picked our way along a roller-coaster jeep track to Mira-fibres , one of Sicalpa 's satellite Indian villages where Father Tenesaca was ' holding a consciousness-raising session . Miraflores is perched on a hill , a small cluster of one-room thatched huts where twenty families live . To reach the village without falling , one must run up and down the almost perpendicular hills , copying the half-trot of the beasts of burden . Father Tenesaca is no firebrand , as was the Colombian revolutionary priest , Camilo Torres . A small quiet-spoken man , he discusses the feudal land structures around Sicalpa in calm and reasoned terms . Like his fellow Indians , he has been beaten and jailed by the large landowners , his life threatened innumerable times . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he thinks it would not solve the Indians ' problem . An Indian uprising can always be put down by the police or the army , which has a tradition of killing Indians that goes back to the first rebellion in 1770 . But a premonition of change is in the air , now that the Indian realizes that he is a human being and that the landowner has no God-given right to use him as a beast of burden . " We are beginning to open our eyes and to realize that we have a right to a better life than our ancestors , " said Miguel Angel Estrella , a 23-yearold Indian who remembers as a child working sunrise to sundown without wages on a large hacienda . " I have only a half acre to feed my family , and all my children but one died because there was not enough to eat , " added Segundo Tenelima , a haggard 32-year-old . " But I will never go back to work on the hacienda . They beat me . They paid me only 28 cents a day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fear of the landowners , who see themselves simultaneously threatened by agrarian reform on one side and the loss of semi-slave labor on the other . In the Sicalpa area there are now seven legal disputes before the Ecuadorian Institute of Agrarian Reform and Colonization ( IERAC ) . The 2,000 acres the Indians are claiming are not many compared to the 25,000 acres of the landowners ' local " cooperative , " but they symbolize the long-feared awakening of the Indians . New petroleum riches notwithstanding , Ecuador remains one of the poorest , least developed nations in Latin America . Visitors who look behind the plush villas rising in Quito will see miserable Indians bent double under loads of wood and trotting up and down the capital 's back streets . Ecuador 's rags-to-riches story since oil was discovered in the eastern jungles is the story of a privileged few , the 7 per cent of the popidation who receive 50 per cent of the country 's income . The Indians , who make up 36 per cent of the 6.8 million inhabitants , have never seen a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pouring into government coffers since mid-1972 . In fact , few know of the existence of oil . According to a recent survey by the University of Ecuador , 70 per cent of the highland Indians do not know the name of their country or of its President , or the colors of its flag . The Indians continue to eke out a subsistence existence in the Andean sierras or form part of the burgeoning marginal populations of Quito and the banana port at Guayaquil , which boasts the worst slums in South America ( not even the shantytowns ringing La Paz , Bolivia , can compare ) . Although change is coming to some areas such as Sicalpa , that is largely because of the work of people like Father Tenesaca and his reformist bishop in Riobamba , Msgr . Leonidas Proano . Most of the other Indian provinces have not altered since the Spanish conquest . As in Venezuela , which is Ecuador 's oil tutor , " sowing petroleum " in the countryside is an empty phrase , although the military government and everyone else seem to agree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country 's marginal population , is Ecuador 's foremost problem .. While the three-year-old military regime has had more money to spend than any previous government , its agricultural policy is no more successful than that of its predecessors because of the large landowners ' grip on national politics . Appearances to the contrary , Ecuador is not governed by the military but by the ranchers who control most of the political parties and are allied with the interests of the large Quito and Guayaquil import houses that dominate Ecuadorian industry . Any government that tries  --  to restrict the privileges of this group soon finds itself out of a job . That happened to the previous military junta ( 1963-66 ) , which was overthrown for attempting a mild agrarian reform . Ecuador 's current President , Gen. Guillermo Rodriguez Lara , nearly met the same fate last September when a group of right-wing military officers was encouraged by the landowners-importers to stage a coup but bungled it so badly that Rodriguez was able to keep his tenuous hold on the Presidency . A backward , banana republic until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politically than any other South American ' , Country , with no more than 10,000 of its people able to distinguish- between a conservative and a Communist . Thus-it is relatively easy for the educated elite to make and break governments ; the coup average in Ecuaddr is one every three years . Any move to alter the inefficient pattern of land tenure is quickly squelched because the . government of the moment will immediately back down when threatened with a coup ( which eventually happens anyway ) . So thirty-nine years after the first attempt at agrarian reform , 0.1 per cent of Ecuador 's farms , all larger than 2,500 acres , still occupy 14.4 per cent of the arable land , while 74 per cent ofthe farms , each less than 12.5 acres , cover only 10 per cent . Because of the , severe political pressures , agrarian reform laws in Ecuador have always emphasized productivity rather than social necessity . Even so , very few haciendas have been expropriated because they were underproductive . In the decade between 1964 , when the previous military regime decreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent of the land distributed to poor peasants formed part of colonization schemes on government-owned property . The remaining 20 per cent that was " expropriated " consisted primarily of unfertile hacienda lands " rented " to the Indian huasipungo . An outdated remnant of Spanish colonial rule , the huasipungo system forced the Indian peasants to work on the hacienda without wages for so many days per year ( usually 365 ) in return for the use of a small grazing pasture and the right to build a miserable one-room shack . The 1964 law supposedly abolished this system but in fact worsened the condition of the huasipunguero by pushing him onto unproductive land while making him pay for the right to graze his animals on the pasture he had previously occupied . The payment of a daily minimum wage for hacienda labor was and is more often than not a legal fiction . In Chimborazo Province in central Ecuador , for example , some 2,000 Indians rebelled in protest against the landowner 's failure to pay any wages for more than a year . Two Indians were killed when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agratian reform programs were similar fictions , the money being either progressively reduced or never authorized . Nevertheless , Ecuador 's outraged Chamber of Agriculture , spokesman for the large landowners , declared that the 1964 law threatened " political domination over the agricultural sector instead of justice and technology , " although technology in real terms meant fences , the value of which was greater than the total for all other agricultural machinery and equipment . Like its predecessor , the newest agrarian reform decree , announced in 1973 , emphasizes productivity and colonization schemes , and puts no limit on the size of individual holdings beyond a vaguely defined production scale for different agricultural zones . Given- the venality of local land reform officials , it remains a simple matter for the large landowner , to escape expropriation on the basis of productivity . At La Magdalena ranch ? in northern Ecuador , for example , where three generations of peasant cooperatives have fought unsuccessfully for land , expropriation proceedings are locked in a bureaucratic labyrinth because the local IERAC representative has certified that the 3,780-acre hacienda is productive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who attest that La Magdalena is a regular wheat supplier and efficient producer , and by an on-the-spot inspection of 1,215 Holstein cows and 600 sheep . It so happens that Freile Barba , whose family owns La Magdalena is also an important grain merchant in the area . And according to the peasant cooperative , many of the cows were brought in from another Freile ranch , San Clemente , and the sheep from a third Freile estate , La Merced . All told , The Freiles own four ranches covering a large chunk of the northern and - eastern highlands of the province of Imbabura . Yet many of the 700 people who subsist on or around La Magdalena do not own a square foot of land . Maria Juana Ibaza , 44 and the mother of two fatherless children , depends entirely on the 50 cents she earns for a six-hour day milking forty Magdalena cows . The daily yield of these cows is 160 quarts , which the ranch sells in the nearest city for $19.20 . But Maria Juana and her children , crowded into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor that they can not afford even potatoes . There is no running water , no electricity , no bathroom facilities , no medical attention . When the people in the but get sick , they lie on the floor and wait . " We either get better or we die , " she explained . Maria Juana 's neighbor , Leonidas Tabango , is no better off . True , he owns 8.7 acres of land , but they must support him and the families of his three sons . The Tabango family originally held 18.7 acres under the huasipungo system , but when Leonidas 's father died in 1962 , the patron demanded the return of 10 acres or $480 , an enormous fortune for such impoverished people . When the money was not paid , the landowner sent a tractor to destroy the corn and potatoes planted on the parcel . Protest frequently is useless . Although expropriation proceedings were under court study in 1971 , a battalion of forty armed police attacked the peasants at the Freile family 's behest . Gas bombs were thrown , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so land-hungry are these peasants that they persist . Since the productivity measure for expropriation was vetoed , . the peasants ' cooperative is trying another provision of the agrarian reform law that authorizes expropriation if natural resources are monopolized by a single family in an area under- heavy population pressure . A study by the National Planning Department has apparently confirmed the cooperative 's claims , but the department 's report has not been issued because it . lacks " the appropriate official 's signature " ? a plausible enough explanation in view of the quantities of red tape at the Planning Department , which has outgrown a new 12-story skyscraper since the oil began to flow . Far from encouraging production , the regime 's timid measures are achieving just the opposite : agriculture is turning in the worst performance of any sector in the economy . The wheat harvest in 1973 , for instance , was only one-third what Ecuador grew in 1970 . The government has twice this year diverted wheat shipments destined for Peru in order to span the gap between declining production and an oil-fueled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ birth rate . Some of the decline is caused by speculators , but the principal reason is that the large landowners refuse to increase plantings , even when the government offers subsidies and duty-free fertilizer imports . The Guayas River Basin on the Pacific Coast alone could , produce enough food for 20 million people , according to the rood and Agricultural Organization ( FAO ) . But as long as there are food scarcities , with corresponding price increases , inflation will fuel popular discontent . Weak as the Rodriguez Lara regime has been , it is not sufficiently reactionary to suit these landed interests , who hope that a change of government would bring a member of the ranching oligarchy to power . The charge that agrarian reform is to blame for Ecuador 's poor harvests simply does not hold up , not when the law offers so many loopholes against expropriation and when 86 per cent of the land distributed since 1972 has been in colonization schemes in the jungle or the northern swamplands where no wealthy estate owner would set foot . " Why is there hunger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ graffiti in Quito . " Because the rich get richer and the poor , poorer , " writes Clotario , columnist for the conservative Quito daily El Tiempo . The statistics of poverty are such that the National Medical Congress wants the government to declare a " national emergency . " Sixty per cent of the children suffer from malnutrition , 33 per cent of the people are illiterate , and 70 per cent are without running water , sewage systems , medical attention or decent housing . These are the marginal Ecuadorians , the 52 per cent of the labor force that is unemployed or underemployed . Nevertheless , the Ministry of Health states that " the situation is not so bad compared with India , where people are starving to death . " Maybe not , but it is hard to imagine worse conditions than those in Chimborazo Province , which has the highest concentration of landholdings , the largest Indian population and the worst standard of living in Ecuador . Although the land is majestic , with towering , snow-capped volcanoes and , deep , green valleys , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beasts of Sicalpa and Father Tenesaca . At the Saturday market in Riobamba , Chimborazo 's capital , the plazas overflow with this mass of Indian , p , overty , that has trotted long miles across the Andes in order to sell a few , vegetables or eggs to the white and precious for his consumption . Only by selling them can he buy such necessities as salt and ' kerosene . ) Many of the Indians earn a few cents as pack animals for Riobamba housewives , staggering barefoot through the muddy markets with a load of food or firewood on their backs . The fair also is the one day in the week allowed for such luxuries as a piece of fruit and for getting drunk on a cheap chicha corn brew fermented with such toxic substances as human excrement . The Indians drink to forget the misery of the hovel that awaits them at night  --  a windowless hole in the ground topped by a thatched roof where up to fifteen people sleep in the dirt together with the family 's pigs and guinea pigs , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is only 60 miles from Quito , 83 per cent of the population never sees a doctor . Malnutrition and'the lack of hygiene among the province 's 220,000 Indians are so severe that six out of ' ten children die in their first year . About the only thing the Chimborazo Indian does not die of is old age . Barely touched by agrarian reform , Chimborazo is Ecuador 's worst example of latifundia-minifundia , or large landholdings and tiny plots , with farms of more than 1,250 acres hogging 68.4 per cent of the land , while.farms under 12 acres , which comprise 82.7 per cent of the total member of parcels , are squeezed onto 8.6 per cent of the land . Despite the poverty and the feudal land structures however , Chimborazo has one advantage over other rural areas , and that is the courageous Catholic laymen and clergy working with Bishop Proano , the only progressive in-Ecuador 's otherwise conservative hierarchy . Since Proano came to Riobamba in 1954 ? and startled the white ranchers by actually shaking hands with the Indians  --  the beasts of burden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better wages and pressuring IERAC to recognize their land rights . The bishop is hated by the Chimborazo ranchers who rightly blame him for telling the Indians about minimum wages , encouraging them to learn to read and write , and starting the province 's first agrarian reform by giving the Indians 27,300 acres of Church lands . As an old Indian woman pointed out , " Only since Taita Amitu Obispu an affectionate Quechua title for Proano has come has the eye begun to see and the mouth to speak . " A soft-spoken ; timid-appearing man who follows Gandhi 's nonviolent resistance techniques , the " Bishop of the Indians " has had a number of run-ins with the local landowners , including some brutal clashes in which the unarmed peasants were injured and killed . But dealing , with Proano is like wrestling with'the Tar Baby : the bishop sticks to his objectives like glue . Three years ago , for example , he sent a priest to work with an Indian community at Iltarz that had received legal recognition , from IERAC of a claim to communal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ priest 's mediation the rancher verbally agreed to respect the Indians ' 40 rights , but as soon as the peasants started digging holeX fora forestation project , they were set upon by an armed band employed by the estate owner . Twenty-one Indians were injured , some seriously . A young peasant woman was tied by her pigtails to the tail of a horse and dragged over the land at a gallop . When her father protested , he was knocked to the ground , a bit was foiced into his mouth and he was ridden like a horse by one of the armed assailants . Proano no sooner learned of these atrocities than he started a nationwide publicity campaign , including television coverage , that eventually ended in the release of the six peasants imprisoned by the landowner and restoration of the Indians ' communal property . ' Last year during a similar confrontation at the village of Toctezinin , the police locked up Proano 's vicar general by mistake after beating the peasants and killing one of them . The vicar general refused to leave the Riobamba jail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freed . The ensuing bad publicity caused in this deeply Catholic country by the spectacle of a high Church dignitary cooling his heels for three days in jail was sufficient to provoke a high-level government inquiry that eventually confirmed the Toctezinin Indians ' , land rights . Nowadays Bishop Proano is a welcome guest at Toctezinin , but he is not looked upon as a miracle worker who can instantly solve the Indians ' problems . The Toctezinin peasants have gone through a long calvary that has taught them the value of their own leadership and community spirit . That is precisely what the bishop wants and what the ranchers fear . In many parts of Chimborazo it is no longer possible for the landowners to force an Indian to work on the hacienda with no wages for a month simply because he has walked down a road bordering an estate . The Indian now knows that he is not trespassing on private land , a crime for which his services can be indentured , but that like every other Ecuadorian citizen he has a right to use a public road @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the face of the poverty and land structures in Chimborazo , but it is an enormous improvement over a few years ago when the Indian dared not even speak in the presence of a white man . While pressure from a dedicated , influential group like Proano 's clergy can cause a gradual change in a limited area , it can not alter the inbred belief of the white and mixed populace that Indians are despicable animals . Priests and sacristans , mayors and governors , political chieftains , municipal officials , whatever their color , all are masters of the Indian . Everyone has the right to exploit him . The Indians are requisitioned like beasts ; they are taken in long lines roped together over great distances for forced labor , to collect garbage in the cities , to repair the roads , to serve the convents and the garrisons , to carry arms in times of war and for many other necessities in times of peace , to carry the piano of Minister So-and-So from the coast to the mountains or the enormously heavy equipment for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the name of the republic and by authority of the law . So wrote Ecuadorian author Abelardo Moncayo in 1954 . His description still applies . A Quito restaurant will sell food to an Indian ; but only if he takes it off the premises , because his presence might offend the white customers . Said a bitter Indian : " When they do n't let me enter a restaurant but want my money , when the newspapers wo n't publish our letters but write editorials about our problems , they make me feel more Indian , and for this I thank them because it makes me realize that my country does not belong to me . It belongs to them . " Even the Indians ' folklore has been expropriated by the white man . The annual Yamor Indian ceremonies in Otavalo in northern Ecuador used to be a time of popular celebration , but they have been converted by white promoters into a tourist attraction held within the confines of a local school . The tourist can afford the 40-cent entrance fee but not the Indians . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another means of exploiting the Indians . Unable to earn a living on the land , the Indian eventually migrates to the cities where he may fmd occasional employment in the booming construction ' industry + that is building expensive office high-rises and luxury homes as fast as the country can import cement . Or he may drift to the coast for the banana harvest and eventually settle among the black populace of Guayaquil 's slums , where two-thirds of the inhabitants are immigrants . ' Unlike the countryside , where some social values survive ; slum life quickly destroys the family unit , and another round of poverty begins with abandoned children and fatherless families . In Quito , there are 6,000 shoeshine and other working boys who are sent onto the streets as soon as they reach the age of 4 or 5 . With seven to thirteen children to support and no aid from the children 's various fathers , the slum mother must depend on the earnings of her sons . These slum , boys bring home 20 to 40 cents a day , while the mother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sells food or other items in the native markets . By the time the boy is 15 , he has run away with a girl , only to abandon her after the birth of one or two children . Very few slum inhabitants ever climb out of this circle of misery . They are undernourished and therefore frequently mentally retarded , have no chance of even a primary educatiOn and in any case will die of some disease before they are 40 . ( So unhygienic are conditions in Quito markets , for example , that 75 per cent of the food sellers harbor intestinal parasites , according to the Department of Municipal Health . ) As in most Andean cities , the slums of Quito cling to the top of the mountain bowl while the residences of the wealthy and middle classes cluster below , but since the advent of petroleum the contrast between top and bottom has greatly increased . While wizened Indians fight over rotting food and empty bottles at the municipal garbage dump , down below in past shady avenues rich teenagers race new motorcycles past shops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streets , turning the narrow entrance to the colonial section of the city into an hour-long bottleneck . Ecuadorians who were grateful to own a jeep only five years ago now boast two chauffeur-driven limousines , one of which is usually a Mercedes . If the streets of Quito are not paved with gold , as some Ecuadorians confidently predicted they would be at the start of the oil boom , there is plenty of money moving over the new highways . The government 's annual gasoline subsidy alone runs to $120 million . ( Since Ecuador does not yet have its own refinery , the government must make up the difference between the cost of imported gasoline and internal prices ; otherwise , car owners will protest . ) Even in Ecuador , however , there is a limit to such spending sprees . Although government income has quadrupled since the oil was found , a hugely inflated budget , the upper classes ' voracious appetite for expensive imports and a decline in oil production have produced a $120-million deficit in the balance , of payments . Rodriguez Lara made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by restricting the import of automobiles and slapping a 60 per cent duty on luxury items and a 25 per cent duty on imported capital equipment used to assemble such necessities as television sets and synthetic textiles . But he quickly backed down after the attempted coup in September , firing the finance minister , halving the luxury import tax and abolishing the capital goods tax . Rodriguez Lara could hardly do otherwise with a government that is as shaky as a house of cards . Pleasant enough in private , the short , rotund " Bombita , " or " Little Balloon " as , he is nicknamed , has never been able to attract any popular support because , except for a nationalistic oil policy , his , government has not initiated any reforms to gain that support . Some grandiose infrastructure programs have been started , of course , but hungry people are not interested in four-lane highways or petroleum refineries . On the other hand , they do understand unemployment and are experiencing inflation , which has been galloping along at 30 per cent per year under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created in oil-related industries because they are not labor intensive . Despite the flood of imported capital equipment , industries on the whole are operating at 53 per cent of capacity . Repeating the classic error of developing nations , Ecuador has encouraged the growth of a series of expensive assembly plants to satisfy the sophisticated tastes of a small consumer society able to purchase such goods . Once this demand is met , sales drop , factories begin . to lose money and jobs are eliminated . The large consumer market on which these industries are premised simply does not exist in a nation where the average annual per capita income is $280 . Unimpressive as the Rodriguez Lara administration may be , impartial Ecuadorian and foreign observers agree that the situation would have been much worse had the military allowed the greedy politicians to get their hands on Ecuador 's new oil wealth . While the armed forces take 50 per cent of the oil royalties , at least corruption is only about one-third what it was during the previous civilian government of perennial President Jose Maria Velasco Ibarra @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cabinet ministers and even a former President in bribes and embezzlement highlighted the final months of Velasco 's last government before he was deposed in February 1972 , just six months before the oil started flowing . Such was the corruption at one point , recalls a U.S. oil executive , that the publicly acknowledged minimum bribe was $500,000 . Fearful of appearing similarly corrupt , the military immediately embarked on a " moralization " campaign to clean up gbvernment while hitting ) , the , foreign oil companies over the head . Several of the disgruntled companies later blamed Texaco-Gulf , whose jungle discoveries started the oil rush , for failing to prepare the Ecuadorians for the complex economics of petroleum . Although the consortium began drilling in 1964 , it did little to enlighten successive governments on the facts and figures of produc7 tion , and by the time the figures were finally made available , the Ecuadorians had convinced themselves that no foreign oil company could be trusted to present a factual report . The newest and smallest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries , Ecuador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price per barrel from $2.56 to $13.90 in less than seventeen months , increasing taxes and red tape and reducing contract areas by as much as 80 per cent . Constant changes in government oil policy , the incidence of dry wells and a general feeling among the companies that Ecuador was an " ungrateful upstart " caused most of the majors to pull up stakes , leaving only Texaco-Gulf and Cayman behind with sizable investments . Texaco-Gulf has been recouping its $300-million investment since August 1972 , when the first barrel was pumped to the Pacific Coast over the consortium's. 335-mile pipeline . Cayman , which has invested $85 million to date , has capped its jungle wells until the government makes a decision on a new model for oil contracts ( probably something similar to Peru 's fifty-fifty division with the oil companies ) . As in other sectors , Rodriguez Lara was forced to backpedal on the government 's oil policy this year when daily production plummeted from 210,000 barrels to 125,000 barrels because Texaco-Gulf claimed it could not market Ecuadorian crudes at $13.90 a barrel . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price by 43 cents a barrel to bring Ecuadorian petroleum into line with OPEC prices . Since Ecuador now depends on petroleum for 55 per cent of its income , the government is a prisoner of the oil wells with no economic backup from other sectors to see the country over a temporary production decline . Bananas , which used to supply the largest source of foreign exchange , now account for a mere 18 per cent of the country 's earnings and are in trouble anyway because of stiff Central American competition . It is a surrealistic situation at best because , unless n ' ew fields are discovered , Ecuador 's jungle oil reserves will begin declining by 5 or 10 per cent in 1980 at the current rate of production . And new fields will not be discovered unless the foreign companies are invited to return on their own terms . CEPE , the three-year-old state oil enterprise , could perform this job by buying foreign drilling equipment and know-how , just as the oil companies do . But CEPE does not have the necessary money for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And so the merry-go-round spins on , with public opinion still convinced that there is nothing particularly complex about administering sudden oil wealth , only those fools in the Presidential palace just do n't know how to do it . " Petroleum ? That 's Easy ! " headlined one Ecuadorian magazine in a typically simplistic explanation of oil economics . Over at . Quito 's National Polytechnical School , meanwhile , only one student is ' specializing in petroleum , compared to 4,578 at the philosOphy faculty . J ? . The military may occasionally have some doubts about its oil policy , but there is no doubt in the minds of the politicians that they could do a better job . The general feeling in political circles is that the coup attempted in September heralded the beginning of the end of the Rodriguez government , but whether this means an early return to civilian administration is not at all clear . Several of the most powerful generals appear determined to enact a few social reforms , with or without " Bombita , " before relinquishing power . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoughts about the inevitable return of the old political caudillos . Quito 's prestigious daily , El Comercio , which hardly could be described as an apologist for the military regime , recently pointed out in an editorial that " there is nothing resembling authentic , effective political movements that are well-organized and cohesive " in a country with twenty-five political parties but no political consciousness . The lack of political awareness is of course a direct outgrowth of the high illiteracy rate and the generally low standards of living , but it also stems from a social-political system that forces the educated minority to conform to outdated formulas better suited to the fake liberalism of 19th- , century Latin America than to the needs of an emerging oil state in 1975 . And with conformism comes disillusion . No matter how idealistic or revolutionary the undergraduate , by the time he leaves the university to get a job , he does not want any part of politics , either inside the system or out . Consequently , government by the minority for the majority is left to such old hacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inept demagogue whose campaign oratory always wins elections . Anecdotes about Velasco 's promises are legend , including one in which he , promised a city a river after first offering a bridge when the-city had no river . Velasco is not the only colorful character in Ecuador 's political cast . There is also Carlos Julio Arosemena , who started his Presidency ( 1961-63 ) with some promising reforms only to fall victim to his embarrassing adventures while on the bottle , including shooting a barman instead of the lampshade on a homosexual 's head , falling down dead drunk at the airport on the arrival of Chilean President Jorge Alessandri and peeing on a banquet table as a demonstration of his regard for the U.S. Ambassador , one of his guests . Then there is Asaad Bucaram , a rug merchant from Guayaquil who , as a shoo-in for the 1972 Presidential elections , was one of the principal causes of the military coup . A younger version of Velasco , Bucaram likes to stump the Guayaquil back streets making illiterate speeches . Two other regular Presidential contenders , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governed the country between 1956-60 , and Galo Plaza ( 1948-52 ) , are best forgotten and easily so , since they did nothing . Otto Arosemen  --  r ( Carlos Julio 's nephew ) , on the other hand , will go down in history for imitating Khrushchev 's shoe-banging act during the hemisphere summit on the Alliance for Progress in 1967 before returning home for a petroleum orgy of foreign bribes and illegal contracts . With such to choose from , it is not surprising that many Ecuadorians prefer the military government 's " diffuse centrism with timid manifestations of social consciousness " to worse evils from the past . But since conciliation is a sure road to another coup in Ecuador , the odds are against Rodriguez Lara 's survival . Already , Velasco , Carlos Julio Arosemena , Plaza and Ponce are jockeying for position . ?                     