@@317020

Would he or would n't he run for President ? That question has been debated on and off ever since Gerald Ford became the first appointed Chief Executive under the 25th Amendment . Although the President has often said that he would be a candidate in 1976 , doubts have persisted . Last week , with former California Governor Ronald Reagan increasingly looking as if he might challenge Ford , the President grasped the reality that he must act more forcefully like a candidate and start a campaign organization rolling . <P> Thus , the President moved to give his most definitive answer to date on the question of his own candidacy . Yes indeed he would run , he said at his press conference , although he stopped just short of a formal declaration . " I intend to be a candidate . I believe that I have the best opportunity to solidify the Republican Party , getting strength from both the right as well as the left within the Republican spectrum , and to put on a good campaign against the individual that the Democratic Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference , a newly formed steering committee met to start mapping strategy . The committee is a careful blending of G.O.P. factions . Representing the party 's right wing are Dean Burch , who was a key strategist in Barry Goldwater 's 1964 presidential campaign , and Richard L. Herman , former national committeeman from Nebraska . From the left are former Pennsylvania Governor William Scranton and Robert Douglass , a New York attorney who is close to Nelson Rockefeller . In the center are Bryce Harlow , an old White House hand ( now a lobbyist for Procter &; Gamble ) who was an adviser to Presidents Eisenhower and Nixon ; former Defense Secretary Melvin Laird , a longtime congressional ally of Ford 's ; and another old friend , Leon Parma , group executive for Teledyne , Inc. in San Diego , who served as the top staffer on the G.O.P. congressional campaign committee for twelve years . <P> Biggest Threat . The first meeting failed to name a campaign director . Laird was everybody 's first choice , but he declined , preferring to stay on as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibility is Donald Rumsfeld , White House chief of staff . Rumsfeld might be reluctant to give up his powerful post for the rigors of managing a tough campaign , but if he thought the President was in serious danger of losing , he would probably make the plunge . George Bush , chief of the U.S. liaison office hi Peking , has also been mentioned . An adroit U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations for two years , Bush won broad popularity within his party for the tact and loyalty he demonstrated as national chairman in the worst days of Watergate . A third candidate is Herman , who won his organizational spurs by deftly moving the 1972 G.O.P. National Convention to Miami Beach from San Diego , where it had fallen under the cloud of the ITT contribution scandal .                     