@@282894

IT is probably one of the most difficult jobs in modern diplomatic history . " It makes the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks look like a kindergarten scene , " says a top official of the U.S. State Department . The job is to lay the groundwork for a proposed conference between the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Warsaw Pact nations to bring about the reduction of armed forces in Europe . Earlier this year , Soviet Party Leader Leonid Brezhnev surprised the West by suddenly endorsing its longstanding proposal for such troop cutbacks . NATO , suggested Brezhnev , should try tasting " the wine " of Moscow 's intentions . Last week , at a Deputy Foreign Ministers ' meeting in Brussels , NATO chose a man to do just that : Manlio Brosio , 74 , the meticulous Italian diplomat who retired as NATO 's Secretary-General last month after serving for seven years in the post . <P> Only the Beginning . A self-effacing , unemotional and uncommonly aloof man , Brosio is expected to leave for Moscow before mid-November to " explore " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than four or five technical experts . His mandate , as one NATO official put it , is " to taste the wine , but not to drink it " - to ask questions about Soviet intentions but not to negotiate . Though the Kremlin considers Brosio a hard-lining cold warrior because of his long service to NATO , he has stressed the importance of dtente . " The Soviet Union views dtente as a permanent struggle short of war , " he said earlier this year . " The allies must press for their own kind of dtente-modus vivendi in Berlin and Germany , the reduction of armed confrontation in Central Europe , economic cooperation , and the freer movement of people and ideas . " <P> The central problem that Brosio must deal with is the present balance of power in Europe . In the East , the Warsaw Pact countries have 2,300,000 troops , 1,700,000 of them Russian ; the NATO powers have 2,100,000 troops , only 300,000 of them American . The huge imbalance in numbers between Soviet and U.S. troops is only one factor . Another important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdraw from Central Europe by pulling back only 300 or so miles , the Americans must cross the 3,000-mile Atlantic to do so . Since the " negotiable " U.S. troops in Europe are fewer and have farther to withdraw than the Russians , the U.S. insists on an " asymmetrical reduction " rather than a one-to-one cutback . <P> This is only the beginning of Brosio 's problem . NATO members in the Baltic and Mediterranean regions are afraid that any troop reduction in Central Europe would simply release a flood of Russian troops to put pressure on NATO 's northern and southern flanks ( see box opposite ) . Then there is the matter of the 329,000-man French army , which is outside Brosio 's domain . France was the only one of the 15 NATO powers that did not endorse Brosio 's mission , making it clear that the Italian explorer is in no way empowered to speak on its behalf .                     