@@490815

THE TALK OF THE TOWN Notes and Comment THE Chinese Communists ( if they still are Communists ) appear to have launched a new revolution , against their first one . Crowds in Peking have been shouting , " Long live democracy ? " The American Declaration of Independence has been quoted on a wall poster in Shanghai . Mr. Hu Chiao-mu , China 's leading " theoretician , " has thrown out decades of Communist theory by stating that " the proletariat can and must learn from the bourgeoisie . " ( In those past decades , the role assigned in China to the bourgeoisie was simply to disappear . ) Vice-Premier Tong Hsian-ping , the de-facto head of the government , has announced that it is perfectly all right with him if the Taiwanese keep their capitalist economy . At times , it has even seemed that he would like just such an economy for the People 's Republic itself . All the " hyenas , " " poisonous weeds , " " running dogs , " " ferocious feudal monsters , " and other terrors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present , The Coca-Cola Company has been asked into China , and United States Steel will be setting up a billion-dollar ore-processing project there . The United States Navy has been invited to stop in at a Chinese port . Chinese officials have been doing the hustle to songs from " Saturday Night Fever " in Peking It is probably too early to gauge what the geopolitical and economic consequences will he if this ancient , supercivilized , hardworking , practical-minded , humorous , artistically and intellectually gifted people perseveres in its present course of modernization and democratization , but the unmistakable enthusiasm with which the Chinese public ( suddenly it seems appropriate to speak of a Chinese public ) has responded to the steps taken so far has already irreversibly altered the climate of world politics . More particularly , it has altered the outlook in the world for human rights . It may be that no people in history has been subjected to more thoroughgoing political control than the Chinese during the last thirty years . Every visible sign of the intellectual , sensual , or spiritual life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arts were swept aside , religion was rooted out , the popular culture was pulverized . All loyalties were discouraged except political ones , and these had to be to the central government . In the China of those years , the totalitarian form of government seemed to realize its fullest potentialities . In contrast to Stalinist Russia , in which millions were slaughtered in concentration camps , the Chinese apparently exercised a certain restraint in the use of physical brutality and physical extermination ( although it has to he said that the facts concerning this matter are as yet uncertain ) , and , perhaps precisely for this reason , the controls over the living reached an unprecedented intensity . Not content with controlling behavior , the Chinese Communist regime sought , through its famous sessions of " criticism and self-criticism , " to control thought as well . Unsatisfied with exacting passive obedience , it compelled active participation and complicity in Party campaigns . Often leaving people 's bodies untouched , it launched an unparalleled assault on their minds . Politics , which superseded and laid waste every other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and political discourse in China had to be conducted in strange , subtly differing codes of abuse , which eventually became incomprehensible even to the political cadres for whom they were meant . Bitter struggles , some of them attaining the proportions almost of civil war , were conducted without the benefit of any overt content . If any Chinese were unhappy with this state of affairs  --  and it now appears that some were  --  the rest of the world was tin-aware of it . When foreign reporters visited China , it hardly seemed to matter which of the nine hundred million Chinese they spoke to : all gave identical answers to every question . No dissident groups were reported ; no independent voices were raised . There was , as one - Westerner put it , no Chinese Solzhenitsyn . The extent of both the govern-ment 's apparatus of control and the people 's apparent obedience gave rise to the deeply enervating suspicion that in the hearts of the world 's largest populace the desire for human rights was simply lacking . This suspicion was especially demoralizing to Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new President but also our Declaration of Independence and our Constitution , both of which are founded on the premise that human rights are universal and inalien-able . If it now turned out that some large por-tion of humanity had no desire for human rights , and was perfectly content to live under totalitarian controls , then one could really no longer speak of " human " rights at all . One could speak only of American rights or of French rights or of the rights of Western man . The very concept of human rights became a piece of cultural chauvinism , by which Western societies once again made the mistake of trying to impose their own preferences on peoples that had other , possibly equally admirable ideas about how to live , As it happened , such modest , relativistic assessments of Western notions fitted in well with the chastened mood of many people in the United States after the war in Vietnam . From the sensible conclusion that our power in the world had limits , they went on to draw the dubious conclusion that the meaning of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a profusion of individual Chinese voices , employing the terse , vivid language that has always characterized Chinese speech and writing , are being heard in the world , and they are calling for what we can again confidently speak of as human rights . The ravenous appetite of the Chinese for the benefits of freedom should help to restore our confidence in the meaning that our political experience has for other peoples . " We should like to ask you to pay attention to the state of human rights in China , " one wall poster declared , in an appeal to President Carter , and it went on to say , " The Chinese people do not want to repeat the tragic life of the Soviet people in the Gulag Archipelago . " And a newspaper article spoke of a sort of nonphysical starvation of Chinese youth . " The great spiritual wealth created by mankind was strange to them , " it said . " They never heard of such names as Boccaccio , Michelangelo , Hugo , and Mozart . Young people 's minds were locked up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " ? ? Prince Sihanouk AFAR-WANDERING friend who lived for man ) years in Asia and frequently visited Cambodia has written us the following letter : I was happy to read in the newspapers  --  and to see the televised press conferences verifying  --  that Prince NoJANUARY Z2. , %979 rodom Sihanouk is not only alive and once more in touch with the Western world but as full of fascinating contradictions as ever . On the screen , there he was , back in Peking  --  he had lived in that city for five years after being misted by a coup in March , 1970 : putting on a six-hour one-man Falstaff-Ian show for the press in the best Sihanouk tradition  --  holding forth in his shrill , squeaky voice , gesticulating madly , giggling , weeping , and cutting a wide swath through Cambodia 's tragic story of the last few decades . I knew Sihanouk well during the sixties , and he may mean what he says about never going back to Cambodia and instead settling down in Peking again , or on the French Riviera , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of popping up like a jack-in-the-box . Yet , whether or not he ever goes hack to Phnom Penh , he will certainly continue to personify , and glorify , the country he tried so hard to keep independent and neutral , but could not . Now that his archenemies , the Vietnamese Communists ? " eaters of Khmer soil , " he used to call them have captured most of Cambodia ( or Kampuchea ) in the name of a new revolutionary Communist government , Sihanouk has come on to the United Nations headquarters in New York , at the behest , ironically , of the overthrown tyrannical regime of Pol Pot , which had kcpt him under house arrest for three years , until at the eleventh hour it wanted his help . At least , he got out of the place with three members of his family  --  his wife and their two daughters . It 's a typical Sihanouk script  --  sad , really , much more than ironic  --  hut he is a master of political gymnastics , and you can be sure of one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep alive the Khmer pride and spirit he so ardently believes in . More than ever , he is a man for all seasons , but there has always been a difference between the causes that Sihanouk really cares about and the ones that he simply adopts as means to an end . He made it quite clear in his six-hour discourse in Peking that he had no love for Pol Pot and his brutal crowd of killers  --  though he also said that he himself had not seen any results of massacre during the occasional conducted tours of the countryside he was permitted  --  hut that he would do anything he could to get the Vietnamese out of Cambodia . There seems little chance that this will happen , possession being in this case not only nine points of the law but the whole law -- -that of conquest  --  since it has been written by the Vietnamese themselves , who seem determined to rule all of Indo-China , and maybe even spread their revolution farther south . They may have a hard time digesting Cambodia  --  let alone Laos , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the troubles they 're having consolidating what used to be the two halves of Vietnam . Yet they will be hard to dislodge . The thing about Sihanouk I remember most vividly is his passionate concern for the Cambodian people his " children , " he used to call them , and , being an ardent lover in his youth , he did sire quite a number of them . From 1941 to 1955 , he was King of Cambodia , most of that time under the French , who had arrived in 1863 and had probably saved the kingdom from being eaten up then by the Vietnamese or the Thais , or both . The great Khmer Empire , which Sihanouk revered so deeply , included at its height , between the eleventh and thirteenth centuries , much of what is now Vietnam and what is now Thailand , and it had ten million subjects when England had only three million . The Thais and the Vietnamese are mostly yellow-skinned mainland people , whereas the Khmers are darker-skinned and are related to the Polynesians and the Indonesians ; and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard to gain independence for Cambodia  --  the French granted it in 1953 ? but he was a francophile at heart , and one of the men he admired most was Charles de Gaulle ; he used to say that Cambodia was the most " unabashedly Gaullist " nation in the world , and he wanted to keep it that way . In 1955 , he took the highly unusual step of renouncing the throne in favor of his father , to become Prim , . Minister and , five years later , Samdech , or Chief of State , so that , as a popular ruling prince , he could protect his children from the depredations of Cambodia 's hungry neighbors . But fate  --  that is , the Vietnam War  --  intervened . Thereafter , he regarded the Americans , too , as his enemies , but not consistently . There were times when he considered them his chief protectors ( the French were out of the picture by then , of course ) , but the relationship kept falling apart , because the Americans would n't get out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Cambodia should remain neutral . There were individual Americans whom he liked most notably Mike Mansfield and Averell Harriman  --  because they more or less supported his views , but every time he saw a chance to draw closer to the United States something would happen to sour things , such as bombs ' being dropped on Cambodian soil from aircraft based in South Vietnam . Sihanouk was only eighteen years old when he became King , but he quickly demonstrated a remarkable ability to rule Cambodia . He ruled in knight-errant fashion , executing a variety of dexterous maneuvers in his efforts to shore up the independence of his country , and , later on , to keep it from being swallowed up by the Communists . I remember a long talk I had with him in the summer of 1966 ? a year after he broke off diplomatic relations with Washington , because the Americans would n't make their military , economic , and cultural aid unconditional . Despite Washington 's apologies for the " accidental " bombings and for sporadic sallies across the border by South Vietnamese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States , he insisted , had to recognize his " existing borders , " difficult as they were to define , and stop any military action against Cambodia . He played this semantic game of border recognition with a lot of other nations , too , and it became a sort of joke among diplomats in Phnom Penh . By the time I had my talk with Sihanouk , he was actually becoming desperate ; beneath an exterior of would-be assurance and suavity lay increasing anger and frustration . He had growing trouble with insomnia , and he gave in to hysterical outbursts , his voice squeaking louder than ever , and attacked everything and everybody he thought might stand in the way of Cambodian neutrality  --  even the Chinese , whom he had always much preferred to the North Vietnamese , although the Chinese , too , were Corn- monists . He used to write odes and songs with titles like " Nostalgia for China , " and print them in his exquisitely designed monthly magazine , Kanzbuja . He was a prolific songwriter , and he also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make pastoral movies , in which his beautiful Cambodian-Italian wife , Monique , always starred , usually along with him . In those days , his outbursts were frequent , and were followed by deep depression . Sometimes he would go off to France for a few weeks to take the waters and recuperate . But as the war got worse it became progressively harder for him to maintain either his own poise or his political balancing act . He even tried to come to terms with the North Vietnamese , figuring that if he dealt with them directly he might be able to survive , and he secretly let them bring in military supplies from China and Russia through the port of Sihanoukville ( or Kompong Som ) . He knew he could do little to stop them from using eastern Cambodia as a sanctuary , but he would n't admit that they were doing it . I was back in Cambodia in November , 1967 , during the annual Water Festival , which on this occasion followed a rather stiff visit by Jacqueline Kennedy  --  a visit that was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , some Western reporters had just uncovered unmistakable evidence of Communist Vietnamese camps in the sanctuary areas , and that spoiled Sihanouk 's celebration . The festival always lasted three days , at the time of the November full moon . The main feature was pirogue racing , accompanied by the clattering dancing of clowns chanting earthy verses . I was only a few feet from Sihanouk , and he sat through the whole of the third night 's climactic proceedings looking glum and morose The camp discoveries , he felt , had resulted from the correspondents ' straying too far afield , and he soon banned all of them from the country . Not long after that , the situation deteriorated rapidly . President Nixon 's inexcusable secret bombing of Cambodia in 1969 was followed by the American ground-and-air invasion of May , 19711 , but by then the coup toppling Sihanouk and installing General Lon Nol had taken place , and Sihanouk was in Peking , a guest of Premier Chou En-lai , whom he had always liked almost as much as he liked de Gaulle . Despite Sihanouk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He was in Paris when the coup started , and he was invited to come hack , still as Chief of State but without any powers . If he had returned , he might have been able to take over again when Cambodia began to collapse , and might have somehow held things together , but instead he panicked and took a plane to Moscow ; he absorbed the full impact of the coup news there , whereupon he took off in further panic for Peking . He made another mistake when he returned to Cambodia after the Communist victory in April , 1975 , to become figurehead Chief of State . Within about a year , he was made to quit , and live in solitude with his family , first in his palace and then in a guesthouse . Every now and then , the Pol Put government would trot him out or publish supportive letters from him , but he was obviously little more than a prisoner , the victim of his own self-fulfilling prophecy  --  that when the Khmer Rouge took over , it would " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had gone hack despite his prophecy  --  perhaps because his patriotism had a streak of masochism in it , or perhaps because he simply could n't hear to stay away from his beloved Cambodia any longer . I do n't know what Sihanouk will be able to achieve now , at the United Nations or anywhere else , but I 'm afraid it wo n't he very much , and that is a pity , because he deserves better . He used to call himself a " royal Socialist " an esoteric breed that any Com-munist government would hardly welcome  --  and I doubt whether the new Communist rulers of Cambodia , especially with the Vietnamese sitting on top of them , will have any use for Sihanouk . But , I repeat , do n't count him out  --  he does n't go down easily . He will unquestionably keep on denouncing the Vietnamese , even if it does n't bother them much . Whatever happens to him henceforth , I prefer to think of the earlier , happier Prince , who was certainly more princely than democratic , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wit , and aplomb . There was one day in the mid-sixties , before the war had reached its pinnacle of violence , when I went with him on a trip to open an **35;5961;TOOLONG plant outside Phnom Penh . All the ambassadors were along , their flags flying , and it was a gala occasion . The weather was sunny and warm , the air was fragrant with all sorts of lovely blossoms , and Sihanouk himself was blossoming and in fine form . He was so proud of his new factory ! He danced around , beaming , patting his guests on the back , and shoving newly bottled samples at everyone . Some of the ladies also received little bottles of locally made perfume ; it smelled pretty terrible , but they pretended that it was better than anything in Paris . At noon , we all piled back in our cars and returned to town for lunch , riding past waving , shouting crowds of Sihanouk 's innocent , adoring " children . " I wonder what has become of them all . The Humanities THE late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who study the cinema to be a very great filmmaker , and a Visconti Film Retrospective having been scheduled at the Library and Museum of the Performing Arts , at Lincoln Center , and a preview screening of Visconti 's last film , " The Innocent , " having been set up in the Bruno Walter Auditorium at the Library on a recent Monday night , and the Italian Cultural Institute , which takes an interest in affairs of this sort , having arranged a special opening-night party afterward in its building at 686 Park Avenue ( and , on the same night , downtown at the Schimmel Auditorium , in Tisch Hall , at New York University , in a speech sponsored by the New York Institute for the Humanities in cooperation with the N.Y.U. Program of Italian Studies and entitled " Bologna : The Exception or the Rule ? An Experiment in Urban Forms , " Professor Renato Zangheri , the Communist Mayor of Bologna , Italy , having said to a large audience of Italian students , Italian-Americans , and American students , " Bologna is generally regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that in Italy , where one supposes everything to he going badly , something is functioning , if only in a modest way " ) , and Dr. Marco Miele , director of the Italian Cultural Institute , having determined to provide for the guests two free bars and a buffet supper , and having engaged a catering firm called Les Diplomatiqucs , and the catering firm , under the direction of Mr. Giuseppe Rinaldi , having decided on a menu of Swedish meatballs , tortellini , rice pilaf , veal sauteed with mushrooms , beeuf bourguignonne , seafood Newburg , striped bass , salmon , cold roast beef , empanadas , and various cold salads ( and Mayor Zangheri haying said , " In Bologna , we are aiming for a polycentered city : not organized vertically , and not on the basis of a " Once it catches on , the small-horse household-pet idea will go like blazes . And you may quote Mr. Pudney on that . " hierarchy of values which descend from the center of the city toward the periphery ; but , rather , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a democratic way " ) , and the caterers having set out the buffet in a room with the Italian racing bicycle used by Alfredo Binda to win the professional road-racing championship of the world in 1932 on display in the middle and pictures of famous artistic and non-artistic halians  --  Pirandello on the set of one of his plays , Mussolini without a shirt on sitting on a sled in the snow  --  around the walls ( and the Mayor having said , " A special effort was made to help the aged . We abandoned the old practice of sending them to nursing homes . Instead , we moved in the direction of providing needy older people with housing , medical care , and domestic help , thus avoiding brusque separations from their environment and isolation . We send them on vacation in the summer and in the winter " ) , and the public-relations firm of Nancy Seltzer &; Associates having been put in charge of publicity for the screening and the party and having decided on a guest list that included the actor Vincent Gardenia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , star of the movie " King of the Gypsies , " Christopher Walken , an actor who might win an Academy Award for his role in the movie " The Deer Hunter , " Geoffrey Holder , director of the Broadway musical " The Wiz , " Helmut Berger , a German actor who played in Visconti 's " The Damned , " the actress Tammy Grimes , Waldo Salt , who wrote the screenplays for " The Shopworn Angel , " " Tams Bulba , " and " The Gang That Could n't Shoot Straight , " Mrs. Martin Bregman , whose husband produced the movie " Serpico , " the Italian Consul General , Alessandro Cortese de Boris , Paul Cohen and Robert Kaplan , whose company , Analysis Releasing Corporation , is distributing " The Innocent " in America , Giancarlo Giannini , star of " The Innocent , " and others , and the public-relations firm having instructed its employees in charge of checking off guests at the door to be on the lookout for party crashers using the names of obscure foreign news services as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We consider the network of social and educational services of great importance . ? Ve eventually hope to have twenty-six square metres of social-service space per inhabitant of Bologna " ) , and the many guests having arrived at the party all at the same time , so that the process of coat checking was made very difficult , and the important people having been photographed at the door and having embraced and kissed certain of the other important people , Professor Renato Zangheri , the Mayor of Bologna himself , a slight man with an impressive nose and high eyebrows and with hiim  --  rous lines around his eyes , wearing a dark suit and a wedding ring , his speech over and the questions from the audience fielded , having been invited to the party at the Italian Cultural Institute , instead went out to dinner with some friends .                     