@@493696

Some sixty years after 1917 , that tumultuous year , a modest boom is underway in studies of World War I. There are the books here reviewed ; there are more on the perimeter . Some deal with policies and economics , others with ordinary individuals , their behavior , consciousness , states of mind and feeling , a realm usually overlooked in the traditional emphasis on the decisions ( blunders ? ) of generals and politicians . The Middle Parts of Fortune , Frederic Manning 's perceptive novel ( 1929 ) of infantrymen in battle and out , has just been republished , superseding Her Privates We , its former , expurgated version . E. E. Cummings 's The Enormous Room , an early portrayal ( 1922 ) of the disillusionment of men entangled in the military machine , recently has been reprinted in edited form . Many younger officers were appalled ? and ashamed ? by the consistent misjudgments of the high command . The British side of their intellectual counter-attack in the interwar era against their seniors can be followed in Brian Bond 's Liddell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anthony Trythall 's - Bony-  Fuller : The Intellectual General . This conflict between innovation and authority was less pronounced in the American Army , which had arrived late in France and had suffered relatively little . But the European experience , as depicted in Frank Vandiver 's recent , massive biography , Black Jack : The Life and Times of John J. Pershing , and in the forthcoming survey by Thomas Leonard , Above the Battle : War-Making in America from Appomatox to Versailles , both reflected and accelerated change , as the old army gave way to one that later became as firmly entrenched in Bavaria and Franconia as it formerly had been in the cavalry posts of John Ford 's westerns . What explains this intellectual flurry ? Some of it may be fallout from Paul Fussell 's widely-acclaimed The Great War and Modern Memory ( 1975 ) , a remarkable cultural history of the war 's impact on British thinking and expression . Most of these new books are indeed British : perhaps the disappearance of imperial grandeur has stirred a compensatory interest in the days of glory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the end . Certainly there seems to be a virtually unquenchable appetite in Britain for popularized accounts of both world wars . A minor cottage industry has developed in response , as certain writers scissors-andpaste together new books carved from the defenseless bodies of the old . So it is with these volumes by John Ellis and Alan Lloyd . Profusely illustrated , with some thin textual tissue as connecting links , they are little more than scanty summaries of material drawn from well-known earlier works . The focus , predictably , is on the British Army on the Western front , though Ellis occasionally does introduce a French or German eyewitness He also , wisely , sticks to the day-by-day aspects of trench life ( and death ) , avoiding the gross simplifications of Lloyd 's comments on strategy and operations . The factual snippets and especially the photographs in both books do , somehow , manage to suggest several of the terrible dilemmas of trench warfare . Military theorists before 1914 had spoken confidently of a science of war ; trench fighting instead was studded with paradox , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infantryman . Trained to fight , egged on by civilian propagandists , he actually fired his rifle but rarely : during the infrequent battles and perhaps in the ritualistic " morning hate " when British units greeted the dawn with " 15 rounds rapid . " Instead , his life paralleled that of a cave dweller . Much energy was spent in overcoming supply difficulties and ? somehow ? getting food , fuel , shelter , dry clothes . Much more was expended in constantly carrying , hauling , repairing , and sheer digging . This was the pre-bulldozer era . Trenches , emplacements , dugouts , roads , all had to be built and maintained . Barbed wire had to hefted forward and then strung . The vast appetite of modern weapons for ammunition had to be satisfied , and this required human carrying parties , for neither trucks nor pack animals could safely reach the forward units . And all this in a maze of trenches that reeked of excrement and barely-buried corpses , trenches often filled with rainwater , trenches so congested during battle that it sometimes took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dead . Moreover , since most work required the cover of night , the soldier was reduced to cat-napping by day ; training , drill , inspections and further labor afflicted him even in rear areas . Constant exhaustion was the result , a dull ache that deadened both nerves and feelings . Perhaps this seemed normal to generals whose careers had been spent in hastily shaping civilians into soldiers , and who preferred lethargy and obedience to vitality and potential disagreement . Here , then , was real war : a fine comedown for the enthusiasts who had entered battle in 1914 and 1015 , confident representatives of a Europe whose power and products dominated the entire globe . Now , in a kind of perverted urbanization , men were crammed into a military slum stretching across northern France . Their lives had sunk beneath that of the most primitive pre-industrial peasant , as they burrowed underground to escape the destructive power of the science and industry that once had been their pride and now was their enemy . The mark of the soldier had become , not what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endure . Is it surprising that belief in progress and rationality was soon upset by a fatalistic feeling that the world had gone berserk , that its major institutions and accepted doctrines , indeed that much of life itself , were cruel , destructive ? That feeling is with us still . It is a staple in our literary diet . It was intensified by the Depression , the Holocaust , Vietnam . And though it had germinated intellectually in the fin-de-siecle , it required war ? " the father of all things , " according to Heraclitus ? to make it blossom in the years 1916 and 1917. 1917 indeed saw the corrosion of institutions as well as beliefs : the French army in the mutinies of April and May , the Russian in a total breakdown during the summer , and the Italian in the retreat and desertions after the debacle at Caporetto in October . Alienation had now become visible and angry , going beyond the notion of " live and let live , " by which units in quiet sectors long had kept their firing to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would follow suit . Not for them the orders from above to " act offensively " or " gain the moral ascendency . " They , tethered to fixed positions where each incoming shell could raise havoc , would pay the price from retaliation . Opportunities to draw blood were widely ignored , and it was only snipers ? often picked men with special training and privileges ? who regularly displayed the aggressiveness so admired by senior officers . Other men went their own way toward survival and a quiet life . Decisive in influencing the atmosphere of the front line was the junior officer . He led the troops in battle , supervised their daily routine , and watched over their morale and welfare . He was recruited , as armies expanded enormously , from the middle and upper classes , and reflected their outlook , combining a certain paternalism regarding " his " men with a growing disillusionment about the war , and especially its leaders . To the former subalterns we owe much of the best writing on the war , both by the literary men ? Siegfried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ al. ? and by later political figures such as Harold Macmillan and There is something of these works in the late Anthony Eden 's Another World , 1897-1917 , a slight , rather poignant memoir of an ? outwardly ? idyllic Edwardian childhood that quickly led to the trenches . The tone mixes a gentle humor with forbearance , abnegation . It was all so long ago , his words suggest : irritation , even skepticism , would be inappropriate ; duty ? and comradeship ? is the only gentlemanly stance . Eden needed every resource he could muster . His family was distinguished , comfortably rich , his father a cultivated dilettante of considerable attainments in gardening and painting , especially impressionism . But Sir William Eden was capricious and self-absorbed to a degree noticeable even among English eccentrics , keeping his peers ? and his children ? at bay with continual jabs of pique and rage . Young Anthony clearly was troubled by , and also attracted to , this distant , oddly brilliant father , much as young Winston was fascinated by the complexities of Lord Randolph Churchill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eden 's brothers were killed ; his father died after long illness ; his brother-in-law was wounded ; his adored sister became a nurse ; and the family home was transformed into a military hospital . The rhythms of privileged life at Windlestone gave way for Anthony to those of trench warfare : long months in the front line , in support , in reserve , in rear areas , punctuated by occasional all-out battles in which the battalion so lovingly nurtured by its officers was fed into a meat-grinder by their superiors . Eden came through unwounded , amply decorated and promoted , " with my illusions intact , neither shattered nor cynical , to face a changed world . " The streaks of vanity and arrogance that he displayed in later life were not surprising from a son of Sir William Eden . That he was also part of the generation of 1914 , familiar with war and bloodshed , and committed to preventing their recurrence , was less visible ; there lies the value of this book . It is a long way from these personal , anecdotal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survey , The First World War . 19141918 . His is a handy synthesis , briskly touching the obligatory themes : finance and taxation , inflation and currency devaluation , armament production and food supply , the Allied blockade and the three German submarine campaigns . If the emphasis falls on Britain and Germany , the other major states receiving short shrift , certainly these two countries were the keystones of their respective coalitions . But there are deeper explanations . Like many continental Marxists , Hardach is ? grudgingly ? impressed by the British ability to reconcile liberal democracy with world power . And , by contrast , he detests the German militarylindustrial complex for its blunders , its arrogance , its overconfidence , its appetite for power and territorial plunder . Hence British behavior becomes the yardstick by which he appraises ? unfavorably ? that of Germany 's rulers , simplifying and over-generalizing as he goes . And Hardach follows Lenin in perceiving the war simply as a new phase of capitalist rivalry , a continuation of profit-making by other means , and he quickly rejects the contention that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrary , he insists . It was only the radical socialists , especially in Russia , who formed the vanguard of progress and human betterment , and he clearly regards the Bolshevik victory as the single most important event of the entire four and a half years of war . This is one-dimensional history , its whole soul and substance mutilated by ideological preconceptions . 