@@488026

Mr. Tobriner is an associate justice of the Supreme Court of California . In the last few weeks the lid has blown off that ugliest aspect of the American legal system : the penitentiary . And one issue that has emerged from the tragic events is the responsibility of judges to offenders after conviction  --  an issue that , long neglected , now compels , and in part has arrested , the attention of the courts . The sensitivity that the courts have displayed in erecting constitutional protections for the poor and the disadvantaged can not ignore the poorest ' and most disadvantaged of all : the condemned criminal defendant . Thus the courts at last are beginning to define at least some basic rights ' ' ' they have used tentatively , and will probably use more of convicted criminals ; in so doing , the legal instrument fully , is procedural due process . In his speech to the Association of the Bar of the City of New York , Chief Justice Warren Burger recognized , JI ! the inadequacy of present conviction procedures : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man behind walls , and that burden is to give him a chance to change . . . . If we deny him that , we deny him his status as a human being , and to deny that is to diminish our humanity and plant the seeds of future anguish for ourselves . " In a speech to the National Association of Attorneys General in February 1970 , Chief Justice Burger urged the states to develop methods for hearing the grievances of prison2 ers " promptly , fully and fairly . " He suggested that reform could come through rules of court , legislation " or whatever means is available . " ? Due process of law sterns from the Fourteenth Amendment , which states : " No State shall ... deprive any per- , son of life , liberty , or property , without due process of law ; . . . " When the courts have applied this mandate they have considered it from two standpoints : " procedural " due process , which expresses the individual 's protection against the destruction of basic or significant rights by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due process , which articulates , in essence , protection against the arbitrary destruction of such basic or significant rights by the government without rational explanation and without reason for such conduct . I concern myself here mainly with recent significant decisions that expand the application of procedural due process , in the fields of both civil and criminal law . These decisions are not only landmarks in themselves but point to further developments in both areas . Even with the ' recent resignations of the late Justice Black and Justice Harlan ' , a Court majority of five has shown positive support for the notion of expanding due process , at least in the civil area . I base this observation on the records of the Justices in five key decisions . In Bell v. Burson ( 1971 ) 402 U.S. 535 , the Court held unconstitutional the suspension of a driver 's license under a financial responsibility law because it provided no hearing on probable fault and liability . In Wisconsin v. Constantineau ( 1971 ) 400 U.S. 433 , the Court struck down a statute for posting in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the legislation gave no notice or hearing to the subject of the publication . Goldberg v. Kelly ( 1970 ) 397 U.S. 254 , condemned the removal of a client from the welfare rolls without a prior hearing . Sniadach V. Family Finance Corp . ( 1969 ) 395 U.S. 337 , held unconstitutional the garnishment of wages without a hearing to the garnishee . In ruling that an indigent in a divorce proceeding was denied due process because her inability to pay court fees kept her out of court , Justice Harlan , in Boddie v. Connecticut ( 1971 ) 401 U.S. 371 , wrote " . . . an individual must be , given an opportunity for a hearing before he is deprived of any significant property interest . " Four of the present Justices , Douglas , Brennan , Marshall and White , have consistently supported the notion " that the government can not move against " a significant private interest " without according procedural due process . A fifth , Justice Stewart , has usually supported the other four , but his approach has tended to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparently support procedural due process upon a showing of the following factors : that harm to the individual is great or peculiarly offensive , that the burden of due process is not unusually heavy for the government , and that history has not traditionally accorded the government a prerogative of exclusive authority in the area of concern . As for the remaining two Justices , Burger and Blackmun , we have yet to see any opinion from them directly opposed to the notion of procedural due process as applied to protect a private right . But they have shown an inclination to employ collateral motivations , such as the abstention doctrine , to avoid supporting the majority in upholding the requirement of procedural due process . Hence , among the present seven Justices , I would say that we have four consistent supporters , one strong supporter , and two who are at the least very doubtful in regard to procedural due process . There can be no doubt ' that the recent decisions have at least stripped away ancient encrustments from areas and relationships that were seemingly closed to judicial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be confined to their specific subject matter . The procedural due process that the Supreme Court has recognized in matters of garnishment and welfare may well be applied now to the area of present concern : the post-conviction period in criminal proceedings . Indeed , in the field of criminal law the extension of due process beyond conviction will but follow the basic advances already made in the accusative and trial stages of the process . Not only have constitutional protectionsbeen elaborated in the criminal trial itself but the Supreme Court , in the important case of Mempa v. Rhay ( 1967 ) 389 U.S. 128 , has extended to the defendant the right to a hearing and the right to appointed counsel in probation revocation . Today we are beginning to recognize that post-conviction processes of the criminal law may cause the affected individual even more grievous losses than those inflicted by other procedures for which due process has been constitutionally compelled . For example , when parole or probation is revoked , the conditionally released individual is deprived of his previous freedom to live a normal , albeit supervised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by procedural due process , and granted a hearing , before he suffers " significant deprivation " by being denied his welfare payments , then does he not have an even greater claim to such process before his parole is revoked and he is returned to prison ? Yet several states still precipitately uproot the parolee from the life he has reconstructed for himself , reincarcerating him and giving him no right by law to be informed of the charges , to enter a defense , and possibly to prove his innocence of parole violation . Unfortunately , California is among such states and , as a dissenter from a recent majority decision , I concluded my opinion with this observation : " A fundamental purpose of due process of law is to give the individual the chance to be heard , so that the ascertainment of the truth will prevent arbitrary and unjust state action . Why should the parolee be denied this chance to be heard ? " Much more difficult will be the extension of procedural due process to the somewhat elusive decision of the Adult Authority in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prisoner 's term . The Adult Authority is charged with the obligation of determining whether the prisoner is ready to live outside prison walls . Commentators have urged that if this decision is to be reached rationally , with full presentation of the relevant facts and with adequate attention to the rights of the prisoner , due process must ultimately be . accorded here . Other archaic walls of Jericho could conceivably come tumbling down . What of the treatment of inmates of the penitentiary or jail itself ? Courts have rarely looked into this formerly sacrosanct enclosure , but some judges now recognize that inmates may properly claim some constitutional rights . Will inmates be accorded a due process hearing before being subjected to disciplinary penalties which are not only onerous in themselves but usually result in an extension of the prison term ? If due process protection applies to the fixing of probation , should it not protect ' the inmate from the fixing of penalties ? Prison and jail officials are charged with determining when individual prisoners should be placed in isolation for rule infractions , should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receive particular books and magazines , or should be transferred to a more restricted custody facility . The prison officials now do hold hearings with respect to some of these matters , but inmates have ordinarily not been afforded such protections of due process as the right to present witnesses , or to a hearing before an officer who is not intimately associated with the prison authorities . Courts in the past have found various excuses for not applying due process to sentencing , probation , parole and prison cases . They have rationalized their failure to act by declaring that no rights , only " privileges " and " grace , " are involved ; that these procedures are merely administrative , not judicial ; that the affected individual has already been convicted and thus can claim no protectable ' interest in the kind of custody he will receive . Such findings really mean that convicted defendants , probationers , parolees and prisoners have been considered non-persons , subhumans , or defenseless " slaves of the state . " I submit that the courts may no longer escape into these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to face the problems emerging in these crucial areas . The realities are strikingly illustrated in an opinion recently written by Judge Zirpoli of the Federal District CoUrt for the Northern ' District of California ( Cluchette v. Procumer ( N.D. Cal . 1971 No . C-702497 A.J. 2 ) . ' The court held that " the disciplinary procedures employe ( 'at San Quentin Prison violate the Fourteenth Amendment " by failing to provide to the inmate procedural due process . The opinion explained that each housing unit at San Quentin has a disciplinary committee which meets weekly , and , when , charges are preferred against a prisoner , informs him of the charges and receives his plea of guilty or not guilty . But the inmate is not " entitled to call witnesses or to confront the persons who prepared the reports against him . He is not entitled to the assistance of either a lawyer , a staff member , or another inmate who might help to/ present a defense to the charges . " Nor are the other safeguards of procedural due process afforded to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the prisoner is assignment to an isolation cell or to segregation status . As Judge Zirpoli points out : " A regular isolation cell is 5 feet by 9 feet , concrete construction , with a barred door ; it is furnished with a cot , a sink and a toilet . . . . A prisoner in isolation spends at least 23 hours a day in his cell , being permitted to leave only for a brief period each ' day , when he may walk up and down alone in the narrow passageway in front of his cell . If the disciplinary committee orders that the prisoner be kept on ' cell status ' he remains in his cell 24 hours a day , without even the brief respite otherwise permitted for exercise . " The inmate is permitted no reading matter whatsoever , and , of course , no radio or television . " There is very little difference between ' isolation ' and the Adjustment Center . Adjustment Center inmates are compelled to spend their days in idleness , confined to their cells 23 hours a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the inmate 's right to a meaningful notice , charges , hearing , confrontation of accusers and presentation of witnesses will not only protect him from arbitrary and onerous punishment ; it will also bring the practices of our prisons before the courts and the public . Sooner or later the light of public inquiry must come to these dark places . Perhaps that inquiry will produce reasoned answers to neglected questions . Is the prison to serve merely as a depositary for the individual who breaks the law , and an expression of public vengeance against him ? Is the prison the awful emblem of public hate against those who violate society 's rules  --  the tomb of public anger ? Until we can regard the prison as a place to which persons dangerous to society are removed , so that efforts may be made for their rehabilitation ; and until some more realistic methods can be employed to restore those offenders to a normal life , the high recidivism and consequent danger to the public will probably continue . As Dr. Karl Menninger eloquently stated in The Crime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a question of personal morals and values . No matter how glorified or how piously disguised , vengeance as a human motive must be personally repudiated by each and every one of us . This is the message of old religions and new psychiatries . Unless this message is heard , unless we , the people  --  the man on the street , the housewife in the home ? can give up our delicious satisfactions in opportunities for vengeful retaliation on scapegoats , we can not expect to preserve our peace , our public safety , or our mental health . Can we ? Will we ? " ?                     