@@493579

Ganging Up On Israel Now that the presidential election is out of the way , the big gang-up against Israel has begun . With the opportunity to put Arab pressure on the incoming Carter administration , the drive is on in earnest . It 's centered at the United Nations , with secondary actions likely to crop up anywhere . An especially bizarre instance was the mid-November " International Symposium on Zionism " held in Baghdad , which drew delegations from 46 countries . In a dispatch from Iraq to various American newspapers , the Washington editor of The Progressive reported that " Zionism was baked , broiled , fried and roasted in an unrelenting ideological tirade . " A 19-point declaration mixing false history with invective was adopted and published as an advertisement in The Washington Post of November 22 and The New York Times of November 28 . Calling for the " elimination of Zionism , " the document summoned up , out of the sectarian fire ash of Lebanon , the promise of a secular democratic state in Palestine , the likes of which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Islamic world . Apparently there is still a limit to what independent states will do in the name of Third World solidarity ; anticipating just how outlandish the deliberations would be , many invitees from the Afro-Asian bloc decided in advance to stay away . Not so Senator James Abourezk . He delivered a speech at the opening session and , as an honored guest , sat through endless denunciations of " racist Israel " and " imperialist America . " He 's no slouch at gauchiste rhetoric himself . Spiro Agnew was not invited to the Baghdad fest ( which was organized by the Soviet-dominated Iraqi Baathists ) . But he had his say in Amman a few days later . Tuned to the right , Agnew 's say turned out to be about the same as Abourezk 's . No surprise in either case : these are hireling voices . The fees are documented , and the speakers ' views should be discounted commensurately . Pronouncements by the United Nations on the Arab-Israeli dispute do not command much more respect these days . That 's a sad commentary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " best hope for peace . " This particular illusion has been a long time in dying , and it was not only the Middle East that felled it . But on the Middle East , UN agencies have written a record so transparently biased , so blatantly inflammatory that the entire enterprise is in disrepute . With the exception of UNICEF , which meticulously adheres to its task of improving the lot of children , there 's hardly an affiliate or committee of the UN that has not subjugated its purposes to the cause of political warfare aimed at Israel . One member of the US mission at the UN said last week that he " ca n't keep track of all the actions taken against Israel . . . They happen every day . It 's as if the UN has no other function , and soon it won't. " t is instructive to examine some of these actions:the first of the season was a General Assembly resolution that " strongly condemns the continuing and increasing collaboration by Israel with the South African racist regime as a flagrant violation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the South African racist regime to persist in its criminal policies . " Though it must relieve somewhat Israel 's balance of payments problems , the Israeli relationship with South Africa happens to be miniscule in both comparative and absolute terms . The naming of Israel as a leading " collaborator " of the Pretoria government is a reflection of how routine hypocrisy has become at the UN . For among the enthusiastic backers of the resolution were counted most of South Africa 's trading partners . These include 19 African countries ? militantly Marxist Mozambique not excepted ( whose trade accounts for at least 14 percent of South Africa 's exports and spiralling numbers in its work force ) ; just about all of the Communist countries ( including the Soviet Union and China ) ; and a cross-section of Arab countries . Despite the pretense of a petroleum embargo against South Africa , Arab oil continues to fuel that country 's industry and mines ; and Arab funds may be the most important single source of investment capital available to the South Africans . Lonrho , a London-based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 59 subsidiaries in Rhodesia and South Africa . Another Arab-backed company , Finance Intercontinental , is currently negotiating $150 million of investments for developments in the controversial Bantustan " republics , " the latest gimmick for preserving apartheid . That sum alone dwarfs the total value of Israeli trade with South Africa . The financial press reports such commercial and arms transactions regularly , but these irksome facts did not enter into the debate on South Africa . At the initiative of the standing coalition of Moslem and Communist countries , the general conference of UNESCO two yearn ago barred Israel from participation in its activities . This year , meeting in Nairobi , UNESCO restored Israel 's rights , allowing it to join the European ( not , mind you , Asian ) regional grouping ? notwithstanding the Soviet objection that Israel was not a European country . The reversal was prompted by the overwhelmingly hostile reaction in the West to the quarantine of Israel in 1974 . The US ceased paying its dues to UNESCO . This amounted to 25 percent of theorganization 's budget , a vacuum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scholarly associations , intellectuals and artists severed their ties with UNESCO , which was about to become past tense . But UNESCO 's collapse may have been momentarily averted by Israel 's return to membership . Having lost a round , the politicizers of UNESCO have launched a new offensive . Twice in four days , the general conference voted resolutions condemning Israel . The first denounced the " forced cultural assimilation " of Arabs in the occupied territories and scheduled an inquiry to confirm conclusions already reached . The second vote affirmed an earlier condemnation of Israel-sponsored archaeological excavations , which were said to endanger the historic character of Jerusalem ; this passed despite the fact that UNESCO 's own professional personnel had argued , after painstaking study , that the accusation was without merit . Deliberations in the Special Political Committee and the Second Committee ( Economic and Financial ) of the General Assembly were not out of line with what was happening elsewhere at the UN . The skewed form of the debate became crystal clear in the Political Committee when the Israelis were denied the right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although one prepared by the Syrians on the same subject had been shown and entered on the formal record . The Second Committee called for a report from the Secretary-General on the territories to be prepared in " consultation and cooperation with the Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) , the representative of the Palestinian people . " That 's not asking for a report ; that 's deciding what it should say . The United Nations has no role in the peacemaking process in the Middle East . Its irrelevance is congenital . The UN played no part in bringing the Vietnam War to an end ; it 's unlikely that it can serve any productive role in arms limitation talks . Over the Thanksgiving weekend , even the Lebanese Ambassador to the UN told Peter Grose of The New York Times that the UN does not solve problems , but " eternitizes " them . It was not the most felicitous phrase , but it was the truth . When the US delegation joined last month in a Security Council " consensus statement " deploring Israeli policy in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strip , the State Department claimed it represented no change in American attitudes : the US had always been opposed to Israeli settlements in the occupied territories . But the vote did represent a fundamental shift in that the US had always voted against or vetoed comparable motions in the past . And the US had done that lest the Arab countries misread our criticism of Israel on particular points as backing away from the American commitment to the beleaguered Jewish state . That 's exactly what 's happened since our Security Council vote ; and , according to reliable sources in the State Department and at the American UN mission , that 's exactly what Ambassador William Scranton warned Secretary Kissinger would happen . Despite the fact that Dr. Kissinger reproached Egypt for bringing the resolution before the Security Council at this time , the Secretary felt that Sadat needed to be bolstered in his competition with Syria 's President Assad . But Kissinger never explained why it was necessary for the US to tilt the balance in this competition at all , given that Assad is now called a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the least defensible . The US voted for the resolution , it was whispered in the corridors , because American support was the price of watering it down and making it less offensive . That 's the customary diplomatic gambit of winning a semi-colon and losing a principle ? in this case , at least two principles . By teaming up with the Arabs on a motion that the US officials described as unbalanced , asymmetrical and injudicious the US exacerbated the isolation of a faithful democratic ally . Beyond that , the affirmative vote vested legitimacy in the UN as a body fit to make findings of fault in the dispute . But since these findings are destined to go just one way ? i.e. , against Israel ? the forum that makes them is not an appropriate forum in the first place . An officially inspired report in the Christian Science Monitor sought to shift the onus for the vote to the incoming Carter administration . The story implied that the vote had been cleared with the new folk . Careful inquiries at Foggy Bottom and Carter 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carter , however , will inherit the consequences of Kissinger 's wager that appeasing the Arabs makes them more conciliatory . William Safire wrote that this act was the " vengence of the lame ducks . " Probably that 's too strong and deliberate . But the wager was a losing one . Coordinating their efforts with delegations from Communist countries and the " rejection front , " composed of Libya , Algeria and Iraq , the " moderate " Arabs have embarked on an intensified campaign of pressure on Israel that also puts the squeeze on the US . On the latest and most important anti-Israel motion of the fall offensive , the United States voted " no " and was joined by 15 other countries , with 30 additional ones abstaining . The resolution in the assembly called for the establishment in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip of a Palestinian state and affirmed the right of Arab refugees to return to their homes in Israel . Both of these provisions are viewed in the resolution as preliminaries to , and preconditions of , any negotiations . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the peace talks with Israel which Sadat has confided to visiting American congressmen he is willing to join . The critical index of Arab intentions is the resuscitation of Yasir Arafat and his Palestine Liberation Organization . The survival of the PLO in diplomatic circles is the fig leaf that is meant to cover the shame of Arab fratricide in Lebanon . Unhappily , it is also intended to impede meaningful negotiations with Israel . The PLO does not exist independently as an indigenous national liberation movement , but rather at the sufferance of the Syrian government and with the indispensable support of the Russians . We 've had some experience with liberation movements in the post-war world : in Indonesia , Kenya , Algeria , Vietnam , Jewish Palestine . But the PLO is not such a movement ( see Walter Laqueur 's fascinating new study in comparative history , Guerrilla , Little Brown , 1976 ) . Douglas Watson 's report on the PLO in The Washington Post of November 18 demonstrates just how shadowy and insubstantial the organization is . Dependent for its showiest presence on Japanese , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ territories as a slogan , an occasional street brawl , some random terror , but surely not as a representative underground . And since Lebanon , what Palestinian Christian interest could the PLO possibly represent ? The PLO has always been an instrument of one or another Arab state , depending on which country happens at the moment to hold sway in Islam . All the same , the PLO remains an idee fixe for some American editorialists . In the wake of the PLO debacle in Beirut , for example The Washington Post , perhaps not understanding its own reporter , urged that a meaningful role must be found for Arafat and his group in any future Arab-Israeli negotiation of peace . It is as if the structure of peace negotiations was meant to vindicate the obsessional hypotheses of the pundits in Washington . But peace is not what the PLO and its backers really want . There has been no disguising that on the PLO 's part ? or , to be more precise , on the part of the half dozen warring factions which comprise it . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not be so insistent that it can only be achieved through the agency of the PLO , an inchoate band of fanatics . The Israelis would be foolish to make any tangible concessions to a cohort so intrinsically unstable , so inherently dependent , so implacably hostile . They are right to hold out for direct negotiations with their neighbors ; and when those do take place , it will be in Israel 's interest that the rights of the Palestinian Arabs be guaranteed , as the rights of other national and ethnic minorities in the Moslem crescent never have . Dr. Kissinger has a lot invested in his Egyptian strategy , and he is apparently willing to risk a lot more to keep it alive . On balance , that is probably for the good . Egypt surely has enough reasons , in the desperate poverty of its people , to want peace . It makes sense for us to encourage that desire . There is no way , however , that Kissinger can be anything but disheartened by Sadat 's aggressive thrust at the UN and his renewed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PLO . For on the PLO , at least , Kissinger has never wavered . He has seen it for what it is and , worse yet , for what it would be should it gain power : an armed irridenta directed at both Israel and Jordan , as well as a vehicle for Soviet intrusion in the area . It has been Dr. Kissinger 's aim , and it should be the aim of any administration , to prevent such developments . Kissinger leaves Carter an ambiguous legacy . In large measure , this ambiguity simply reflects the difficult circumstances in which he tried to position the US as a broker trusted by all sides . But however much he coaxed and cajoled , he did not argue that the borders of 1967 were the borders of peace . He knows too well how often they had been the borders of temptation and of war itself . Nor does he believe that , given the long reach of modern arms , they would either satisfy the Arabs or secure the Israelis . Kissinger 's wariness of the PLO is matched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the haphazard cease-fire lines which are topological incitements to jihad . In Washington , however , there are many who still treat the idea of a PLO state on every inch of the occupied territories as a tidy formula for peace . Carter will need enormous intellectual and political resources to resist its simplistic appeal . It is the favored nostrum of the State Department Arabists and their allies in the oil cartel 's quasi-scholarly front , the Middle East Institute . These old hands know their formula ca n't be negotiated . So they argue that it should be imposed ? some way , any way ? by us and , mirabile dictu , also by the Russians . Prime Minister Rabin told his colleagues in the second Socialist International at the end of last month that Israel is eager for the convening of Mideast peace talks on a regional basis . It was an apt response to Sadat 's suggestions here and there that he too may be willing . The Israelis themselves assume that such talks would not and could not validate great annexations of occupied lands . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intentions ; and they will have to be very generous and take great risks for peace . It is up to the Arabs also to show in direct talks with their adversary that they too are ready for concrete compromise and overall peace . It is entirely to Kissinger 's credit that such negotiations are even imaginable . Jimmy Carter as candidate proposed just such direct and far-reaching negotiations , and it is precisely what his administration should now encourage .                     