@@317131

In the on-and-off Lebanese civil war , it was the worst week ever . The bitter fighting between Christian and Moslem communities , which for nine months had been largely confined to Beirut and a few scattered towns and villages , last week spread with explosive intensity ; the death toll since April was pushed to more than 9,000 . " A state of total anarchy , " was the way a horrified Beirut television announcer described the killings , kidnapings , looting , arson and destruction . The disastrous round of fighting triggered two abortive cease-fire efforts in 24 hours , as well as the proffered resignation-not accepted-of Premier Rashid Karami , a moderate Sunni Moslem , who had been frustrated in his seven-month effort to make peace . <P> Cease-Fire . What made last week 's events especially ominous was the entry of massed regular units of the Palestine Liberation Army into the fighting . Until then , Yasser Arafat 's Palestine Liberation Organization-the P.L.A . is its military arm-had played a moderating role . But as the P.L.A . troops poured in from neighboring Syria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . To prevent such a catastrophe , all sides at midweek agreed to another hastily arranged cease-fire-the 23rd in the past four months . At week 's end the truce appeared to be taking hold gradually ; there was some sporadic gunfire , but the military situation had calmed considerably . <P> Several previous truce agreements , although usually negotiated in good faith by leaders of the warring factions , collapsed because they were unable to control the loosely organized and undisciplined militia nominally under their command . After the mid-January ceasefire negotiated by Karami ( TIME , Jan. 26 ) , for example , rightist forces in the capital , composed mostly of Phalangists , the " Tigers " of the National Liberal Party and neighborhood militiamen , attacked two Moslem slum areas , Karantina and Maslakh . Supported by mortars , recoilless rifles and rockets , the rightists pushed out the defenders last week and then leveled the remaining shanties with bulldozers . Scores of Moslems were killed and at least 6,000 were left homeless . Survivors claimed that there had been a massacre and countless atrocities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kamal Jumblatt , head of the leftist Progressive Socialist Party and leader of the country 's Druze community . <P> Infuriated by the attack , Moslem forces struck at Christian communities throughout the country . Amid rightist charges of massacre , they captured the coastal towns of Damur ( see box ) and Jiye , driving out thousands of Christians . <P> In northern Lebanon , the leftists overran isolated Christian villages , seizing town halls and looting police stations of arms and ammunition . East of the capital , an estimated 2,000 soldiers of the P.L.A . crossed from Syria into Lebanon 's Bekaa Valley . Helping the local militia and other Palestinian units already in the country , they captured Chtaura , a strategic town of 5,000 Christians on the Beirut-Damascus highway , and tightened the seige around Zahle , the major city in the Bekaa.                     