@@480001

IN THE DECADE-LONG STRUGGLE to condemn Soviet psychiatry for its suppression of political dissent , Western critics have painted a monochromatic picture of Soviet motivations , a picture of psychiatrists methodically , blindly , and eagerly obeying orders from above , of a virginal profession raped by cynical hacks . They have argued with energy and persistence that the Soviet leadership , having discovered the magnificent utility of psychiatry as a means of social control , has given the KGB leave to exploit it ; that the KGB has systematically referred perfectly healthy dissidents to a small cadre of politically reliable psychiatrists with directions , stated or implied , that they pronounce the dissidents mentally ill and recommend them for hospitalization ; and that these psychiatrists , recognizing the unquestionable health of the dissidents referred to them , have participated in the plot by cynically fabricating symptoms and rendering diagnoses they have known to be false . This is the picture of simple evil that has alerted Western ? opinion to Soviet practices and that mobilized the largest Western psychiatric societies to condemn their Soviet colleagues at last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even if we are convinced ? as I am ? that abuses have taken place and that dissidents have been misdiagnosed , there are reasons to question the fidelity of that picture ? to suspect the existence of other colors , other motivations , other circumstances . For one thing , the charges of psychiatric abuse have become so prominent in recent years that any advantages the Soviets may once have gained from the tactic ? such as the circumvention of full-scale trials , the discrediting of dissidents and their views , and the internment of troublesome individuals for indefinite lengths of time ? have been reduced by the disadvantageous publicity that now results each time the dissident community lets it be known that one of its members has been sent for psychiatric examination . By now , psychiatric hospitalization has become identified in the West as the most despicable weapon the Soviets have for suppressing unorthodox political views . Yet they continue to send dissidents to psychiatrists , despite the availability of an alternative , their very predictable and responsive legal system , through which many dissidents , especially the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sentenced for long terms in out-of-the-way courts with maximum efficiency and minimum noise . Moreover , in addition to the well-known cases of dissident misdiagnosis , about which a reasonable amount of objective information is available , at least 200 others have been cited , and as many as 700 alleged . One critic , Raymond Aron , has offered a remarkable estimate of from 5,000 to 10,000 dissidents confined to insane asylums . The vast bulk of these other cases are not documented nearly so well , if at all . Most have been diagnosed not by the four or five Moscow psychiatrists made notorious by the Western campaign but by other psychiatrists , often in outlying regions , who are not so well-connected politically . To assume that all of these cases are equivalent to the more notorious examples ? that the diagnoses have been part of the same strategy of abuse , and that the hospitalizations and medications have been expressions of the same technology of punishment and terror ? is to apply arbitrarily the lessons of the known to realms of fact and experience that are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these more obscure cases , with a variety of diagnosers , with an even greater variety of diagnosees , and with an unexplored catalogue of unknowns . Many cases do suggest cynical misdiagnosis . But the motivations and circumstances in other eases can not be judged adequately because information about them is too sparse . In some cases the KGB may have had genuine doubts about the dissidents ' mental health . One dissident , for example , a troublemaking writer , told me that the authorities sent him for two examinations because they really thought it was very strange , even abnormal , for anyone who could never be published to keep scribbling away . The psychiatrists disagreed and found him sane . Another dissident reported that he , too , was sent for numerous examinations by police officials who persistently interpreted his objectionable acts ? his attempt , to dash across the border and his one-man public demonstrations ? as evidence of mental illness . The psychiatrists , recognizing that he was simply a dissident , declared him sane again and again . And in a very small number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and may have contributed to the dissenting behavior that provoked the KGB to action . One man , for example , who has been cited repeatedly in the West as a dissident hospitalized for his views , has displayed so much evidence of illness that almost any psychiatrist anywhere would diagnose paranoid schizophrenia . After emigrating to the United States , he came to believe that he was being poisoned not only by the KGB but also by the CIA and by Henry Kissinger , and that he was , in reality , President Carter 's double . A number of fellow emigres tried to help him ? including two former Soviet psychiatrists , who offered treatment ? but he became suspicious of their advances and convinced that several of them were involved in the plot against him . According to several reports , he informed U.S. radio stations and government agencies of the plots and of malicious conspiracies in high office . In this country , such behavior is no crime ; in the U.S.S.R. , it is routinely interpreted as a violation of the criminal code . The KGB @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with arrests and investigations . If the person is known to have been mentally ill if the KGB comes to recognize syrripionl ; 11.1 " dealing with him , a psychiatric exanninati:1 is ordered , which leads ? in such cases an rately to a diagnosis of illness and to a had ing of legal non-responsibility . And so sytn ; toms that would excite scant notice in the Wu , provoke an extreme reaction in the U.S.s solely because of their political aura . In the end , if we regard such people as dissidentt we do an injustice to the courageous minority of Soviet citizens who risk everything by be . coming truly political in a vengefully antipo. litical society , and whose actions and ideal are marked by coherence , lucidity , and insight . The fact that there may be a few cases of real illness among formerly hospitalized Soviet dissidents , that police or KGB officials may genuinely but mistakenly have suspected inn , tal illness in some others , or that most of the reported cases are incompletely understood , does not undermine the fundamental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear to have been misdiagnoses : sin . ply stated , dissidents who would have been considered healthy anywhere else have been declared ill . And even in the exceptional cases in which serious illness has in fact existed , hospitalization , particularly in strict-regime " special " hospitals for the criminally insane , which he calls " continuous , " is characterized by a lifelong process in which the patient becomes increasingly ill . The second , termed " periodic , " features attacks of illness that are followed by remissions , during which the patient is well . The third course-form , the " shift-like , " is described as a cross between the other two : the patient has attacks of illness that are followed by remissions , but as time passes the patient 's health deteriorates so that even during remissions he grows progressively worse . Two features of this scheme have central importance to an assessment of the psychiatric response to Soviet dissidents . The first is that the two course-forms characterized by progression ? the " continuous " and the " shiftlike " ? are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severe . At the severe end of each of these course-forms are symptoms of delusion , hallucination , and deterioration that nearly all psychiatrists everywhere would agree justify a diagnosis of schizophrenia . At the mild end , however , are symptoms and characteristics that border on normality but that Snezhnevsky includes within the course-form because they resemble , in a very muted way , some of the symptoms and characteristics that are seen in genuine schizophrenics . Most psychiatrists who do not subscribe to Snezhnevsky 's theories would consider these characteristics to be , at worst , signs of a personality disorder or a neurosis ; many diagnosticians would see them as perfectly consistent with health . Some of these characteristics , such as the ones said to be typical of the mild , " sluggish " subtype of the " continuous " course-form , include repeated difficulties with parental and other authorities and what Snezhnevsky calls " reformerism " the stubborn penchant to reform society . The second feature of the Snezhnevsky system that contributes to the Soviet psychiatric response to dissent is the assumption that each course-form consists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , biologically and hereditarily ? linked . Thus , once a person is diagnosed as having a mild subtype of one of the course-forms , he is granted an involuntary passport into the kingdom of schizophrenia as a whole ? and , once there , he is destined to remain forever , for genetic reasons , just as if he were diagnosed at the severe end of that course-form . The result is that if a Snezhnevsky-diagnosed schizophrenic is brought before a Snezhnevsky-trained or Snezhnevskyinfluenced psychiatrist even years after his initial diagnosis , then any socially unusual or unwelcome behavior he may have engaged in is likely to be attributed to his genetically caused illness . And if that behavior happens W HAT DOES IT MEAN that dissident styles have been defined as schizophrenic symptoms ? Have Soviet psychiatrists simply latched onto a theory that provides a convenient scientific imprimatur for politically motivated diagnoses ? Has the Soviet leadership encouraged , protected , and subsidized Snezhnevsky just because his system is so politically useful ? I think not . Snezhnevsky 's theory evolved over a period of decades . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result of circumstances that had nothing to do with the utility of his-diagnostic system in dissident cases . Snezhnevsky is a prototypical product of Stalinist and post-Stalinist Soviet life . He was capable of surviving shifts and feints in theory and power and of coming out on top while others less skilled than he in organizational maneuvering or in sensing the most advantageous political and ideological loyalties ? less skilled than he or more principled ? lost 34 Cynicism and systemic evil c ERTAINLY , ANYONE who has worked in psychiatry anywhere recognizes that the profession is heir to abuses of many kinds wherever it is practiced ? not only politically motivated ones , which are rare in the West , but , much more commonly , abuses that arise from less spectacular kinds of pressures and needs . People may be misdiagnosed unknowingly because of psychiatric mistakes that grow out of ignorance , out of misconceived or misapplied diagnostic theory , out of an inappropriate reliance on socially defined norms , or out of an irrational or angry response to a patient 's words or actions . These are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , abuses ? because , in the end , patients suffer from them ; and even if patients do not suffer , medicine does . Psychiatry 's theoretical framework is still so tenuous , its ' basis for explanation still so narrow , and its capacity for self-justification still so limitless and potentially self-serving that almost any action or decision , any diagnosis or treatment , can be rationalized on some ground or other . That psychiatry is so capable of mistakes , so hobbled by ignorance and so lacking in insight does not necessarily reduce it to a prescientific , arbitrary , irremediably culture-bound and abusive enterprise . It is just that , in addition to psychiatry 's capacity for knowing , learning , and healing ? a capacity that is expanding rapidly as modern psychiatry breaks the shackles of psychological schools and ideological positions there are parts of the discipline that are pre-scientific , there are circumstances under which it can be arbitrary , there are sectors within it , particularly the diagnostic one , that are culture-bound , and there are times when it can become abusive despite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everyday , non-political abuse never takes place in the Soviet Union is to grant that country 's psychiatric profession a perfection that eludes every other . And if we acknowledge that such abuses must occur there , too , then it is reasonable to consider the possibility that at least some of the abuses of diagnosis and treatment that have taken place in dissident cases ( such as finding schizophrenia where there was only neurosis or even health , and increasing the dose of medication when it should have been lowered ) may have been the result not only of political considerations , but also , at least in part , of the theoretical and practical vulnerabilities inherent in psychiatry . Soviet psychiatry obeys some of the same laws that shape the profession everywhere . Psychiatrists are people . Their professional training builds on what they learn and experience as ordinary men and women . Training does not remove their biases . In some ways , in fact , it tends to strengthen them . There are few objective guideposts for recognizing mental illness . There are no blood tests and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is Diagnostic decisions are based largely on social context . If a person deviates from generally accepted rules of behavior , then the question of mental illness may arise . If the threshold for deviance in a particular society is low ? if the boundaries that define normal behavior are narrowly drawn ? then the question of mental illness tends to be provoked by behaviors that in other societies go unnoticed . Once the question arises , psychiatric theory comes into play . If that theory sets a low threshold for the diagnosis of psychiatric disorder ? if the boundaries that define serious mental illness are broadly drawn ? then an illness is diagnosed in people whom other psychiatrists , using other theories , would see as only deviants or eccentrics . If , irv ? addition , pressures are applied by some outside source ? say , by the family , or by authorities of one kind or another ? that lead the psychiatrist to believe that it would be easier all around if a medical solution were found , then the likelihood that a diagnosis of illness will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the sensitivity to or fear of outside pressure is strong and the respect for professional integrity or for the primacy of scientific truth is relatively weak , then the probability that a verdict of illness will be reached becomes even greater . What seems to have happened in the Soviet Union is that all of psychiatry 's inherent vulnerabilities have been pushed to their extremes . The boundaries of acceptable behavior , particularly political behavior , are very narrow Even a quarter-century after Stalin 's death , the norm is rigidly defined and deviation from it is unusual . There is too much to risk and too little to gain . Most Soviet citizens believe that . So do most Soviet psychiatrists . Deviance raises the suspicion of mental illness earlier than it would in another society . Many Soviet citizens have made their peace with an oppressive system , have assumed its permanence , and have managed to build a life designed to attain the material rewards that can be achieved within it . Anyone who risks those rewards , as meager as they may be , and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Courage is a possible explanation for such strange behavior , but so is illness . And illness is a more welcome explanation : seeing dissent as courage threatens one 's own integrity . If to dissent is to be courageous , then in not dissenting one is a coward . But even more fundamentally , if the dissidents are right then the conventional views of conventional Soviet citizens are wrong . Acceptance of and reliance on the system are called into question . It is easier and more comforting to see the dissident as mentally ill , and when that diagnosis is forthcoming , it is a relief to everyone ? including the psychiatrists themselves , who are no less conventional than their lay comrades . Homo sovieticus ? I F A NARROW DEFINITION of normality obtains in the U.S.S.R. , so does a wide definition of illness . Snezhnevsky 's schizophrenia net is so broad that it catches behaviors that ordinarily fall well outside the nets of other diagnostic systems . With unorthodox political behavior so likely to provoke scrutiny and the question of illness , and with a diagnostic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any deviant behavior , a dissident stands a substantial risk of being diagnosed schizophrenic whether or not the state interferes . But pressures are felt . The laws are repressive . Dissent is , in effect , illegal . Harsh punishments lie in store for those who defy the articles in the criminal code forbidding anti-Soviet acts or the dissemination of views critical of the state . Dissidents are closely watched . They tend to be arrested . Some may be sent for psychiatric examination by KGB authorities because a decision has been reached at the highest levels that hospitalization is a convenient solution ; this has probably occurred in the most notorious cases and may still occur from time to time if it appears likely that publicity can be avoided . More often , I suspect , the dissident is sent for examination because the KGB investigator assigned to the case has a vague suspicion that he is in fact mentally ill . After all , the investigator , too , is an ordinary Soviet citizen ? more ordinary than most ? and knows even better than most the senselessness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He is also aware of Article 79 in the Code of Criminal Procedure , which requires him to call for a psychiatric examination if he has any doubts at all about the defendant 's mental health . When the psychiatrist is finally confronted with the dissident , he knows he is dealing with someone who stands accused of committing what is considered by authorities to be a serious crime . He is on his toes . He probably does not know , in most cases , whether a high-level decision has been made by the KGB to hospitalize the dissident , or whether the KGB investigator had genuine doubts about the dissident 's mental health . The safer course is to assume that the KGB would like the dissident to be hospitalized . The psychiatrist himself is often in a special group to begin with : he is a forensic psychiatrist , usually a consultant to the KGB , and is particularly sensitive to the expectations of authorities . If he is sure that the expectation for hospitalization exists , then much less evidence of illness is needed to establish a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need to play it safe may influence him to see more symptoms than he ordinarily would ? sufficiently more to justify a diagnosis of illness . Added to all this is the cynicism that pervades Soviet life . Doubts that may prevent a psychiatrist in another country from diagnosing illness ? doubts about the symptoms , doubts raised by the fear that the profession is being subverted ? tend to be suppressed . Life is dangerous enough without endangering it more . Psychiatrists , like others schooled in Soviet life , know how to juggle feelings and words so that they can act basely and still feel good , even virtuous . And , finally , when political pressure increases , when the KGB 's authority is exercised , and when avoiding the call for hospitalization is no longer possible , corruption takes over the structure of professional existence . How could psychiatry fail to succumb ? In that immensely bureaucratized and ultimately value-free society , the classical oaths and verities give way entirely when the anonymous muscle of authority is flexed . Except in rare cases , fear and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DEALING with ambiguous and complex circumstances . The misdiagnoses seem to result from different combinations of determinants . Some misdiagnoses are influenced primarily by real or assumed pressure , some are influenced more by a genuine perception of illness , some more by the psychiatrist 's belief in the Snezhnevsky system , and some more by a corrupt cynicism . We are dealing , in other words , with a profession vulnerable to the greatest pressures , protected by the fewest safeguards , and practiced by people who belong to a species of beings known as Homo sovieticus . Yet the profession is still psychiatry , and that species is only a variant of humankind . Where then is evil ? Having acknowledged complexity , what can we condemn ? Do we condemn Soviet psychiatry only for those cases in which pure cynicism and outright corruption prevail ? Or do we also condemn it for thosecases in which cynicism is merely subsidiary ? Just dealing with the complexity blunts our response to abuse . If we try too hard to understand it all , we may be left with nothing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on . But there is evil . There is systemic evil . It is evil that circumstances should conspire so that some psychiatrists actually do see dissidents as ill ? dissidents who would be judged healthy by psychiatrists anywhere else . If the misdiagnoses were simply a matter of the KGB ordering and psychiatrists obeying , then we could condemn only the orderers and the obeyers . But it is more frightening that a political culture could arise in which orders do not have to be given because no one has to be told , in which people , psychiatrists included , act to satisfy expectations they are not even sure exist . And it is more damning that such a culture can distort the way people ? psychiatrists included ? see one another , so that courage is perceived as madness and deviance as disease . There is personal evil , as well . Even if Soviet life distorts the perception of social behavior so that political dissent is skewed with pathology , and even if the Snezhnevsky system provides a deceptive , scientific rationale for adorning such nonpathology with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are distorted by political and social influences and that their professional integrity is thus subverted . They have to understand that , under the raw and compromising circumstances of Soviet life , they have allowed all of psychiatry 's natural and ordinary vulnerabilities to be realized , all of its everyday possibilities for error and social control to be harnessed , so that in the end , in a tragic parody of Marx . quantity has become quality , and banality , forced to its limits on every front , has become evil . If Soviet psychiatrists ? and the Soviet leadership ? failed to see this before , they should have been helped to see it by all the years of criticism . It may be true , as Spinoza said , that if men do evil it is only because they fall hostage to imperfect reasoning , to external causes , and to confusing passions . People are indeed hobbled by limited vision , caught up in powerful forces , and subject to pressing needs . But that does not make them less responsible for their actions . Responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Maybe the universe can be absolved from evil , but not man . So long as he has the capacity to see evil in himself , he can not be allowed to deny it forever . He has to be told it 's there . And if he fails to listen , he has to be condemned .                     