@@493633

illegitimate policy choice , and those who wish to reduce further the real incomes of welfare recipients have every right to make their case . But these policies ought to have to be defended on their merits ? that is , on the basis of some notion about how our national resources should be divided between the public and private sectors . Today , in state after state , the debate is rigged . The argument that carries the day is simply that we ca n't afford to be nicer to the poor than Texas , nor more progressive in our tax structure than New Hampshire . A few simple reforms would solve the problem : A national welfare plan , and uniform levels of unemploy ? ment and workmen 's compensation benefits ( suitably adjusted for regional living cost differences ) ; a uniform national policy toward labor unions ; an end to the use of federal tax subsidies and exemptions by states seeking to lure away one another 's industry ; a comprehensive national health plan . These are the essential elements of a national policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ range of issues , without allowing the business community to use the leverage of its real or pretended mobility to impose its particular conservative policy preferences . Justice Brandeis was right in his day . But today his laboratories are acting more like massage parlors . If American vice-consul Robert Whitney Imbrie had been in a reflective mood on his sight-seeing ride through Tehran the morning of July 18,1924 , he could have looked back upon 40 years of steady achievement and forward to a promising future . Educated at the Friends ' School in Washington , DC , George Washington University , and Yale Law School , Robert Imbrie had gone on to practice law , explore the Congo , win 10 decorations in French service during the Great War , write a book , and hold American diplomatic posts in Finland , Russia , and Turkey . Married a year and a half to a bright , well-connected woman named Katherine Gillespie , and armed with commendations for his diplomatic reportage on two revolutions , he seemed to have a brilliant career in the State Depart ? ment ahead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then called Persia , abou t two months before that Friday morning . American interests in this country ? whose major exports to the US were rugs , quince seeds , and pistachio nuts ? were anything but vital ; but the Teapot Dome scandal andan oil shortage scare had focused some attention on Jersey Standard 's and Sinclair 's attempts to negotiate petroleum concessions there . Persia was seething in regional and sectarian unrest . Prime Minister Reza Khan , an unlettered former commander of the Persian cossacks who had been instrumental in sweeping aside the previous government in 1921 , seemed now to be losing some of the political initiative to opposition forces . Persia 's Shiite clergy , led in parliament by an aged mujtaliid , Seyid Hassan , were the most vocal of these opponent groups . Already that summer , there had been serious riots against the Persian minority that followed the Bahai sect . Imbrie himself had intervened to protect two American Bahai women from assailants in the bazaar a few days before . The most important Shiite observances of the year were only two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Throughout Persia 's capital , it was the custom for pious citizens to set up drinking places outside their homes to provide water for passersby . One such fountain , at the corner of Agha Sheikh Hadi and Makhsous streets in downtown Tehran , was reputed to have especially miraculous powers . Legend had it that a Bahai , refusing an invitation to drink there to the memory of a Shi'ite martyr , immediately had been struck blind . The crowds that gathered there daily increased as the feast days of Moharrem approached . Imbrie 's carriage reached the spot at about noon that Friday , just as the faithful were being called to prayer . When Imbrie stepped down , camera in hand , to observe the scene , the crowd made menacing noises . On the advice of a nearby policeman , Imbrie and another American from the legation returned to the carriage as the cry arose , " They are Bahais ! They have poisoned the fountain ! " As the carriage made off , the crowd rushed after it . Within minutes , the Americans were careening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , pursued by a running press of people which grew to mob proportions as it gathered adherents along the way . Twice stopped by police , the carriage was twice allowed to proceed , the mob gaining all the while . Cries of " Stop that carriage ! The infidels have murdered two soliders and two women at the Sagha Khaneh ! " rang out from behind . The terrified driver felt some relief as police headquarters and the city garrison 's parade ground came into view down Sepah Street . But when soldiers finally brought the carriage to a halt , the mob surged over it like a wave . Imbrie 's American companion made it through the parade ground gate , only to be beaten unconscious by garrison soldiers using the butts of their rifles . Imbrie was pulled from the carriage and vanished beneath a sea of fists , stones , cudgels , and cossack sabres . Dazed , but still somehow alive , he was helped by policemen first into a nearby tea house and , when the crowd tore that small building 's roof off , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the thousands . Tehran 's police were under orders from the prime minister not to exacerbate religious tensions by firing into crowds , as they had been accustomed to doing . This mob was in any event led by cossacks and other elements of the elite Pahlavi Regiment , the prime minister 's own , and the policemen were loath to tangle with them . Urged on by the chanted exhortations of a Shiite cleric , the mob pressed against the hospital . Windows and doors gave way , as did the desultory resistance of a few policemen . When the mob 's vanguard smashed into the operating room , Imbrie was naked upon a table , doctors stitching his wounds . In their consuming fury , the attackers beat him with anything available , even chairs and heavy tiles ripped from the floor . Then , their passions spent , they retired to the cheers of their compatriots in the street . Imbrie stayed conscious until the end of his ordeal . His last recorded words were a request that policemen be stationed by the shattered operating room door @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wife moments after she arrived . Suffering more than a hundred wounds , Robert W. Imbrie died of shock and loss of blood about four hours after he began his sight-seeing drive through Tehran . The other American and the driver survived . To escape the searing heat of mid-summer , the American legation removed itself every year to a build ? ing about seven miles from the city . The consulate had no telephone . It was several hours before the legation chief notified the State Department of Imbrie 's death , and there were weeks of contradictory cables before Washington got an accurate description of the outrage . Reza Kahn , however , wasted no time before he declared martial law . Order in Tehran now became the responsibility of the Pahlavi Regiment , and the prime minister 's political fortunes turned for the better . Rumors circulated that the incident had been the result of a British plot , a Jewish plot , a Bolshevik plot , and oil intrigues . The old cleric at the head of the opposition maintained that it had been part of Reza @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dispatch of US gunboats to teach the Persians a lesson . State Department officials worried over the American delay in making a strong response . When it came , US action was mild by the standards of the day and the gravity of the case . The United States had " no wish to offend a friendly government or to require punitive reparations , " the State Department 's official note read , but was " insistent that full reparation should be made . " The US response took the form of five demands : 1 ) an official apology by the Persian government ; 2 ) a $60,000 indemnity for Imbrie 's widow and $3000 for his American companion in the carriage ; 3 ) appropriate honors for Imbrie 's remains to be rendered by the highest Persian military ranks ; 4 ) $110,000 to cover the cost of sending the USS Trenton to retrieve the body ; and 5 ) punishment of the guilty . The Persians quickly acceded to all the US demands , andthanked their lucky stars Imbrie had not been a British or Russian diplomat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demands , but vacillated on the fifth . With the establish ? ment of martial law , hundreds of arrests were made . Soldiers , bazaar merchants , and laborers had been involved in the killing . An army transport private and the 14-year-old son of a vendor and laborer were promptly produced as the most serious offenders . Under American pressure , the trial of the cleric who had harangued the crowd and led the attack on the hospital could not be avoided . A military tribunal sentenced the three to death . State Department officials questioned the wisdom of executing a 14-year ? old but , on the advice of experts that this was a mature age in " the East , " decided it was acceptable as long as it did not appear to the American press that the department had urged it . Eventually , 30 other par ? ticipants were sentenced to hard labor and flogging . American officials in Tehran and Washington insisted , however , that responsible senior army officers be punished . Since the good will of military com ? manders was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lieutenant was chosen to be degraded , beaten , and banished . The executions were long delayed . First there was the holy month of Moharrem , Reza Kahn insisted , then the holy month of Safar , then a Moslem injunction that no more than one mart could be executed for the death of another . The Persian charge d'affaires in Washington , Bagher Kazemi , was called up before the State Department 's chief for Near Eastern affairs and severely dressed down on more than one occasion for his government 's failure to carry out the death sentences . The Persians were reminded of the murder of an American missionary in 1904 , and the Persian government 's failure to fulfill its promises to punish the guilty then . The army private was the first to go . After more delays , the other two also went before firing squads . By January 1925 , President Coolidge could tell Congress that the worst culprits had been executed . Some participants in the Imbrie affair went on to bigger and better things . Prime Minister Reza Kahn had himself named @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Pahlavi dynasty , a year and a half after he declared martial law in Tehran . The State Department 's chief for Near Eastern affairs , Allen Dulles , went to become head of the CIA ; one of the highlights of his tenure there was to restore Reza Khan 's son to the Peacock Throne in 1953 . Persian charge d'affaires Kazemi , whom Dulles humiliated in 1924 , never forgot the insult . As foreign minister in 1936 , Kazemi withdrew his country 's diplomatic representation from the US , ostensibly over a minor traffic incident involving an Iranian diplomat in Maryland ( see " First Time Farce , " TNR , December 22 ) . As for Seyid Hassan , the aged mujtahid who led the opposition , his cause lost considerable ground with the elevation of Reza Shah . Concluding a report to the State Department on a 1924 conference with the Shi'ite cleric , the American charg ? d'affaires in Tehran wrote : " After listening to this senile old man expatiate for one hour and a half upon his ideas as to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if this is the only alternative to Sardar Sepah ( Reza Khan , soon to be Reza Shah ) who , Heaven knows , is a weak enough reed to lean on , then God help Persia . " By order of Congress , most of the $110,000 Persian payment to the US , which was supposed to pay for sending the Trenton to retrieve Imbrie 's remains , was set aside for the education of Persian students in American colleges and universities . Most discussions of black anti-Semitism make it sound as though tension between blacks and Jews was something new . It is not . " It is common knowledge that many members of the Negro and Jewish communities of the country share mutual dislike , scorn , and mistrust , " the late Ralph Bunche wrote in 1942 , in the introduction to a volume analyzing the often favorable reactions of the black press to Hitler and nazism . Mutual distrust is rooted in the American background that Jews and blacks share . As white Americans , Jews have absorbed the racial prejudice and animosity endemic to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole . As Christian Americans , blacks have absorbed the folk anti-Semitism that is embedded in Christianity . In 1916 , when he was 12 , the great black educator Horace Mann Bond has recalled : I was walking along a street near my house , and had to pass a small grocery store located in our neighborhood.There was a small boy ? perhaps six years old ? looking through the picket fence that surrounded the store . As I passed he began to chant : ' nigger , nigger , nigger , nigger . ' You may not believe it , but this was the first time I can remember anyone calling me a ' nigger . ' And my response still surprises me ; I retorted to the boy , ' You Christ-killer ! ' But black anti-Semitism is more than just the mirror image of Jewish racism . There is a lack of symmetry in the relationship between blacks and Jews that gives black anti-Semitism a distinctive and troublesome cast : whereas Jewish leaders and spokesmen are considerably less racist ( and considerably more sympathetic to black aspirations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is true of the black community . A recent Lou Harris survey prepared for the National Conference of Christians and Jews revealed that the members of a large sample of national black leaders were much more anti-Semitic than their followers . They were also more anti-Semitic than a sample of corporate executives . This asymmetry is not new . " The tension between Negroes and Jews contains an element not char ? acteristic of Negro-Gentile tension , " James Bald ? win wrote in 1948 , " an element which accounts in some measure for the Negroes ' tendency to castigate the Jew verbally more often than the Gentile , and which might lead one to the conclusion that , of all white people on the face of the earth , it is the Jew whom the Negro hates most . " That , of course , is precisely the impression that a number of black spokesmen and leaders have created by their response to Jimmy Carter 's firing of Andrew Young as US ambassador to the United Nations . Even though Young was fired by Carter ( his resignation was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few weeks earlier ) , and even though black spokesmen had been increasingly critical of the Carter administration 's domestic policies during the preceding months , black leaders focused their anger over Young 's resignation at American Jews , rather than at the president himself . In their famous " declaration of independence " of August 22 , those present at the black leadership meeting declared that " The key question before us as representatives of the Black community in America is the . . . extent to which the successful                     