@@493702

The doctor will be with you as soon as he 's finished with energy , welfare , tax reform , etc . Carter 's Health Plans by Eliot Marshall One thing we know about Jimmy Carter is that he reads the polls . If he sees the work of his own court pollster , Patrick Caddell , he knows that national health insurance is an issue that stirs Americans like no other . Of all the great promises of social reform inherited from FDR 's New Deal , the promise to shift the cost of being sick from the family 's shoulders to the government 's is the only one that is still massively popular . According to a Caddell survey taken this year and cited publicly in October , 51 percent of the pollees said they were willing to pay higher taxes to get national health insurance . Seventy-five percent were " very concerned " about the cost of health care . As Caddell told a conference of insurance experts , " It has become the exception to all the rules about government social programs . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do it . Carter has approached the task cautiously . Other things got in the way this year : the energy bill , Bert Lance 's trouble , job demands and economic crises . Butthe administration did take a small step toward asserting national authority over health care by introducing a hospital cost control bill . It was meant to be a temporary measure , designed to hold the patient still long enough for the experts at HEW to operate on him . It got bogged down in Congress and died , as I will explain later . The entire reform schedule is now backed up , and relatively little has been accomplished . The President 's first discussion of national health insurance as such took place in the White House on November 9 . Attending the meeting were Carter , HEW Secretary Joseph Califano , Undersecretary Hale Champion , health insurance coordinator lames Mongan , Labor Secretary Ray Marshall , White House chief economist Charles Schultze and presidential aides Stuart Eizenstat , Peter Bourne and Joseph Onek . A couple of these people said that it was merely a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let the President know what it was thinking . Nothing was decided . When Carter was asked about it the next day , he said , " It is too early yet to lay down specifics ... . This was just an exploratory talk . . . . I think by early next year the principles of a national health insurance program will be outlined to the American people . " Not much more can be learned at the agency level . The key office in HEW has churned out a thick stack of option papers . These studies are perceptive , in a minute way , thorough and immensely detailed ? but utterly lacking in conviction . They reflect a profound uncertainty about everything , as for example in this " conclusion " of a paper on reimbursement : " Any discussion of reimbursement issues prior to decisions with respect to whether the NH1 plan is to be primarily public sector or mixed public private . . . is somewhat artificial . Various of the reimbursement methods discussed are not consistent with certain financing and administrative alternatives . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not as policy statements , but as aids to debate , crib notes for a kind of bureaucratic parliament known as the advisory committee . In this case the committee is composed of 38 members drawn from every conceivable health care interest group , craven or sincere . The committee is a Califano scheme intended , it seems , to reassure the lobbies that every voice will be heard . Califano 's Undersecretary , Hale Champion , said in earnest recently that even the most " doubting of the doubting Thomases are learning something from the discussions . " The veterans , like Max Fine of the labor movement 's Committee for National Health Insurance , regard it as window dressing . Fine thinks that any consensus arrived at in this committee would be so bland as to be politically worthless . Meanwhile , as the talking continues , Califano and staff are touring the country to solicit the public 's opinion . Labor is n't pleased with the way things have gone . This is critical news for the project , For it is inconceivable that a comprehensive health plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even labor 's indifference could be deadly . The history of health insurance and of organized labor are so closely intertwined that one can not easily separate them . Many innovations in private coverage and all the major federal health programs have come about because labor fought for them . Now that the last pieces of the plan are falling into place , labor does n't intend to endorse something that fails to meet its standards . The problem for Carter and Califon() is that , for at least seven years , labor has been the only national organization in favor of doing something . All the other lobbies ? the AMA , the hospital associations and the insurance companies ? count it a success when nothing happens . That 's why it is hard to understand how a Democratic administration could do anything without labor 's help . The price of that help is high , though . The unions do not want their plan tampered with They insist that coverage be mandatory and universal ; that financing be managed through a single federal fund , paid for with payroll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ care ; and that hospital and doctor fees be controlled and negotiated annually through a political process . Labor 's loyalty to these principles was tested most recently in 1974 . Several national health insurance bills were before Congress , including one designed by Richard Nixon . As the session got underway , about six months before the Watergate election of 1q74 , Senator Edward Kennedy and Representative Wilbur Mills together unveiled a compromise plan they thought they could get through Congress . Kennedy had carried labor 's plan to the Senate , and Mills was then chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee , and a skillful negotiator . Their plan incorporated many of labor 's ideas . But rather than have the government administer everything , it allowed private companies to do the job as contractors . To keep costs down , it required middle-class patients to pay a large share of their hospital and doctor bills each year out of their own pockets . Once enacted , the sponsors said , the plan would be liberalized gradually . Robert Ball , the former director of Social Security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said last month that the reason it died was that " labor knocked it on the head . " Kennedy was called a traitor for abandoning labor 's cause . After that , the hope of reaching a compromise dissolved . Kennedy lost interest . Mills continued bargaining feverishly with the Nixon White House . The Republicans came up with a plan of their own , but in the end the insurance companies turned against it . It was a deadlock : there was no majority for anything , and nothing happened . Wilbur Mills , several months later . ended up on a burlesque stage in Boston . Nothing has happened since then because neither labor nor business wanted anything to happen . lorry Ford made a stab at national health insurance , but his administration was sunk by the recession , Richard Nixon , Henry Kissinger and Vietnam . Labor could afford to wait for a Democrat . Though limm v Carter was n't labor 's first choice , he did get labor 's help in the presidential campaign . Leonard Woodcock , the United Auto Workers chief and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his personal support in the Florida primary and later brought the entire union behind Carter . In return , Carter modified his stand on national health insurance to include some points labor insisted on . One lobbyist points specifically to a clause in a Carter speech given on April lb , I Q7b before the Student National Medical Association in Washington , DC . In it , candidate Carter said , " Rotes for institutional care and physician services should be set in advance , prospectively . " Control of doctors ' fees is a key item in labor 's policy . According to the lobbyist , the candidate had to meditate 48 hours before committing himself to this vague promise . Labor people have three substantial complaints today : that Carter is not listening to their advice ; that Carter 's health staff is inept in dealing with Congress ; and that HEW served as midwife in birthing a monster called the " ' Enthoven plan . " The first complaint is self-explanatory and the second , on close examination , has a lot in common with the first . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its political reputation virgin-pure . Some say the compulsion for purity makes Carter 's people stubborn , preachy and aloof . The failure of the hospital bill is cited as an example . One lobbyist said last week that personal squabbles were as much to blame for the bill 's failure as the technical flaws . Two congressional committees that write health legislation had spats with the administration earlier this year . The Senate Finance Committee and the House Ways and Means subcommittee on health had candidates whom they backed for jobs in the new Democratic health bureaucracy . Caliiano 's decision to choose other people , and the abrupt way in which he made the decision made for bad feelings . Relations between the Senate Finance Committee and HEW were particularly poor , so much so that HEW officials refused for a time to have any dealings with staff chief lay Constantine . This , of course , made it difficult to negotiate a compromise between congressional programs to control hospital costs and the plan submitted by HEW . Califano urged Congress to move , held press conferences , wrote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ got no bill . The differences between the administration and Congress are now being smoothed over , and Carter 's people expect to get a bill early next year . However , even if they do get one quickly in January , it will serve only as a mild anesthetic . The surgery has not begun . The Enthoven plan worries labor more than the family squabbling . It arrived on the scene this fall , having developed on a track entirely separate from the one on which all the other health planners were working . It is the product of a benign conspiracy . Early this year , Cali fano asked Alain Enthoven , an economist at the Stan tord Business School . to develop a - tree enterprise " plan , one that would minimize the need for federal cost controls but still keep costs down and standards high . Enthoven undertook the task privately and later won a Federal grant to complete it . This fall he presented his ideas in outline to a gathering of about 80 experts at a retreat on the Skyline Drive near Washington , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and no one seems eager to discuss it . The Ent hoven plan , though still inchoate , could become quite important next year ? particularly if Carter decides he wants to introduce a flashy new and untainted concept . What it proposes , in very brief form , is to give middle-class people a tax credit and poor people a health voucher which they would then use to buy themselves an insurance policy , a place in a group practice plan or any other kind of approved scheme . Its difficult to say much about the Enthoven plan today because it is composed chiefly of abstractions . The stickiest details are left out . A few points can he made . The concept is anathema to labor . It is a theoretician 's scheme , owing more to economic philosophy than to experience . It would not mix well with other plans on the market , and almost any compromise one envisions with a labor-backed proposal would turn it into mush . In fact , a compromise probably would turn it into something resembling one of the dozens of quickie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to block the progress of labor 's plan . It has no constituency , though perhaps in time it could develop one .                     