@@494897

Egyptian President Anwar Sadat 's warning the other day that the Middle East is a time bomb that could explode at any minute was less a threat than an attempt to urge Secretary of State Kissinger and the Israelis to revive the negotiations that began following the Yom Kippur war late last year and have since faltered . Thus Sadat seems to be anxious to edge toward some kind of deal with Israel , and his apparent receptivity to a compromise ought to be cause for optimism . But nothing in the Middle East is ever simple . The Egyptians and Israelis not only face difficult problems in their own quest for a reconciliation , but the dispute that divides them is further complicated by the fact that the Syrians , Jordanians , and , to a lesser extent , the Saudi Arabians , have a stake in the settlement . The Palestine Liberation Organization , which the Arabs have endowed with a form of legitimacy , has also emerged as a key and controversial factor in the equation . Moreover the Russians are currently pressing to participate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though Sadat may not have intended to sound alarmist , the time bomb is actually ticking away , and unless it can be defused by diplomatic action quickly , the Middle East could again erupt into a conflict that would have wider global repercussions than last year 's conflagration . Kissinger 's main objective at this stage is to persuade the Egyptians and Israelis to resume their talks as soon as possible , and his sense of urgency is prompted by his concern for potential Soviet maneuvers toward Egypt in the weeks ahead . The Russians , who had cooled off on Sadat earlier this year after he agreed to Kissinger 's mediation efforts , reestablished formal relations with Washington and diluted his so-called " Arab socialism " program by opening Egypt to Western investment , suddenly warmed up to him again in the fall , when they perceived that they were losing ground to the US in the Middle East . They invited Egyptian Foreign Minister Ismail Fahmy to Moscow in October , and , among other things , arranged for Leonid Brezhnev , the Soviet Communist party secretary general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to start on January 15 , now looms as a deadline . For Kissinger fears that unless the Egyptians and Israelis have managed to get the diplomatic train back on track by then , Sadat may be tempted by Brezhnev to move toward the Russians . In Kissinger 's view that would be undesirable in two respects . First , Sadat would probably side with Brezhnev in insisting that the Middle East negotiations return to Geneva , where they were initially held for two days in December 1973 , and that , Kissinger feels , would turn the discussions into a shouting match . Secondly , closer ties between Brezhnev and Sadat would mean the resumption of Soviet arms shipments to Egypt , and that , besides contributing to fresh tensions in the region , might induce the Egyptians to stiffen their position on rapprochement with the Israelis . As I understand it , Kissinger is convinced that the Israelis should contemplate turning certain territories taken in 1967 back to the Egyptians in order to keep the diplomatic ball rolling and prevent the Russians from strengthening their influence in Cairo . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Israelis are willing to give up , and whether the Egyptians are prepared to grant them political concessions in exchange . Until the Yom Kippur war broke out , the Israelis equated territory with security . Even after the conflict ended , Golda Meir , then prime minister , rejected the idea of trimming Israel 's frontiers with her assertion that " anyone who thinks . . . that deep and defensible borders have no value in conditions of modern warfare is in error . " But the realities of the war proved otherwise . For example the Israelis had regarded Sharm El Sheikh at the southern tip of the15 Sinai as vital to the defense of the Gulf of Aqaba and their port of Elath , but that notion was shattered when the Egyptians cut off the waterway by blockading the Bab El Mandeb straits at the southern entrance to the Red Sea . The Egyptians also crossed the Suez Canal , which the Israelis had considered an effective barrier , and the concept of the Sinai as a buffer against air attacks has become outdated by the presence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hitting Israeli cities from launching pads inside Egyptian boundaries . The Syrians have the same missiles , as well as Soviet MIG-23 fighter-bombers equal in performance to the F-4 Phantoms delivered by the US to Israel . The Israelis can undoubtedly construct atomic weapons , as Israel 's President Ephraim Katzir said the other day , but they would be neutralized by Soviet nuclear arms given to the Arabs . As a result the experts submit that while the short-range military race favors the Israelis , they will be at a strategic disadvantage over the long term . Iran , which formerly leaned toward Israel , now threai:ens to back the Arabs should another war begin . hat the Israelis are becoming increasingly aware of their limitations may account , in part at least , for their discernible shift away from the rigidity of Golda Meir to a more tractable posture on territorial and other issues . Abba Eban , the former foreign minister , reflected this attitude when he suggested in an interview published in these pages some months ago that Israel ought to have " less faith in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a position to dictate our will and our interests to our neighbors , nor are they in a position to dictate their will and their interests to us . " Displaying similar flexibility , Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin has dropped his previous requirement that Egypt sign a nonbelligerency pact with Israel as a prerequisite to an accord , and , he has indicated , he will accept instead a de facto expression of Egypt 's desire for peace . This would take the shape of a pledge by the Egyptians not to attack Israel or back other forces doing so , end their boycott and other economic sanctions against Israel , and agree to postal links , tourist exchanges and other such measures . If these concessions are forthcoming , the Israelis say , they will withdraw from territories taken from Egypt ? but only on condition that the territories are demilitarized and patroled by a " highly credible " force , perhaps composed of Israeli and Egyptian troops . The Israelis would like this accord to span three to five years , with an option to extend it for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said recently that he would even relinquish territory to Egypt without any concessions , as a way of gaining time , since , like Kissinger , he is worried that Sadat may slip into the . Soviet camp unless there is diplomatic progress within the next few weeks . The rub in this territorial offer is that it barely begins to satisfy Egypt 's claims . The Egyptians argue that they will accept nothing less then the entire Sinai peninsula conquered by Israel in the 1967 blitzkrieg . The Israelis not only rebuff that demand , but for the moment at least , they refuse to surrender the strategic Gidi and Mitla passes that cut through the mountains of the Sinai some 40 miles east of the Suez Canal . Nor will they give up the Abu Rudeis oilfields , located on the east bank of the canal , from which they draw 60 percent of their petroleum , and , they also regard Sharm El Sheikh as untouchable though its military importance has been shown to be doubtful . Some Ford administration officials contend that the Israelis will have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant concessions to Egypt if an agreement is to be sealed . The task confronting Kissinger is to narrow the gap between the opposing sides . How far he can go depends on several elements , among them his own willingness or ability to put pressure on the Israelis , something he is reportedly reluctant to do lest he unleash the fury of American Jews and congressional critics like Sen. Henry Jackson . Another element clouding this picture is whether the Egyptians are able to proceed toward a settlement with Israel independently of Syria 's efforts to resolve its differences with the Israelis . The Egyptians are not hostile to bilateral negotiations , but they hold that a full-scale agreement must encompass Israel and all the Arabs , and they contend it is necessary that " progress " be made on " all fronts " more or less simultaneously . Compared to their problems with the Egyptians , which are complex enough , the Israelis face a far tougher adversary in the Syrians . Hafez Assad , the President of Syria , is more radical than Sadat , and the Russians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in addition to Soviet-trained Cuban and North Korean pilots to fly his aircraft . The Israelis and Syrians are not haggling over a region like the Sinai , which is large enough to permit generous concessions , but the tiny sector of the Golan Heights . The Israelis cling to the hills that overlook their most productive farmlands in the Jordan and Hula Valleys , and they refuse to withdraw from their strategic emplacements , contending that the failure of the Syrians to rebuild and repopulate the nearby town of Kuneitra is evidence of Assad 's plan to trigger fresh fighting . The Syrians complain that the movement of civilian Israeli settlers into the area is a plot to annex it to Israel , and , as a consequence , they reject the idea of a piecemeal solution such as the Egyptians and Israelis are trying to work out . " If there is n't complete withdrawal and the occupation continues , " Assad said recently , " we will have conditions not for peace but for a new war . " Despite that language Assad did display a degree of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extend for six months more the life of the United Nations peacekeeping force that separates his troops from the Israeli army . Washington specialists believe , however , that the Syrians will not renew the UN franchise that ends in May unless diplomatic advances are underway , and that if they are not , the Israelis may be spurred to launch a preemptive strike against Syria . Would that prompt the Egyptians to intervene ? Egyptian diplomats affirm that Egypt is committed to Syria 's defense , but US sources speculate that Sadat might offer only token assistance to the Syrians if the Israeli action is over rapidly . Thus the risks of another eruption are real , and the weeks prior to the expiration of the UN force 's current tour along the border between Israel and Syria are seen as another deadline in the perilous endeavor to avert a fresh Middle East conflict . Israel 's dual problem of finding an accommodation with both Egypt and Syria has meanwhile been exacerbated by the appearance of the Palestine Liberation Organization as the movement sanctified by the Arabs to represent some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yasir Arafat , the head of the PLO , is dedicated to the dissolution of Israel as a Jewish homeland , and although Egypt and Jordan indirectly recognize the existence of the Israeli state , they joined with the other Arab nations in legitimizing him at the Rabat summit in October . Their position has therefore been contradictory , and the problem is further confused by the attitude of the Israelis toward Palestinian nationalism . The Palestinians are plainly revising history when they claim to have been evicted from their native land by the Israelis . They refused to create their own state in the more than half of Palestine assigned to them by the UN partition decision in 1947 . Bulwarked by the armies of five Arab nations , they chose instead to fight for the whole area . The Israelis defeated the entire coalition , leaving the Palestinians stateless . Despite this setback the Palestinians developed a nationalist fervor that , as Rabbi Arthur Hertzberg has pointed out , recalled the passion of the early Zionists . In their Diaspora the Palestinians became elites in their adopted countries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ running the administrations of the underdeveloped Persian Gulf sheikdoms . The Israelis , in their complacency after the 1967 war , failed to appreciate that Palestinian nationalism would one day surface . As a consequence they denied the Palestinian inhabitants of the occupied West Bank any real outlet for their political dynamism , and they did little to work out a deal that would have permitted their most malleable Arab neighbor , King Hussein of Jordan , to incorporate the territory and the Palestinians in it . The result was the gradual mobilization of the PLO as a separate force , and it is worth noting that it was initially recognized by the Arabs as the " sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people " at an Arab conference in Algiers as far back as October 1973 , a year before the Rabat summit . So the rise of the PLO could not have come as a surprise to the Israelis . Edward Sheehan , a Middle East specialist , has disclosed that Sadat tried last summer to cement a tie between Hussein and the PLO that the Israelis could have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Sadat sought to make the PLO acceptable to Saudi Arabia 's conservative King Faisal by provoking its radical wing to break with Arafat , who could then be labeled " moderate . " Sheehan says that Sadat and Faisal promoted the PLO at Rabat in order to make the Palestinian movement more palatable to Kissinger and the Israelis . If that is true the strategy has yielded nothing substantial so far . Gerald Ford , Nelson Rockefeller and Undersecretary of State Joseph Sisco have inadvertently issued statements favorable to the PLO , and official US pronouncements refer to " the legitimate interests of the Palestinian people . " But Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin , who governs with a slim majority , could not conceivably advocate negotiations with the PLO without igniting domestic political fires . Kissinger is reported to believe that the PLO must be kept out of the current negotiating phase , since its presence would compound the delicate enough problems confronting the Egyptians and Israelis . Nobody thinks that the question of Palestinian nationalism is going to evaporate , and the search is now on for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diplomatic fabric . Israeli Minister of Information Aharon Yariv suggested last July that Israel might talk with the PLO if it renounced terrorism and recognized Israel 's right to exist , and although that proposal was officially disavowed at the time , it is still put forth privately by Israeli officials . Another idea being circulated would be the creation of a provisional Palestinian government , composed of intellectuals theoretically unaffiliated with the PLO guerrillas , that would recognize Israel and limit its ambitions to a West Bank state . But opponents of any dealings with Arafat contend that a West Bank state is not a viable proposition , and that the PLO would soon seek to take over Jordan or Israel or both . Those who hold this view argue that time will take the steam out of the PLO and perhaps offer Israel the chance to strike a bargain with more temperate Palestinians . In an interview with the Israeli newspaper Ha'aretz not long ago , Rabin said that his ultimate goal is to gain time . Israel , he said , must survive in peace for seven " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through other resources , free themselves from reliance on Arab oil . A seven-year breathing spell in the Middle East , though , is hard to imagine .                     