@@479280

Imagine insects with a life-span of two weeks , and then imagine further that they are trying to build up a science about the nature of time and history . Clearly , they can not build a model on the basis of a few days in summer . So let us endow them with a language and a culture through which they can pass on their knowledge to future generations . Summer passes , then autumn ; finally it is winter . The winter insects are a whole new breed , and they perfect a new and revolutionary science on the basis of the " hard facts " of their perceptions of snow . As for the myths and legends of summer : certainly the intelligent insects are not going to believe the superstitions of their primitive ancestors . ANALOGY TWO Imagine a vehicle as large as a planet that began a voyage an eon ago . After generations of voyaging , the mechanics lose all sense of who they are and where they are going . They begin to grow unhappy with their condition and say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enormous vehicle is a myth put forth by the ruling class to disguise its oppression of the mechanical class . There is a revolution ; the captain is killed , but some of the starmen escape in a small shuttle eta ft . Elated by their triumph , the mechanics proclaim the dictatorship of the proletariat and destroy the captain 's log , which contains , they claim , nothing but the lies of the old ruling class . ANALOGY THREE Imagine that you have just discovered a civilization as small as a DNA molecule . You want to establish contact , but since your own dimensions prevent you from entering the same space-time envelope , you must search for other means of communication . From observing the civilization closely , you find that there is an informational class that seems to carry messages back and forth among parts of the society , and you observe further that these messengers are actually enzymes of a kind you are familiar with . Since you can not talk directly to the members of the civilization , you decide to talk through the events @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain times when the enzymes are in a position to carry your new information , and that is at the times when the structure is either breaking apart or about to come together again . Choosing your opening and closing epochs carefully , you begin to carry on an extended communication with the civilization . 71 EIACH OF THESE ANALOGIES indicates that inIrJ formation is subject to alteration and decay through time . Although I have chosen the idiom of science fiction , this process of decay was clearly understood by the Egyptian sources of Vico 's theory of history . Two great remnants of Egyptian antiquity have come down to us . One of them is that the Egyptians reduced all preceding world time to three ages ; namely , the age of gods , the age of heroes , and the age of men . The other is that during these three ages three languages had been spoken , corresponding in order to the three aforesaid ages ; namely , the hieroglyphic or sacred language , the symbolic or figurative ( which is the heroic ) language , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for communicating the common needs of their life.1 An epoch begins with a divine consciousness of cosmic myth in the age of the gods . By the time of the following age of heroes , half the cosmic myth is gone , and with it , half the divine consciousness . By the time of the age of men , the myth and the consciousness halve again , leaving only a quarter of the original . Finally , in the ultimate age of barbarism and chaos , little of the original myth or divine consciousness remains at all . But as entropy reaches its limit in chaos , there is a reversal in the cycle , an inverse entropy , in which the chaos creates the fertile decay for a new cosmic myth and a new age of gods . We spiral back to the past in a future on a higher level of order . As an illustration of this historical process , consider the Sumerian civilization . The first age was definitely the age of the gods ; men insisted that they did not build the great cities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man all the arts of civilization.2 As the colony began to grow and prosper , the gods departed . leaving only a steward , an ensi , to look after things in their absence . But the memory of man is short ; soon the ensis began to exercise power on their own terms , and stewardship evolved into kingship . For a while the kings ruled with respect for the old cosmic mythology , but with faction replacing faction , it was only a few centuries before the skepticism of the rulers was shared by the whole populace . As secularism and the philosophy of naked power grew , the cosmic myths that held the civilization together came apart . Men no longer believed in anything . Since the society no longer held together on its own , it was compressed by force and militaristic terror . The military state , whether of Sargon of Agade or Moe tezuma of Mexico , is the last desperate collectivization of a disintegrating society.3 But states organized for conquest inevitably organize their enemies to conquer them . Thus the three ages of Sumerian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The gods rule through me , ( 21 I rule for the gods , and 13 . ) I RULE ! IT IS EASY TO SEE THE STRUCTURE of Sumerian civilization because it is over and we are far enough away to see its general form . But it is harder to see the form of our own immediate historical condition . Cultural transformations are so large that they are invisible to normal individuals concerned only with the practical day-to-day business in front of them . If you went around in England in the 1790s. asking how it felt to he living in an age of industrial revolution . most people would not know what you were talking about . But if you went to see " the lunatic " William Blake , he would tell you about the meaning of the great transformation by moving back and forth from one end of history to the other in a notation especially designed for ideas that large ? mythology . Marxists are not inclined to celebrate the virtues of mythopoeic thinking , but even the distinguished Marxist historian , Eric Hobsbawn , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its power : It is never wise to neglect the heart 's reasons which the reason knows nothing of . As thinkers within the terms of reference laid down by the economists and physicists , the poets were outclassed , but they saw not only more deeply but also sometimes more clearly . Few men saw the social earthquake caused by machine and factory earlier than William Blake in the 179Cs , who had yet little except a few London steam-mills and brick-kilns to go by . Events that are too large to be perceived in immediate history register in the unconscious in the collective form of myth , and since artists and visionaries possess strongly mythopoeic imaginations , they can express in the microcosm of their works what is going on in the macrocosm of mankind . Because they lack economic power , they are open to other possibilities , and they can cultivate other faculties . The man of power so fills himself with politics , business , and single-step events that he is no longer open to visions of the complete cultural transformation of mankind . Ironically , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technology who is in position to master it . In the 1760s the visionary mechanists and the romantics were thinking in new modes that were to become part of the cultural transformation of mankind . Although Marx would insist that it is not the consciousness of men that determines their material condition , but their material condition that determines their consciousness , even he was willing to admit that the imagination could outrace economic development to elaborate an ideology in advance of its social need . For Marx the seventeenth-century Levellers were prophets of a future revolutionary Europe . The Scottish Primitivists are another example of men developing an ideology in advance of its social need . In 1770 they elaborated a theory , contrary to the Biblical account , that men evolved from wood-men to land-dwellers to settled city-dwellers . This vision of progress was quite different from the Christian 's tragic vision of the Fall . so much so that Vico , in elaborating a similar theory a generation before , had been careful to explain that men fell into savagery as a result of the universal deluge . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christian vision of things , it became , nevertheless , the ruling ideology of industrial England by the time of the Great Exhibition of 1851 . Imaginative artists like Blake could understand the collective condition of society because the imagination is the opening to what Jung called " the collective unconscious . " Precisely because this unconscious is collective , people can think the same thought at the same time even though they are separated by ordinary space . No one blew a whistle in Europe in 1760 and said : " Stop thinking neoclassically : start thinking romantically , in terms of primitives and nature . " And yet the whole age did shift dramatically . Because we do not understand this process , we either ignore it or use terms like " spirit of the age . " Hegel would call it the V eltgeist , but whatever term is used , the radical implication is that human consciousness is not contained by the skull . Messages from the unconscious I N OUR PHYSICAL SCIENCES we have long since gone beyond the eighteenth-century notion of dead hunks of matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychological sciences are still restricted to eighteenth-century mechanistic notions : minds are simply located hunks of gray matter moving in the black void of time . Once physicists tried to explain the phenomenon of the superconductor in terms of the incremental behavior of each electron : repeated failure finally convinced them that the electrons were not an aggregate society , but a single gas , a de Broglie wave . In the superconducting society of electrons , when one electron is obstructed in the lattice , the others rush to pick it up and carry it on in their path . Perhaps the superconductor can provide us with a more contemporary model of culture and human consciousness . Cosmically , mankind is a single de Broglie wave , or what Christians would call the Mystical Body of Christ . Behavioral psychologists , bringing up the rear with their dead mechanistic physics , would assert that culture operates only through social interactions ; for them space separates , and what does not touch physically or symbolically can have no effect . But the concept of space the behavioral psychologists take for granted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frames of reference , physicists assert that all is energy and vibration and that the solar wind reaches to the limits of the Solar System . When sun , moon , and earth line up in an eclipse , magnetic perturbations give us earthquakes like the recent one in Los Angeles . All of which sounds as if we have spiraled back on a higher level to the astronomy of Stonehenge circa 1750 B.C. If we can spiral back astronomically to the archaic world view , we can also spiral back psychologically to realize that the mind of mankind is a collective and interpenetrating field . The unconscious is not personal , but in order not to be swamped by infinite information , the brain functions as what Aldous Huxley called " a reducing valve . " It shuts out the universe so that the individual can do what is in front of him . The million signals a second must be reduced to a few . But the intuition and the imagination maintain an opening to the unconscious , which contains all the information that could not register in immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ step-by-step incremental sequence of events , its perception of time is linear . Clearly all the information can not be restricted to that line . and so the time of the unconscious is out of time ; the line must be widened and lengthened until it becomes a sphere if one is to achieve the cosmic consciousness of the mystic . In the space-time of the unconscious , the past and the future mysteriously interpenetrate in exactly the way the ancient Maya understood in their fantastic calendar of millions of years of cyclical , spiraling time . Analogy Two is simply the history of ancient Mexico . The priestly hierarchy of ancient Mexico knew that this planet earth was an enormous vehicle moving through infinite expanses of space and time . In the temples the priests kept the records of who we were , where we came from , and where we were going . But as the cosmic myth of the age of gods decayed through time , the distance between the decadent priesthood and the oppressed peasantry increased . The peasants rose up , attacked the ceremonial centers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stars to only what was in front of them in their fields of growing corn . Because ancient Mexico is not part of our historical awareness , visionaries have to speak to us in a different mythology if they are to recover man 's lost cosmic orientation . Blake made one attempt , Yeats another . But mythological ideas are not always expressed with the genius of a Blake or a Yeats . An idea in the collective unconscious is what Levi-Strauss would call a structure , but when that structure is performed in an individual 's consciousness it takes on the limitations of the personal content . The mythical message from the collective unconscious must travel through the distorting medium of culture and the individual personality before it reaches the receiver . A mixture of the myth and noise from the distorting medium is what reaches the receiver ; so in order to be sure that he has the message right , the listener has to hear several different versions until he grasps the structure . ' ' In the cases of some individuals who transmit mythical information , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines up the science-fiction novels of C. S. Lewis , Arthur C. Clarke , and Doris Lessing ; scholarly works like Shklovskii and Sagan 's Intelligent Life in the Universe ; and sensationalist tracts like van Daniken 's Chariot of the Gods , one can see that the ratio of information to noise varies considerably . Nevertheless , the structure of a new planetary consciousness is definitely in evidence in each work , no matter what its literary or scholarly merit . QOMETHING IS CARRYING ON an extended tom- munication , , through the opening and closing of our epochs , with the informational cells of our civilization . " Jesus People " would say it is Christ preparing for his Second Coming ; pagans would say it is the return of the gods in their flying saucers ; technologists would say , in the philosophy of Feuerbach , that it is not to the heavens we should look for an explanation , but to the earth : they themselves are the new gods who are ending the trivial culture of Homo sapiens through genetic engineering . If we take all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out the message from the noise , we come up with four propositions of a new world view : I. There is intelligent life in the universe beyond earth . 2 . The meeting we are expecting in front of us in linear time has already occurred , is now occurring , and will continue to occur . The gods do not talk to us , they have been talking through our history . 3 . There is more to our history than the meager record of six thousand years . Our religious myths are the detritus of the lost history of earth . 4 . Our subjective-objective distinctions about reality are incorrect . As in the world view of the Hopi Indians , Consciousness , Energy , and Matter form a continuum . If one considers all the propositions of this planetary romanticism to be false , one still can take them seriously ; at the very least , they can be seen as projections and caricatures of the large cultural shifts now occurring . Which of us has the power and mobility to go into all the laboratories , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what is really happening on this planet ? What the individual conscious ego does not know , however , does not limit the collective unconscious of mankind , and so one can make some intelligent guesses by paying attention to the seemingly unrelated shifts in human culture at large . As the old civilization of the industrial nation-state is falling apart , it is also falling into new forms of a very old consciousness . Within this consciousness an ancient vision of reality is taking us into another dimension in which we can find our bearings once again to make the transition from civilization to planetization . Some god or Weltgeist has been making a movie out of us for the past six thousand years , and now we have turned a corner on the movie set of reality and have discovered the boards propping up the two-dimensional monuments of human history . The movement of humanism has reached its limit . and now at that limit it is breaking apart into the opposites of mechanism and mysticism and moving along the circumference of a vast new sphere of post-human thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its social need ; what particular institutional form this ideology will take no one can say . One can not infer the Crystal Palace of the Great Exhibition of 1851 from the vision of the Scottish Primitivists of 1770 . Perhaps it will take no institutional form at all , for it now seems that social institutions are no longer adequate vehicles of cultural evolution . We can not go to church to find radiant Godhead , to the Army to find glory in war , to Lincoln Centers to find aesthetic transfiguration , or to universities to find wisdom . Now only mysticism seems well suited to the post-institutional anarchism of technetronic culture , on one hand , and the infinite , post-human universe on the other . The internal disciplines of the great mystical traditions seem to offer the only means by which man can feel at home in a universe so vast that , without the self-mastery and centering functions of meditation , he would go insane instantly . Mystics think that they are solitary visionaries of God , but actually , in the transition from civilization to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " they have become the true political scientists . Mysticism seems impractical in technological culture because it is the Marxist negation of that culture and the affirmation of the next culture . Gardening was impractical in hunting culture when busy men of affairs had to be on the move in search of game , and that is why it remained for women to transform gathering into agriculture . Stone Age men were too busy with their elaborate tools to create the dazzlingly more simple and advanced civilization based upon agriculture . Now , once again , man is too busy with his elaborate tools to create the even more dazzlingly simple and advanced planetization . But at least one practical-minded economist , Kenneth Boulding , recognizes the new human possibilities : Now if we look around us today to see what in man 's experience looks like the foreshadow . ing of things to come , we may well find it in the experience of the mystics and the gropings of man in religion . It will be surprising indeed if man as we know him today represented the total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western economist should be compared with the thoughts of two Indian yogis , Sri Aurobindo and Gopi Krishna : Life evolves out of Matter , Mind out of Life , because they are already involved there : Matter is a form of veiled Life , Life a form of veiled Mind . May not Mind be a form and veil of a higher power , the Spirit , which would be supramental in its nature ? Man 's highest aspiration would then only indicate the gradual unveiling of the Spirit within , the preparation of a higher life upon earth . " ( On the basis of my own experience , extending to more than thirty years , I have come to the conclusion that mankind is slowly evolving towards a sublime state of consciousness of which fleeting glimpses have been rrf. forded to us by all great seers and mystics o the past and presents It is certainly paradoxical to see an economist looking to the mystic for the cultural evolution of man , but there are many paradoxes in the dialectical process of history . As one looks at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem that for every thought there is an equal and opposite action . Religions that are created to liberate us end up controlling us ; technologies that are created to rationalize us end up mystically stimulating us . The railroads stimulated the appearance of the hobo ; television stimulated the appearance of the Yippie . In each case it was the man who rejected the society of technology who , again paradoxically , became the consummate master of that technology . To work " within the system " of a technology is to be turned into a functionary of the tool ; to wield a tool one must grasp it from the outside . This is why Buckminster Fuller has said that " the big thinking in general ? of a spherical earth and celestial navigation , in contradistinction to a four-cornered flat world with only localized preoccupations ? was retained exclusively by the great pirates . " And so it was in 1968 : in an electronic media society , the Yippies were pirates of the news . With a consummate display of political ability , they stood outside the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ functionaries dominated by the system . And so it was in the nineteenth century : while a Casey Jones or a Huntington Hartford could make a great noise and seem to be a hero of the new technology of the railroads , he was really a victim . The only one who humanistically mastered the whole cultural system of the rails was the hoboriding a few inches above them . While most Americans were still locked into the ethos of the small town , the hobo had moved out to a Continental frame of reference . ists want to make the earth comfortable to their bodies , but the mechanists are destroying the earth as fast as an insect destroys its cocoon . And though mystics may not build factories , they seem just as intent in regarding the death of earth as the birth of the new cosmic man . In this respect , Teilhard de Chardin 's vision is remarkably like A. C. Clarke 's Childhood 's End : Let us suppose from this universal centre , this Omega Point , there constantly emanate radiations hitherto only perceptible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further imagine that , as the sensibility or response to mysticism of the human race increases with planetisation , the awareness of Omega becomes so widespread as to warm the earth psychically while physically it is growing cold . Is it not conceivable that Mankind , at the end of its totatisation , its folding-in upon itself , may reach a critical level of maturity where , leaving the earth and stars to lapse slowly back into the dwindling mass of primordial energy , it will detach itself from this planet and join the one true , irreversible essence of things , the Omega Point ? A phenomenon perhaps outwardly akin to death : but in reality a simple metamorphosis and arrival at the supreme synthesis . " Pere Teilhard envisioned this convergence toward the Omega Point as far off in the future , but if we look at the population graph of mankind from 2,000,000 B.C. to 2000 A.D. , we see an asymptotic curve that comes to a point in thirty years when the population of the earth is to reach nearly seven billion . And as one looks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to contract around us:12 before , cultural transformations occurred over hundreds of thousands of years ; then , over thousands of years in the Neolithic Revolution ; then , over centuries in the Industrial Revolution ; and now , in the Technetronic Revolution , the transformation is occurring over mere decades . No individual ever witnessed the Neolithic . Revolution , and only a few sensitive individuals in the eighteenth century witnessed the Industrial Revolution , but now the individual life-span is long enough , and the cultural transformation short enough , that solitary man can become conscious of mankind in a way only the mystics knew before . Now , as human culture seems to be accelerating toward the speed of light , it does seem , in proper Einsteinian fashion , as if our mass were expanding to infinity . Cultures move through the medium of time like airplanes that move through the medium of air , so it is no wonder that now both the mechanists and the mystics are trying to streamline the design of human culture . But our culture is so wholly novel that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; clearly , some death or rebirth of man is not as far off as Teilhard imagined . Because human culture is coming to a point , the distance between the edges of good and evil seems to be narrowing . The multinational corporation is devoted to profits and exploitation ; nevertheless , it is creating structures for planetization ; it is also accelerating the ecological death of the planet ? which in turn is accelerating the mystical transformation of mankind by stimulating the appearance of a new religious sensibility . Under the threat of species annihilation , Homo sapiens is trying to accomplish transformation into a new species . Since eons ago man made his own culture into the vehicle of his evolution , the appearance of this new species is not to be found in individual babies with three eyes in their heads , but in the cultural vehicle itself . The mechanist works in great contempt for human nature and hopes to improve the race through genetic engineering and electronic stimulation of the brain ; the mystic avoids the Faustian pathology of the mechanist and regards machines as crude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in walking out of the society of technology , he spirals back and up into the post-mechanistic technological culture of the future . In a phenomenology of opposites , there is an exchange of characteristics in which the mystic becomes the new political scientist , and the mechanist becomes the solitary laboratory man cut off from his fellowmen in pursuit of some alien vision . Myth intersecting history A s THE TECHNOLOGIST BECOMES increasingly alienated from the realities of contemporary culture , he will refuse to accept the disconfirmation of his vision of man 's control of nature and will hysterically try to reassert his power . Professor Leon Festinger has shown that " when prophecy fails . " the prophets refuse to accept the evidence , but instead try even harder to convert people to their religion to prove the validity of their views . Now that the technocratic prophets of progress are indeed suffering from " cognitive dissonance , " they are rejecting the disconfirmation of their position and calling for more power . In 1967 Herman Kahn wrote a book about the year 2000 ; it was n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing to say about pollution . Predictably , Kahn has not learned a thing : now he is calling for futurologists to deal with the future of pollution . While technologists ca n't turn themselves into Hopi Indians , they can adopt a view of reality appropriate to the situation instead of simply calling for more infections to cure the disease . Having destroyed the environment , the technologists of the multinational corporations will want to move us into domed cities , the company towns of the planetary era , where the ape 's attachment to nature can be eliminated from man through genetic engineer-77 ing . Since technological man can not live in the universe , the retreat from nature need not stop with the dome ; he can go on to the electronic drawer . With electronic probes implanted directly in the brain , man will not have to endure the pain , anxiety , and accidents of the sensorimotor life ; by bypassing the senses , man can have a completely programmed life of intense physical pleasure , and yet never have to leave his drawer . Like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his psychedelic sarcophagus will have the best that his culture can give him . But the most immediate danger of our technological world view is that it is interfering with the movements of cultural evolution that are making man ready for planetization . As long as mechanism is checked by mysticism , the dialectic works out and the Pythagorean synthesis of two is possible : but if one wins out over the other , we have a linear reduction of the wave . Perhaps Apocalypse will take care of mechanistic positivism . As long as things are going fine , the positivist praises progress and seems well-adjusted to reality ; but in times of suffering and catastrophe , his optimism flips into pessimism and misanthropic bitterness . Only the tragic sense of life is capable of sustaining an enduring strength and joy . It was this religious sense of tragedy that saw the blacks through 300 years of slavery , the Irish through 700 years of captivity , and the Jews through millenia of persecution . Now that the confident positivism of the technologist has brought us to the edge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see us through . And we will have much to go through . If we are experiencing a change in the cultural vehicle of human evolution , and a new kind of man is emerging , then it is likely that the old man will not willingly disinherit himself . When a culture is at the edge of extinction , it explodes into nativistic movements that attempt to stabilize the dying culture through a desperate " simplification through intensity . " If Middle America attacked the young for rejecting its life-style , one can imagine the scope of persecution leveled against men who reject their species ' life . Perhaps that is why the Hopi Indians and artists like Doris Lessing and Arthur C. Clarke see the mutants being taken away by the gods . According to some Hopi prophecies , the earth 's magnetic field will reverse and the sun 's radiation will burn out the dense undergrowth in preparation for a new planting of the racially hybrid , planetized man . But if mankind is a single de Broglie wave , then not one individual should fall without the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The remorseless vision of conflict and destruction is more Homeric than Christian , so perhaps now that we have reached the limit of Western Christian civilization , we need to under stand the civilization that we are about to leave behind . If the ego with its passionate hatreds is a form of blindness , and mankind is a single interpenetrating field , then Dante 's " ramor the muoue it sole e l'altre stelle " is more than metaphor . Perhaps in the spiral of time there is an occult symmetry between primitive Christianity and contemporary anarchist Christianity , and at the intersection of myth and history only a union of contradictory opposites can express the truth that is beyond institutionalization . In the union of the California hip movement with the fundamentalist traditions of rural America , there is the hopeful sign that we may have overcome the dreary split between avant garde and backlash that has characterized the thinking of an America dominated by an urban and sophisticated elite . Since it was the urban revolution of six thousand years ago that first split human culture between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have become " an electronic global village , " we are overcoming the habits of mind of the millenia , moving beyond the habits of mind of civilized man . Since religion has always been about what lies beyond the container of urban civilization . I doubt if we have come to the end of man 's religious experience . In fact , only man 's religious myths have been on a scale large enough to deal with what is happening . If man is coming to the end of hominization , the next step in human evolution can not be simply another tool added to a list that stretches from fist-hatchets to computers ; the next step will be like the transformation that altered an ape into a man . And looking at Christianity , one could say that this is what we have been waiting for . 