@@494899

Clash of the " Two Majorities " by Charles W. Yost In an address to the United Nations General Assembly in December the US representative John Scali spoke bitterly of the " tyranny of the majority , " noted that " every majority must recognize that its authority does not extend beyond the point where the minority becomes so outraged that it is no longer willing to maintain the covenant which binds them , " and concluded that in consequence of recent majority behavior in the Assembly , American support of the United Nations " is eroding ? in our Congress and among our people . " Somewhat similar speeches were made on the same day by representatives of France , Britain , West Germany , Italy , Sweden and Belgium . What occasioned this concerted outburst of indignation by the developed countries ? Their frustrations have been building up for some time but were confirmed this year by actions of the majority on these subjects : international economic relations , South Africa and the Palestinians . As to the first , the assembly adopted by a vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Duties of States " proposed by the President of Mexico . Among the handful of negative votes were those of the US , West Germany and Britain , and among the few abstainers Japan , France and Canada . In other words this is a charter that asserts the rights of the less developed countries and the duties of the developed but does not , in the view of the latter , adequately protect their rights or the interests of their private investors . As Ambassador Scali said : " the minority which is so often offended may in fact be a practical majority , in terms of its capacity to support this organization and implement its decisions . " On the second subject , a proposal to expel South Africa from the United Nations under procedures laid down in the UN charter was vetoed in the Security Council by the US , France and Britain . The Assembly majority thereupon proceeded to deny the South African delegate his seat in the current Assembly on very dubious procedural grounds . Finally , and this action was the most provocative , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the history of the organization , a spokesman not representing a member government might participate in an Assembly debate . This spokesman , moreover , Yasir Arafat , leader of the Palestine Liberation Organization , was accorded the honors not merely of a delegate but of a chief of state . To add insult to injury the Israeli representative , who wished to rebut seriatim his numerous adversaries in the debate , was prevented from doing so by a ruling of the Algerian Assembly president , which when challenged was upheld by the majority . Coincidentally the same majority in UNESCO , the UN Educational , Scientific and Cultural Organization , which is supposedly nonpolitical , cut off support for regional programs in Israel on the grounds that Israel , in defiance of UN injunctions , is altering the physical and cultural character of Jerusalem . These were the actions that the Western ambassadors so rigorously attacked and that provoked such angry reactions among press and public in several countries . For example Switzerland reduced its contribution to UNESCO by 10 percent , and on December 10 , 71 US @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to the foreign policy of the United States . Were these strong reactions justified ? To some extent they certainly were . But in fairness to the Third World majority their intemperate actions , rather than being matched by equally intemperate Western responses , should be examined dispassionately and with some perspective . In order to do so one needs to cast a glance at recent history . First , as Ambassador Scali reminded his audience , the UN Assembly is not a legislative body . It can not enact laws . Except in regard to internal procedural and budgetary matters , its resolutions are not binding on member states . What they are is a public expression of the opinions of a majority of member governments , in many though not in all cases representing a large majority of mankind . As Dag Hammarskjold used to say , the Assembly is " a reflection of the world as it is , " not as we might like it to be . In that sense it is worth listening to , if we wish not to deceive ourselves about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this connection that what the United States needs most is a hearing aid . Second , we should not forget that from 1945 to 1960 the overwhelming majority in the United Nations consisted of Western Europeans and Latin Americans . Those were the days when the Soviet Union and the few nonaligned member states repeatedly protested " the tyranny of the majority . " But we had then no qualms about passing resolutions over their strong objections . Now the shoe is on the other foot , and we are crying foul . The history of the three issues that have provoked the present excitement also needs to be kept in mind . ver since the less developed countries became the majority they have been passing resolutions calling on the rich to assist much more substantially in their development , to improve the terms of trade that have until recently been heavily in their disfavor , and to police multinational corporations , which they believe have in many cases exploited them . The fact that there has been only a very modest response to these repeated appeals accounts in substantial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for the wave of nationalizations of foreign properties , particularly in Latin America , and for the one-sided resolutions on these subjects adopted by the UN Assembly . As to South Africa , it should be recalled that the Assembly and the Security Council have for many years been passing resolutions , which the US has almost always supported and only two or three states have opposed , calling on South Africa to abandon its policy of apartheid or racial segregation . Yet practically nothing has happened . Apartheid remains as firmly entrenched as ever . Efforts to impose sanctions on South Africa or to expel it legally are blocked by vetoes in the Security Council . The procedural device adopted to deprive South Africa 's delegate of his seat in the present Assembly was , therefore , while legally improper and politically unwise , a symbolic expression of long pent-up frustration on an issue that deeply affronts the human dignity of all the nonwhite members of the United Nations . The questions revolving around the Palestine Liberation Organization likewise raise issues carrying an enormous emotional charge ; there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community experienced a deep sense of guilt for having failed to prevent the holocaust of the Jews , so have many , particularly in the Third World , felt a growing sense of guilt ' for having allowed two generations of Palestine refugees to pass their lives in economic squalor and a political vacuum . A very large majority of UN members now clearly feels that , just as Israel is entitled to self-determination , independence and secure sovereignty , so too are the Palestinians . Had this problem been squarely faced and decisively dealt with some years ago , it might have been resolved within the framework of the Jordanian state . Having been neglected too long , the initiative passed , as has been the case in many other emerging nations , into the hands of ultra-nationalists and revolutionaries willing to use terror to achieve " liberation . " Outrageous as terrorism is , we must not forget that it has been used in similar struggles by French revolutionaries , Russians , Yugoslays , Israelis , Algerians and many others , and is even now a daily practice among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not excuse it but helps explain why it is tolerated . To the great majority of UN members , Arafat , is the fighting leader of an oppressed people , and it was in that capacity that he was recognized and honored . Even the many who do not consider these explanations and parallels sufficient excuse for " irresponsible " behavior by the General Assembly would do well to recall the not insignificant accomplishments of the United Nations , not those of the distant past but those of 1974 . Valuable UN peacekeeping capabilities have again been demonstrated in the Middle East by the establishment of multinational forces in the Sinai and on the Golan Heights , forces that now play an important part in maintaining the fragile peace in the area and that , if there is to be a political settlement , will no doubt be an indispensible element in it . Moreover the Soviet Union has in this case for the first time joined in creating and paying for such a force and is co-chairing the UN-sponsored Geneva Conference . Through the UN , it is thus deeply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ UN force in Cyprus was helpful in preventing last summer 's conflict from doing even more harm than it did and remains a partial barrier to further hostilities . Even the General Assembly , so bitterly reproached for one-sidedness , has during the past month upheld the US position by narrow margins on two critical Asian issues : the representation of Cambodia and the maintenance of a UN command in Korea . Of far more long-range significance were three UN conferences held this year on matters of profoundest import : the law of the sea conference in Caracas , the population conference in Bucharest and the food conference in Rome . It is true that none of these did more than begin- to resolve these problems ? by defining their magnitude , by proposing and debating means of dealing with them , and by exposing clearly the disastrous consequences of failing to cope . But had the United Nations and its family of economic agencies not existed , it is doubtful that even this beginning would have been made . It is indeed in this economic area of urgent international Concern that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even more than in its traditional peacekeeping role . It is becoming ever clearer that the survival of organized and civilized human society into the 21st century depends on controlling population growth , assuring adequate and accessible supplies of food , fuel and fertilizer , developing and modernizing the underdeveloped two-thirds of mankind , rationalizing and stabilizing our trade and financial systems , protecting our threatened environment . ll of these are problems that affect all nations and their solution will , in this age of accelerating interdependence , require the active cooperation of most of them . The focus of such cooperation can best be international organizations in which almost all nations are present . To quote Hammarskjold again , if the UN did not exist we would have to invent it . It will be simpler to preserve and improve it than to reinvent it . But it can not be improved without patience , restraint , mutual accommodation and shared leadership on the part of all concerned . These qualities will be required both from the numerical majority of Third World countries and what Ambassador Scali called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic , political or military power usually depends whether UN resolutions are mere empty gestures or lead to - consequential action . Rather than trying to reserve decision-making on these critical issues for a " rich man 's club " of affluent states , the " practical majority " must , if it wishes the decisions to be carried out , submit them at an early stage to a forum of all concerned . To the same end the " numerical majority " must forego the symbolic " triumphs " that so provoke and alienate their powerful partners , must be less compliant to the small coterie of radical activists within their group , and muse : engage systematically in a far more persistent search for consensus among the two " majorities . " Finally , however , let it be clearly remembered what the General Assembly is and what it is not . It is a sounding board , a spectacular global opinion poll , a " face the world " talk show . It is not a parliament to pass laws or coerce its members . When decisions need to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in regard to the maintenance of peace , by the Security Council , where the US and four others have a veto , and in regard to the critical issues of economic interdependence , in the specialized agencies and conferences , few of whose decisions can in fact be implemented without the support of those possessing , in each case , the relevant economic resources . My concluding piece of advice to both " majorities " would be that of Talleyrand to diplomats : Surtout , pas trop de zele " ? above all , not too much passion . The United Nations belongs to everyone , that is , everyone willing to live in peace with his neighbors.                     