@@487980

The " proletarian novel " rose with the 1930s ; it entered Valhalla , full of angry names and honors , as that era died . Yet by any strict definition the entire genre consists of one book ; its author  --  the only truly proletarian American novelist  --  is alive and reasonably well in Missouri . A glance at history explains why Jack Conroy and The Disinherited have this importance . In the past , literature was produced by privileged groups  --  priests , aristocracy , affluent middle class ; with the spread of educational opportunity , the lower-middle classes began to produce writers and new publics for writing as well . This widening process has speeded up , while the demarcations of class have been transformed or eroded , until today almost anyone can be a maker of literature . The origins of " proletarian literature " appear midway in this process , in the 19th century , when the literature of social protest first appeared : Blake 's " Is this a holy thing to see/ In a rich and fruitful land/ Babes reduc 'd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " ; Dickens ' expos  --  s of the industrial workers ' hard times ; Rebecca Harding Davis ' indictment of the conditions described in Life in the Iron Mills . Social idealists honored the noble worker . Populist and Marxist theory conjured up apocalyptic images of this lowest class , dubbed " proletariat , " destined to redeem the world . Just as protest and revolutionary change were the proletariat 's task , so , it was argued , the literature of protest and change  --  and any writing about proletarian lives  --  should be produced , by the proletarians themselves , the disinherited . This somewhat artificial theory had a basis in common sense . People write best about what they know best . A middle-class arriviste can do the best novel  --  as Stendhal did  --  about a middle-class arriviste ; an American expatriate in PariS , about such expatriates ; a black , the most intense novel about blacks . By analogy , the most adequate definition of a proletarian novel is : " a novel by a proletarian ( one from the lowest social group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proletariat kept coming , stubbornly , not from proletarians but from intellectuals and mavericks of the middle classes . ( This ' is simply explained : proletarians did not have the education and leisure required , to produce literature , nor the social connections that would enable them to get their , works published if they could produce them . ) Most so-called Proletarian novels were compassionate statements , or calls to arms , on behalf of the proletariat . By the start of our century , the hunt for genuine proletarian writers had become intense . It paralleled the , hunt for genuine proletarians to lead the revolutionary struggle . That was why Maxim Gorky became such a symbol in Russia . He was a voice from the lower depths . Actually Gorky came from a family that , had ' risen into the middle class ( though it was on its way down again ) ; he had himself been an orphaned runaway , casual laborer and wanderer of the roads  --  technically , a member of the Lumpenproletariat . Still , because of the circumstances of life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the hitherto silent disinherited , a historic example . Aside from Gorky , the most notable European examples are O'Casey and NexO ( author of the splendid Pelle the Conqueror ) . There , are few others . The usual standard , when one speaks of " proletarian novels , " is still Zola 's Germinal ? a fine work by a middle-class intellec ' that who had sojourned among the Alsatian miners . The irony of a genre without true examples was even more ' telling in America , where class ' lines had always been less rigid ; only during the Great Depression did it appear that the crystallization of a proletariat in classic terms was under way . In a recent anthology , The American Writer and the Great De , pression , edited by Harvey Swados , the key selections  --  with one exception , the one written by Jack Conroy  --  are by authors like Sherwood Anderson , Erskine Caldwell , James Agee , John Stein-beck , Edmund Wilson . Protest writings , but hardly proletarian writers . The most ' influential " proletarian plays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He came from a poor Jewish family , but with the long Jewish tradition of education and articulateness ? not typically proletarian . Odets could not be " the genuine voice of the ' workers " ; nor could Mike Gold who would write Jews ' Without Money , nor James T. Farrell with his novels of the Catholic lower middle ' class . All this makes more understandable the enthusiasm of the American Left when Jack Conroy appeared with The Disinherited . No writer so obviously proletarian had emerged . And  --  because of the course that history took  --  none could emerge after him. , Conroy ' was the sour of , a Missouri coal miner . His brother had died in the mines , as had his , father . He wrote about the miners , not with Zola 's liberal compassion but as one of them . He became , briefly , an idol ; and his magazine New Anvil seemed a prophetic guide to a revolution 's literature . But the New Deal intervened , defense industry brought jobs and siphoned off popular discontent , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mood completely . Steinbeck 's Grapes of Wrath  --  again the compassionate novel about proletarians , written from the outside  --  reaped the last harvest of the depression psychology . and the cult of the proletariat . By the end of the war there had been such a change that " proletarian " had become a historic tern . A man of letters , no more the proletarian , Conroy lived into the new age . He worked at editorial jobs , mainly in Chicago , reviewed books for the Sun-Times , was a friend to other writers and a befriender of every young talent , edited an anthology of black writing , drank hard ? then stopped drinking when he had to . Finally , he returned to his home town , Moberly , Mo. , near the now vanished mines and scenes ' of childhood . Someone ? it may have been Dale Kramer  --  gave him a sobriquet , The Sage of Moberly . Others have since taken it up ; I think Conroy likes it . His legacy , up to this moment , is The Disinherited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is the only one , certainly , that meets the strict definition " by a proletarian , aboUt those like him . " As if aware of this , Jack Conroy has been stubbornly determined that the book should not die . The firm of Hill and Wang believed as he did ; and so editions have continued to appear . It has lived forty years now . I read it again recently , and discussed it with a graduate class in literature . Most  --  not all  --  agreed that it lives ; for some it was a powerful literary experience . Several students pointed to its historical contribution , the depression made real . The novel is divided ? into three parts , each set in a different locale : first , Larry Donovan 's childhood and early youth in the Monkey Nest mining campin Missouri ; second , in Detroit , the goal of the great migration from the depression-struck Midwest ; third , the wandering of the disinherited , driven out of Detroit , living , in Hoovervilles , taking desperate jobs , finally rising  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take people 's homes away . The first third  --  in the Monkey Nest camp  --  is the best . An America of exploited labor , stoicism and eager hay-seedy life comes into focus . There is truth and artistic control ( naive , it seems to me ) of the medium . In Detroit the focus blurs . The author 's lack ' of a coherent view of life becomes a problem . His awkward flings at political theorizing do not help . ( Theory interested Conroy even less than it did Gorky . ) The chief interest of this section lies in its depiction of the effect on human beings of the inhuman production line . This parallels the theme and the humor of Rena Clair 's A Nous la liberte and Chaplin 's Modern Times , and therefore is important social history , but it is far less artistic than those movies . The last third is strong reportage . Time has not been kind to the ideology expressed in the ending  --  a standard ending for a proletarian novel , with the poor farmers and disinherited workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survives the author 's explicit ideology . What keeps the book alive is primarily the truth to life of the first section , the world of the miners , and the virtue of honest reportage in the remainder . Whenever Conroy Went beyond ' the bounds of his own experience the book is manifestly weak . But all in all it has survived to speak to a later age . Few novels do that . When Conroy returned to Mober- , ly , he ' felt a need to reflect on his own youth and his later experiences . An autobiography seemed the right ' answer  --  as for Gorky and O'Casey . But could he interpret that youth and the years thereafter from a later perspective ? The first real product of that return was-a chapter for such an autobiography ( or it could possibly be the beginning of a novel ) , which appeared in a recent issue of New Letters , the literary magazine published at Kansas University . That chapter is the story of a childhood in the Monkey Nest camp once again . It is as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same story , told differently , with equal artistry  --  as if the intervening years never happened . What comes next will be crucial . Conroy has to go beyond what The Disinherited said . The problem is made more difficult , I think , ' by the fact that Conroy is well aware that his book wasa historic achievement . It proved that the proletariat could produce its own chronicler . This was the proof that Gorky , too , represented . But a bitter , disillusioned Gorky , who had traveled a long road , psychologically and intellectually , wrote plays far different from his early " proletarian " dramas . They also went far beyond the outlook expressed in his autobiography , though that is still an inspiring book . Conroy 's novel also remains , less rich and broad , less thoughtful , but still a literary whole , an American phenomenon , and a historical document . ?                     