@@494721

Correspondence Full Employment Sirs : I am writing to salute Melville Ulmer ( " The Non-Answer to Nixonomics , " NR , Dec. 11 , 1971 ) , for a penetrating and courageous analysis of the default of the Democratic Party on the issue of employment policy . Economic journalism of this calibre is hard to come by . Thus , the following comments are intended to embellish rather than to criticize . Ulmer assumes that increases in the demand for private goods and services do not get translated into significant increases in the derived demand for unskilled labor because of a " twist " in the technology of producing such products , a " twist " which has made unskilled workers obsolete ( this is an idea first developed by a distinguished labor economist , Charles Killingsworth ) . There is , however , mounting evidence that many private companies employ less of such labor than would be dictated by an unbiased consideration of technology andrelative costs , especially when this labor is black , female or teenaged . It is their fear of unorthodox allocations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private employers are responding to , rather than ( or ? to be more precise ? in addition to ) the objective dictates of technology . Ulmer believes that there exist alternative technologies for producing public goods and services , that some of these alternatives are intensive users of unskilled labor , and that the government can ( and should ) select such " techniques of production " as a deliberate matter of political-economic policy , whether or not they are the most " efficient " of the alternatives available . I would add that the government has it within its power to forcefully reduce ? and over a reasonable period of time , to completely eliminate ? race , sex and class discrimination within its ranks . The choice of **25;2267;TOOLONG techniques will expand total ( public ) employment . The anti-discrimination efforts will generate a more equitable distribution of the earnings flowing from that employment .... At least one policy instrument for enforcing nondiscriminatory practices in private industry comes readily to mind : the vigorous use of government contract cancellations . The analogous instrument for the public sector would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ulmer 's article and this letter have emphasized the employment issue . It is worth noting , however , that there are some extremely high costs which will have to be paid in order to purchase full employment in the manner suggested by Ulmer , and his exercise in social accounting ( e.g. add in the extra wages , subtract out the savings in unemployment insurance and welfare ) fails to identify these . A policy such as that which he advocates would have the effect of substituting public for private output . Under realistic assumptions about future rates of real national growth , this probably implies a redistribution of national income from profits to wages . Since the public and piivate sectors do not ( for the most part ) produce the same things , it also implies a shift in the composition of GNP , which means that not only will owners of capital suffer as a class , but individual businessmen will undoubtedly carry a disproportionate burden . Finally , the imposition.of a constraint on production ? that full employment must be maintained , even at the cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not grow as rapidly as it might under less than full employment . These are revolutionary changes , going far beyond a mere " reordering of priorities . " One may well join Ulmer in wondering aloud whether there exists a Democrat ( or any other national politician ) with the courage to espouse such a program . Bennett Harrison University of Maryland In reply : Mr. Harrison 's comments go so weirdly astray on two elementary points that I can only suppose that he wrote and mailed his letter before reading the last word in the title of my article . His first error relates to the difference between a proportionate and an absolute change . My plan would result in expanding the output of public goods ? environmental care , mass transportation , and the like ? not only as a proportion of the nation 's production , but as a net addition to the total . The new public goods would be provided by the efforts of formerly idle resources : the unemployed who would be given jobs in government . The output of private goods ? food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same , temporarily , but later would increase . Hence the total GNP would rise at an unprecedented rate and through this full use of the nation 's potential , for the first time outside war periods , economic growth would be vastly accelerated . Good sense , not courage , is required for politicians to support such a plan , and many of them have already indicated that they will . All this , of course , is just the opposite of the picture Mr. Harrison draws . His second error relates to discrimination . My proposal would provide jobs in government for those who can not get them in private industry , whatever the reason , including prejudice in race , sex , creed or age ( affecting , the over 50 , as well as teenagers ) . Yet the tragedy of discrimination must be distinguished from the evils of economic instability . Discrimination determines who will be unemployed , not how many . Although poverty is often equated with black ghettos , and blacks obviously do suffer the most , relatively speaking , it is worth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 80 percent of the unemployed , and of the poor generally were white . Full employment without inflation , toward which my article was directed , would help men and women of ? all colors . Melville J. Ulmer Missile Myth Sirs : In an article by Herbert Scoville , Jr . ( " Missile Myths-I : A Soviet First Strike ? " Oct. 2 , 1971 ) you added an editorial note which , after commenting on the number of existing Soviet ICBMs and operational missile firing submarines , reads as follows : " Numbers , of course , say nothing definitive about a first-strike capability or intent . " I fail to understand what the phrase " nothing definitive " means in such a context . Numbers are , of course , the definitive criteria in any first-strike capability . I personally could not care less about the day-to-day intent of the Kremlin Leaders which is , of course , constantly subject to change , absent sufficient numbers of missiles to give them such a first-strike capability . I hope you will pardon my saying so , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first-strike capability is to write nonsense . In the article proper Mr. Scoville states that Secretary Laird first raised the first-strike alarm by stating on March 21 , 1969 , that the Soviet Union is " going for a first-strike capability and there is no question about it . " Mr. Scoville then states that Secretary Laird " retreated " to the position that the Russians were acquiring the forces that would provide them with such a capability . I must confess that the distinction between those two remarks is lost on me . Further on , Mr. Scoville states " we must remember that a first strike that is only 50% or even 95% effective is a disaster for the Soviet Union since few or even one thermonuclear explosion on its cities in retaliation would be a catastrophe . " Surely one such explosion would be acceptable to eliminate the United States as a military threat to the Soviet Union if the situation in the world at that time was such that the Kremlin leaders were seriously considering a war . A National leadership that lived through the 900 days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign is hardly likely to shrink at the prospect of losing one of its cities ; if that city , or even several of them , could be traded for the elimination of the United States . Although it is no doubt true that the Soviet Union would not risk a first strike on our Minute-Man ICBMs if our manned bomber force ( rapidly becoming obsolete absent the advent of the B-1 ) and the polaris-poseidon missile firing submarine system were not also simultaneously eliminated , Mr. Scoville is stretching the point when he makes mention of our bombers based on carriers since Mr. Scoville surely knows that such bombers have insufficient range to be a true " strategic " deterent and that those carriers are extremely vulnerable to Soviet countermeasures while attempting to maneuver close enough to the Soviet mainland to launch such attacks . Mr. Scoville goes on to state that " while the Soviets have a modest antisubmarine warfare program , they could not have a force which could destroy the polaris fleet in this decade or probably the next and have apparently not even made a major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true . The Soviet Navy , the world 's second largest , is built around Hunter-Killer task forces whose task it is to hunt down and destroy American aircraft carriers and missile launching submarines . These task forces are built around the new class of Soviet helicopter carriers ( the Moskva being the first of this class ) . Three of these ships presently exist and more are being built . All new Soviet light crusiers and destroyers have anti-submarine warfare capabilities and more of these vessels are also presently being built ( they presently number 177 vessels not including smaller escorts ) . As to whether or not these ships could destroy the polaris fleet in this decade , no one , not even Mr. Scoville is in a position to answer that question . Apropos of that , it is to be pointed out that neither the polaris nor the poseidon missile is a true intercontinental ballistic missile in that their range is far less than that of the Minute-Man Missiles . Our missile-firing submarines , like our carriers , must maneuver far closer to the Soviet mainland than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ICBMs . In any event , the Soviet Union is definitely making a major effort in their anti-submarine warfare program . In an attempt to downgrade the Soviet SS-9 program , Mr. Scoville gratuitously adds that " the Russians have , over the years , been prejudiced in the direction of very large weapons systems . " One could substitute the phrase " sensibly oriented " for the word " prejudiced . " All that can be said , with any degree of certainty regarding the utility of very large warheads , is that the Soviet strategic planners and the Pentagon have come to different conclusions . Reasonable men differ , but Mr. Scoville then compounds the original gratuity by stating " but with this history of the desire of the Russian Military to have the biggest weapons it should not surprise us that they would deploy a very large missile . " The Soviet Union has no full-sized aircraft carriers . The T54 , T-55 and the T-62 Soviet tanks are lighter than their American and British counterparts . They have no aircraft as large as the C5A . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The MIG 15 and 17 were lighter than American Sabre-jets . The MIG 19 was lighter than the F-100 . The MIG 21s are lighter than our F-4s , F-10s or F-8s . The Soviets adopted an interim sized rifle cartridge before the Western Allies adopted the similar NATO round and long before the United States adopted the necked-down 22 caliber round used in our M-16 . The Soviet Union 's RPG-7 rocket launcher is lighter and smaller than its American counterpart . Soviet submarines are generally smaller than their American counterparts . The Soviets have the world 's lightest squad light machine gun and the Soviet Union leads the world in the development of short-range light weight tactical rocket launchers . I may be wrong but I believe the Saturn booster is as large as any used by the Soviets . Concede that the United States has some weapons lighter or smaller than their Soviet counterparts , it is , nevertheless , difficult to give much credence to Mr. Scoville 's remark that the Soviet Military desires to have the biggest weapons . They surely want the most efficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this controversy have occurred . First , an investigatory committee of the Operations Research Society of America , a committee not comprised of ABM supporters , has scathingly criticized the testimony given before Congress by " anti-ABM " scientists on the grounds of intellectual dishonesty . The investigation was initiated by Albert Wohlstetter , nuclear weapons expert of the RAND Corporation , after he listened incredulously to the out and out nonsense being fobbed-off as scientific fact by the ABM critics . Second , the knowledgeable and prestigious editors of " Jane 's All The World 's Weapons Systems " have , in their 1971-72 edition confirmed most of what Laird and the Pentagon have been saying about Soviet strategic weaponry . James R. Rumbaugh Chicago , Illinois In reply : I should like to comment on a few points . The editors ' note stated that numbers say nothing definitive about a first-strike capability , and I agree with this view since numbers of missile launchers alone do not determine a first-strike capability . In fact , they are only a small part of the problem . Much more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are carried in any strategic missile . For example , with suitable accuracy , 300 ICBMs carrying 6 MIRVs each would be more effective as a first-strike weapon than the 450 ICBMs with 3 MIRVs which has been postulated by the administration as the critical Soviet threat . Of course , if all other factors are equal , then numbers are , as you say , important . While I do n't wish to make too much of the differences between . the two versions of Secretary Laird 's statements since they are very subtle , I believe that the first statement was taken to indicate a Soviet intention , while the latter implied that the acquisition of a first-strike capability could have been coincidental . Unfortunately , an awful lot was made of this difference in the testimony by the Defense Department at that time . I still believe that a first strike that was only 95% effective would be a disaster for the Soviet Union , and even one thermonuclear explosion which could essentially wipe out Moscow or Leningrad would be a catastrophe . I would think even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unless they were convinced that there was a direct nuclear threat to their homeland in any case . Certainly they could not conceive initiating a nuclear war if they knew that 5% of the US strategic force could retaliate against the Soviet Union . By Secretary Laird 's own figures of last February , we now have 4600 nuclear weapons in our strategic force loadings and this number has increased since that time . Five percent of this would mean between 200 and 300 nuclear explosions in the Soviet Union , with yields ranging from several times the HiroshimaNagasaki bombs to many megatons . Clearly this would eliminate the Soviet Union as a nation . One Poseidon submarine alone could deliver 160 such weapons on the USSR . I can not think of what they would gain from the elimination of the US that would warrant such a risk . While forward-based nuclear delivery systems are not an essential element in the US strategic force , nevertheless , from a Soviet planner 's point of view , these must be considered a threat as long as they have the range to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was demonstrated by their early insistence on their being included in the definition of strategic weapons at SALT . The need , to eliminate such forces in a first strike would certainly complicate such an operation and this has been recognized by SAC 's planners since President Eisenhower 's days . While it is true that the Soviets have been building up their ASW forces , these are still a long way from providing any real threat to our submarine deterrent . This has been stated over and over again by all military experts including the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs and the Chief of Naval Operations . While it is technically feasible to sink an occasional submarine , to simultaneously eliminate the approximately 30 submarines which might be at sea at one time is not considered practical with foreseeable technology . A wide-area ocean detection system combined with some techniques for destroying at a given moment the continuously tracked vessels would be required . This would clearly be visible long in advance of its deployment and many countermeasures would be available to the US forces . There is no evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despite the buildups in their helicopter carriers , etc. , which are not particularly adaptable to this type of operation . I believe most experts would agree with me that a threat to the Polaris deterrent can not develop in this decade . Although I am quite willing to concede that the Soviets have shown an interest in light tactical military weapons , I believe that on the whole analysis would support my conclusions of their interest in large strategic weapons . Their first ICBM , the SS-6 , was so large that they actually refrained from extensive deployment . Their subsequent ICBMs have in general also been larger than our military would have considered necessary . The same propensity for sizewas demonstrated in their nuclear weapons testing with several tests above 20 megatons including the one capable of 100 megatons . In view of the questionable military value of a bomb of this yield , one must draw the conclusion that this development was carried out largely because of Soviet interest in being able to boast about the largest weapons . While the US has built the Saturn booster which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this for space , not military purposes , since it would be far more effective to have more , smaller weapons . I do not believe it is profitable at this point to get into a detailed rebuttal of the report of the Operations Research Society of American which only investigated the points raised by one of its members , Albert Wohlstetter , and failed to look at the testimony on the ABM debate as a whole . In fact , most of the points raised by the anti-ABM scientists have since been conceded by the administration . The threat postulated ' has not , some three years later , developed , and a program for developing an effective ABM defense of Minuteman has been instituted because of the admitted weaknesses of the Safeguard system for this purpose . i have not yet seen the recent edition of " Jane 's All the World 's Weapons System " but I do know , and it has been confirmed by Defense spokesmen , that the Soviet SS-9 missile program is significantly behind that forecast by Secretary Laird in 1969 . It has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begun testing a MIRV system of the type that could threaten our , Minuteman although this was originally claimed by Secretary Laird and others to have been begun in 1968 . There have never in recent years been any disagreements on the weapons deployed or under construction . It is only on the extrapolations into the future that we have been led astray by statements of exaggerated threats .                     