@@289846

BERLINERS , YOU ARE LIVING IN DANGER ! So screamed pamphlets and newspaper ads published in West Berlin by the Christian Democratic Union in anticipation of last weekend 's municipal elections . They referred to local worries about street violence . But the authors of the campaign did not realize how much danger there was until three days before the election . Lawyer Peter Lorenz , 52 , the party 's candidate for mayor , was boldly ambushed and kidnaped as he traveled by limousine from his suburban Zehlendorf home to C.D.U . headquarters in central Berlin . <P> The first political kidnaping in West German history was carried out with almost military precision . Lorenz 's black Mercedes was cut off by a truck and rammed in the rear by a red Fiat . When Lorenz 's chauffeur got out to discuss the accident with the Fiat 's woman driver , he was knocked to the street by a bearded man from still another car . The men then jumped into the Mercedes and drove the protesting Lorenz away . <P> Berlin police were quickly able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a suspected supporter of West Germany 's notorious Baader-Meinhof gang of radical terrorists . Scarcely 24 hours after the kidnaping , however , the West German news agency DPA received a better explanation-a letter from the kidnapers and a photograph of the captured Lorenz-of what had happened . The kidnapers identified themselves as the " June Second Movement , " referring to the day in 1967 when police shot and killed a member of a crowd of students protesting a visit to West Germany by the Shah of Iran . <P> The June Second Movement demanded freedom for six jailed radicals involved in Baader-Meinhof-style criminal operations-curiously not including gang leaders Andreas Baader and Ulrike Meinhof . They also wanted authorities to annul all verdicts handed down against demonstrators who had violently protested the death by prison hunger strike of a gang member named Holger Meins . One result of the violence was the murder of West Berlin Supreme Court President Giinter von Drenk-mann . It is suspected that he was killed in retaliation for Meins ' death ( TIME , Dec. 9 ) . Unless the six prisoners were released @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Berlin on a special jet , Lorenz , according to the note , would be executed . <P> Lackluster Image . The kidnapers said that Lorenz was a " representative of the reactionaries and the big bosses . " In fact , Lorenz is a mild-mannered and scholarly politician who has often been criticized by his fellow C.D.U . members for being too much of a moderate . Despite his lackluster low-profile image , he stood a chance of winning Sunday 's election-which the municipal government decided to let take place despite the kidnaping . Lorenz now may well benefit from a sympathy vote , as well as from a backlash against the governing Social Democrats led by Mayor Klaus Schtz . The mayor was particularly embarrassed by the affair , since Lorenz 's police guards-part of a plan to protect leading politicians of all parties-had gone off duty just two hours before the kidnaping.                     