@@479989

ONE OF THE STURDIER political jokes circulating around Moscow tells of a train allegorically bound for Communism with three prominent passengers ? Joseph Stalin , Nikita Khrushchev , and the Soviet Union 's current leader , Leonid Ryich Brezhnev . When the train stalls , Stalin has the entire crew taken out and shot . The train does n't move , so Khrushchev commands that the crew be posthumously rehabilitated and awarded country dachas . Still nothing happens . Finally , Stalin and Khrushchev turn to Brezhnev , who orders , " Pull the curtains shut and pretend that we are moving . " Last November , when the Soviet Union celebrated the sixtieth anniversary of the Bolshevik Revolution , the self-congratulatory slogans of the Communist party ( " Glory to the Communist party ! " ) were meant to convey an ideology on the march . But however dramatic its origins , the revolution is showing the strains of its advanced middle age . " When it was young , the Soviet state was physically weak but ideologically strong , " observed the dissident Soviet writer Vladimir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physically strong but ideologically weak . " Mr. Brezhnev and his peers are not the Marxist visionaries limned by the Soviet press , but aging , tired men who hang on because they have never been provided with a decent alternative to power . Even after the unceremonious ouster , in May , 1977 , of Nikolai Podgorny , the seventy-four-year-old former Soviet president , the Politburo 's voting members still average more than sixty-six years of age . Unable or unwilling to pass the mantle of authority to a new generation , they have made caution their byword , deferring or ignoring decisions , resisting innovations , and buying Western technology and grain to avoid having to revamp the rigid , centrally planned economic system . Pragmatism has become the Soviet Union 's new gospel , and the party 's own apparatchiki its evangels . " Ideology is something to proclaim , to print in our newspapers , " a Communist party member confided to me , " but questions are answered from the point not of ideology but of the stability of the state , not on whether it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state more stable . " The message has drifted down to the rank and file . " There is no belief inside the party , " my acquaintance said . " The basic belief is that now you do n't live as badly as yesterday . But then tomorrow you expect to live a little better than today . " The Kremlin has become adept at masking the realities behind a facade of pokazukha , or show-off . Four million foreign tourists a year move swaddled in the cocoon of the state travel monopoly , Intourist , seldom if ever seeing the anxious queues for meat in the state stores , the bottles of vodka shared three ways among near strangers in the darkened alleyways , the restricted but well-stocked shops and other privileges reserved for the Soviet elite . In four years as a correspondent in Moscow , I visited all fifteen Soviet republics , with trips to Siberia and the Far East ; yet a precise vision of the vast country , which spans eleven time zones , always remained just out of focus . " Russia is like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , referring to the wooden folkdolls that nest one inside another . " You have managed to see two or three matryoshkas , when we have a hundred of them . " Any foreigner who probes too deeply into the fabric of Soviet society is invariably charged with espionage . Within a year and a half , four resident American correspondents ? George Krimsky of the Associated Press , Alfred Friendly , Jr. , of Newsweek , Robert Toth of the Los Angeles Times , and myself ? were labeled as spies in the controlled Soviet press . In my case , I was warned that my questions " were not those of a journalist . " This , by Soviet journalistic standards , had some logic . Yet four years of working and living inside the Soviet Union have produced some conclusions : that six decades of abiding paranoia about influence from the West and dissent at home reveal a lack of confidence in the system itself , a lack of confidence that extends to the Politburo ; that the unwillingness to come to terms with the brutality of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; that the Marxist-Leninist ideology is hailed so shrilly because it no longer counts for much ; that in imposing a new , " Soviet " identity on its citizens , the Kremlin has made them not quite Russian , yet not quite not . Progress and insecurity N FAIRNESS , the accomplishments of sixty / years of Soviet power should be acknowledged . A resolution by the party 's Central Committee last year reported that as many goods were now manufactured in two-and-ahalf days as were produced in all of 1913 , the year often cited for prerevolutionary comparisons . The Soviet Union leads the United States and the rest of the world in producing oil ( 104 million barrels a day in 1976 ) , steel ( 145 million tons ) , and coal ( 712 million tons ) . It has achieved nuclear parity with the United States . Illiteracy and unemployment have been virtually eliminated from what was once the most backward country in Europe , and citizens are now provided low-cost housing , free education , and medical care . " We have practically no unemployment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maybe a man has a poor job that pays badly . but he is still employed . " Of course , some achievements can be quibbled with . In 1976 , Soviet industrial growth slowed to 4.8 percent , with a mere 3.3 percent rise in productivity , as the nation 's economic base broadened and an effort was made to stress quality over sheer quantity . Soviet hockey players may play superbly , but their equipment is so shoddy that national teams take to the ice with Western skates and sticks . And whatever economic improvements average Russians enjoy must be weighed against an appalling lack of personal freedoms . If the most grandiose claims of the Soviet press were accepted at face value , it would seem even more surprising that " an advanced , full-fledged socialist society , " as Mr. Brezhnev has called it , should act so insecurely about rivals abroad and critics at home . " Their fear here is the fear of anything that smacks of unorthodoxy , of anything that does n't conform to the principles laid down , " said a Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sort of thing . They do n't even understand it . " The Kremlin ideologists talk of a new " Soviet man " and a " Soviet socialist civilization , " in an ongoing effort to reject the prerevolutionary Russian past . But the biggest difference , according to a Soviet historian , is that the leadership now conceals its privileges . " They no longer ride in a golden carriage . They go about in a Chaika limousine , " he said . Moscow taxi drivers have nicknamed a new residential neighborhood for party officials " Tsarskoy e Selo , " after one of the estates of the czars . And during the Twenty-fifth Party Congress in 1976 , I was told , four segregated buffets were set up , the highest for Politburo members and foreign party leaders and the lowest for ordinary delegates . At this celebration of proletarian solidarity , fraternization between tables was forbidden . T HE PERQUISITES of the new Soviet upper class , from chauffeur-driven cars to trips abroad , have become common knowledge in the West . But one Russian acquaintance familiar with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Soviet elite has everything , it is not true . The elite ones are afraid because they know they can lose everything at once . So there is no self-confidence , up to . the very top . " During my four years in Moscow , I saw three nominally secure Politburo members with full voting rights ? Alexander N. Shelyepin , Dmitri S. Polyansky , and then-President Podgorny ? stripped abruptly of their party titles and dispatched to various levels of obscurity . When I visited the Central Asian city of Samarkand a few weeks after Mr. Podgorny had been dropped from the Politburo but before he had formally lost the presidency , the lineup of giant Politburo portraits 32 in the park included a conspicuously empty frame that was the only reminder of Mr. Podgorny 's long years of service at the Kremlin . Ironically , lower-ranking government employees have become insulated from such traumas . The flamboyant Nikita Khrushchev was dumped in 1964 because he sought to shake up the bureaucracy and make it more responsive . Riding in on the resentment toward Khrushchev 's capriciousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at the price of inertia and even stagnation . Nothing can be accomplished without reams of paperwork . Decisions get bucked upstairs . Directives on economic reform run out of steam before they reach the plant managers in the provinces . The Kremlin itself seems to be making fewer decisions . The new Soviet constitution , adopted in October , 1977 , probably was intended to assure Mr. Brezhnev his niche in history . rather than to introduce basic revisions of the 1936 constitution enacted under Stalin . A new national anthem was given a press buildup . It turned out that only a few references to Stalin were expunged ; the rest of the lyrics and the music remained intact . " When they announced that our new hymn would be sung over television , we turned on our set and could n't believe our ears , " one woman told me . " It turned out to be the same old hymn with a few words changed . They could n't even make a decision on that . " When the Kremlin flatly rejected two arms-control proposals that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in March , 1977. one local theory was that the Politburo could n't put together any counterproposals at such short notice . Some Western defense attaches speculated that the Soviet military balked at further cuts in the mammoth intercontinental missiles like the SS-18 , which form the backbone of the Soviet Union 's nuclear arsenal . Other diplomats have sensed the same vacillation in Soviet foreign policy in areas such as the Middle East , where the strategy has been to dole out weapons all around . The message from Moscow has been that everything under Communism works fine and that contentions otherwise come only from anti-Soviet renegades and their Western paymasters . Official criticism is confined to the lower echelons , seldom touching the party officials who give orders , and never the leadership , whose words carry the imprimatur of papal-like infallibility . After the disastrous Soviet harvest of 1975 , Minister of Agriculture Dmitri S. Polyansky was fired and packed off to Japan as ambassador . ( His predecessor , Vladimir V. Matskevich , was similarly reassigned as ambassador to Czechoslovakia after . the poor harvest of 1972 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least a hope of ending up as ambassadors and not being annihilated , as they were under Stalin . ) But Fyodor D. Kulakov , the Kremlin 's party secretary for agriculture , was never even implicitly assailed , since this would have reflected on Mr. Brezhnev 's policy of solving the agricultural problem with infusions of money ? $227 billion in the current five-year plan alone . One result is that even greater reliance has been placed on the collective farmers ' modest private plots , which account for a scant 3 percent of the nation 's sown acreage but have produced nearly two-thirds of its potatoes , more than half of its vegetables , and slightly less than a quarter of its meat and milk . No effort has been made to give the 47,300 state and collective farms greater this would mean relinquishin Moscow . Meanwhile , complai farm machinery left outside to rust during the winter , of the lack of spare parts and the shortage of grain-storage facilities . Every autumn , the country is mobilized as if the harvest were some unforeseen emergency . Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students are pulled out of university classes to dig vegetables . One Western scientist visited the prestigious Institute of High Energy Physics at Serpukhov and reported that its laboratory personnel had to spend at least one day a week in the summer helping a nearby farm cultivate its cabbages . Yet no one is prepared to tinker with so unproductive a system . Similarly , in Soviet industry a common practice is to revise the targets downward in mid-plan and then triumphantly announce that they have been more than fulfilled . Prime Minister Alexei Kosygin attempted some economic reforms in the late 1960s , but they faltered for lack of support . " You can not rationalize this economy without taking some really drastic steps which would in the long run undermine the Communist party , " a seasoned American diplomat explained . " This is a tough problem for them to face . " In conflict with the present and the past UCH FRUSTRATIONS have helped nur-ture the long-standing inferiority com-plex toward the West . To cite a few current examples , Soviet aviation au-thorities will not allow the Boeing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purportedly because the airfield can not accommodate it . More than one West-ern airline representative said that it was actually because the Soviet airline Aeroflot did not have a comparable plane to show off . Recently , Aeroflot began having some airline tickets printed in West Germany , but at first inked out the telltale marks of origin before issuing them . The Kremlin has tried to bolster its own image at home by running down that of the West . The schoolboy son of a friend showed me his history textbook , which gave a detailed account of how blacks were lynched in the United States . In a nation that calls itself revolutionary , massive resources are devoted to maintaining a quarantine against outside contacts and ideas . A Western European diplomat who once drove from Moscow to Warsaw related how he watched green-capped Soviet border guards take apart an automobile , luggage , and finally a child 's doll in search of something illicit . " What are you going to do when all the tourists arrive for the 1980 Olympics ? " the diplomat asked the colonel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replied , " We 'll recruit more border guards . " The paranoia toward foreigners sometimes verges on the ludicrous . One sophisticated technocrat explained that he was afraid to meet Westerners because his boss was retiring in a year and it could hurt his chances of getting the job . The most deliciously outrageous assertion 1 ran across last fall in the youth newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda . It told about an amorous American sailor named Robert who had sailed into Leningrad aboard a freighter , seduced three local young ladies , and , after promising to keep in touch , sailed off again . The newspaper warned its readers that the sailor was only looking for girls to brainwash " in an anti-Soviet spirit , " and therefore must have been a spy . " We think no one can have any doubts who Robert really represents and who he is working for , " Komsomolskaya Pravda asserted . Even the most routine information is available largely on a need-to-know basis . The press agency Tass maintains an entire section to classify for official eyes only the kind of news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West . Recently , a British journalist friend tried to find out what were the most popular Soviet children 's books . A librarian at the Writers ' Union curtly assured him that she had the information but would not divulge it until he had arranged a formal interview through protocol channels . Such a siege mentality has given the Soviet Union the mood of a barracks state . The national physical fitness program is named " Ready for Work and Defense of the U.S.S.R. " In its competitions last year , a thirty-nine-yearold housewife , Valentina Bykova , was hailed by the Soviet press for having tossed a hand grenade nearly 133 feet . Canvas-shrouded MiG jet fighters were routinely trundled at night past our apartment building on Moscow 's busy Sadovoi Ring Boulevard , attracting almost no curiosity from late-evening strollers . The Soviet Union has expanded its armed forces to 4 million men , given them some of the most advanced weapons in the world , and created a formidable deep-water navy . The unavoidable question , of course , is whether Moscow , having developed such military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proof of its superpower credentials . Yet it struck me that the Soviet Union was preoccupied with its own security , particularly against China , and not with designs for aggression . For the present , one diplomat friend agreed . " if they ever have to choose between stability at home and adventurism abroad , they 'll take stability . Things like Angola are cheap shots , but I do n't see them conniving to take over the world . They are conniving how to keep things together at home . " T HE REASONS BEHIND an inordinate passion for security lie in the past six decades of Soviet power , which have witnessed one cataclysm after another ? revolution , civil war , famines , farm collectivization , the Stalinist purges , and the Nazi invasions . Soviet officials talk readily of the 20 million Russians who died in the second world war , but they say almost nothing about those who also perished in peacetime under Stalin , though the British historian Robert Conquest has estimated conservatively that they numbered 20 million also . " It is almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the purges , who did not suffer , " said one Russian who himself was sent to the labor camps . Yet when the Nobel laureate Alexander Solzhenitsyn produced his detailed study of the Stalinist penal system , The Gulag Archipelago , he was defamed. harassed , and finally arrested and expelled by the Kremlin . At the height of the press campaign against him early in 1974 , I joined several other Western correspondents in visiting the Pravda commentator Yuri Zhukov , who agreed to show us letters against Mr. Solzhenitsyn that he said were pouring in from average Russians . Mr. Zhukov assured us that the excesses of that period had already been discussed by more honest writers and did not have to be exhumed again . On his advice , I made the rounds of bookstores in Moscow but could not find one book that referred even implicitly to the bloody purges . 35 The Communist party 's efforts have been confined to disassociating itself from the brutality of Stalin . At a party plenum last May , Mr. Brezhnev acknowledged that " some " of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the principles of socialist democracy and Leninist norms of party life .... The party strongly condemned such practices , and they must never be repeated . " This offhand allusion to the extinction of millions of Russians was the strongest such comment that I came across in my four years . The Soviet leaders have their own reasons for glossing over the past , since most of them got their career breaks under Stalin . Prime Minister Alexei N. Kosygin became mayor of Leningrad at the age of thirty-four after a purge of the city 's higher echelons , though he was not involved in the bloodletting . But any serious examination of the past would also open up some larger questions that could imperil the stability of the current regime . " It would throw into doubt the whole basis of the system , " explained the writer Lev Kopelev . " If it was possible to doubt about yesterday , then one could doubt about today and tomorrow . " This has meant wishing away the better part of four decades , if one also counts the Khrush @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year since the revolution was remarkable for omitting much more than it covered . The uninformed viewer would have concluded that Khrushchev never existed , that Stalin was mildly naughty , and that Brezhnev had inherited the mantle of succession from Lenin himself . " The system has never achieved the legitimacy that other systems have , " explained one senior Western diplomat who is now on his second Moscow tour . " Each transition presents a potential crisis . How can you pass power in the Politburo ? How can you provide for a succession in an oligarchy that keeps making all the decisions ? " Sixty years after the Bolsheviks seized power , a fear of the spontaneous persists . Mr. Brezhnev is undeniably popular with ordinary Russians , partly because his image is constantly polished in the Soviet press . ( One political riddle asks : What has two long ears , four legs , and Brezhnev in the middle ? The answer is a television set . ) A number of Russians I talked with agreed that Mr. Brezhnev could pull up to 90 percent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literary critic reminded me , " our leaders would have to start answering the remaining 10 percent , and they do n't know how . " THE CURRENT STATE of the Soviet Union has contributed to the increasingly popular notion in the West that it is merely an extension of the old Russian empire . Some observations by the Marquis de Custine , the French nobleman who , visited Russia in 1839 , seem uncannily apE propriate today . He might have been traveling with Intourist when he remarked that " the observer can not visit places or look at anything without a guide ; never being alone , he has trouble judging for himself , which is what they want . To enter Russia , you must deposit your free will along with your passport at the frontier . " But for all the seeming parallels , the conclusion seems too simplistic . Anatol ) , M. Ivanov , who wrote for the illicit Russian journal V echa under the pen name of Skuratov , noted that the revolution triggered a deliberate campaign to substitute a Marxist philosophy imported from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , two generations of Russian intellectuals were exiled or exterminated and millions of peasants were displaced . " Only when Hitler invaded Russia was patriotism resurrected in a military form , " Mr. lvanov said . " Before that , the word Russia was vir- " The unintually forbidden . Yet Hitler lost the war precisely because Russia existed . " The mathematician and historian Igor R. Shafarevich explained that , despite his dissident views , he agrees " entirely with Soviet power that the October Revolution was a break with the past . " Dr. Shafarevich noted that the Soviet state now owned all the country 's industry and businesses , employed all the farmers , had replaced the Russian Orthodox Church with an official atheism , and had imposed an ideology beyond anything under the czars . The distinctions extended even to the czarist and Soviet penal systems , Dr. Shafarevich said . He recalled how before the revolution a group of political prisoners had threatened to go on a hunger strike if their foreign newspaper subscriptions were interfered with . " What was a relatively inefficient autocracy has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " said one Western diplomatic observer . " The czars were autocratic , they were stupid , they may not have recognized human rights , but they were not totalitarian . There were many areas of human rights they stayed out of . " Even under the czar , he said , a dissident could find work because there was more than one employer . Western attention has focused on the very real plights of Jewish activists or Baltic nationalists , who are generally supposed to live under the Russian boot . But some Russians also complain of discrimination . Unlike the other nationalities , they contend , they have no separate party apparatus , no Russian academy of sciences , no distinct university or conservatory . One prominent Russian nationalist , Vladimir Osipov , is ill with tuberculosis in prison , where he is serving an eight-year sentence for political activities . " It is not nation against nation but people against the system , " Dr. Shafarevich concluded . The daily problems of Soviet life encourage such sentiments . " Nationalism begins when a taxi driver complains that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent to Angola , " said one Muscovite . Among intellectuals , some have looked to the Orthodox Church to rediscover their roots , while others have rejected " socialist realism " in culture for overtly Russian writers like the late Vasily Shukshin or Valentin Rasputin and artists like Ilya Glazunov . A number of acquaintances remarked that Western journalists did not bother to draw a distinction between what was Soviet and what was Russian . " The problem is that the West likes to talk about Soviet ballet and Russian tanks in Prague , " one told me in a sudden outburst . " Do n't you realize that it is the other way around ? " The Kremlin 's concern over the democratic variant of " Eurocommunism " espoused by some Western European parties reflects the fear that the idea could ultimately infect the Soviet Union . Yet one Russian I knew saw Eurocommunism as another device for shoring up the legitimacy of Marxism . " It has n't worked here , and now you applaud the French and Italians for wanting to try it out there , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Russian swine could n't make Communism work and you in the West can . " U NDERCURRENTS like these may help explain why Moscow has devoted so much time and energy to harassing its dissidents , having dismissed them publicly as " a tiny group of nonentities who represent no one and nothing . " Unlike its counterpart in Poland . the fragmented Soviet human rights movement has no real links with the workers . But its ideas do have ramifications for other educated Russians ? writers , scientists , and teachers . " Even though the system is stable , it is not secure , " ventured Valentin F. Turchin , a dissident physicist who emigrated to the United States after having been kept jobless for morethan three years . Dr. Turchin likened dissent in the Soviet Union to a subterranean network of mushrooms under some mossy forest bed . Periodically , the climate caused some to sprout and be picked off . Others lay inert , at least for the time being . " Those of us above ground may feel isolated and lonely , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may dislike the regime more than we do . " But while Russians may grumble over the scarcity of food and consumer goods , they do not seem prepared to challenge the Soviet system , because , however imperfect , it was worse in the old Stalinist days . Clothes can now be found in a greater range of color and variety , more families have their own apartments , and the increase in private cars is giving Moscow its first parking problems . Moreover , a student remarked , " now at least you can live without politics . If you speak out against the system , they can jail you , but not if you do n't say anything . Before , they might have jailed you because you were n't politically active enough . " Whether the Soviet Union itself will mellow under the next generation of leaders is difficult to predict . With no precedent for an orderly transition inside the Kremlin , it is nearly impossible to say even who the successors will be . I have heard it argued that they could prove more dangerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power but not the sobering personal acquaintance with war that Mr. Brezhnev and his generation have . " If there were a free election , I would vote for Brezhnev because he is the last of the believers , " a social scientist confided . " I 'm afraid of the people who will come after him , because they believe in nothing . " An older party member was more sanguine . Unlike his generation , he said , the party 's younger apparatchiki " want to be powerful and nothing more . But they also like to travel abroad , they like comfort , and this is the root of our optimism . They too want stability and power , but they also want a good life . " Change is unlikely to be prompted from below . One friend spoke at length of the disenchantment he saw around him , but he doubted that anything would come of it . He recounted how last fall he had found some watermelons being sold on the sidewalk near Mayakovsky Square and had stepped into the lengthening queue . A passing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the drunk shouted . " Sixty years of Soviet power and you are still lining up for a watermelon . " I asked what had happened to the drunk . " Nothing , " my friend responded at last . " Everyone turned away . We could n't even look each other in the eye . "                     