@@494928

Vacancy on the Court William 0 . Douglas There was great poignancy in justice William 0 . Douglas ' departure from the Supreme Court . The hardy outdoorsman ? who used to outlast hikers half a century younger than he during his annual marches along the C &O; Canal ? had been able , during recent public Court sessions , to get to his place of seniority on the chief justice 's right only if wheeled there by several attendants . He often found it necessary to leave in the middle of lawyers ' presentations ? but not because of the impatience or the conflicting commitments that had regularly propelled him from his seat during his first 35 years on the Court . Now it was , as his letter of retirement disclosed , " incessant and demanding pain " that made him ask to be carried back to his chambers . The human tragedy of Douglas ' retirement produced a sympathetic letter from Gerald Ford , in laudatory terms the minority leader of the House of RepresentaLives in 1970 would never have imagined being able to write @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drive of five years ago praised Douglas ' " distinguished years of service , " his " contributions to the law , " and his " firm devotion to the fundamental rights of individual freedom and privacy under the Constitution . " The justice had held on as long as he physically could ? probably to avoid giving President Ford the occasion to appoint his successor and thereby strengthen , even further , the Court 's conservative wing . When he could continue no longer , he yielded up his retirement letter , and Mr. Ford buried it in bouquets . It would be unfortunate if the fog of pity that now envelopes Justice Douglas ' helpless physical condition obscures a realistic view of his accomplishments . False praise would be uncharacteristic of the man . There is much that Douglas and his often controversial legal career have taught to participants in this nation 's legal process ? to judges , lawyers , teachers and students . The qualities of sainthood were not , however , among his lessons . He was often superficial , impetuous , demagogic , sloppy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? the newly published Felix Frankfurter diaries containing the latest revelations ? he was also cunning and personally ambitious . But more important in public men than their private flaws are the qualities they bring to public business . Justice Douglas invested in his job enormous intelligence , independence and productivity . And he joined these virtues with universal curiosity , skepticism of government and passion for individual liberties . Douglas believed that being a lawyer meant much more than mastering legal texts and applying analytic reasoning to the facts of cases . Joseph Story , a lgthcentury Supreme Court justice who set an earlier longevity record on the Court , cautioned law students that the profession they were entering was " a jealous mistress , " to be won over only by " a long and constant courtship " requiring " lavish homage . " That was not Douglas ' view . In the first volume of his autobiography , published last year , Douglas repeatedly expressed his disdain for lawyers who shut all else out of their lives to serve their calling . The prominent New York firm for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where , even during dinner , " talk was always shop talk , never about running fast waters in a canoe or the problems of unrest in India or the ' red hunts ' in New England . " The firm 's senior partner ? although a highly competent attorney ? had misspent his life because " he never had the time to get to know the flight of the whistling swan or the call of the loons across northern waters . " One need not share totally Justice Douglas ' enthusiasm for raw nature ( or , particularly , for the call of the loons ? again remembered fondly in his farewell message to the other justices ) to agree that lawyers ' perspectives ? particularly in this age of specialization ? are much too narrow . Douglas demonstrated that it was not only possible , but desirable , to be at the peak of the profession and still remain interested , concerned and energetic in areas other than the law . Four days a week , he insisted , were enough to do the Court 's business ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Douglas ' interests puzzled and annoyed lawyers . They could never anticipate what newspaper article , what book , what public event might catch his restless attention and appear , without warning , in the text of a decision or in a footnote or appendix . It was unfair , they claimed , to have Supreme Court decisions depend on statements not made part of a record and subjected to the adversary contentions of lawyers . But it was consistent with Douglas ' philosophy of life and law to poke through the tidy formalities established by the legal brotherhood . Each breach was , one suspects , a deliberate reminder by the justice that life is more unruly and cluttered than lawyers would like it to appear , and that decisions which significantly affect society could not be confined by what lawyers thought relevant to their particular case . It is popular to pair Justice Douglas with the late Justice Hugo Black . Their early civil libertarian dissenting views ? which ultimately became the majority opinions of the Warren Court ? are compared to the dissents of Holmes and Brandeis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gained acceptance in later years . It is more difficult , however , to extract an integrated judicial philosophy from the opinions of Justice Douglas than from those of Justice Black ? just as it is harder to capsulize Holmes ' thinking than Brandeis ' . While Black 's results in constitutional cases had to fit into the comprehensive constitutional theories he propagated on every available occasion , Douglas ' votes were seldom limited by broad general postulates . It is remarkable , with hindsight , how often the results he reached seem right . The most consistent single principle that emerges from his constitutional rulings relates more to the role of the courts than to any particular provision of the Constitution . It was Douglas ' belief , expounded in his votes and opinions , that the main job of the courts was to restrain other branches of government in their dealings with individuals . Each case in which the Supreme Court failed to correct an individual injustice or to redress a valid grievance was , by these lights , an abdication of major responsibility . Although his legal career @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Yale Law School ) , Justice Douglas chose not to be an overt teacher and proselytizer on the Supreme Court . He expressed his views in written opinions , which occasionally succeeded in stirring his colleagues to action . More than any other member of the Court , he would note his dissents when the Court refused to hear cases ; more frequently than is generally known , a sharp written statement by him objecting to the refusal to hear a case would turn around enough votes to win review . The concept of judicial independence was suited to Justice Douglas ' temperament , and all his work on the Court was characterized by it . In an opinion dealing with the power of a panel of judges to deny a lower federal judge authority to hear and decide cases , he noted the existence of a judicial philosophy that would " make all federal judges walk in some uniform step . " Never in the days when Justice Douglas walked , ran and climbed , did he do so by steps other than those that were uniquely his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            