@@490822

DURING the ceremony on August 8 , 1978 , when President Carter came to New York to sign the bill granting a billion six hundred and fifty million dollars ' worth of federal loan guarantees to the city , a sturdy , white-haired man named Donald Gormley spent the time pacing up and down the rotunda just inside City Hall 's front doors . On hand for the happy event were not only the President and Mrs. Carter and Mayor Edward Koch but also Governor Hugh Carey , Senators Jacob . Davits and Daniel Patrick Moynihan , most of the city 's delegation to the House of Representatives , and several hundred invited guests representing the local political , civic , and financial worlds . Occasionally , Gormley , who was then the executive secretary of the city 's Art Commission , would peer through the windows of the City Hall doors trying to see what was happening on the steps below , but he was not trying to identify celebrities . In the morning , it had rained , and he had been concerned about that . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also distressed him . " I 'm worried about my table , " he kept telling other pacers in the rotunda  --  most of them Secret Service men , who were worried about other things . To underline the histonc significance of the occasion , special movers , earlier in the day , had brought down from the chamber known as the Governor 's Room , on City Hall 's second floor , the delicately carved mahogany writing desk that had been used by George Washington in his Presidential office here in 1789 and 1790 . In the confusion after the ceremony , a crystal paperweight in the shape of an apple , which had been set out among the pens and documents as a symbol of the city , disappeared into the pocket of a local member of Congress , who was later persuaded to return it . Gormley 's table , however , came through without mishap . To most New Yorkers who read about the table 's provenance in press accounts the next day , it came as news that their city had been the capital of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The information is still unknown to all but a few of their fellow-residents , as is the fact that New York had been the national capital under the Articles of Confederation four years before that ; in each case , it beat out Philadelphia , which had fought hard for the honor . Eventually , of course , the federal government decided to build itself a new capital on a largely rural tract along the Potomac . The actual site was chosen by Washington , and was as dose as possible to his home at Mount Vernon , whose value was thus greatly enhanced . Thomas Jefferson wrote with satisfaction , " There will he something to displease and something to soothe every part of the Union , except New York , which must he content with what she has had . " Because of the decision to build the new capital , the United States differs today from nearly all of the major foreign nations with which it has diplomatic relations . Capitals such as Rome , Paris , London , Moscow , Tokyo , and Mexico City are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not seem to have shared to the same degree the historic mistrust of large cities which is characteristic of many Americans , part of their heritage from such Founding Fathers as Washington and , particularly , Jefferson . ( Jefferson once wrote that an epidemic of yellow fever should not be considered a tragedy , since it would " discourage the growth of great cities in our nation , and I view great cities as pestilential to the morals , the health , and the liberties of man . " ) During last year 's negotiations with the federal government over granting New York the loan guarantees , local pleaders pointed out that for France , say , to let Paris go under financially was simply unimaginable . Moynihan tried to redress America 's eighteenth-century aberration by calling New York " the capital city of the world . " President Carter , the former Plains resident , described it in more reserved terms as " a center of a number of important fields in American life . " One of the things that annoys Americans elsewhere is that , despite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as if their pestilential town were the capital of everything . If this is truly the local delusion , it was reinforced in recent weeks , when an unusual number of events that could seriously affect America 's relations with other nations bore a New York City dateline . TATE last month , as the prospect d I continued to diminish for ratification of the second SALT treaty , a delegation of six senators was in Moscow to warn officials there of changes in the agreement that they were sure the Senate would insist on and to get the Russians ' reaction . National attention here , however , was trained not on those meetings but on another U.S.-Soviet confrontation : the dramatic vigil going on at Kennedy Airport as American officials sought to discover whether the dancer Ludmila Vlasova was returning to Moscow of her own free will after the defection to the United States of Alexander Godunov , her husband and fellow-dancer in the Bolshoi Ballet . Since Godunov gave the furtherance of his artistic career as his reason for requesting asylum  --  not that such asylum would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanted to better his lot  --  New York was the logical place for him to approach American authorities . Ballet is one of the fields that President Carter would agree New York is the national center of . ( " True , they nourish some of the elegant arts , " wrote Jefferson of large cities , " hut the useful ones can thrive elsewhere . " ) Eventually , of course , Ludmila Vlasova satisfied American officials that she was returning to Russia willingly , ending the confrontation that for a time was being treated as if it had the potential for international disaster of the 1962 Cuban missile crisis . Bolstering another impression about New Yorkers  --  that they tend to be subversive sorts , especially where the Communist menace is involved  --  Pete Hamill , of the News , compared this country 's indignation over the Soviet officials ' stand at the airport with America 's probable response " if an American defected to the Russians in Moscow , if his wife then went to the U.S. Embassy , and then passed through Russian immigration and boarded a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pan Am plane was then stopped , and held on the airfield until that wife of the American defector cleared everything in a private audience with the KGB . " Jimmy Breslin , Hamill 's fellow-columnist at the News , took another tack . " JUST A BUM WHO SKIPPED AND LEFT A WIFE IN- TROUBLE " was the headline over his account of the incident , and he jeered at the notion that our national honor was at stake or that if this country did not get Godunov 's wife hack " we will surely be a second-rate power . " Often cited in the television and press coverage of the airport negotiations was the contrast between the intense concern for the Russian dancer 's human rights and the treatment of Simas Kudirka , the Lithuanian sailor who tried to defect to the U.S. Coast Guard in 1970 and was turned back . No one , apparently , sought a statement on the matter from Kudirka , who was eventually allowed to emigrate and for the past five years has been a janitor in the Bronx . The case of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the consequences of other events in this city in recent weeks will have longer-lasting national and international repercussions . Of course , the meeting of United Nations Ambassador Andrew Young with Zehdi Terzi , the U.N . observer for the Palestine Liberation Organization , which led to Young 's resignation , was a New York event only because this city is the U.N . headquarters . In 146 , Nelson Rockefeller persuaded his father , John D. Rockefeller , Jr. , to give eight and a half million dollars to buy seventeen acres along the East River in the Forties which a local real-estate man had bought up for development . Thus , the Rockefellers were able to do their home city a good turn and also block the building of a possible competitor for Rockefeller Center , then forty per cent vacant . Once again , the runner-up had been Philadelphia , which for months , as A. J. Liebling wrote at the time in this magazine , " had had its cap set for the United Nations with the single-mindedness of a homely woman who sees a chance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was " left waiting at the church again . " In Philadelphia , the editorial writers were inconsolable . They compared their city 's trees and other greenery and the rolling hills that surrounded it with the urban blight of New York , with its dens of iniquity lying in wait to trap and corrupt the delegates . " The United Nations would be making a colossal mistake to submerge itself and its hopes of success in the welter and bedlam of New York 's masses , " said the Philadelphia In  --  tairer . " Gone are the dreams of a sylvan world capital , " said the Evening Bulletin . In the December , 1946 , vote at the United Nations , however , the only delegates opposing the choice were those from Australia , El Salvador , and countries then thought of as so quaint and remote that , in Liebling 's account , they were referred to , comic-opera style , as " the shish kebab states " : Egypt , Iraq , Syria , Lebanon , and Saudi Arabia . The reason so many of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New York was not that the United Nations is here but that this city is the headquarters of most of the major Jewish organizations , including the American Jewish Committee , the American Jewish Congress , and the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith , and is also the home of the largest black groups  --  the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the National Urban League , This proximity was a convenience in the old days when these two important elements in American life seemed to be inseparable allies -- -the Jews working closely with the blacks on civil-rights matters , and the blacks backing Israel down the line . During the weeks of strife following Young 's resignation , more distance might have helped . It was from this city that there came the first outraged complaints that the blacks were now meddling in foreign policy , and the first countering expressions of anger that the Jews were now telling blacks whom they could talk to . From there , the controversy went on to encompass the morality of the blacks ' allying themselves with terrorists and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Africa  --  each charge bearing complex implications for the State Department . It was in the N.A.A.C.P. offices at 1790 Broadway that more than two hundred blacks representing organizations from all over the country met on August 22nd and unanimously endorsed a manifesto , which several of the leaders , including Georgia State Senator Julian Bond and N.A.A.C.P. executive director Benjamin Hooks , then read aloud , point by point . The gist of the message was that the blacks asserted their right to have a say in the nation 's foreign policy , which , especially in matters concerning the Middle East , American Jews had heavily influenced for the last three decades . Moreover , it said , " Jews must show more sensitivity and he prepared for more consultation before taking positions contrary to the best interests of the black community . " The statement did not advocate a formal alliance with Israel 's sworn enemies in the P.L.O. , but it was clear that the relationship between Jews and blacks would never be the same . The attorney Joseph Rauh , who is Jewish and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , came up from Washington for the summit meeting but was not allowed inside . Afterward , the black psychologist Kenneth Clark said of the manifesto , " This was our declaration of independence . " The following day , eleven leading Jewish organizations issued a statement here rejecting the blacks ' position " with sorrow and anger . " A week later , Jimmy Carter , who had not helped bring the groups together by his late-July comparison of the Palestinians ' struggle for their rights with the black civil-rights movement in this country , urged American black and Jewish leaders to remember their old shoulder-to-shoulder days on the barricades , an era that had already been half-forgotten in the black-Jewish conflict over affirmative-action programs . Alarmed at the new belligerence between these two major elements of Democratic political strength , Carter may well contemplate another meeting at Camp David to resolve seemingly irreconcilable differences . Once again , the P.L.O . would be the spoiler in absentia . There was also the troubling prospect that Arab financial support from here and abroad would replace the funds formerly contributed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which problems reflecting the troubles in the Middle East increasingly loom over all aspects of American life . The preoccupation with events having to do with the Middle East here in recent weeks caused some New Yorkers to be misled by a headline taking up most of the front page of the excitable Post which read " NEW JORDAN BOMBSHELL . " The headline , which actually referred to alleged misbehavior by Carter 's chief of staff at one of New York 's iniquitous dens , Studio 54 , provided another national crisis with a New York dateline . THE Reverend Herbert Daughtry , the founder of a Brooklyn-based group called the Black United Front , took part in New York 's new civil conflict in his own way . Daughtry , who first came to local attention in June , 1978 , as the leader of demonstrations protesting the death of a black businessman in the hands of the police , has since led so many marches on City Hall to denounce one or another alleged outrage by the Koch administration that when he and his followers now appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hall police often just shrug and shout to each other , " It 's him again ! " On August 27th , Daughtry led several thousand blacks in a demonstration in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn against the firing by five city policemen of a fusillade of twenty-four bullets to kill a young Hispanic former mental patient armed with a pair of scissors . The demonstrators carried a symbolic coffin , and many of them waved signs referring to the suit charging a pattern of police maltreatment of minority groups which was brought last month by the United States Department of Justice against the Philadelphia Police Department , Mayor Frank Rizzo , and the city of Philadelphia , where life is apparently not as sylvan as it was in 1946 . On the same day , the busy Daughtry , crossing the Brooklyn Bridge again , marched on the United Nations and demanded the installation of a United Nations peacekeeping force in Bedford-Stuyvesant . Going international like other local black leaders , he also led several hundred of his followers to the Israeli consulate , where they waved signs reading " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Daughtry called " the Zionist racist pressure " that they held responsible for Andrew Young 's resignation . Soon after this Black United Front demonstration , a press conference was called at the headquarters of the Jewish Defense League . The League 's advocacy of the interests of Israel is so militant that some of its members are not welcome in Israel . The J.D.L. leader Brett Becker said that black violence would bring Jewish violence , and that the Jewish community " must be ready with guns . " According to a reporter for Harlem 's el msterriam News , " as Becker spoke , he was flanked by two bodyguards , one of whom was helmeted , wearing a ski mask , a sash with a machete , and clutching a baseball bat against his breast , military style . " " Arabs have a long history of being anti-black , " said Becker during the press conference . The week after the Young resignation , however , the city was host to thirty thousand visitors who demonstrated that some blacks have long felt an affinity for Arab ways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York is one continuous costume party . Holding their annual convention here were the Prince Hall Shriners , nearly all of whom are black . They are more formally known as the Ancient Egyptian Arabic Order of Nobles of the Mystic Shrine of North and South America and Its jurisdiction . Among the members are Benjamin Hooks , of the N.A.A.C.P. , and former Ambassador Young , who was one of the convention speakers . For several days , the visitors thronged through midtown Manhattan , staging impromptu parades that sometimes stopped traffic entirely and otherwise attracting attention in their tall maroon velvet fezzes , whose design , they explained to bystanders , represented a pyramid with a flat top . WHILE large numbers of New Yorkers were preoccupied with human rights in the Soviet Union and the Middle East these past weeks , others were especially concerned with those in Northern Ireland . After the assassination of Lord Mountbatten and three companions by members of the Provisional wing of the Irish Republican Army , and the ambush killing of eighteen British soldiers in Ulster the same day , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a suggestion for dealing with the Northern Ireland dilemma which had been made by Governor Carey . Others accused Carey of having caused the assassinations , since a moderate solution is the last thing the I.R.A . wants . Vacationing in London early in August , Carey had proposed to Humphrey Atkins , the British Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , and Michael O'Kennedy , the Foreign Minister of the Irish Republic , that they meet in New York , which he described as " a neutral place , " to try to work out some alternative to what seems at present to he a condemnation to unending bloodshed . O'Kennedy accepted at once . At first , Carey had the impression that Atkins was also receptive , but after conferring with Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher , Atkins flatly turned it down . British newspapers then accused Carey of meddling in Northern Ireland affairs to increase his popularity with Irish-American voters , and one tabloid described Carey and other prominent Irish-American politicians as " grubbing after votes out of tragedy and bloodshed . " They were also accused of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep the I.R.A . on its murderous path . Carey could be excused for concluding that on the subject of Northern Ireland some British , like most I.R.A . members , are beyond listening . In two successive St. Patrick 's Day statements , beginning in 1977 , Carey had joined with Senator Moynihan , Massachusetts Senator Edward Kennedy , and Speaker of the House Thomas O'Neill in calling publicly for a peaceful resolution in Northern Ireland and particularly urging an end to contributions to the I.R.A . from this country . On a visit to Ireland in April , 1977 , Carey went further , and denounced the members of the I.R.A . as " killers " and " Marxists " engaged in " the politics of death . " These charges resulted in the besieging of his Manhattan office by hundreds of local Irish-Americans , including Paul O'Dwyer , the most prominent New York politician of Irish descent who supports the I.R.A . The demonstrators for the Irish irregulars also included Percy Sutton , then the city 's most prominent black politician , who that year was giving up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , the belief of some British that admirers of the I.R.A . are a major American political contingent is further evidence of their misunderstanding of the Irish question , here and elsewhere . I.R.A . partisans can get up a fair demonstration , especially if they invite their relatives in from Long Island and the suburbs , but O'Dwyer is a perennial loser in local politics ( he is now out of office ) , and to most citizens of Irish heritage the cause of the I.R.A . is far from being the single issue on which their votes will turn , as the security of Israel is for many Jewish voters . In an editorial last month , the News , whose chief editor is named Michael O'Neill , urged Carter to use his powers to persuade the British to reconsider the Carey proposal . " The U.S. goes all out to bring peace to many parts of the globe , " said the News . " " We have at least the same responsibility to try to end the war in Ulster . " In that same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather lightheartedly with the human rights of the Bolshoi dancers , have not been so flippant over the years when it has come to the rights of their fellow-Irishmen . Carey 's reference to I.R.A . members as " killers " had caused Breslin to declare that the Governor had " departed from his .. senses , " and Hamill said that he could never forgive the Governor . After the latest attacks by the I. R . A. , I lamill demanded a solution in which the leaders of the Provisional I.R.A . would be at the negotiating table . This is also generally the position of Bronx Representative Mario Biaggi , whose mother did not come from Ireland , but who has a large bloc of militant I.R.A . supporters in his district . Biaggi is viewed by British and Irish Republic leaders as the most dangerous American meddler of all . Whatever tentative enthusiasm these leaders showed for the Carey proposal came in large part because they saw it as far more reasonable than that of Biaggi . Thus , in formulating their policies , two foreign governments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians . In their 1979 St. Patrick 's Day statement on Northern Ireland , Carey , Kennedy , Moynihan , and Speaker O'Neill , who are known jeeringly in England as the Gang of Four , dwelt less on I.R.A . depredations than on British mistreatment of I.R.A . prisoners . These charges were often cited in the recent attacks on Carey by British politicians and the London press . Nevertheless , the previous calls by the Gang of Four for an end to I.R.A . support in this country had apparently had an effect . Such contributions have reportedly been greatly reduced . In a demonstration of the proposition that everything that rises must converge , most arms for the I.R.A . are now said to he coming through the Middle East , some of them directly from the P.L.O . No mention of this development was made by Kieran Nugent , an I.R.A . veteran who had entered this country illegally to spread the word here about alleged British atrocities . He was caught , and his immigration hearing was scheduled for the day after the Mountbatten assassination . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political asylum , Nugent asked to be allowed to return to Belfast voluntarily . About two hundred I.R.A . supporters gathered in front of the Immigration Service building to demand that he he given asylum anyway  --  and to denounce the British . Several of them pretended to be victims of a British raid and lay down on the sidewalk taking care to continue waving signs that read " BRITISH GET OUT OF IRELAND " and " HE HAS HUMAN RIGHTS EVEN IF HE CA N'T DANCE . " ALTHOALTHOUGH the Irish question has UGH influence on local politics nowadays , the new squaring off tween blacks and Jews in international matters has had some effect on city government . Andrew Young had attended the swearing in of Haskell Ward as Koch 's only black Deputy Mayor last March . " I commend you for being brave enough  --  or foolish enough  --  to join with the Mayor , " Young said at the time . Young 's friend City Clerk David Dinkins , who is black , speculated that it was the Ambassador 's August 15th decision to resign that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue of Koch 's proposal to close some municipal hospitals  --  closings that are bitterly opposed by minority groups here but that Ward had until then defended . Early this month , Young publicly urged the nomination of State Senator Joseph Gallber  --  the only black in the race  --  as the Democratic candidate for Bronx Borough President . ( There are no other elections of significance here this year . ) Because of the customary low turnout of minority voters , Galiber did n't seem to have much chance . Fired by the Young resignation and its aftermath , however , virtually every one of the city 's leading black politicians , who have often , for their individual political purposes , spread their support around among candidates of other races , came out for Galiber and began to work for his election . The mission was to right a situation that has become the symbol of black powerlessness in the city : since January , 1978 , there have been no blacks on the Board of Estimate , where they had been represented since 1953 . The Board is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nature and funding of programs vital to minority groups . The theme of the campaigning in black districts in the 1977 municipal election was " Without the Board of Estimate , we 're nowhere . " In its last issue before the September 8th primary that year , the ihnsterdam News ran a banner headline in red : " JUDGMENT DAY SEPT . S ; SUTTON-DINKINS ON THE LINE . " On judgment day in the mayoral race , Percy Sutton , then the only black member of the Board of Estimate , was fifth in a field of seven . Dinkins came in third in a field of four in his attempt to succeed Sutton as Manhattan Borough President , a seat that went to Assemblyman Andrew Stein . In the late nineteen-sixties , the Board , which is made up of the Mayor , the Comptroller , the President of the City Council , and the five Borough Presidents , had not only a black member but a Hispanic member  --  Herman Badillo , then the Bronx Borough President , In other cities , members of minority groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York , they have been losing political ground . Of the present Board , President of the City Council Carol Bellamy is a white Protestant , Staten Island Borough President Anthony Gaeta is an Italian-American Catholic , and the six other members , including , of course , the Mayor , are all Jewish . It is sometimes referred to in black and Hispanic circles as the Knesset . Last year 's election of Bronx Borough President Robert Abrams as State Attorney General meant that Bronx Democratic boss Stanley Friedman could control the choice of an interim successor . The post went to City Councilman Stanley Simon , who then had to stand for election this fall . In last week 's Democratic primary , he had the advantages of incumbency and full clubhouse support . He also benefitted from the actions of Mayor Koch , who , although not officially pro-Simon and , indeed , on record as favoring a black or Hispanic borough president of the Bronx , was publicly effusive in his gratitude for Simon 's support on various Board of Estimate issues and made sure that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonpolitical visit to the Bronx . Simon won the Democratic primary , taking a little less than a third of the vote . In the Democratic Bronx , the November election is traditionally only a certification of the primary results . Another Jewish candidate , Assemblyman Oliver Koppell , a reform Democrat endorsed by the Times , came in third . Galiber was last . To the surprise of many , State Housing Commissioner Victor Marrero , a Puerto Rican , had received the strong support of the News . On Primary Day , he had a surprise of his own , coming in second with almost a quarter of the vote . Nevertheless , it appears that at least until 1982 , after the next citywide election , there will be no minority member on the Board of Estimate . The Bronx , which is at least fifty-four per cent black and Puerto Rican  --  the only borough with a nonwhite majority  --  will continue to be represented , as it has been for the last nine years , by a Jewish borough president . And the local racial lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between blacks and Jews over events in other parts of the world , and especially the identification of blacks with those enemies of Israel the Palestinians ( " The Palestinians are the niggers of the Middle East , " said the Reverend Wyatt Tee Walker , pastor of Harlem 's Canaan Baptist Church , the day before last month 's black summit meeting ) , will surely not help . And , of course , none of this tension is relieved by the attitude of New York 's Jewish Mayor toward blacks and Hispanics , which some are now calling basic racism . Administratively , the Koch City Hall is in severe disarray . The Mayor 's two-a-day-vat ! ville-style schedule -- hugging celebrities , mugging for the cameras in funny hats , hiring staff members with a big burst of publicity , and then firing them , also dramatically ( some idiot let him down again ) , and giving newspaper readers each day their daily show of moral outrage , often set off by an event that will once more arouse the anger of white , middle-class New Yorkers against members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of focal citizens . Others see it as a deliberate policy on Koch 's part to keep constantly in motion so that no one will notice that he has n't got his act together . The more distressing truth seems to be that he thinks this is the way to run a great city . The worst consequence of his performance since he took office is the deterioration in race relations in this immensely diverse town . What moderate-minded members of the local black political establishment used to describe as the Mayor 's " insensitivity " to the problems of local minorities is now viewed by many of them as outright hostility , cynically employed for political advantage . There are even some who regard it as the reverse side of what they also deplore : the Reverend Mr. Daughtry 's reckless and well-staged stirring up of black feelings against whites for what they consider to he his own self-pro-. moting purposes . After the recent furor over revelations of past Koch remarks describing blacks as basically anti-Semitic , and whites as basically anti-black but with the moral character to regret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that he believed in looking to the future . In previous administrations , black and Hispanic leaders who were depressed about City Hall 's treatment of their constituents would make ritual references to a future of sorts : a long hot summer ahead . Since Koch took office , that practice has largely stopped , because , as Harlem Councilman Fred Samuel said last week , " no one at City Hall is listening . " Though it is not necessarily being said out loud  --  and although only a few New Yorkers are wearing ski masks  --  it could he an ugly winter ahead .                     