@@431858

 | THE TORTURE CURE Winning criminal hearts and minds with drugs , scalpels , and sensory deprivation RECOGNITION OF FAILURE dawns slowly in a bureaucracy but dawned it has in California prison treatment circles . Prison psychiatrists who are willing to level with reporters admit that they now spend 90 percent of their time on paperwork , writing up reports for the Adult Authority based on perfunctory annual interviews with prisoners , that " treatment " most often takes the form of heavy tranquilization of inmates labeled psychotic as well as those diagnosed as troublemakers . Group therapy , once hailed as an exciting new technique for transforming the " deviant personality , " is withering on the vine . Nor have the treatment programs produced the anticipated docility in the convict population ; work strikes , hunger strikes , and other forms of protest are now endemic throughout the California prisons . Some disconcerting conclusions about the efficacy of treatment are set forth in a report to the State Assembly titled " The California Prison , Parole , and Probation System . " It cites an exhaustive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ researchers observed gloomily , " Thousands of inmates and hundreds of staff members were participating in this program at a substantial cost to the Department of Corrections in time , effort , and money . Contrary to the expectations of the treatment theory , there were no significant differences in outcome for those in the various treatment programs or between the treatment groups and the control group . " They further reported that group counseling did not lessen adherence to the inmate code , nor did it reduce the frequency of discipline problems . James O. Robison , author of the report and longtime researcher for the Department of Corrections , traced the course of disillusionment . " The high mystique of treatment peaked at the end of the Fifties , " he told me . " The idea took hold in Corrections that at last , through sophisticated techniques of psychotherapy , we have it in our power to transform the deviant and to predict with accuracy his future behavior . But in the early Sixties the high priests of Corrections began a sifting of the entrails . After that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the evident empirical failure of the treatment programs , as demonstrated by the recidivism rate remaining constant over the years . " The rationale for failure was always , We have n't carried treatment far enough , there is n't enough of it , it is n't professional enough ' ? in other words , we need more and 1. , ter of same , in spite of the fact we 've seen it does n't work . Even this reasoning began to break down in the middle Sixties , when there was morattention paid to the fact nothing wahappening and more talk of ' Why : . " What you are likely to see no " " is the end of the liberal treatment era the notion that you can make convicts into converts of the dominant culture religion , ' the missionary fervor ? that 's being replaced with behavior modification ' experiments . The latest reasoning is that it 's costly and inappropriate to go thepsychotherapy route with these people , to pay high-priced psychiatristto talk them into recognizing the truth of our religion ' ; instead , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to shape up . Of course , thiflies in the face of the earlier rhetoric.The Behaviorists say they are bad . not mad , and we can stop them being bad by utilizing new techniques . Thifits in with the law-and-order , no-nonsense conservative viewpoint : henceforth the slogan will be , They must be made to behave . ' " @#                     