@@494902

Ho Hum Tax Reform Like mushrooms that sprout in the dark , loopholes inevitably appear in tax laws , and no one can explain how they got there . Rep. Charles Vanik ( U , Ohio ) , a member of the House Ways and Means Committee and a veteran of many tax battles , found a new mushroom this year . It was of a familiar strain . Though no one paid much attention when it was being added to the code , it will remain in effect indefinitely and permit certain oil companies , among other corporations , to avoid paying millions of dollars in taxes that they would otherwise have to turn over to the US Treasury . Rep. Vanik estimates that it could benefit ARAMCO ( the consortium of Exxon , Mobil , Texaco and Socal that runs Saudi Arabia 's oil fields ) as much as $35 million . The provision applies to certain kinds of income earned abroad , making it possible for the members of ARAMCO to count their income from Saudi Arabia as " dividends " and thus take advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of tax break that legislation passed this spring was supposed to eliminate . Vanik said last week that the special provision took shape in a closed conference of Senate and House members when they were putting the last touches on a tax cut and reform bill before the Easter recess . Vanik was present when it happened . Though it was a confession of Vanik 's own inattention , he admitted that he could n't remember how it slipped in . " Where did this ' new ' language come from ? " he asked last week . " I have written to the members of the conference committee asking if they could recall this special new section . . . Members of my staff have interviewed the offices of the House and Senate legislative counsels . They do not know where the language came from , and they do not recall any discussion of the provision in conference . " Vanik concluded that the loophole , " fitting deftly into a difficult section of the tax code , did not come from the Easter Bunny . " He would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convince the Ways and Means Committee , which has been working for months on a comprehensive tax reform bill , to side with him and close the loophole . He lost by a vote of 17 to 10 , and now , because House politics and scheduling problems have got in the way , Congress wo n't consider Vanik 's request at all . Meanwhile , he 's trying to ensure that the conference negotiations on the new tax bill ? should there be any ? will be open to the public . Vanik was n't the only one trying to catch loophole makers in the act . His example was already months old when he spotted it in the federal code . However , The Wall Sired Journal caught a more daring scheme . In a front-page story in November , the Journal reported that drafters of the current tax bill slipped in an amendment offered by Representatives James Burke ( D , Mass. ) and Phil Landrum ( D , Ga. ) permitting individuals to " carry back " for up to three years any capital losses of more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes . According to the Journal , the amendment was written by former IRS commissioner Sheldon Cohen at the behest of H. Ross Perot , the Texas computer millionaire . Perot denied that he caused the amendment to be written , but he would get a tax break of $15 million if it goes through . But that wo n't happen for a couple of reasons . First , loopholes of this kind must be well disguised to slip through , and Perot 's amendment has lost its cover . Liberals on the House Ways and Means Committee are drawing lots to see who will get first crack at it on the floor and who will make the angry speeches on TV . Secondly , the Perot amendment is rendered irrelevant by the fact that tax reform is almost surely dead this year . Tax reform looks finished because it has run into a brick wall called Russell Long . Sen. Long comes from the oil and gas country of Louisiana and he chairs the Senate Finance Committee . He has already declared his intention to move with statesmanlike speed toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he 's damn well ready . That wo n't be until next year As he told a TV interviewer recently , " Those people over there ' the honorable members of the Housed took three years to generate these proposals ; we 're entitled to take the better part of a year to look at them . ' In truth Russell Long is n't entirely to blame . The Ways and Means Committee shares the responsibility because it waited until the last moment to report out its bill . Although the bill passed the House last week by a vote of 21g-197 , it wo n't go much farther . The 91th session of Congress ends on December 31 , and the Senate wo n't act without holding its own tax reform hearings . There just is n't time . Last year there was n't time either . The consensus is that the tax package being bundled together in the House will be split apart when it reaches the Senate . The real accomplishment of the Ways and Means members ? the new reforms will be set aside , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the economic crisis earlier this year will be extended for another year . This is roughly what President Ford hoped to get from Congress , except that he wanted the tax cuts to be matched with a new promise of fiscal restraint . He insisted that the legislators sign a collective pledge not to appropriate additional , unwanted funds . There will be no compromise on this point . Congress flatly and correctly refuses to sign such a contract . Ford announced that he would veto the taxcut if it is n't accompanied by a pledge to cut spending , but that 's hardly the kind of threat a presidential candidate can make convincingly before an election . Even Sen. Long says Ford 's veto would be overridden easily . If Congress approves a tax cut but not a tax reform , many people will call it a defeat for the progressives that took over some key spots in the House leadership in the fall of 1974 . The man who replaced Wilbur Mills as the chairman of Ways and Means in that shakeup , Al Ullman , promised that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was a grand promise , but clearly more than he could deliver . The bill that came out of the committee , even it it were to pass the House and Senate miraculously intact , would be less than an adequate overhaul . In too many cases it tries to correct the special treatment clauses in the tax code by rewording them rather than eliminating them . Probably the most controversial example of this is the DISC break , a tax giveaway to corporations that sell American goods to foreigners . The DISC ( Domestic International Sales Corporation ) provision forgives payment of tax on one-halt of the profits earned by a US exporter . It was promoted and passed in 1971 as a way to encourage small businesses to export US goods , but according to IRS data , 72 percent of DISC benefits now go to companies with more than $250 million in assets . Robert Brandon 's Tax Reform Research Group ( a Nader satellite lobby ) claims that DISC primarily helps large companies that were already doing well in the export trade when the law was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brandon argues that the $1.5 billion DISC costs each year in lost revenue provides few jobs for Americans-15,960 in 1074 to be exact . The tax reformers believe the money would he better spent on defense ( 112,500 jobs ) , health ( 120,000 jobs ) or cutting the corporate tax rate from 48 percent to 4b percent ( 90,000 jobs ) . Pressured by this sort of criticism , the Ways and Means Committee rewrote DISC to cut the Treasury 's loss in half , but would n't eliminate it . For this revision and for others raising the minimum tax on individuals and limiting the use of capital losses to offset taxes , the committee deserves some credit . It has taken the first step . But what will happen to these modest proposals when Congress reconvenes next year ? Once the tax cut has been skimmed off the top of the bill and the benefits handed out ? which must be done this December to be effective this year , and which the Senate has every intention of doing ? there will be little enthusiasm to get into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finance Committee , which will take up the issue when the House has finished with it , is usually more cautious than Ways and Means . Even its best known liberal members ? Senators Mondale , Nelson and Ribicoff ? seem reluctant to begin the arduous task of rewriting the tax code . Iberian Tightropes Things seem to be looking up on the Iberian Peninsula . Portugal and Spain are trying to cope with their respective crises more rationally and effectively than one might have expected a month ago . In Lisbon , President Costa Comes was able to summon enough courage ? and military support ? to stamp out anarchy in the armed forces , beat back an attempted coup by extreme leftist officers , and establish a semblance of order for the first time since the rightist dictatorship was ousted in April , 1974 . The Portuguese events made a number of important points : the extreme left , which is composed of groups far to the left of the Communist party , grossly overestimated its power among soldiers and civilians ; the Costa Comes government likewise seemed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the president could marshal once he made up his mind to quit making concessions to the transient crowds and to act . The Communist party , not surprisingly , played a ludicrous role , betraying both sides , and in the end probably further weakening its own position . Although it held a seat in the cabinet , it egged on the extreme left to launch the November coup ; when the coup seemed to falter , the party ordered its militants to stay home and proclaimed the whole affair to he a major error . Now it wants to hang on to its ministerial seat . It has been apparent for some time that Portugal 's moderate leftists could survive extremist challenges and thereby defuse the danger of a civil war . But it is urgent that Costa Comes not allow the political pendulum to swing back to the right , bearing in mind that in t he only election held since 1974 , the Portuguese people have opted for a pluralistic Socialist democracy . The US and Western Europe should assist Portugal in economic reconstruction , accepting the reality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ought not be pushed back to the feudalistic capitalism of the dictatorial era . In Spain , meanwhile , the transition from the dead Franco to King luan Carlos , the Generalissimo 's designated successor , went relatively smoothly . His accession has by no means restored democracy for the Spaniards ; but the king is now enjoying a troubled truce in his relations with the democratic opposition on the one hand and the unreconstructed Franco ultras on the other . He has tried to please the liberals with a much too-limited amnesty for political prisoners and to satisfy the rightists by avoiding brusque changes in the system . This , however , is a tightrope act ; sooner or later the king must decide which way he wishes to lead Spain . There , 1 re inherent dangers in whatever decision he makes , but the longer he delays , the deeper will be the polarization in the country . Instituting a softer dictatorial system would evidently be unacceptable tomost Spanish political factions , including the younger military officers and the increasingly vocal church . bran Carlos may wind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tries to practice a modified form of Francoism , tryanny without Fascist trappings . The ultra : and the inherited bureaucracy might be more manageable if the king has the courage and the good sense to make it clear that the Franco era is really over . All the same , he will soon face the inevitable and surely justifiable demands that Spain be a republic again . Our Angolans and Theirs Angola , until a month ago a Portuguese colony is now a battlefield between opposing Angolan factions , each supported from the outside . The US is continuing to provide modern arms to the National Front for the Liberation of Angola ( FNLA ) , which it and the Chinese have been backing all along . Since late November , American artillery pieces and armored cars have been quietly landed in Lobito , the Angolan port held by the FNLA . The US activity is apparently in response to the large-scale deliveries of Soviet materiel , including tanks and planes , to the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola ( MPLA ) , now the predominant faction . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the MPLA , though US diplomatic sources choose to emphasize Soviet involvement rather more than South African . The new and accelerated US arms shipments seem to be drawing us more deeply into the Angolan conflict . The Soviets , whose intervention along with their Cuban allies is massive , have recently been flying Cuban-based TU-95 long-range reconnaissance aircraft along the southeast coast of the US , presumably to track rumored movements of American ships towards the African coast . Will the great powers disengage , or are they moving relentlessly towards bloody conflict on other people 's soil ? Democracy in America Nine Milestones It was in 1786 that Mr. Jefferson , except for Washington the greatest subversive Virginia ever produced , uttered the wisecrack that confirmed all those who did n't like him anyhow in their opinion that the man was a Leveller , the 18th-century equivalent of the 20th-century Bolshevik . The occasion was a request for Mr. Jefferson 's comment on Shays ' Rebellion , described in Boston as an uprising of ragged-ass rascals in the backwoods demanding an equal voice in writing the tax laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shipping and mercantile interests of the new State . Mr. Jefferson obliged promptly . He said that to him the incident was the equivalent , in the political world , of storms in the natural world . They were necessary because they cleared the air , and for his part he hoped the American republic would never go 20 years without something of the kind . This was , of course , a statement of Mr. Jefferson 's belief , expressed in different terms many times during his long life , that a gentleman of quality and fortune , given unrestricted power , is capable of becoming as great a rogue as any hillbilly with the seat of his pants in shreds . Philosophers , such as John Adams and Benjamin Franklin , admitted the truth of the dictum , but Mr. Jefferson said it out loud which , in the estimation of the elite , high-ranking statesmen were not supposed to do , and that may explain why in very exclusive Virginian social circles , while the first President is Washington , and the fourth and fifth are Madison and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " After all , he ordered it carved on his tombstone that he had been " Father of the University of Virginia , " which he rated as a greater personal achievement than any political office . A strange man indeed ! lie did not offer his comment on the Shays affair as prophecy , hardly even as hope , but merely as a wish . Governments , he had written 10 years earlier , derive " their just powers from the consent of the governed , " but the structure he and his colleagues had set up to make good the Declaration was falling to pieces . Governments , he had no doubt there would be , and with powers , but unjust powers not derived from consent of the governed ? witness the Massachusetts tax law that had triggered the Shays affair . However , Shays had not been hanged , and the worst features of the law had been amended . So he wished it might ever be . And so it has been for 200 years . The wistful , and apparently wispy , desire has proved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next two centuries the consent of the governed has been reestablished nine times . Nine goes into 200 22.2-plus times ? close enough . Furthermore if you start counting with , not from Shays , we are now in the midst of the lath effort , which would make it exact . The incidents , in order , were ( I ) 1801 when the clumsy device of the Electoral College , intended to deprive the people of the right to elect their President , collapsed and , thanks largely to the sanity of Alexander Hamilton , " consent of the governed " became sovereign again . Then ( 2 ) when New England , stung into madness by the effectiveness of the British blockade , adopted a poisonously secessionist resolution at Hartford and destroyed the Federalist party . Next ( 3 ) the election of 1828 in which members of Congress , having usurped the right to nominate the presidential candidates of all parties and having denied election to Jackson , plainly the popular choice in 1824 , were given such a thrashing in the following election that King @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Civil War , was caused by the effort of the Southern slave-power , actually a minority of a minority , to impose its will without reference to the consent of the majority ? the only case settled by violence . After that ( 5 ) the Deal of ' 76 , when the presidency was actually traded for peace and withdrawal of the Army of Occupation . - I- he tragic succession of Theodore Roosevelt ( o ) who realized that the consent of the governed had been replaced by the consent of Big Business , and during his seven years in the White House started a readjustment.                     