@@488008

Much of the world holds the opinion that Israelis are a people whose military and political policy toward the Arabs is based on " an eye for an eye , a tooth for a tooth , " but I do n't think that the Old Testament injunction accurately reflects the Israeli response to acts of murder and intimidation against its civilian and military population . Israel has not survived for twenty-five years by wallowing in illusions . The shock of the last few weeks and months of terror has by now been contained . A war is going on ; it is a different type of war . Israel must adapt its defenses and offenses to the new warfare . Who would think that three mad Japanese would come to Israel on a Kamikaze mission , simply to shoot and kill any civilians who wandered in front of their machine guns ? Who could believe that Fatah 's Black September group  --  an arm of its intelligence wing , according to Israeli experts  --  would take hostage much of the Israeli Olympic squad and , when their demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own deaths ? Other recent events include : A bomb placed in some luggage exploded in the cargo hold of an El Al 747 taking off from Rome ; however , the steel reinforcement of the cargo hold limited damage and protected the passengers . An Israeli diplomat was called to a meeting in a bar in Belgium and sprayed , gangster-style , by automatic weapons fire . Although he received five rounds , the diplomat managed to survive . Numerous letter bombs were sent to Israeli embassies in Europe ; one of them exploded and killed Dr. Ami Shehori , an agricultural attache in London . And the story will continue . The Palestinian terrorists , defeated and cut off from their own people in the territory they call their homeland , have decided to foment a campaign of terror in countries thousands of miles away from the scene of conflict with Israel . Some review is in order to understand the reasons behind this recent surge of terrorism . Israel 's military position on its Western front is superb . Egypt , its chief military antagonist , is weaker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Day War . The Russian pull-out demanded by the Egyptians has left the main Arab military power with inadequate offensive weaponry and , according to reports , with key element 's and spare parts in their antiaircraft system dismantled by the Soviets . Furthermore , even if the missile defense system were operative , the Americans have found electronic means to evade and destroy the more advanced generation of SAM missiles in North Vietnam . ( This is not to comment on the political side or the eventual political effectiveness of the continued bombing of North Vietnam . ) And one may rest assured that the American developments have been passed on to the Israelis , and that the Egyptians ' vaunted missile defense systems can be surmounted  --  with casualties but also with relative ease . Israel thus has decisive military superiority on its Western front , and the Egyptians know it . Besides , Israel no longer faces the threat of Russian intervention against any counteroffensive undertaken in response to an Egyptian " heating-up " of the Suez Canal area . Thus Egypt , in its weakest military position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a diplomatic campaign to be undertaken this fall : There have in this time been diplomatic soundings , and there seemed to be a possibility that Israel would withdraw from about half of Sinai in return for a more formal armistice or peace agreement with Egypt . The Black September attack at Munich and the recent American veto of a proposed Security Council resolution , which condemned Israeli retaliatory raids on terrorist bases while not mentioning the ' - Munich massacre , have tended to undercut the potential effectiveness of the contemplated Egyptian diplomatic initiative , and , made Egypt 's political as well as military position more fragile . Sadat had promised his people that 1971 would be the " year of decision . " It has turned out to be a very long year for him , indeed , and 1973 is a more realistic " year of decision , " although one has the feeling that the Middle East will slide , rather than leap , into a period of peace . Sadat has proved himself a somewhat weak leader who , while he can not make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace . He must continually return to the Israeli issue in his attempts to unite his country . My own belief is that the Egyptian position is rooted in a deep humiliation over their losses to Israel , and that this chagrin forbids them to sit down with the Israelis or negotiate with them . The feeling is not necessarily shared by the entire Arab world , only by certain groups of Palestinians , but it is a key stumbling block to peace . On the Eastern front , peace between Israel and Jordan is near . A de facto state of peace now exists ; the border between the two countries is totally quiet ; there are trade relations ; and tourism has begun ( it is possible today for non-Israelis to visit Jordan on four-day trips and return to Israel ) ; each country is quite happy to be at peace with the other . Furthermore , Jordan and Israel have a common enemy in the persons of the Palestinian terrorist groups . There have also in recent months been numerous direct contacts between Israeli and Jordanian representatives . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actions ? " the work of sick and demented minds , " according to the Hashemite King  --  have given Israeli leaders , including Golda Meir , some confidence that a formal peace agreement , if indeed necessary , can be worth more than the paper it is written on . Lebanon , to the north , that tiny country about the size of Israel , is caught in a pickle of its own making . Most Lebanese , especially its Christians , want peace and normal relations with Israel . But the Lebanese Government has had neither the strength nor the will to expel the terrorists from its boundaries , lest it risk civil war . After Munich , Israel decided that , at whatever cost , the terrorist bases would have to be eliminated from Lebanon ; Israel has the will and the power to put pressure on the Lebanese Government to implement this decision . The Israeli actions may gain world censure , but they are already forcing the Lebanese to come to new arrangements with the terrorists . The more pressure Israel applies , the more Lebanon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may even be possible for the Lebanese to ban terrorist activities , as King Hussein had to do two years ago . In essence , Munich has created a political ' climate which would permit the Israelis to retaliate deci sively in Lebanon without undue interference from the United States or Western European countries  --  and perhaps even without too much risk of world condemnation . Here on the West Bank , the terrorist movement has long since been cut off from the territory which must be the wellspring of its strength . That is not only because Israel has efficiently sealed its borders . It is also because the Arab population has in dozens of separate decisions , including participation in free , local elections , consistently chosen a path of " normalcy . " The best way to describe " normalcy " is " cooperation with Israel . " Israel has made this cooperation easy by permitting Arabs almost total local autonomy , and by creating an economic climate which has made the lot of the average Arab better than it has ever been . In such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nationalist terrorists , but hardly an active sympathy that would extend to sheltering terrorists , storing arms ' or ammunition for them , or participating in terrorist actions . Israel has thus effectively isolated the terrorists from their own people . In all this , one begins to sense the frustration of the Palestinian terrorists , and to understand their decision to extend the battlefield to Europe , the United , States and elsewhere , How , after all , do they continue to call attention to their cause at a time when Arab countries , as well as their own peoples in the " occupied territories , " have begun to contemplate peace with Israel ; at a time when Egypt is weak militarily and politically , when Jordan has found its de facto state of peace with Israel highly desirable ? Even more important from their point of view , how do they gain the respect of their ' own people , the Palestinians , who had begun to look ' upon them as ineffective at best , buffoons and madmen at worst ? That is why Munich was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For one of the rare times in their spotted history , the terrorists found within themselves the resolve and willingness to die for their cause . The fact of death rather than surrender put them into a category with the Vietcong , the IRA , and other political groups whose members place their cause above their persons . We must recall the Black September group 's last two major operations . The Sabena hijacking , which brought four terrorists and some 100 hostage passengers onto the tarmac at Lod Airport , was defeated by an Israeli military force which , disguised as airplane mechanics , stormed the plane , killing the two male and capturing the two girl terrorists . The terrorists did not gain face . Neither did the Lod Airport massacre bring credit to the terrorist groups . It was undertaken by three Japanese world revolutionaries unrelated to the Arab cause , who succeeded in killing a number of Israelis and an even greater number of Puerto Rican pilgrims to the Holy Land . The action evoked comments in Israel and also in the Arab world that , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arabs themselves were not . Munich proved this assumption wrong ; at least in relation to one squad of Black Septembrists led by one particularly dedicated leader . Even as Munich created a sense of shock , horror and revulsion throughout the civilized world , it also brought-some kind of perverse credibility to the terrorist movement , The cost of that credibility has , however , been considerable . The political position of the Arab states has been severely damaged and the Egyptian diplothatic initiative compromised before it began . The relations of the Arab states with the European countries were called into question , with costs to the former not likely to ingratiate the terrorists to Arab governments . Of course , it is the aim of the terrorists to frustrate any movements toward peace in the Middle East and in this respect their aim was accomplished . However , despite the disclaimers , the popularity of the terrorists could hardly be enhanced even in Arab countries by the murderous adventure . Most people in this world , and especially Arab aristocrats who live comfortably at the top level of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The terrorists , trying desperately to get the Arab governments totally committed to them and their cause , hardly encourage this sense of normalcy among Arab civilians and thus tend to defeat their own purposes . Second , they did not particularly gain popularity among the Arabs in the so-called Israeli-occupied territories . Their threats to kill collaborators became more credible , but such collaborators , depending on definition , could well include several hundred thousand Arabs in the territories , and a sense of apprehension and insecurity could be widespread . But I do not sense even that kind of fear of the terrorists . They are by now too powerless inside Israeli-held territory to be feared . Most Arabs whom I know in Israel and the territories condemn outright the Munich murders as disgracing the Palestinians and their cause . Third , the recent actions have created the political conditions that enable Israel to pusue the terrorists wherever they may be . The Lebanese Government , at this writing , is already reacting to Israeli military pressure and attempting to restrict the terrorists to their refugee camps . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even more severely limited . The question for Israel is how far it can go , and should go . The gloom in Israel after the Munich massacres was sharp and universal : the country has not in the time I have been here had such an acute case of depression . The reaction of the Israeli Government has been to put the halting of terrorism above and beyond the quest for peace , as more or less a precondition to negotiations between it and the Arab states . The government has decided that in principle it wiltreach out for the terrorists wherever they might be found ; one must have doubts about how this policy will work in its specifics . Israel , after all , is a state and , unlike the terrorists , incurs all the obligations of international citizenship . ( Numerous voices have been raised in Israel urging capital punishment for terrorists . A few have even suggested that the Israeli- reaction to the terrorist demands at Munich should have been a threat to put to death two of the prisoners demanded by the Arabs for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond the realm of law and the principle of individual justice . ) Militarily , the policy means pursuing the terrorists and keeping them on the defensive . Up to now the terrorists , by operating from foreign bases and by attacking essentially civilian targets , have maintained the initiative in their war against Israel . Israel must deprive them of the initiative by hitting at their bases and continually keeping them off balance . It means an unrelenting military pressure which could , in the long run , have negative political consequences , but which Israel feels must nevertheless be pursued . The terrorists have said they are in a " state of war " with Israel and the government of Israel sees no reason to dispute that contention or withhold from retaliation in kind . The political problem of counterattacking the terrorists on foreign soil is considerable . At the least , the Israeli policy means applying severe pressure on any states that harbor terrorists or condone the methods they employ ; this entails.agreements with the United States and as many Western European powers as possible , which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also means keeping the terrorist influence isolated from the Arab population under Israel 's control . In the matter of air hijacking , Israel would attempt to procure an agreement depriving any country of normal air traffic that gave sanctuary to , a hijacker . The Israeli offensive , in sum , is aimed at putting the terrorists into the category of " international outlaws . " One can doubt whether Israel 's campaign will be totally effective , but few operations ever are . Israel now has the general support of ? the United States in this campaign ( not necessarily for all the specifics but certainly for the overall goal ) . It remains to be seen how far the countries of Western Europe will jeopardize their relations with the Arab countries , their own chief sources of energy , to help Israel .                     