@@493703

Even conservatives are deserting it . The Sorry State of the GOP by Ken Bode " You 're going to see very few , if any , new faces rise to the surface in the presidential primaries in either party in 1980 . They are going to be the old faces theyalways are . " That 's the way John Connally , one of the oldest faces in both parties , wishfully sizes-up the next presidential election . Connally is asked about this frequently these days on his tour around the country speaking and raising money on behalf of Republican candidates for the 1978 elections . Connally 's main purpose , it can not be doubted , is to get some early presidential exposure and leave a few IOUs outstanding for two years hence . Connally has attracted some early company . Lowell Weicker has appointed a campaign manager and announced his strategy for the early primaries . Former CIA director and China envoy George Bush has opened an account at the Federal Elections Commission . Robert Dole has logged 150 speeches in 100 cities . And Jim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been in Mississippi , New Hampshire , Michigan , Washington , DC and twice to Arizona to deny he has anything on his mind but reelection in Illinois . Notwithstanding Connally 's assessment , nearly every roster of Republican presidential hopefuls numbers at least a dozen these days . With the longshot success of James Earl Carter , Jr . and the late-blooming glory of Jerry Brown still vivid in memory , few are inclined to shorten the list prematurely " These fellows read the polls , " says one Republican strategist . What the polls are showing ? not just Gallup and Harris , but state surveys taken for potential Republican Senate candidates around the country ? is sustained personal popularity for President Carter , but a sharp decline in the more important indicator , his job approval rating . " They are getting the impression that Timmy Carter can be had . " Iis not surprising that Republican attentions turn so readily to presidential politics . For a party whose bier has been readied for a generation or more , the GOP does pretty wellat that level . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic ascendancy , Republicans have won the White House four times . During that period , according to the mathematics of political scientist Everett Ladd , Ir. , Republican presidential candidates have received more votes than the Democrats . The problem is that with multiplying primaries , federal subsidies , a growing domination of political campaigns by television , the rise of the independent , ticket-splitting voter and the diminished patronage available to the Oval Office , presidential elections are less and less party affairs . They are a separate arena of combat with rules that apply at no other level and without a potential for much trickle-down effect . By law we have narrowed our presidential options to two , with the GOP propped up on the federal level by the FEC , the FCC , income tax check-offs and the like allproducts of the vested interest of both parties in keeping the current system afloat . As a result , presidential elections become occasions of forced choice . With two ? and only two ? options , enough voters come back into line in support of a Gerald Ford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produce a 52-to48 result . Both wings of both parties have flirted with third-party splinter efforts at various times in the last three elections , but the Supreme Court 's ruling in 197t ' upholding the election reform act has eliminated that possibility for now . Without a mobilizing issue at least as powerful as the Vietnam war was in I LIDS , or the emergence of a popular leader with a regional base like George Wallace , presidential elections will he bipartisan events . But occasional presidential victories wo n't resurrect the GOP , even if future Republican presidents are more attentive to party building than Eisenhower and Nixon were . Down in the states , the federal props that assure two parties ? no more , but no ess ? do n't exist . To he sure , Republicans appear on the ballot almost everywhere , and party becomes a more important aspect of the voting decision , the iower you get on the ballot . Nevertheless , over the past two decades , the lower you go , the worse it looks for the GOP . The party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the top , dwindling at the bottom . Take a few examples : Massachusetts , Maryland and Rhode Island each have one Republican and one Democrat in the US Senate and governorships that change parties at least once in a while . Yet the state legislature in Massachusetts holds steady at about five-to-one Democratic and the ratio in Maryland and Rhode Island is closer to seven-to-one . Below the top spots on the ballot , states like these ? and there are more of them ? are not two-party states , and anyone interested in influencing public policy there must remember that fact . In the deep South , dreams of realignment or even dominance were kindled a decade ago by Republican lresidential successes and a small vanguard of defec- tions among Democratic officeholders . With a southern Democrat in the White I louse , that genie is back in the bottle . And .1 ( loser look back shows that t he vision began to fade almost as soon as it appeared . The GOP has held the governorship in six of the 11 states of the old confederacy since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican governor ever succeeded another Republican . In the Watergate referendum of 1974 , the GOP dropped 20 percent of the congressional seats it held in Dixie . More telling is the fact that in the last decade only three Republicans have been elected to any statewide office below governor throughout the entire South ? one lieutenant governor , one attorney general and one public services commissioner . In the past two elections , the party has lost 40 percent of its seats in Southern state legislatures and has fallen back to a level comparable to the pre-1960 era of Democratic dominance , about 10 percent . There is not a single Republican in the state legislature of Alabama , not one Republican in the congressional delegation of Georgia . Republican hopes in Dixie foundered on a white-only southern strategy initially enunciated by Barry Goldwater in 1%4 and embraced by ideological purists in t he following decade . As a result , there is no state government in the region that the GOP can hope to control in the foreseeable future . The problems of the Republican party all around the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , md the consequences are enormous . There is only one state where the GOP controls the governor 's office and both houses of the legislature , compared to 20 for the Democrats . At the national level , gerrymandered safe districts and the perquisites of congressional incumbency enable the party to win some elections all the time , and a few more some of the time . But For the foreseeable future , the GOP will not he able to win enough elections any of the time to capture the right to govern the country . So on the one hand the GOP has a monopoly on opposition , and on the other hand , the most it can hope to do is win the White House from time to time and divide the responsibility for governing with the Democrats . These facts impress themselves differently on the two wings of the GOP . For the far right , ideology comes first . The party is nothing more for these people than an occasional electoral vehicle , and by no means the only one , to be used in pursuit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exponents of this view is Richard Viguerie , the direct mail specialist who raises a fortune for the conservatives . Viguerie 's principal vehicle for influencing elections is not the Republican party , but groups like the Committee for the Survival of a Free Congress ( CSFC ) and the National Conservative Political Action Committee ( NCPAC ) , through which he dispensed about three million dollars in 1976 . Viguerie sums up the prevailing view : " We 're conservatives first . We could n't care less about party labels . We will use whatever political vehicle is at hand. - NCPAC organiser Terry Dolan terms the Republican Party ' ' an institutional disaster . " As these - new right " groups see it , the Republican label is an albatross in many election districts , even those of conservative complexion . So instead of backing conservative Republicans , as they traditionally have done , they have begun to seek out Democrats of the same species to back in that party 's primary . It 's a theory of electoral expediency emerging from the trend toward one-party dominance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points behind . Why concede the edge ? " It our targeted candidates were n't running as Republicans , " Dolan has said , " we 'd elect 75 percent of them . . . The conservatives who are doing best are the ones with the least identification wit Ii the Republicans . Anybody that marries himself to the Republican party at this point is crazy . " One important exception to this bipartisan trend among conservatives is Ronald Reagan 's Cititens for the Republic . The group fell heir to $1.5 million in leftover money from Reagan 's 1076 presidential campaign and all of it is earmarked for conservative Republicans . GOP moderates ? men like Clifford Case , Edward Brooke , Jacob favits , Charles Mathias and Charles Percy ? tend to a more traditional view of the Republican party . They see it as a permanent political institution whose main purpose is the pursuit of power and ultimately governance . First principles a re important , of course , but these men are concerned about the health of the party , and they 've been around long enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideology . They also understand the dangers of fragmentation and all of them violated conservative orthodoxy with their support for federal campaign subsidies which undermine the independent movements favored by Viguerie and others of his stripe , They hold firmly to the view that Republicans are Republicans , without qualifying adjectives . Moderate orthodoxy these days focuses on building ? or resurrecting ? the party . The advice being given is to open the doors , enlarge the party 's appeal , broaden its base to include more blacks , more young people , more blue-collar workers . Political parties , say the moderates , are " coalitions built on compromise " ; " demagoguery and ideological hair-splitting- should be shunned . The conservatives view all the rhetoric about base broadening and party building as pretty thin beer . To them the prescribed compromising and avoidance of ideological hairsplitting inevitably means offending the basic tenets of Republicanism , and that they 're against . Verbal skirmishing about ideology versus party broke into open hostility last month when moderates discovered that at least three of their number were on what they termed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primary contests in 1978 . Those set up for purge include Brooke , Case , and Representative lobe ' Anderson of Illinois , third ranking in the GOP House leadership . The conservatives figure they have nothing to lose . Successful or not they demonstrate their determination to stuff a little ideology into the political process . Anderson , who will face a reactionary preacher well provided with staff and money from the rightwing CFSC , reacted sharply , calling his opponents " a small , willful group of rigid right wing Republicans . trying to cleanse the party of all those who commit the ultimate apostasy of disagreeing with them . " Eight senators , led by Charles Mathias , took the issue public . In a letter to Republic-an National chairman Bill Brock , they dubbed the effort -cannibalization , " and asked his help in putting a stop to it . Their move says something about the terms of conflict on the GOP battlefronts . Brock , who has nothing whatever in his ceremonial arsenal to do a thing about the hit lists , framed his response ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " thoughtful letter , " he told the senators , which was " very much to the point . " Yes . And thank you , Mr. Brock . That puts Richard ' iguerie right in his place .                     