@@487922

There was a time that I shared the rather cavalier attitude of one editorial observer : " The SALT initiative ca n't lose . If it goes through , it Will set a good mood for what needs to be done internation-ally . If it flops , it will emphasize that what needs to be done needs to be done . " Now I take a far more concernedand pessimistic view of the situation . If SALT II passes , the price will be so high on several different counts that it will make no net contrihntion to the safety of the world or the security of the , nation . If SALT II is defeated , however , it will almost certainly contribute to increased international tensions and to an even greater investment in the arms race . As an American . citizen long concerned with the subject matter of international security , I find the drift of national debate on the , SALT II treaty to be of far more disturbing consequence than the various pros and cons about the provisions of the agreement itself . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an arms control point of view , Richard Falk , a member of The Nation ' s Editorial Board , is Albert G. Milbank Professor of international law and practice at Princeton University . Hels the author of A Study of Future Worlds ( Free Press ) and A Global Approach to National Policy ( Harvard University Press ) . one that does not go nearly far enough given the dangers and social costs of a continuing arms race . But the pressures exerted on treaty advocates by SALT critics have negated even this small hope . As is now well known , the price for possible SALT ratification is a 3-to-5 percent increase in real defense expenditures , as well as the accelerated development and deployment of several destabilizing weapons systems , including at least Trident , MX and cruise missile technology . These " compensating steps " to secure greater support have the additional effect of adding to the dangers of war and economic decline over what they would have been had the SALT II arrangement never ' been negotiated . In this debate the hidden agenda has become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threat , which seems nothing more tangible than a shift in the perceptions of White House policy makers and planners , the United States is moving toward the deployment of a group of weapons systems , including Trident , MX and the cruise missile , that can be used in first-strike missions . This kind of weaponry , together with the strategic doctrines and war planning it generates , erodes the nuclear weapons firebreak , encourages Soviet planners to follow suit with neutralizing weapons systems and doctrines of their own and helps convince potential nuclear powers that nuclear weapons are essential instruments of big-time internationaidiplomacy . T n actuality , Soviet military capabilities , now or projected , pose no genuine threat to American security properly conceived . That is , there is no prospect of a militarily usable Soviet advantage at the strategic level . Even if United States land-based missiles were to become in some sense vulnerable after the mid-1980s , sea and air systems would continue to prdvide an enormous deterrent . It is difficult to envisage a Soviet leader , other than a psychopath ( who might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War III because of a conviction that the magnitude of catastrophe would be smaller for the Soviet Union than for its adversary or that it could " recover " more rapidly . These notions , now popular among anti-SALT hawks , seem farfetched and misleading . It is true that the failures of Soviet leadership , especially the failure to satisfy their own citizenry , could engender Soviet military adventurism as a way out . But to escalate the arms race on our side at this stage will only foster a militarist frame of mind in Moscow . Fortunately , leaders ( and their supportive bureaucracies ) in both superpowers have so far demonstrated a consistent resolve , especially after the scare produced by the Cuban missile crisis of 1962 , to avoid crisis confrontations that could potentially escalate . There is no plausible " win " scenario for either side in a general nuclear war , even assuming , which is not at all assured , the ecological resilience of the biosphere . More important , perhaps , the political developments that have occurred since the American defeat in Indochina @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East-West resolve or capabilities , much less a reflection of a deteriorating American strategic position relative to the Soviet Union . Starting with the long period of involvement in Indochina , the overwhelming recent lesson of geopolitics is the inefficacy of military intervention as a way of guiding the political , social and economic destinies of Third World countries . How could a larger American strategic investment in the last decade have altered the outcomes in Iran , Nicaragua or a series of African countries ? It is sheer fantasy to suppose that these outcomes were achieved because of any Soviet interventionist role or that they could have been prevented by timely U.S. intervention , much less that these political developments were influenced by the ratio of strategic strength or resolve of the superpowers . A government that provokes its people , or a substantial fraction , thereof , to revolutionary opposition can rarely be saved by outside military intervention . After more than $150 billion spent and over 55,000 lives lost to reverse the political tide in Indochina , it should be obvious that the United States can not hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World . And can it be responsibly maintained that the Shah or Somoza were defeated because they lacked the military wherewithal to withstand internal challenge ? The point is that overwhelming military capabilities can not necessarily assure stability where a government is oppressive and unresponsive to the needs of the people . And besides , to impose a political solution by military , means , as the Soviet Union did through its Czech interven= tion in 1968 , contradicts American ideals so ' fundamentally that serious divisions at home ? arise ; domestic turbulence is bound to ensue , straining the democratic process itself . We are not generally a repressive society and can not comfortably go beyond a certain point in supporting repressive solutions for the unresolved conflicts of a foreign society . In essence , we are inhibited to some degree by our ideals proclaiming the right of a people to determine its own political destiny . Indeed , it is this inhibition that partially explains our reliance at times on covert operations to thwart revolutionary nationalism . Aside from the special case of Eastern Europe , the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Third World . This record of failure is surprising cony sidering the consistent Soviet anti-colonial stand and its " clean hands " ( with respect to vested economic interests ) in the countries of Asia , Africa and Latin America . Yet , in fact , Soviet military involvements in Indonesia , Ghana , Egypt and Somalia all backfired , and one wonders how long the Soviet presence in Cuba and Vietnam would last if American pressure on these countries was removed . Third World nationalist governments are not willing to compromise their independence by ceding significant influence to outsiders , especially to a clumsy superpower . Cuban experience in Africa is still quite new and difficult to interpret . In a sense , aside from Cuba 's being a Third World country and closely aligned , if not subordinate , to the Soviet Union in its foreign policy , there is nothing very unusual about , having an outside country send troops to assist the recognized government in response to an invitation to do so . The role of Cuban forces in such countries as Ethiopia and Angola @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on such matters . The impact may be " interventionary , " but it is difficult to claim that the Cuban presence is a departure from consistent geopolitical practice by the United States ( e.g. , it was the basis of the American military presence in Indochina ) . Many African governments have availed themselves of this ' sovereign right . There are French troops in several African countries . Why the obsession with Cuba 's African presence while France 's constabulary role in Africa is virtually ignored ? This one-sided view suggests that we are becoming unduly agitated by the direction of international political developments . This agitation feeds the current mood of anxiety about the sufficiency of American resolve in world politics and helps build a national determination to reinforce that resolveby augmenting our military capabilities . At best , such a logic leads to the acquisition of superfluous weaponry ; at worst , it leads toward a militarist foreign policy , a revival in some new form for the 1980s of the kind of counterinsurgency thinking that was so popular in the 1960s . The earmarking by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops for action in the Persian Gulf region is an alarming indication that these fears are not misplaced . It is essential that our leaders in Congress and the White House deal more forthrightly with the limits of interventionist diplomacy in our time . As matters now stand , the false debate about how to meet the challenge of Sciviet expansionism is helping to create a dangerous political climate in which the public will expect its elected leaders to " do something " to arrest the perceived decline in U.S. power on the global stage  --  most likely by deploying force . As I have argued , such a posture is likely to make matters worse . It is as if with present weather technology we built a public expectation that hurricanes could , and hence , should be neutralized before they caused damage . Revolutionary nationalism , mobilized above a certain threshold , amounts to a political hurricane  --  it can be observed and accommodated , but it can not be stopped . The bearing of these considerations on the SALT debate should be obvious . The buildup of weaponry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States to assure the resources or markets needed to maintain the health of the American political economy . In fact , it aggravates the situation by increasing inflationary public spending in the defense sector , an area of investment that does virtually nothing to restore the productivity of the economy ; the defense budget does not make American goods any more competitive with those produced by other countries . The decline in the relative productivity of the American economy is a far more serious threat to the stability of the East-West balance than is the relative increase in Soviet military capabilities , and the decline of the value of the dollar is a far worse threat to " the American way of life " than is the menace of Soviet military power . A careful study of how major international conflicts have arisen in the past tells us that the same tendencies that led to them are re-emerging on the international scene ; more specifically , tendencies that produced the sort of international climate out of which World Wars I and II emerged . If I am correct in thinking that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is higher than at any time since 1945 , then our first priority should be to analyze the situation and take steps to avoid this terrifying calamity . It is my further , conviction that a realistic response to the experience of American decline as a world power could arrest , if not reverse , the decline and , at the same time , prevent it from becoming the trigger for global warfare or domestic discontent . To clarify this contention let me briefly give some reasons why I think we are heading into the 1980s in such a dangerously inappropriate frame of mind . In essence , the prospect of continuing relative decline in Western economic , political and cultural leadership , accompanied by low rates of growth in an inflationary environment , tends to produce protectionist pressures and neo-mercantilist policies . In these circumstances , the declining side is always vulnerable , especially if militarily powerful , to the illusion of " a military fix , " and its leaders and citizenry can easily become convinced that the protection of national interests requires high-risk or desperate strategies . Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in these terms . , A part of the American difficulty involves the misreading of decline ; primarily , it is here , not out there . What exists . within our society can be overcome ; what is external is difficult , if not impossible , to control . Therefore , rebuilding our security requires some difficult , yet liberating , economic and , possibly , ethical adjustments well within our national capacity . I am thinking of conservation , collapse of sunset industries , stimulation of productive enterprise and the like . The longer these adjustments are deferred , the harder they will be to make . I find the SALT II debate partly disturbing because it reveals a bipartisan unwillingness to comprehend the true threat to American security . This leads to policies that will only make thei situation worse . Instead of the present elaborately sophisticated analyses of the comparative weapons systems and war-fighting prospects of the United States and the Soviet Union , we urgently need a crash prograM to formulate alternate security options , including workable programs for disarmament and supranational peace-keeping . These ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are trapped in a monolithic consensus that has not been challenged in a serious way by contrary positions . et , it can be asked , why should the United States contemplate such alternatives when the Soviet Union fails to do so ? The reason to consider these alternatives is , in the first instance , because we should spare no effort to minimize the risks of general war or of our own economic collapse . Certainly , these risks are associated with the present drift of events in the world and there is no good reason for our failure to discover whether any way out exists . And can we be so confident that the Soviet leadership would be unresponsive ? The Soviet Union has in recent years consistently proposed matching defense spending cuts on a percentage basis , as well as a moratorium on the development of new weapons systems . We have neither seriously responded to , nor proposed comparable , alternatives . For years now , the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency has acted as if disarmament was not part of its name ( or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contemplation of new forms of security adapted to a nuclear age . This fear is a handicap of momentous consequence , undermining our long-term security in a most critical manner. , This assessment of the challenges facing the United States suggests several broad conclusions : ( 1 ) The Soviet military buildup should not be perceived as a threat to American security . ( 2 ) Exaggerating the Soviet threat undermines American security by increasing the risks of military adven- , turism , general warfare and economic collapse . ( 3 ) Strengthening American security at this time depends primarily on reducing the risks of nuclear war and restoring confidence in the viability of the American economy and life style . In light of this line of analysis , the approval or rejection of the SALT II treaty is mainly a matter of symbolic consequence . In my judgment , the symbolic value of ' approval seems less adverse than does rejection . Unfortunately , the way the debate has been structured insures that either outcome will give considerable aid and comfort to militarist interpretations of the security challenges facing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outcome seems less damaging , primarily because it keeps the framework of detente intact and does not aggravate the strains between the United States and its Western European allies . Yet , for reasons I have earlier suggested , ratification of the treaty , even if it comes , will , hardly provide an occasion for celebration . ?                     