@@278192

Not since 2001 has a movie so cannily inverted consciousness and altered audience perception as The Hellstrom Chronicle . It is a wry and scarifying cautionary tale , whose point is most neatly summed up by the fictional scientist-narrator Dr. Nils Hellstrom : " The insect has the answer because he never asked the question . " In scene after remarkable scene , assorted species of insect are shown as unreasoning , unfeeling creatures who will survive the kind of atomic cataclysm that man , with his superior intellect , continues to shape for himself . " The true winner , " says Hellstrom , " is the last to finish the race . " <P> As an essay on human fallibility and insect adaptability , The Hellstrom Chronicle seems just a little too facile . The pseudo-documentary framework of the film becomes rickety in places , as Hellstrom ( Lawrence Pressman ) intones a narration more inflated than informative ( " The world was created not with the sweetness of love but the violence of rape " ) . It is rather as a visual experience that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who directed the picture and shot a good portion of the photography as well , used microlenses and extreme slow motion to get awesome footage of mayflies living out their brief lives , of termites inside their intricate mound fashioned from mud and saliva , of a locust plague in Ethiopia , of a single drop of water killing an insect with its impact . Perhaps the most memorable sequence shows African driver ants . These sightless creatures instinctively use their bodies to form a carriage for their obese queen , and defend her by hurling themselves against attackers with suicidal ferocity . The viewer is brought so deeply into all this that after a few minutes the film begins to take on a surprising immediacy . Like all good science fiction , The Hellstrom Chronicle suggests an alternate reality , then surrounds you with it , inducing a weird sense of disorientation . Despite the melodramatic Dr. Hellstrom , it is a trip much worth taking .                     