@@493660

White House Watch Resurrection When told that this report was to be about the resurrection of Robert Strauss , a White House assistant cracked , " Whattaya mean , resurrection ? Bob Strauss has never been crucified . " The tone suggested that he should have been . In a way , though , the remark was correct . Most accounts , including his own , of Strauss 's life and career convey the impression of a steady rise From childhood in the only Jewish family in the rural town of Stamford , Texas , a state where to this day being Jewish , rich or poor ( and Strauss has been both ) , can be particularly painful , socially and otherwise . His present eminence as a valued friend and counsellor of Jimmy Carter and , somewhat incidentally , as the President 's Special Trade Representative , and his prior success as a Texas lawyer and a national politician , have not obliterated the memory of his origins , At a recent White House discussion of Carter foreign policy , Strauss barked at a pedagoguish member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'd been raised as one of the only two Jewish kids in Stamford , Texas , you would n't need anybody to tell you about human rights . " The other kid in Stamford was his brother Ted for Theodore ) , who is chairman of the biggest hank in Dallas . Bob Strauss is the chief stockholder in a suburban Dallas bank , a co-owner of a family radio station in Tucson and a founder of one of the biggest and most prosperous law firms in Texas and the Southwest . There nevertheless have been low points , beginning with his experience as a son of a drygoods store proprietor who learned the hard way that trying to undersell a local competitor who was trying to undersell the 1 . C. Penney bargain store chain was not a way to get rich . More recent lows have come when Strauss was treasurer of the Democratic National Committee and it was spending $100,000 a month and taking in practically nothing , and later when hostile Democrats including supporters of Jimmy Carter but not Carter himself almost did him out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had comprehended its desperate financial condition in 1970 , he suggested to other committee officials and employees that they take out a group life insurance policy and decide by lot who should jump out of a window . Strauss as Special Trade Representative is mainly though , to his sorrow , not solely responsible for trade negotiations with other countries . His performance in that capacity is incidental to this account , which is principally concerned with his remarkable transformation from presumes enemy to intimate friend of Jim my Carter and with his extracurricular services to and relationship with the President . He is the trade negotiator , however . It is an important job , his success or failure in it could have a good deal to do with the success or failure of the Carter presidency , and that aspect therefore can not be ignored . After Carter decided in March to nominate Strauss as his Special Trade Representative , Treasury Secretary W. Michael Blumenthal indicated to other people that he was unhappy . Blumenthal , an industrialist who had represented the US at critical trade negotiations , sided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of them should have the job . Blumenthal continues to be one of the detractors of Strauss who recognize his talents as a politician and fixer but minimize his importance and role in substantive economic and other policy processes . It 's their way of cloaking their regret that he has any role . Carter sided with advisers who held that in these times of rising US protectionism the central problem is domestic and political and that a proven political negotiator is needed . Professional purists among international economists and foreign trade specialists in and out of government continue to deplore the choice of Strauss . Lacking competence to judge , I rely upon the judgment of two economists and a White House assistant . Myer Rashish , a consulting economist in Washington who was an assistant to President Kennedy and who hoped for a time to be the Carter administration 's deputy trade representative in Geneva , says despite being passed over that Strauss was an excellent choice and has done an excellent job . Robert Norma ts , formerly chief economist on the NSC staff and now at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the choice of Strauss and probably would have done so if he 'd been consulted in March . Hormats said on December 14 : " I have concluded that the Strauss pick was one of the most brilliant choices the President has made . Without him , the Multilateral Trade Negotiations the current " Tokyo Round " of efforts to reach a new General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ! would be nothing . He almost single-handedly revived the trade negotiations . " The director of Carter 's domestic policy staff and the White House assistant with whom Strauss works most closely on substantive matters , Stuart Eizenstat , said on December 13 : " He has been enormously effective as trade representative for several reasons . First , because he is a doer . Second , because he has an unwavering knack of finding that right balance between doing nothing and being overly protectionist . That is exceedingly difficult , given the current climate of heavy protectionist influence . Thirdly , he has such good contacts with Congress . He knows what will sell and wo n't sell . Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us from the International Trade . Commission with a recommendation which is normally protectionist . That is the commission 's orientation . The President can overturn the ITC 's finding , but Congress can overturn the President 's judgment and reinstate the ITC 's judgment . Bob Strauss has the knack of going up to the Hill and finding out just how far we have to go to avoid the embarrassment and counterproductiveness of having the President overruled and an even more protectionist plan put into effect . " In support of his judgment , Eizenstat cited recent and limited arrangements for protection of US shoe , television set and sugar producers . Although Eizenstat gave Strauss more credit than he generally gets for ability to absorb the technical complexities of international trade , he understood that Strauss tells his staff professionals , " Do n't load me with too many of the details . Just give me enough of the substance so that I can make some sense about it . " Strauss has said to friends , " I 'm going to come out of this a great man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I 've got good people who do . " Some of the aforementioned purists think he has a mediocre professional staff . During inquiries for this report , 1 noticed that I was encouraged to deal with Strauss and never heard from the professionals . Probably I did n't try hard enough , Strauss being the central subject anyhow . " The ultimate dealer , the ultimate operator , " a White House character called Strauss the other day in trying to explain his standing with the President . This sort of praise , if that 's what it is , has to do with Strauss 's reputation for being usefully close to such congressional magnificos as House Speaker Thomas P. ( Tip ) O'Neill of Massachusetts , Senate finance committee chairman Russell Long of Louisiana , Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd of West Virginia , and Senator Abraham Ribicoff , a Strauss friend and supporter who manages to preserve his identity as a liberal Democrat while being as protectionist in trade matters as his industrial constituents in Connecticut require him to be . During the very casual confirmation of Strauss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the finance committee members who did their best , partly successful at least in rhetorical terms , to commit Strauss to a fundamentally protectionist approach and , beyond that , to the proposition that Congress and not the President has the right and power to determine international trade policy . It has the power , beyond doubt . More resistance than Strauss demonstrated to the notion that Congress has the right might be constructive from the standpoint of Carter or any President . Strauss has the powerful friends in Congress that he is said to have . Hear Speaker O'Neill , when asked if he really regards Strauss as highly as he 's supposed to : " Oh , yeah . There 's no question about that . You know , he 's the guy you got ta give credit for putting the Democratic Party back in shape in 1Q721the McGovern year . He did just a great job las DNC chairman ) and everybody loves him for that . He 's an extrovert and I love him for that laughing . He 's always so confident of himself that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , by God , every time he says he can help , he can help . " John Steen , a spokesman for Russell Long , says that Long 's relationship with Strauss " is fantastic " and that Long , like O'Neill , admires the job Strauss did in putting the party together after the McGovern debacle . But the inquirer runs into difficulty in trying to track Bob Strauss on the Hill ? who he 's seen about what and what good he did . Two reasons for the difficulty are offered . In declining to explain what seemed to be a certain disinterest in communication with Strauss , O'Neill said that " when you are putting a package together , you do n't talk about who you 've talked to along the line . " Senator Long 's man , John Steen , said when asked for proof that Strauss actually has been working as vigorously and effectively with Long on energy legislation as he is said at the White House to have been doing : " The Senator has been holding his cards very close to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ details of who he has seen . They Long and Strauss have to be talking , but I have not seen Bob Strauss 's name on the Senator 's schedule . You just have to assume that they have been getting together . " Steen then got to the nub of the problem , from a White House reporter 's view : " Of course , Mr. Strauss has been keeping a very low profile . I do n't think he wants to upstage Schlesinger , he does n't want to cause problems . " That last remark was very true . Upstaging Secretary of Energy James R. Schlesinger and Carter 's chief White House lobbyist , Frank Moore , is the last thing Strauss wants to appear to be doing . He says and they say that they are the principal actors , he only a supporting player in the congressional battles for energy legislation suitable to Carter , the pending Panama Canal treaties and other critical administration projects . That 's partly though not entirely Cosh . Schlesinger , who was branded by one of his former Presidents , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , appears to have learned a lot during the agonies of the energy battles and is getting praise for his recent work on the Hill that this reporter has never previously known him to get . Strauss speaks partly , maybe mostly , for effect when he plays down his role and plays up the role and abilities of Frank Moore , probably the least regarded of the Georgians on Carter 's senior staff , But there is some truth and a penetrating insight into Carter in what Strauss says in this connection : " I think Frank Moore is the most underrated fellow around the President . People like me and others at the White House deserve some of the blame andmaybe the President deserves more of the blame than any of us ? for Frank 's difficulties with Congress . The President just is n't a trading President . I mean : I 'll swap you this for that ; 1 need some help and what can I do for you ? So Frank has had to go on the Hill with an empty sack , and that 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lot of people in Congress are beginning to understand this and to respect him for what he 's been able to do in spite of it . " Strauss proceeds to argue that Carter in his first year has learned that he 's got to compromise with Congress and is compromising more than he thought he 'd have to do when he came up from Georgia . The contradiction between this and what he 'd said about Moore 's problems may be more apparent than real . Strauss could be telling Carter that he should demand something worthwhile more often than he 's generally been doing , in return for compromise . How and why Bob Strauss and Jimmy Carter came to be the warm friends and intimate collaborators theyunquestionably are is simply explained . There was a time , when Carter was Governor of Georgia and Strauss was treasurer and then chairman of the Democratic National Committee in the early 1970s , when they were useful to each other and tolerated each other , maybe even mildly liked each other , but did n't really need each other . During @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1976 , when Strauss as the party chairman was officially impartial , Strauss preferred any one of three Carter rivals for the Democratic nomination : Senators Henry Jackson , Hubert Humphrey or , leastly but necessarily because he was a Texan , Lloyd Bentsen . That was not the sort of thing that would normally endear either Carter or born-again Carterites to anybody . One of the latter said not long ago of Bob Strauss : " Never forget , he 'd screw you for a dime . " During most of that time , too , Strauss first laughed at Carter 's candidacy , then reasoned that he must be going for the vice presidential nomination , and conceded only after his primary victory in New Hampshire that he just might be a long shot for the presidential nomination . After Carter won the conclusive primary victories in 1976 and became a sure shot for the nomination , they began to recognize that they needed each other and began to warm up to each other . The core of Strauss 's explanation for the rapport that has developed since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , despite his preferences for others , he never cheated on Carter or any other candidate during his chairmanship . A DNC employee in that time recalls Strauss opening staff meetings by saying in characteristic Strauss language : " Now look , you sons of bitches , everybody thinks I 'm for somebody , and against all the others . Well , of course I 'm for somebody , but as Bob Strauss , not as the chairman of this party . And do n't you ever forget it . " Strauss says that Carter several times assured him in person that he , Carter , trusted Strauss as chairman and told him to pay no attention to complaints from the Carter staff . The proof that Carter did n't suspect Strauss of cheating , and believed he played fair is the manifest fact that Strauss otherwise would n't be anywhere near Jimmy Carter today . Strauss is pretty close , closer than some of the White House Georgians care to recognize . Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter and their daughter Amy have had Sunday dinner ? the Carters would say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apartment in Washington . At an impromptu and unannounced dinner the Carters gave in the White House mansion December 12 for visiting Georgia friends and a few members of the immediate Carter staff , with their wives , the only non-members of that staff were Strauss and economic adviser Charles Schultze , with their wives . Beyond mutual need and trust , two other explanations of the Carter-Strauss rapport are intriguing . One of them is that Strauss the cussing , joking , wheeling extrovert appeals to jimmy Carter , the private and rather withdrawn and usually restrained introvert . Georgia contemporaries remember a different and personally looser limmy , but that 's by the way . The second explanation is the characteristic that Jimmy Carter displays publicly with his wry references to the time when the media ignored his candidacy and his few supporters around the country had a hard job filling their living rooms with potential voters . As one of his close and senior associates puts it , Jimmy Carter relishes having around him people who made and have acknowledged that mistake .      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      