@@479489

A FINE FINISH TO WESTERN civilization shines out on the bright glass buildings of the modern state university . What is hidden in all the historical camouflage of tradition at Oxford or Princeton , and only sensed in fleeting moments of inattention in common rooms and faculty clubs , is brazenly expressed in the office-building architecture of the universities of the post-industrial state . Just a few years ago these great buildings were dedicated with speeches that celebrated a new age of triumphant rationality created by enlightened investment in higher education . To demonstrate the high level of modern society made secure by the new management sciences , governments spent lavish funds on building citadels of progress with wall-to-wall carpets and occasional pieces of art . Now these same buildings are slums where sullen bodies sprawl upon the floor and pass a joint among themselves . Like Indians on a reservation or the poor in public housing , these students treat their physical surroundings with a contempt for the facile condescension built into the forms of their incarceration . They put out their cigarettes in the carpets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trash everywhere . if the students must study , they cut out the assigned chapter of the hook from a copy in the reserve section of the library , or , if the book is naively left in the open stacks , they steal it altogether . If that is too much trouble , then they hity a term paper from a company organized for the purpose . With four-track stereo minds , they pile sound on sound and listen to portable TVs while they read : they hold rock concerts in the academic halls , and talk and walk about during the lectures . Navahos speeding across the Arizona mesa in a Ford pickup and slinging beer cans out the windows could not show more contempt for the irrelevance of their traditions than do these denizens of the modern youth reservation . These are the children of the suburbs , who have been institutionalized in schools all their lives . They almost always obey , but they take out their repressed rebellion in acts of trivial revolt . What the city fathers deny with their buildings , the kids affirm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the will to suffer their freedom , the ones who remain institutionalized take a compensatory pride in acts ofbourgeois petty thievery and think that in " ripping off " a book from the student bookstore they have committed an act of existential affirmation in the face of the establishment . Enclosed within a tightening space , ecologically and socially , they move through a socialized culture in which institutions like the school , the detention center , and public housing are all of a piece . There are no tramp steamers left , no foreign legions or Lincoln Brigades . Their adventurous brothers and sisters may have struck out to see the world of youth culture in chartered jets ? to smoke hash in Marrakech , to shoot smack in Istanbul , and to drop acid in Katmandu ? but history has left these obedient children behind in an eroticized bureaucracy . And yet they do not make love to one another : they " hall . " They no longer take LSD to find the face of God ; they take coke to intensify their orgasms and downers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the students : a Dionysian bureaucracy . The university of the faculty is its mirror image : an Apollonian irrationality . All is order and methodology . As soon as consciousness senses a threat , an academic methodology breaks it down into pieces so that the whole problem can not be seen . Utterly engrossed in the details of committee work , these specialists could pluck hairs from the face of terror and never have to look it in the eye . Forced to spend more of their lives in committees than in the classroom or library , these teachers are taught how to become " managers of a learning system . " In each committee a crisis comes along regularly to convince the professor of his new importance in the wider sphere of public affairs . He no longer notices that the mimeographed material from all his committees weighs about fifty pounds . He succumbs to his responsibilities , but he takes the students down with him , for now they too are allowed to serve on committees , to become responsible members of the academic community . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ founding president of York University , Murray Ross , has said , " a large public corporation . " Its purpose , therefore , is to teach people how to live in a large public corporation , and this can be done as well in a committee as in a classroom . In fact , as committees begin to dominate the life of a university , the atmosphere of the classroom changes from one of a teacher with his students to one of a committee chairman with a team of consultants . The role of an educational bureaucracy is to educate people to bureaucracy , and this can be done as well in a course in humanities as in business administration . If one controls the structure , he can afford to allow a liberal amount of play in the content . The more that alien subjects like mysticism , revolution , or sexuality can be brought into the structures of curricular behavior , the more these structures prove their power over just those areas of experience that might subvert them . The call for reform from within thus becomes a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by opening up the curriculum to subjects that seem relevant to youth , such as poverty , abortion , or gay liberation , they will create a healthy university ; but all they really will be doing is offering Sociology 100 , 101 , 102 . The university culture remains the same . S D THE CULTURE WILL REMAIN the same until the problem is seen as a whole . The problem as a whole is that our institutions are no longer in sync with the pattern of human growth through time . We think that time is a line that moves from bad to better , from poverty to progress , from ignorance to knowledge , from gradeone to twenty . The point of the line is to develop an identity through a function and then maintain that function for as " long " as possible . Before the industrial revolution , children worked with their parents and relatives on the farm . They did not have to be flattered that they were responsible members of the community , for it would never have occurred to anyone to consider them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industries , the parents became collectivized in the new institution , and so it was thought only natural that the children should be too . But the younger members of the human species did not take to industrialization so readily ; the factory became literally a Procrustean bed , and as the children began to lose eyes and limbs from their encounters with the machines , it became obvious that they did not fit in the factory . And so another institution was created , the public school , and the collectivization of the parents was matched in the collectivization of the children . The public school in America was more powerful than its counterpart in Great Britain . Since we were a nation of immigrants , the central task of the school was Americanization . Whatever the teacher may have said about the three Rs , she was basically saying : " Your parents have an accent . I do n't . If you want to belong to America , you must reject your parents and come to me . " Like an apparitional Statue of Liberty , the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summoned all the waifs to her side . She took the children away from their parents , just as America took the immigrants away from Europe . In the age of print , when big cities and big books contained what civilization was all about , the system went unchallenged . But by the age of television , the media became a more effective means of Americanization . The educational system that had worked on the Jews or the Irish no longer worked on the blacks : when Jewish teachers in New York tried to take black children away from their parents in exactly the way they had been taken from theirs , they were shocked to encounter a violent affirmation of negritude . The encounter revealed the true power of education : while claiming to be the protector of liberty in a democracy , the educational system had slowly grown into a center for the distribution of tranquilizers and for behavior modification . The system created to put muscle into democracy ended up becoming the closing fingers of the long arm of the state . When education became big business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ big government . In all large corporations , public or private , the central feature of behavior is obedience to corporate routines . So the lines of desks matched the production line , and time was taken up in progress through grades . From the cradle to the grave , from rags to riches , the new man had to make his way down the line . Of course , it did n't work very well , but then agricultural civilization had n't worked very well either . It could have gone on for thousands of years , just as agricultural civilization had , but something remarkable happened . Industrial civilization came to an end . Daniel Bell would give one reason , McLuhan another , but whether because of automation or electronic media , students began to revolt and workers began to refuse the " chimpanzee work " of the production line . All the lines of industrial culture were breaking up : people were " making waves " again . The natural life rhythms of homo sapiens were reasserting themselves after two centuries of hibernation in the iron winter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school ; middle-aged men took dramatic turns into new careers ; and housewives walked out of the kitchen with as much religious yearning as the Lord Gautama had when he walked out of the nursery of his sleeping infant . Homo Ludens and Homo Faber space in which to breathe and move . In fact , after a few cries of fear , it is all rather wonderful . There is inure pulse to this new life , and if it moves in alternating waves , that does not mean that it lacks an overall sense of direction . As creatures begin to take their own time to move with life rather than through life , we can begin to see that there is a new rhythm to the way the pageant unfolds itself . No longer is there a single identity to man , the functionary ; now instead there arc two gods within the self that pulse in a cycle alternating between Homo Ludens , the being of play , and Homo Faber , the doer of work . In the first cycle one experiences a period of creative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into form . As one looks at the procession of individual lives around him , an overall pattern begins to emerge . There is the straight line of institutional clock-time going from the nursery to the nursing home , but pulsing under and over it is the wave of human life-time . The following outline of the alternating waves of life-time should not be seen as a literal description but as a musical staff that shows us how the relationships work so that we may learn how to play . AGES ONE TO SEVEN ( Homo Ludens ) : In the first seven years of life the major project is mastering the body and the heart . The child grows through play with his body and with his parents . He feels his way toward self-mastery through the richly supportive emotional environment of the family . SEVEN TO FOURTEEN ( Homo Faber ) : At the traditional age of reason a profound change takes place , as Piaget has confirmed . The child loses his emotionally based egocentrism and begins to take a more objective interest in the world . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the gathering of facts : " How fast can a cheetah run ? " " Can a peregrine falcon fly faster than a cheetah can run ? " " What is the tallest mountain in the world ? " " Who has the most goals in the NHL ? " FOURTEEN TO TWENTY-ONE ( Homo Ludens ) : From the ages of seven to fourteen , when they delight in collecting objects and facts , children should be in school . But by their teens they should be released from school and , in good Maoist fashion , sent out to work and play in rural communes . At fourteen the individual begins to experience a new phase of creative expansion ; it is what Freud called the period of " the return of the repressed . " Now the youth must struggle once again to master the body and the heart , but this time it is the sexually developed body that he must master . Along with the explosions of puberty comes an explosion of new emotions and tenderness . The mode of being shifts from the apparent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feely " approach to all ideas . To try to contain people in schools at this stage of life is to do violence to their whole nature . They need to grow and develop through emotional and physical activities , not through sitting in libraries trying to understand the passionate abstractions of older people . In a clumsy recognition of this phase , high schools and colleges were often excuses for having football teams . But in the old aggressive and competitive industrial culture , there was never a full recognition of the qualities of adolescence . Adolescents need to grow through sexual discovery , emotional bonding , music , poetry , work , dance ? in short , through play in the truest cultural sense of the word . If human beings are kept in schools during this stage , they will simply convert them into nurseries of showand-tell . Asked for intellectual papers , they will simply turn in collages , finger paintings , or seven blank pages as a Zen statement . Compressed into a space that forces them to explode , they need to be given an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TWENTY-EIGHT 1Homo Faber ) : After a period of physical and emotional growth through feeling , one begins to surfeit on " feely " approaches to ideas and begins to hunger for what Yeats called " the mastery of what is difficult . " University teachers readily admit that the best students are those who have dropped out and later returned to college . I first noticed this difference when I had students of different ages in a small seminar . The younger students could n't care less about Yeats as Yeats ; they looked upon the poems as Rorschachs for their own inner workings . The older students were impatient with the younger ones . They were tired of looking into a mirror and wanted to break out of the closet of their own emotions ; they wanted to learn how to read a difficult text and see what Yeats had in mind . There is no question in my mind that well over half the problems of our universities would be solved if we adjusted them to the right age group , allowed people to come in at various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like public libraries . If people were allowed to have a natural growth from fourteen to twenty-one , then they would not have to endure a delayed adolescence at twenty-four . Students who have gone directly from high school to college are inevitably in a state of emotional frustration . If they have gone to graduate school straight after college , then they are in a state of suspended rage from the suppression of their human natures . . If people were given a full and rich period of development from fourteen to twenty-one , by twenty-one they would be hungry to follow thatperiod of creative expansion with a period of consolidation into form . They would then he ready for the civilized rigors of university or professional school and could respect and follow traditions without trying to pervert them into caricatures of learning . In a healthy culture , people could proceed smoothly from B.A. to Ph.D. , LL.D. , or M.D. in the period from twenty-one to twenty-eight . TWENTY-EIGHT TO THIRTY-FIVE 11Iomo tudens ) : After a period of training and work collies the joy of the performance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period of life , one integrates mastery of body , mind , and heart into a new unity of being . The age of thirty-five is the dividing line for what Jungians distinguish as the first and second halves of life . The first half is the period of self-formation ; the second the period of self-realization . The period from twenty-eight to thirty-five is the age of the career . Here one is a lawyer , doctor , teacher , or businessman . For a woman the pattern is , of course , different , depending on when or if she chooses to bear children . For those women who so choose , the fourteen-year period from twenty-one to thirty-five would be the most likely time . In a post-institutional culture , the universities and professional schools would be open . Now they are quite closed and will only take the young who apply directly after college . Many law and medical schools , for example , insolently refuse to take part-time students because they might ruin the club by filling it up with " housewives . " In a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along with mothers , and each could help the other in balancing classes and child care . Or , in a different pattern , women could stay home while their children arc young and then return to school or work at a later stage . THIRTY-FIVE TO FORTY-NINE I Homo Faber ) : In the second half of life , when the period of the formation of the self has resulted in the achievement of a unity of body , mind , and heart , the alternating seven-year cycle lengthens to fourteen years . After the seven-year performance of one 's career , a new restlessness begins to appear in middle life . For many individuals this restlessness will result in a dramatic shift to a new and different career . Businessmen will become teachers ; housewives will go off to law school or decide to get Ph.D.s . Most people , however , are still mentally living in an industrial culture , and so they have difficulty identifying the source of their restlessness because they feel at their established age there should be no reason for it . Unable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Realizing that they are becoming tired of laboratory science or classroom teaching , they may shift into administration ( a field much more suited to Homo Faber than Homo Ludens ) without admitting to themselves that they are no longer really scientists or teachers . In business this restlessness may come at the point of satisfying long-standing ambitions : after one has the right car , the right house , the right job , he begins to wonder if this is what it was all about . At its best , this stage of life is not so much the joyous performance of one 's skill , but the stage of responsibility , of mastery of institutions , of leadership . This is the time when one builds the structures in which others can joyously perform their skills . It is the time of the dean , the administrator , the politician . It is the age of power , when the individual comes into the fullness of his own powers . FORTY-NINE TO SIXTY-THREE ( Homo Ludens ) : But power is not meant to last forever . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then this phase of life comes to deliver man from that prison . For those who have repressed too much of their physical and emotional natures , this stage is often a painful confrontation with aging and death . Often a very real heart attack arrives to remind the powerful man that he has killed his heart and it threatens to return the favor . There is once again a call to master the body and the emotions . For people at this stage of life , the Esalen techniques of Gestalt and encounter can be effective forms of deliverance . Or the threat of death may bring on a religious awakening , and the individual may pull back from the public exercise of power into a new concern for the self . This concern for the self could become a morbid and depressive state in which the individual loses touch with life , but in the natural scheme of things this period is also the time of grand-parenthood . And so the individual is brought back in touch with life and returns to the heart and the body in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the generations . The phase thus becomes a period of creative expansion , of broadening horizons and outlooks beyond the drive for power . Out of the confrontation with aging and death a fuller and deeper humanity can emerge . Man can see the play of life and once again become Man the Player . When such an individual returns to the conditions of the mind and social institutions , he brings to them a new spiritual force . At this stage of life , as Homo Ludens , with comedy in one eye and tragedy in the other , the person is ready to be entrusted with the custodianship of the institutions themselves . Ile is ready to be the judge , the president of a university , corporation , or nation . SIXTY-THREE TO SEVENTY-sEvEN ( Homo Sapiens ) : In the concluding stage of life , man is neither singly Homo Ludens nor Homo Faber ; Changing hierarchies N UNDERSTANDING OF THE CYCLES of life helps us to see that there is a dynamic quality not met by our linear institutions . In industrial society , our institutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people ; they work only for people who are concerned with power and making money . Our institutions demand that people do not make waves , that they stand in line and wait ? wait for promotions , raises , and degrees . The image of the production line dominates all our institutions , cultural and economic . But now that the industrial revolution has reached its limit , a cultural revolution is taking place and the priorities of life are being set on the scale against GNPs and Ph.Ds . This revolution is one in which the energy of culture shifts from institutions to the outside environment . Religion moves out of churches , education out of schools , business out of factories , and politics out of the party system . Through the impact of new informational technology like cable television , there is a return to the New England town meeting , and candidates begin to run for Congress on purely local issues and concerns without ever having to be mockers in the Republican or Democratic party . Naturally , this release of energy from institutions to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inside . Failing to understand these positive releases of human potential , they try to block and impede them . The most immediate attempt to block the cultural transformation is management 's effort to maintain industrial values and procedures through its institutional power in business , govvernment , and the universities . In the industrial revolution , culture surrounded nature and made it into a content in its larger structure . During the great exhibition of 1851 in London , a controversy over cutting down the trees in Hyde Park was resolved by building the wrought-iron and glass Crystal Palace around them . Now , in postindustrial culture , management is trying to surround human culture to make it into a content of its larger structure , and that is what the education business is really all about . Once laissez-faire provided the ideological apology for industrial development ; now the behavioral sciences are trying to provide an apology for the management of a technological society . As government moves away from representative democracy to executive management , so the university moves away from a critical to a consulting role . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collapsed together in a single ideology called the sciences of human management . " And just as once there was no appeal to the power of the Church without risking damnation , so now there is no appeal to the power of science without risking a charge of irrationality or insanity . Of course , the behavioral sciences are not really scientific , any more than the established church in nineteenth-century England was really holy . Once , it was useful to the ruling class to have its younger sons in the Church , for this lent an air of respectability to its rule and clothed naked power in the civilized vestments of the Anglican Church . We no longer respect these vestments , so the ruling class has changed them to doctoral robes from Harvard . With its Bundys , Moynihans , and Kissingers , Harvard has become the Canterbury Cathedral of the established church of post-industrial society . This forced marriage of authority and power is an unhealthy thing for the republic . In the nineteenth century , the scholar had no power , and only the robber-baron capitalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President . In The Education of Henry Adams , Adams describes his attempts to take up residence in Grant 's Washington in the hope of securing an appointment . But in a Washington as corrupt as Grant 's the services of a Henry Adams were not needed . At that time American culture had more dimensions than the political one , and a timely invitation from President Charles Eliot returned Adams to Cambridge and a professorship at Harvard . In the nineteenth century , Harvard , the inheritor of the Puritan ethic , was the center of American intellectual and moral authority ; Washington was the capital of power , but the distance between them expressed the healthy distance between authority and power . Nineteenth-century Harvard could function as a refuge for the fuller values of a healthyculture . There the scholar could complain that no one listened to him , but out of his isolation he could create the works that go to make up a civilization . Lnfortunately , the scholar was not happy in his isolation ; he fancied that if only he had a voice in power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age . Now , having lived through a golden age in which the best and the brightest sat at the father 's right hand , we can see how disastrous it is to turn Harvard into a stopover on the way to Washington . .1G ' BUSINESS AND BM GOVERNMENT have been joined by big foundations and big education . Culture has collapsed into society , and society has been compressed into the very narrow range of Republican-Democratic politics . The university , dependent upon government support , has become the major center of distribution for the new ideology of human management . But with its success has come deeper failure . Just as in the nineteenth century the university took authority away from the Church , so now the new culture is beginning to take authority away from the university . To be sure , the university will not disappear , just as the Church did not disappear ; but as the Church was to the Berkeleys and Harvards of the Fifties and Sixties , so will the Berkeleys and Harvards be to the new cultural centers of the Seventies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ university , one must understand the failure of social science to provide a secular ideology strong enough and culturally deep enough to support the growth of a planetary civilization . All it could do was bring Indian intellectuals to the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences in Palo Alto and teach them how to drink Scotch . Even then , it did not always work , for some of the brighter ones began to realize that American social science , so lavishly supported by the Ford Foundation , was simply ideological camouflage for the spread of a world-view congenial to the growth of American-based multinational corporations . The failure of the modern university is thus intimately linked with the failure of social science . The university was first a village , and then , in the days of Oxford and Cambridge , it became a town ; in the era of Harvard and Berkeley , it became a city-state . Now , through the Kissingers and Skinners of Harvard , the tiny city-state , like an ancient Rome , is growing to become the new empire of behavioral civilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has no place in " value-free " social science ; and so what is missing in the grand imperial vision is a historical memory and a tragic sense that a society that seeks to live like an empire will die like one .                     