@@487926

Ten years ago it became obvious to the British Government that something would have to be done about Northern Ireland . In 1968 a civil rights campaign , demanding an end to discrimination in housing allocation and job opportunities against Northern Ireland 's Catholic minority , forced the Labour government to turn its attention to that North East corner of Ireland , still nominally ruled by the British . Nominally , because , though Westminster was the sovereign Parliament , Northern Ireland had had its own government , based at Stormont , near Belfast , for nearly fifty years . And for fifty years Stormont had been ruled by one party  --  the Protestant Unionist Party . After 1968 Stormont was suspended , and the British are now more deeply than ever involved in running the state . During the decade several theories have been advanced to explain what the British have been doing in Northern Ireland , and why . The one most generally accepted  --  especially in America  --  is that Britain has been acting as policeman , impartially keeping the two warring tribes of Catholics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been , examined with the attention it warrants , it would long since have been exposed as a myth . It pretends that during these years of violence the IRA and the various Protestant paramilitary groups have been engaged in a continuing series of sectarian killings and counter-killings , while the British Army , the Bobby , has stood somewhere in the middle and tried to prevent an outright civil war . That view , at best only half true , has obscured the role played by British Governments , with their military and administrative apparatuses , since 1968 . Conveniently , it does not recognize that two different , if occasionally overlapping , conflicts have been going on there . One of them is indeed sectarian , but it has usually ' been one-sided and carried out by Protestant terror gangs against ordinary Catholics . The other , the campaign of the Provisional IRA , though it has often resulted in terrible civilian casualties , has been directed primarily against the army and police , ' and so-called " economic " targets . The British have shown themselves much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " Bobby " myth would lead one to expect . The past ten years can be divided into three periods-1968-70 ; 1970-74 ; and 1974 to date  --  each period punctuated by changes of government in London : Labour to Conservative in 1970 ; and Conservative back to Labour in 1974 . With each change , British political and military tactics changed in ways that reflected some of the ideological differences of the two political parties . Yet the true role of the British was unchanged : that of defender of the state of Northern Ireland . Of course , every myth has some basIS in reality , That of the British Bobby in Northern Ireland arose from the circumstance ? which forced the Labour government , led by Harold Wilson , to send its army into the streets of Belfast and Derry in August 1969 . During the previous year the Catholic civil rights campaign , whose goals Wilsiih 's government tacitly supported , had pressed the Unienists at Stormont to introduce the needed reform 's . Elements of the Unionist Party resisted , however , and in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rev. Ian Paisley , organized counter-demonstrations to those of the civil rights marchers . By August 1969 , these confrontations had degenerated into widespread sectarian rioting . Protestants , carrying clubs , hatchets and torches , burnt Catholic homes in areas where the different ghettos abutted . The police force , , the Royal Ulster Constabulary ( RUC ) , 90% Protestant and never really accepted by the Catholics , lost control of the situation . At that point British troops arrived and took up positions between Catholic and Protestant ghettos . Without a doubt many Catholic lives were thus saved . But though Wilson 's government undoubtedly wanted to prevent further bloodshed , that was incidental to its main purpose , which was to save the state from crumbling into sectarian chaos . uring the fall of 1969 the Labour government acted with some vigor against the Protestant extremists , who were armed but not yet well organized . It disarmed the RUC ? until then the only police force in the British Isles to carry firearms ; it abolished the " B " - Specials , the RUC 's paramilitary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long been the source of much sectarian tension in the community . It is arguable that , if Labour had won the 1970 general election , the violence of the succeeding years might have been largely avoided . However , the Conservatives won , and Labour 's policy of trying to placate the Catholics , while , neutralizing the threat from the Protestant Right , was reversed . Before long the British Bobby had well and truly entered the ' realm of mythology . , Because of their imperialist politics and close relationship with the Protestant Unionists , the Conservatives approached the Northern Ireland crisis as if it had been caused by a conspiracy of subversives , Communists and IRA gunmen . Undoubtedly , all these elements were present in the Catholic ghettos , but none was powerful or influential enough to have directed the sectarian violence of the previous year . That fact was admitted by an official inquiry set up by the Labour government to look into the causes of the 1969 riots . But the findings of the inquiry made little difference to the Conservatives or their Unionist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acted on the assumption that the Catholics were the real threat , and directed their militariy , machine against that section of the population . Within weeks after the Conservatives took office , the British Army experienced its first seriousconfrontation with working-class Catholics of Belfast . During large-scale arms raids on the Falls Road ghetto six civilians were killed by army gunfire as the soldiers ' hoUse-to-house searches were violently resisted . The British made a moderate haul , but the overall political result was to swing many Catholics behind the Provisionals , who now quickly prepared for a showdown with the British . At the same time that the IRA was getting ready for guerrilla war , the extremist Protestants were organizing and arming . However , when the Conservatives and Unionists responded to the IRA campaign by interning more than 300 Catholics in August 1971 , they did not touch any Protestants . The British argue that this was not discrimination , that at the time the Protestants were simply no threat to security : Yet within a month after internment was instituted , Protestant terrorists launched a bombing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killed fifteen Catholics in one incident . Bloody Sunday followed in January 1972 , when thirteen Catholic civil rights marchers were gunned down by British paratroopers , None was in the IRA . Less well known than this incident , but of great importance for understanding the role being played by the British , was their response to the rise of widespread sectarian terrorism in 1972 . Since the British Bobby theory implies that sectarian violence is the real problem in Northern Ireland , it is crucial to examine how the British coped with it when it did , occur on a scale serious enough to push the state into a Lebanon type of civil war . It is immediately apparent from the statistics of assassinations in 1972 that they do not fit the theory of " tit-for-tat " war between Catholic and Protestant gangs . Between February and December 1972 , eighty-one Catholics were murdered by Protestant paramilitaries , mainly by the Ulster Defence Association , largest of the Protestant groups . In the same period , forty Protestants were assassinated , more than half of whom died at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catholics were interned during this period , but no Protestants . These figures do not include the many thousands of Catholics who were forced from their homes by widespread campaigns of intimidation , or the hundreds injured in sectarian bombings and shootings . Yet the British did not intervene against the UDA , even though they had identified , its leaders . Many reasons have been given for the failure to stop these attacks , but even the most convincing  --  which are military and tactical , and allege that the British did not want to open a second front against Protestant terrorists  --  make nonsense of the claim that the British were acting as impartial policemen . In fact , such reasons presuppose that the British were there , primarily , as defenders of the state of Northern Ireland . When the Conservatives thought that its survival depended on the eradication of the IRA , they concentrated on that goal , even to the extent of ignoring the serious threat to the lives of a large section of the population , and allowed the UDA to do its worst . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in February 1973 , the British picked up two suspected gunmen from East Belfast . From then until December 1975 , when a new Labour government ended internment , the military interned ninety-one Protestants and 1,965 Catholics . During this period the UDA and other Protestant groups continued their terrorism . The British have never outlawed the UDA ; it runs an open headquarters in Belfast . , The Conservatives suspended Stormont in March 1972 . A year later they followed this up with an attempt to win support away from the IRA by sponsoring a coalition government that for the first time in the history of the state would give Catholics some political voice . This power-sharing plan , the Only serious political initiative of the period , collapsed in May 1974 , when Protestant resistance forced the first  --  and last  --  coalition government to its knees after only five months in offiCe . B y then Labour was again in office , and soon tried a new approach to the intractable crisis . The strategy was to " Ulsterize " the conflict . For ideological reasons , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be engaged in anything resembling a " colonial " struggle . A secret truce was negotiated between the army and the IRA , in return for which the British began to let up on'internment ; they also legalized Sinn Fein , the IR-A 's political wing . The RUC , which hid not taken part in the truce arrangements , was reorganized to make it more efficient as an anti-terrorist force . Labour planned that the police would eventually assume responsibility for security , and that the army could then be withdrawn . The logic was shrewd : since the , IRA w'a 's : i'oL , Llonger fighting the British Army , it could no longer claim to be fighting a " war of liberation . " In additioni to undemutting the political base for the IRA 's campaign , , ta:bour tried to refurbish the British Bobby myth by pointing the RUC at the Protestant terrorists . By the end of 1976 the police had cracked the Ulster Volunteer Force ( UVF ) , which , after the UDA , was the most violent of the Protestant groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more , Catholics in 1975-76 than in any similar period since its formation . T he RUC 's credibility was greatly enhanced , but by 1977 Labour 's policy began to backfire , and once more the myth of the neutral British Bobby was exposed for what it was . Britain , in its eagerness to prove that they could handle the paramilitaries  --  and particularly the IRA ? allowed the police great latitude in their treatment of , prisoners , most of whom were Catholic . At the same time , the Northern Ireland nonjury courts , set up under a British initiative in 1973 , were handing down convictions'on the basis of confessions . In 1976 , of 1,200 people brought before the courts in Belfast , 9011 were convicted  --  something of a record for any judicial system . Of those convictions , 80% were based on confessions made to the police . Mounting allegations of police brutality were casting doubt on the circumstances under which such confessions were obtained . It seemed , then , that the Bobby was as biased as ever . This was confirmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Northern Ireland , in June 1977 . Mentioning Protestant terrorism only in passing , he concentrated , as ' successive British Governments have done since 1970 , on the IRA . Its members were , he stated , " the principal enemies of society . " It is this attitude that has allowed the UDA to survive and conduct a largely successful campaign of intimidation and murder , unique in postwar Europe . That it can do so in a small area , with a population of 1.5 million , patrolled by more than 30,000 full-time and part-time soldiers and policemen , casts serious doubt on the determination of the British Government to deal with violence from that quarter . , And this attitude has allowed the IRA to continue to attract a certain amount of support , moral and physical , from a Catholic community that still feels it is victimized and discriminated against by British security policy . The long-standing Catholic grievances as to jobs and housing have been replaced by current , and more serious , anxieties over the successes of the sectarian assassin , the brutality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labour's:recent policies , which are really a search for a militarY solution in a more subtle form , do not contain any political initiative , nor come to grips with the basic issues in the Northern Ireland crisis  --  one of which is the very presence of the British . With                     