@@278393

In the midst of a quiet evening at his country home near the Northern Ireland town of Strabane , Senator John Barnhill , 65 , a prosperous Protestant businessman , answered a knock at the door . He was shot dead by three members of the Irish Republican Army , who had crossed over the unguarded border from Eire a few hundred yards away . The gunmen then ordered Barnhill 's wife out , placed a bomb near the body and blew up the house . Thus began another normal week in Ulster . <P> Surprisingly , responsibility for Barnhill 's assassination was accepted by the Marxist but moderate " Official " wing of the I.R.A. , which has strongly opposed violence and criticized the guerrilla tactics of the army 's more militant Provisionals . But the Provisionals , as it happens , were also busy . Two days after Barnhill 's death , seven raids were made on the homes of wealthy Protestants-most of them magistrates or city councilors-in Belfast 's Malone Road district , hitherto untouched by terrorism . Two houses were wrecked by bombs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator , was struck with a pistol butt , the wife of a city councilor was slightly wounded by gunshot , and a reserve army sergeant was shot critically in the chest and neck . No deaths resulted because the raids were either bungled , thwarted by the resistance of the householders , or ill-planned . <P> Familiar Incidents . The week featured other familiar incidents of violence on both sides . A 22-year-old British soldier was killed in Belfast by a sniper ; Catholic gunmen even sprayed bullets at the ambulance that carried him to a hospital . I.R.A . guerrillas blasted a Belfast printing factory with a gelignite bomb and planted fire bombs in two shops and a customs office , in incidents similar to one the week before that killed four people , including a 17-month-old boy when a furniture store was blown up . At Coalisland , a gloomy Catholic town 40 miles west of Belfast , members of the Protestant-dominated Ulster Defense Regiment mistook a 16-year-old boy , Martin McShane , for an I.R.A . gunman and shot him to death . In response , several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or wrecked . <P> Faced with the escalation of violence , Britain 's Home Secretary Reginald Maudling hinted that London might he pondering a more flexible Ulster policy . After conferring with Protestant leaders , Maudling allowed at a press conference the possibility that the I.R.A . gunmen would " not be defeated , not completely eliminated , but have their violence reduced to an acceptable level . " Any lasting solution , he went on . ' ' can not be achieved by military action alone . " The statement appeared to mean that Maudling is now convinced-as he did not seem to be just a few weeks ago-that substantial political changes , well beyond the reforms already offered by Northern Ireland Prime Minister Brian Faulkner 's government , will have to be made to placate the bitterly alienated Catholic half of Ulster 's population .                     