@@487931

I am of two minds regarding Leonard Kriegel 's review of Mike LaVelle 's Red , White &; Blue-Collar Views The Nation , Sept 27 : I am delighted that he adm'ires'Mike 's reportage and finds the book important . I am disappointed that Kriegel is so shallow in his interpretation of it . - I have known LaVelle as both steelworker and journalist . For the past five years , we have tangled , drunk , and further argued on the subject . of . the phony issue of " worker " versus . " Left lectual . " It is an issue that Kriegel , in true Eric Hoffer fashion , makes the basis of his review . What most astonished me was Kriegel 's , promiscuous use of the phrase ' intellectual Left . " I thought 1 was reading Evans &; Novak . And how could Kriegel forget that it was The Nation that published " The Hoffa Trial " by Fred J. Cook , in its April 27 , 1964 issue ? ' ' LaVelle is a complex man , in conflict with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in the process of remarkable growth , transcending the Hoffer-Buckley teachings to which he had so long been given . Along comes Kriegel ? God , herle ' gOes'anOther round of barroom arguing with Mike LaVelle on the subject of stereotype thinking . Studs Terkel let them eat meat Kansas City , Kan . In considering the controversy over the Russian grain sales , it is well to remember that . AID and other CIA-type agencies have been busy in many nations promoting the questionable idea that a diet containing the flesh of , animals.represents a higher standard of living than a noncarnivorous diet . The result has been a rapidly expanding market for grain , including wheat , for the feeding of slaughter animals . The raising of feed.grain for animals is a most wasteful'form of agriculture it can reduce the productive potential of farmland , some experts say , to as little as one-tenth what it should be , were it used to produce food crops for human beings . This calculated intrusion into the way of life of the citizens of other nations , to gain foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is unwittingly being paid for -- by U.S. taxpayers , environmentally and economically . And because of this ill-advised promotion , soils are unnecessarily being depleted , fuel-and fertilizer are , being wasted , and there is increased national and worldwide inflation . E.F . Eskehn paragraph restored , , New York City - , . In ' the Sept. 13th Nation ; , you were kind enough to publish my comments on William Kunstler 's article , " The Bundestag vs : the Terrorists , " which appeared in The Nation on July 5 , together with ai rejoinder from Kunstler . However , you omitted the last paragraph , which reads as follows : The foregoing is being written , not to justify all the measures taken . by the German Government but to point out to The Nation and Mr. ' Kunstler that their attitude in the matter is totally wrong . In my letter I clearly stated that I did not justify the actions of the German Governnient , and Yet by'omitting this paragraph my letter , as published , conveys the exact contrary . Lazaar Henkin Bernard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compile and publish The Collected Screenplays of Bernard Shaw , which will include those screenplays that were not filmed as well as those that were , and m111 also contain film sequences , scenarios and fragments I would annulate hearing from readers who have copies of such writings , letters or other intormation which might be useful to me Dr. Bernard F Dukore , Department of Drama &; Theatre University of Hawaii , Honolulu , Hawaii 96822 EDITORIALS The Politics of Repression Spain has been much in the news recently , and last month Francisco Franco himself , by his execution of five revolutionaries , provided reminder enough of the nature of his American-backed rule . At the same time , concern about the American-supplied South Korean tyranny has been muted by administration talk of an invasion threat from the North and reckless administration rhetoric about the possible explosion of nuclear weapons there. - And Chile , whose government came to power two years ago with American funds and CIA counsel , when it is discusied at all , is largely relegated to the inside pages of the print media and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ travelers to Korea report that Kim'Chi Ha , a Catholic ' whom Norman Mailer has called " a poet with a serious gift of metaphor , and a clear eye , " and whom the Korean CIA calls a Communist , may soon be executed as a political enemy of the state . The KCIA says Kim has confessed to Communist politics . Fri= his , dark , picnic-table-size cell , Kim has smuggled out a different version of his confession : " At the dungeon , torture lasted for five days until I became unconscious . " The government of his torturers has been propped up with at least hundreds of millions of dollars in American aid and government-guaranteed loans , a fact not lOst on the South Korean opposition . As Kim Dae lung ' , the last politician allowed to oppose President Park , put it when speaking about the coming dictatorship to his ? country in October 1972 : " When President Park proclaimed ' Martial law and occupied ' the National Assembly , the press and the opposition party headquarters , he was using yob ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Belying all- the administration 's invasion obfuscation , Rep. Stephen SoIarz ( D. , N.Y. ) concluded after an Asian tour : The repressive policies of President Park have already alienated significant sectors of , South Korean society . While I was in Seoul , I , met a number of opposition leaders and I am convinced , based on my discussions with them , that unless their political rights and civil liberties are restored , the continued willingness of the South Korean people to support the government in ' Seoul may be seriously undermined . In Chile , the government admits to 5,000 political prisoners , most of whom exist , in an environment that makes Attica seem like a Holiday Inn . Reports of hideous physical abuse , are abundant , Chileans regularly disappear and are long unheard from , The live in fear of , arrest . Anthony Lewis writes in The New York Times that Catholic Church sources in Chile estimate some 100,000 persons have been held in detention camps . " The , equivalent in this country , " he notes , , " would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a disaster area more bleak than it was under the troubled administration of Salvador Allende . Despite , or perhaps because of , counsel from the University of Chicago 's Milton Friedman , whose economic doctrines , reports Jonathan Kande in the Times , have become " the guiding light of the junta 's economic policy , " inflation is the highest in the world and unemployment hovers at 20 per cent . However much they bluster to the contrary , contemporary right-wing dictators have consistently failed to improve living conditions for the majority of their citizens . Repression is the overriding concern and it feeds , clothes and houses no one but its administrators . In Congress there are now stirrings of a movement to cut off aid to Chile  --  a bill to do so has passed the House  --  but Korea and Spain seem sufficiently caught up in officially accepted illusionS about American national security that they , will continue to be funded until at least the 1976 elections . As long as they are , the United States will wear a ' badge of disgrace in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Patrick Moynihan 's United Nations posturings are incapable of hiding . These are political issues , to be sure , but behind them lies a reality that has too often been put aside primarily because it is painful . to contemplate . Individual cases of torture are emblems for thousands of others , for the mass anguish caused by decimated economics . " Do n't look at me with sad eyes , " writes Kim Chi Ha from his cell . " Pay attention to the suffering. , " Reagan to the Rescue Ronald Reagan , the Los Angeles Times reports , is currently " starring in a strange political drama . " For months he has kept his loyal right-wing constituency in a dither over whether he will or will not be a candidate for the Presidency , and if so when he might announce . Recently he said in Altoona , Pa. that he might accept the Vice Presidential nomination , but by the time he arrived in Cleveland he had changed his mind . However , most of the uncertainty seems to have vanished and it now looks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Hampshire primary . The impetuous Gov . Meldrim Thornion has been ' induced to step aside so that a more modern rightist , Hugh Gregg , a one-term former Governor who supported Rocke- , feller in 1964 , may head Reagan 's campaign in , that state . There is something mildly nutty about this strange Reagan-Ford B=grade production . One of the most knowledgeable observers of Republican politics in CalifOrniaan expert long consulted by The Nation but one ' who does not share its , point of view  --  has assured us that initially Ford 's advisers encouraged the idea of a Reagan candidacy as a way to prevent the right-wing element from doing anything rash until Reagan showed his hand  --  by which time it might be too late for them to do much damage . If this was the initial motivation , the plot soon got out of hand . The trouble began when it became clear that right-wing conservatives , particularly in the South , Southwest and certain Western states , ' were not responding to Rockefeller 's abject and shameless attempts to cater to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commented that : " Chris Jorgensen went to Denmark and became Christine Jorgensen ; Nelson Rockefeller went South and became Adam Smith . " So the clever Melvin Laird came up with the notion that Ford should declare himself in favor of an " open convention " and thereby appear to encourage a competition for the Vice Presidency . Then , once Ford was nominated , the " open convention " would promptly close ranks and the Rockefeller nomination would be pushed through even if not all of the delegates liked the idea . But this strategy was messed up by the ill-considered statements of Howard Callaway who managed to convey the impression that Ford wanted Rockefeller to stand aside . Meanwhile , Reagan was , so to speak , containing the right wing by getting rousing receptions before carefully selected audiences at handsome fees of $5,000 a performance . His have been essentially tours of a political matinee idol . In almost every instance the audience has been made up of white middle-class or upper-middle-class conservative Republicans . By avoiding controversial subjects and settings , and by sticking strictly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the " public occasion " speech ? Reagan has projected an image of remarkable persona popularity along the Republican mashed-potato circuit . The more he toured , however , the more Reagan began to take seriously the notion that he might enter certain primaries , starting of course with New Hampshire . Given Ford 's weaknesses , he just might win the New Hampshire round or , in any case , make a strong showing against an incumbent President . But it does not follow that Reagan 's teal objective ' is the Presidential nomination ; on the contrary , being a realist , he probably has his eye on the Vice Presidency . ' If Reagan enters the New Hampshire primary he will actually help Ford . His entry will generate media interest and give this silly contest an " aura of competition " or , as one observer notes , it will " pump some adrenaline into the . Grand Old Party " ? with only a 21 per cent approval rating it needs a shot of something . Reagan 's presence will not embarrass Ford ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; he will not cut up Ford . He will not , of course , accuse the President of being " soft on communism " or a " bleeding heart . " It is not his style . He will be respectful and only mildly critical . He will voice reservations - about detente and some of Ford 's domestic initiatives . But as always with Reagan the emphasis will be on rhetoric and posture and abstract ideology ; not substance , not issues . Even if Reagan wins a few primaries , the President 's nomination will not be in danger . Ford may not be an elected President , but he is an incumbent , and for all their conservatism the Republicans know that Reagan would be a weak Presidential candidate . Given the state of the economy , the electorate is not about to opt for a 64-year-old actor with a dismal two-term record as Governor of California . It is true that sentiment has shifted to the Right in the Republican Party and that the Eastern , Establishment influence has steadily declined . But the Republicans are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to hold the edge . The advantage he held over Ford in California in May , as shown by the reliable Field poll , has largely evaporated ; he now trails the President by 7 percentage points ( September 3 ) . However , in California , Reagan out-polls Rockefeller for tile Vice Presidency by a wide margin . If the test is confined to the two of them , Reagan is favored by 61 per cent of the Republicans to 34 per cent for Rockefeller . So this silly plot could have a happy ending , of-a sort . The convention just might nominate Reagan for Vice President , which is probably his real objective , and the right-wing zealots would be locked into the party despite all the brash noises they have been making . Reagan 's nomination as Vice President would cheer them up and it would also delight the Democrats , who would not have to contend with Rockefeller 's Establishment power . What looms ahead in New Hampshire , then , is not a slugging match or a confrontation or a clarification of issues but an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hampshire primary now enjoys the status of the play-offs which precede the World Series . And you ca n't have a play-off without at least two contestants . Big John on the Prowl - Noting that President Ford 's approval rating declines the more he speaks  --  a fact also perceived by Ronald Reagan ? John Connally has suddenly announced his " availability . " He admires both Ford and Reagan ; he might vote for either ; but most of all he admires John Connally . As always , Connally is brash , audacious and foxy . He has nothing to lose by tossing his sombrero into the air , if not into the ring , and who knows ? ? something might come of it . As a sample of audacity , consider his latest economic panacea ( reported by Nicholas C. Chriss , Los Angeles Times , October 8 , from Houston ) . He thinks of sponsoring a guaranteed annual payment , to go to every registered voter in the country , rich or poor , and amounting " perhaps " to $500 . This " national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from corporations ; an important provision of the plan would eliminate the tax on stock dividends . Of course , stockholders , if they were registered voters , would ala be eligible for the rebate . Credit Connally with being practical . Nonvoters might be as poor as church mice , but if they are not registered to vote , their needs could safely be ignored by a Texas oil-and-gas politician . Just where did Connally pick up this , bizarre notion ? From the late Huey Long or perhaps Dr. Francis Townsend ? No , the " national dividend rebate " was first floated by one John H. Perry , . a Florida business- man , in 1944 , and has been waiting all these years to find a sponsor . Reagan has toyed with the idea but has abandoned it for a variation of Louis Kelso 's plan to make employees stockholders in the companies for which they work . But Connally 's plan has a larger and wider appeal ; registered voters far outnumber corporate employees . It is symptomatic of the swinging times in which we live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some means by which they can pose as prairie Populists while togged out in Republican frock coats . Clear Warning When Cyrus Eaton , America 's extraordinary senior in'dustrialist , sounds an alert , only the reckless will fail to listen . In a recent telegram to the Ohio Congressional delegation , Eaton warned that unless the federal government comes to the financial rescue of New York City and State " without further delay , " the nation will be plunged into the " most catastrophic economic debacle in history , " Eaton 's historical perspective gives his claim legitimacy  --  and defends him against charges of hyperbole . As he told the Ohioans , he has " been involved in every American panic since 1893 , " and nearly fifty years ago predicted that unless the government insured bank deposits , banks would fail  --  as they did . If New York City defaults ; as it probably will unless it gets massive federal aid , it could have the most serious national economic consequences . A New York default would rapidly deflate the municipal bond market , making it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raise money needed for solvency . Domino defaults would likely follow . Banks holding the massively depreciated paper would face liquidity crises , as depositors with accounts larger than the $40,000 insured by the federal government transferred their funds to more solvent banksthough in a nationwide debacle such moves might offer only temporary protection . As Alexander Cockburn and fames Ridgeway wrote recently in The Village Voice , " What is coming may never be termed a Crash , in the apocalyptic colors of 1929 , but could turn out to be extremely horrible : rocketing interest rates , terrified consumers , a tremendous liquidity crunch , soaring unemployment . . . . " Subsequent international crisis , as German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt , and French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing have said , would not be inconceivable . The latest response from the Ford administration has been a flurry of contradictory predictions and advice , highlighted , by Vice President Rockefeller 's newest turnabout in favor of federal aid , that signals either Executive bewilderment or ; as Martin Tolchin has speculated in The New York Times , possibly an incipient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says , members of Congress can no longer afford to ' wait for the administration to initiate action . " If President Ford and his advisers persist in their refusal to recognize today 's onrushing crisis , then Congress should take matters into its own hands . " Sedate and Nostalgic At the recent San Francisco AFL-CIO biennial convention there were , by all accounts , fewer basic differences among the 1,000 delegates than at any time since the federation came into being two decades ago . The notion that the nation stands on the threshold of a crisis of much greater complexity and magnitude than the crisis of the 1930s ' that brought the New Deal to power was not voiced or so much as hinted at . The 81-year-old George Meany was in complete command . Delegates were concerned , but mildly , about some aspects of the economy and the political prospects for 1976 ; but all of them deferred to " the old man " and his judgments . Meany had kind words for Cesar Chavez and the UFW but once again tried to heat up the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's fiscal crisis , which involves the jobs of thousands of union members and may ultimately threaten the existence of the unions that represent them . Such leaders as Victor Gotbaum and Jerry Wurf of the American Federation of State , County , and Municipal Employees and Albert Shanker of the Teachers had to go elsewhere to find audiences that wanted to listen to them . No delegate volunteered to play the role of the late Walter Reuther by attempting to force the federation 's attention on urgent immediate issues . No significant left-wing faction that might have recommended a radical course of action exists within the federation today . Ideologically , reports Harry Bernstein , labor reporter for the Los Angeles Times , the 109 affiliated unions are generally united behind the same basic social , economic and political concepts that shape the policies of the patriarch , George Meany . Many of the federation 's key unions are in serious trouble at the moment , but these troubles were not aired in San Francisco . The convention 's high point was an impassioned speech by Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a rerun of what he had had to say at the Democratic Convention of 1948 in Baltimore . The convention was a dismaying omen of the times : sedate , nostalgic , irrelevant , docile and bereft of ideas . Tried by National Emergency Legislation soon to become law , the National Emergencies Act , will put an end to the continual state of national emergency , triggered by uncontested Presidential decrees , that we have been in since 1933 . The legislation fails to narrow the criteria for future emergency declarations and permits a new state of emergency to run indefinitely in successive six-month stretches if Congress does not act to terminate it , but it does end the four existing states of emergency . And , most important , the more than 470 special " emergency " powers on the books are no longer automatically activated by a mere " emergency " decree . The President must specify the particular " emergency " powers he desires if a state of emergency is declared . For Cameron David Bishop , however , this Congressional action comes more than six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Section 2153(a) of the Sabotage Act on four counts , each charge carrying a maximum thirty years ' imprisonment , for dynamiting and attempting to dynamite Colorado public service power lines , which lines , according to the federal government , come under the definition of " war utilities . " Since this statute can be used only " when the United States is at war , or in times of national emergency , " federal officials pointed to the 1950 Korean state of emergency  --  one of the four that Congress will now terminate  --  to justify Bishop 's indictment . The judge , while admitting that " probably the government might have been well advised to have chosen another 1 or at least an additional statute under which to charge this ) defendant , " refused to let the jury consider the merits of a trial by what defense attorney Michael Tigar called " an arcane and unusual statute . " And Adrian S. Fisher , legal adviser to the State Department during the Korean declaration , was prohibited from telling the jury what he told the judge : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the flag , " and that even from this perspective , " the factual basis that underlay " this declaration has " ceased to exist . " , Although Bishop claims that his activities as a known radical resulted in a frame-up , a jury recently convicted him on three of four counts . A full disclosure ' of the fifty-nine volumes of FBI files related to the case would clear up some of the questions that continue to linger . Finally , the nature of this trial should serve as a warning to legislators who blindly pass legislation without considering the potential for misuse and repression  --  a warning especially worth heeding with respect to S.1 , a bill which would institute many measures similar to those the National Emergencies Act seeks to lay dormant , and which is now looking for friends in Congress . Surreal Richard Nixon , by his acts , has frequently been his own , chief accuser , so it was fitting that he chose to return to public view this month in the company of Teamsters leader Frank Fitzsimmons and a bunch of less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fascinating origins and intriguing tie-ins with the clouded Teamsters ' Central States Pension Fund . Those participating in the golf tournament with Mr. Nixon included Anthony Provenzano , who has figured in the Hoffa probe , Allen Dorfman , a powerful figure in the Central States Pension Fund who was convicted in 1972 of taking kickbacks when granting loans and Jackie Presser , identified by The New York , Times as the son of Cleveland mob figure William Presser . Gerald Ford 's pardon of the deposed ex-President won him immunity from prosecution and definitive conviction , and , his choice of golf course and golfing companions does not warrant the never appropriate accusation of guilt by association . Yet there is something perverse about the national media attention  --  largely uncritical  --  that the reemergence of Nixon , a discredited politician , received . At the same time , there is an element of the surreal about the circumstances in which Nixon chose to make his first major media appearance since he scooted from the White House . For those companions at that club symbolize better than any artificial image @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indeed brazen , round of golf was the sort of act that propelled him to fame in the first place  --  and made inevitable his fall into disgrace . Acceptable for Burial The legion of fellow citizens who greatly admired the writings of F. Scott Fitzgerald will be gratified to learn that his remains , along - with Zelda 's , have now been buried in the family plot at St. Mary 's Cemetery , in Rockville , Md. , where his Rockville-born father was buried in 1931 . When Fitzgerald died in 1940 , at the age of 44 , his request to be buried in St. Mary 's Cemetery was denied by the Catholic Church on the grounds ( a ) that he was not a practicing Catholic ; and ( 4 ) that his books were not the kind of reading material that found favor with Church officials , So Fitzgerald was buried in an inconspicuous grave in what is known as " the old Union Cemetery " across the road from St. Mary 's . And there , too , Zelda was buried in 1948 . For thirty-five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed flowers and left cards and occasional wedding announcements at the grave site , but the lettering on the square headstone has been nearly worn down by the weather . Now the remains of both will be removed to the family grave site at St. Mary 's . The Church has not , however , withdrawn its caveat about Fitzgerald 's writings but has acceded to the request of his daughter because " other members of the family were already interred at the , St. Mary 's site " ( The Washington Star ) . May both now rest in peace . Postscript As Harry Lore 's article elsewhere in this issue demonstrates , police officers under Philadelphia 's Mayor , ex-cop Frank Rizzo , have been functionally exempt from the law . Two recent killings in Philadelphia confirm that such impunity is not just an historical phenomenon . In one case , the slaying of Anthony Majewski , police and prosecutors ignored eight eyewitnesses who claimed the killing was unprovoked and found that the conduct of the officer involved was justified . In another , the shooting of David Edmonds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victim had pointed a starter pistol at a plainclothes narcotics officer . Edmonds 's family contends that three men - who were with Edmonds say he was not carrying the signal gun when he was killed . But neither the truth nor the law seems to count for much in the City of Brotherly Love .                     