@@488034

Mr. Connolly , formerly on the editorial staff of Journal of Contemporary Revolutions ( San Francisco State College ) , is now working with William Lightbonrne on a book to be called The Politics of U.S. Counterinsurgency , Mr. Shapiro is co-author of An End to Silence , ( Bobbs-Merrill ) , a history of the San Francisco State College strike . " I want every wave in the Pacific to be an American wave , " former Secretary of State Dean Rusk was once quoted as saying . Rusk might well , have had Micronesia in. mind . Spread out over an expanse of the western Pacific larger in area than the continental United States , this group of tiny islands has , in the last 100 years , been occupied by a succession of colonial powers ? Spain , Germany and later Japan ; after World War II another expanding empire , the United States ; stepped into the void left by the defeated Japanese . All but oblivious to the existence ' of Micronesia , many Americans will recognize the names of specific islands within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Kwajalein and Peleliu ; for the nuclear generation , Bikini and Eniwetok come immediately to mind . And Americans who have never heard of the geographical entity to which these specks in the Pacific belong should go back to their school maps , for the Nixon Administration is turning the area into a military arsenal and training center for its Project AGILE - Pacific Defense System . Micronesia became an American " protectorate " in 1947 , under a unique arrangement of the United Nations Trusteeship Council which invested the United States with full responsibility for the islands ' economic , social and political development , full authority over their internal affairs , and permission to build military installations , conduct nuclear explosions , and generally use them as a buffer against powers in the Far East which long ago ceased to be hostile . Technically , the arrangement ' was provisional , it being assumed that eventually the Micronesians would be " ready for self-government . " Their murky political status as a U.S. " trust " was underlined when Washington , anxious to avoid a colonial blemish , - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - Department of the Interior  --  which , for its part , followed a policy of " benign neglect " reminiscent of the behavior #4- of its Bureau of Indian Affairs . Before 1964 , the trusteeship proceeded on a shoestring budget that never exceeded : 0 Interior Department personnel . The Defense Department 's $7 million , half of which went to pay the salaries of Micronesia budget for nuclear tests alone exceeded the combined State Department and Interior Department budgets by more than $1 million ; not surprisingly , the DOD wound up making most of the important administrative decisions  --  including the forced evacuation of residents in the Marshall Islands group to make way for a series of thermonuclear explosions which nonetheless exposed the islanders to perilous levels of radiation and contaminated most of their food supply . " Social and economic development " remained almost moribund as the territorial administration , fearful of " outside influences " that might undermine U.S. control , enforced a near-total quarantine on foreign trade . At least one Micronesian died and many others were disabled by live bombs which the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By 1964 this blatant mismanagement succeeded in provoking a Trusteeship Council investigation , the up-shot of which was a resolve by the investigators to come back again in three years to determine what changes , if -4 any , had been made . The prospect that the United States might be stripped of its trusteeship if conditions on the islands did not significantly improve could not be taken lightly , particularly because of secondary effects stemming from recent escalation of the war in ' Vietnam . The Japanese leftists had responded to that development by stepping up their attacks on the Japanese-American Mutual Security Pact , which in 1960 had been extended for ten years . Fearing that the pact might not survive beyond 1970 , United States policy makers were even rr more apprehensive lest sizable U.S. investments inside Japan be threatened by rising political instability there . To appease the Japanese , Washington began giving serious consideration to the idea of abandoning its base on Okinawa , itself the scene of growing anti-American dem-onstrations . What was needed was a site of comparable strategic value to which the Okinawa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too close ? to enemy territory ; the political situation in the Philippines was already too volatile . Micronesia was another story . Not only was it out of reach of Chinese and Soviet medium-range missiles ; but if the United States could maintain the kind of control over , the islands ' internal affairs that it had once enjoyed , the political results of operating a military outpost there could be held to a minimum . The impending U.N . investigation posed an immediate and irritating stumbling block to these designs . President Johnson and his advisers were well aware of the need to engage in some housecleaning in Micronesia before the investigators arrived ; at the same time , they knew that if the Micronesian people could be prevailed upon to enter into a voluntary association with the United States , all U.N . authority in the , matter would end . In 1966 , without waiting for the customary invitation from the host nation , Mr. Johnson dispatched a contingent of Peace Corps volunteers to the islands , hoping simultaneously to mollify the U.N . and to persuade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States really was in their best interests . Most of the volunteers promptly busied themselves with land management , teaching ( usually English or American history ) and " community development . " The Peace Corps group also included sixteen young lawyers who were supposed to acquaint the Micronesians with the advantages of Yankee jurisprudence . Instead , the'lawyers embarked on an ambitious program to repair some of the damage wrought by the trusteeship , helping the Micronesians reclaim precious parcels of land which had been commandeered by Uncle Sam . Learning that some 60 to 70 per cent of Micronesia was being held as " public lands " by the United States , they began assisting Micronesian Congressional district leaders to file land claims against the United States and advising them on how to draft tighter land reclamation legislation . Before they got far , their work was interrupted by the arrival of a contingent of admirals , generals and Defense Department officials headed by Gen. Lewis Walt ( USMC ) . Walt , who was on his way home from Vietnam , wanted to scout out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible U.S. Marine counterinsurgency training bases . He liked what he saw . " Palau 's proximity to Vietnam made its swamps greener , " he told newsmen later , " It 's 500 miles from the Philippines , 1,000 miles from Australia , and there are hundreds of islands around for amphibious maneuvers . . . . It might be just what we want . " When the Micronesians balked at his demand that they " sell " him the real estate he had in mind , Walt pressured the Defense Department into phasing out the Peace Corps lawyers ' project . Meanwhile , the U.S. High Commissioner in Micronesia , William Norwood , vetoed all land reclamation bills passed by the Micronesian Congress . When the Micronesian legislators protested the veto , the Department of the Interior sent industrialist Edgar Kaiser , Jr. , to Saipan to calm the waters . Kaiser told the legislators that , the U.S. Government was only trying to help Micronesia develop its economy . " The two basic economic growth possibilities , " he explained patiently , " are tourism and the Military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military to follow I see it not as a detriment but as an asset . " Micronesians were , of course , well acquainted with the military 's benign presence . Ever since 1946 , when Secretary of Defense James Forrestal referred to Micronesia 's vital potential as a " mutually supporting base network , " the islands have figured prominently in American strategies of global warfare . The Defense Department began constructing naval and air force facilities in Guam around the time of Forrestal 's statement ; three years later the CIA built a $28 million " counter-guerrilla training center " on Saipan ; it served , until 1962 , as a home base for Chinese Nationalists before they were " dropped into mainland China . " During the 1950s , the Defense Department set up its Western Pacific Testing Center in eastern Micronesia , exploding its H-bombs on Bikini and Eniwetok atolls . When Kennedy became President he pushed forward a multibillion dollar Nike-Zeus anti-missile missile program . What the South Atlantic 's Ascension Island was to Cape Canaveral , the Marshall Islands became to California 's Vandenberg Air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trajectories fired from the North American continent . Millions of dollars were required to turn Kwajalein Atoll into what was , at the time , the best equipped missile facility in the American nuclear armory . Its low-lying sandy beaches were turned into a vast complex of electronic and technical superlatives ; surrounding atolls bristled with radar antennae , telemetry equipment , communications and missile facilities . The most shocking thing about the Pentagon 's use of Kwajalein was the fact that the Navy 's high-powered missile acquisition radar , used in tracking intercontinental ballistic missiles fired from Vandenberg , emanated lethal radiation throughout the area ; needless to say , elaborate safety precautions for Navy personnel were not extended to the luckless Marshall Islanders . Today the Nike-Zeus system has been made obsolete by a more sophisticated nuclear gadget  --  the Nike-X defensive missile system ( ABM ) . Kwajalein , now the site of a $165 million Missile Site Radar system ( MSR ) that serves as a seeing eye for ABM 's Spartan and Sprint defense missiles , participates in more than 15,000 operations a year . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Indochina , the rising tide of anti-American sentiment and political unrest in Japan , Okinawa and the Philippines , and the emergence of a cohesive Pacific Rim strategy for the American empire , that Micronesia has come into its own as a military bastion and " staging area " for conventional as well as nuclear warfare . Since General Walt 's initial visit , a coterie of U.S. observers , including former Secretary of the Interior Walter Hickel , has returned to the islands to survey the possibility of restoring the long-abandoned U.S. base on Tinian , which was , during the war , the most powerful military air installation in the Pacific . Its facilities include four B-29 bomber fields , four fighter strips , and huge , rusting docks which once accommodated the Navy 's Pacific fleet . Three miles away , on the island of Saipan , Hickel and his cohorts inspected the former CIA installation with a thought to converting it into a $600,000 " Civic Action and Public Safety Center . " The list could go on . At a cost of about $100 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F-B1-11 , B-1A , and the new Lockheed C-5 bomber bases throughout Micronesia . The Navy continues to maintain Polaris and Poseidon nuclear submarine bases on Guam and Kwajalein . Ponape and Palau are the sites of Navy and Coast Guard communications relay networks for the Far East . Along with Tinian Island , Saipan is considered a " military retention area " which the armed forces have carte blanche to take over whenever the DOD deems it necessary . Guam , of course , serves as a takeoff point and fueling station for B-52s conducting their daily bombing raids over Indochina . And while it has not yet come to pass , Micronesia is strategically located for the possible emplacement of an ICBM " Safe-Guard " missile system which would outflank , offensively , both the Soviet Union 's present system and any new system that might be developed on mainland China . With the military buildup in the islands thus beginning in earnest , more permanent mechanisms of control are needed thari those proffered by shaky U.N . mandates and shakier attempts to extend the welfare state to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Micronesia have been increased sevenfold and U.S. commodities have begun pouring into the area . For years the only major outside business enterprise permitted by the U.S. High Commissioner was Van Camp 's tuna fishing operation off the coast of Saipan ; now , Air Continental and the Bank of America have been awarded exclusive franchises to move in and set up their concession stands . Whether or not Micronesia 's 100,000-odd inhabitants constitute enough of a market to satisfy the voracious appetites of these corporate juggernauts is not the point : by helping secure American hegemony in the area , the corporations are protecting an investment which extends far beyond the islands themselves  --  to Japan , Indonesia , the Philippines , Thailand , Australia , , New Zealand and elsewhere in the Far East , where literally billions of dol , lars in profits and potential profits are at stake . The military , comments one bitter Peace Corps veteran , " has airlifted almost the entire American dream " to Micronesia , including " big cars , television , Dairy Queens , and third-rate rock music . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Micronesia experts " ponder how best to break down existing social and cultural patterns sufficiently to remake the Micronesians into proper exemplars of Economic Man . Writing in Foreign Affairs , Philip Quigg cites the Micronesian extended family system as a major " obstacle to development " and observes that its ethos that " wealth must be shared and any have-not is entitled to cadge on a relative who has . . . does not encourage individual initiative or the accumulation of capital , " One need not invoke the romantic clich ? about the relative superiority of " primitive " cultures to grasp fully the destructive effects of this kind of American penetration . Whether the Micronesian economy promises to be better off , now that the massive influx of American capital has begun , than it was rduring the first twenty years of the trusteeship is debatable at best . In May 1970 , a U.N . mission returned from a fact-finding tour with the , conclusion that in many respects the situation in the islands had begun to deteriorate : " Agriculture is stagnant and seems to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the adverse trade balance is increasing , and , apparently , some pressure is beginning to be felt on prices . " Pre-World War II Japanese colonization was brutal enough , but at least it sought to create an integrated socio-economic system in the islands . U.S. plans for ' " development , " held in abeyance by more than twenty years of calculated indifference , now offer the Micronesians a papier-mache economy monopolized by the tourist trade and totally dependent on the continued presence of the military  --  in short , a company town . The obvious presumption is that economic subjugation will beget political subjugation , securing the coveted vote for " free association " that will take the U.N . out of the picture and bring Micronesia into the American military 1r orbit once and for all . The Micronesians , however , have been surprisingly recalcitrant . A core of them , many of whom were educated under U.S. auspices at the University b of Hawaii with an eye to developing a neocolonial type of native administrators , have ' organized opposition to lk American political domination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rigged " plebiscite , " to be held in 1971 or 1972 . A U.S. offer for commonwealth status a la Puerto Rico was flatly rejected by the Micronesian Congress , which then suggested political autonomy and 4 continued American economic aid in return for base rights  --  with the stipulation that either party could back ry out and sever all connections with the other whenever it saw fit . The last provision , needless to say , is one the United States is scarcely ready to accept , but the terms of the trusteeship ; leave it well within the Micronesians ' range of legal options , and if the islanders are prevented by their geographic isolation from backing up their position with indigenous resistance , they can take the matter to the U.N. , placing the United States in an extremely uncomfortable position . To stave off such public ' embarrassment ? and charges of outright imperialism , President Nixon recently dispatched the Asia Foundation 's Franklin Haydn Williams to the islands to pacify the natives and reconcile them to the balder statement of former Secretary Hickel that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Micronesia . " Whatever the outcome of the dispute over the islands ' political future , Washington , has been proceeding as if continued American presence were virtually assured . Guam has lately become a repository for lethal nerve gas which nobody else will have : removed from Okinawa at the insistence of the local citizenry , the gas was on its way to a secret storage place in Oregon or Washington when- word got out and there . was another hue and cry , this time from U.S. taxpayers . The gas ended up in Micronesia , where the populace enjoys fewer opportunities to air its grievances with the armed forces . Nor was this the islanders ' first contact with chemical-biological weaponry . In August of 1969 the Palauan newspaper Didil-. a-Choi reported that a CBW testing center was already in operation on one of the Kwajalein atolls . A look at the present U.S. defense budget makes the future of the islands appear even bleaker . On March 21 , 1970 , Armed Forces Journal reported that the DOD had been refused appropriations for any additional military family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a similar appropriation was being approved for the Navy to construct new housing units on Guam and the northern Marianas . Supplementing the cancellation of all housing appropriations for American bases in Japan was a decision by the Senate to place a freeze on all further military construction requests on Okinawa , pending clarification by the Japanese of the future U.S. base rights there . More recent issues of the Journal report that the Defense Department will receive in excess of $2 billion for Pacific base construction in fiscal 1971-72 , leading one to wonder exactly where all this money will be spent . According to Sabo Ulechong , who edited Didil-a-Chai until it was suppressed by the U.S. High Commissioner , there is on Ngerchelong atoll a " top secret military installation which has been in operation for nearly a year and half . . . no one actually knows what kind of military project is being conducted . " All that is known , according to Ulechong , is that " there are a lot of Green Beret types out there . " Why is Nixon so intent on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most immediate and pressing reasons involve the political situations in Japan and the Philippines . In both countries , there has been a growing resentment at the continued maintenance of major U.S. bases at Luzon and Okinawa . A visit by Vice President Agnew in the spring of 1970 touched off a wave of rioting in the Philippines , where there is already an active guerrilla movement , and there have been repeated demonstrations against the U.S. military in both Okinawa and Japan . Obviously , there is no point in exacerbating the situation by holding onto the disputed bases when other options can be made available . If the situation is more volatile in the Philippines , the repercussions of any serious turmoil in Japan would . be far more devastating , owing in part to the impressive amounts of capital which U.S. corporations have invested there . Beyond that , however , Japan figures prominently in the unfolding Pacific Rim strategy  --  what President Nixon refers to as the " Asian drama of the seventies . " Here , perhaps , a brief scenario is in order . Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly Japan , into the front lines should future Vietnams occur , thereby allowing the United States to withdraw into a " supportive " capacity . Militarily , says Nixon , Japan " will play an increasing role , as befits its commanding position as a world economic power . " The Japanese have a dual part to play in Nixon 's little drama : as a major business partner of the United States , they will serve as an example to other Asian countries which may have doubts about the wisdom of playing ball with U.S. corporations ; at the same time , they will be expected to provide the backbone for the new , U.S.-sponsored 333 Asian Defense Organization . By combining the armed forces of Japan , South Korea , the Philippines , India , South Vietnam , Cambodia , Indonesia , Australia , New Zealand , Thailand and Nationalist China , the United States will have an impressive array of military might ' at its disposal should any future national liberation movements get out of hand in the Far East as they have in Indochina . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be expected to pull back large numbers of conventional military forces from the Far East , leaving in their place a handful of Green Berets and other " special advisers " to supervise the police activities of its allied armies . Even if the U.S. had to continue subsidizing those activities , as in South Vietnam , Cambodia , Laos and Thailand , it would still be cheaper than having U.S. troops do the job themselves . Further financial benefits can be reaped frOm the sale of new and used American military eqdipment to allied armies through excess stock sales programs , the best feature of which is the continued dependency of the customer on the United States for repairs , replacements , spare parts , etc . Then , too , there are political dividends . While making the United States less susceptible to charges of imperialism from the rest of the world , Nixon could cut down on criticism of foreign military entanglements at home . What Washington hopes to accomplish in Micronesia is a network of bases which would keep the United States within a stone 's throw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rioters in Manila or Djakarta could be brought under control by Asian nationals trained in policetechniques by FBI agents , Green Berets , Secret Service men and U.S. law-enforcement officers at the Public Safety Center in Saipan . At the counterinsurgency training center on Palau , Asian military officers and noncoms could become versed in the well-tested techniques of combating rural-based guerrilla movements . Other bases could be used to test new weaponry especially adapted to the conditions of guerrilla warfare in the Far East . In short , Micronesia will be used as a safety valve in the event that any of our present Asian allies should , fall into the Socialist bloc or develop a sudden lack of affinity for America 's imperial designs along the Pacific Rim . While lessening the chances that American investments is any Far Eastern nations will be jeopardized by political instability , the facilities of the area will insure that , should such a disaster befall us in any one country , American commercial and military access to the rest of Asia will not be automatically cut off . History and geography have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rOle and , for the moment neither history , nor geography appears particularly willing to release them from it . It remains to be seen whether the islanders will be able to maintain their national integrity or whether they will be unable to withstand the time-honored tactics of massive economic and military penetration . But history has a way of creating its own alternatives ; here , we can do no better than quote the ' Tunisian nationalist , Albert Memmi : " A day necessarily comes , " he wrote , " when the colonized lifts his head and topples the always unstable equilibrium of colonization . " 