@@479549

HE 'S OFTEN SAID that our Constitu-tion is " alive . " As the Supreme Court reinterprets the law in different eras , our rights both grow and diminish sometimes with glacial slow-ness , sometimes with breathtaking speed . Today 's Supreme Court is hardly considered activist in the cause of expanded individual liberty . Still , recent decisions show that , in one such area at least , the present Court has continued the process of constitutional creation . During the past few years we have been present at the full-blown emergence of a new constitutional right of enormous importance ? an intensely personal right that may actually benefit many of us far more than our political freedoms of speech , press , and assembly . Though often called the " right of privacy , " the new liberty is better described , I think , with a phrase used by the Supreme Court in 1866 , when it said that we all have a right to be safe from governmental intrusions into " the privacies of life . " For the new right does not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedom to be one 's self ? to make independent decisions about how one wishes to use one 's mind and body . This is largely a middle-class liberty : its importance tends to increase with the acquisition of property and leisure . That may be the secret of its chances with today 's Court , which is much less inclined than its predecessors to advance constitutional claims that primarily benefit the disadvantaged . T IIE FOUR MODERN CASES that corn- prise the building blocks of the new liberty are easily summarized . Locating the principle that connects them is quite a hit more difficult . The first case was Griswold v. Connecticut , a 1965 decision holding that Connecticut could not constitutionally make it a crime for married persons to use contraceptives in the marriage relationship . Although the Court was convinced that Connecticut 's " uncommonly silly " law ( Justice Potter Stewart 's phrase ) ran afoul of the Constitution , it was excruciatingly vague as to what specific part of that document the state had violated . The Bill of Rights makes no mention of marriage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasons I shall go into later I tried not to rely upon the due-process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment , which protects " liberty " generally . The opinion refers instead to " zones of privacy " created by the " penumbras " of the Constitution , to " a right of privacy older than the Bill of Rights , " and to the fact that marriage is " intimate " and " sacred , " " an association that promotes a way of life . . . a harmony of living . . . a bilateral loyalty . . . " Four years later , in Stanley V. Georgia , the Court held that the Constitution would not tolerate a prosecution for possession of obscene films found in the defendant 's bedroom . The Court faced the same difficulty as in Griswold in finding a constitutional reference point . Previous decisions had excluded obscenity , properly defined , from the freedom-ofspeech guarantee . Nevertheless , said the Court , obscenity laws can not " reach into the privacy of one 's own home " where a person has " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right to satisfy his intellectual and emotional needs . " In 1972 , in Eisenstadt v. Baird , the Court returned to contraceptives . Despite the emphasis that Griswold had placed on marriage , the Court now appeared to say that single persons also had a constitutional right to sexual intercourse and contraception : " The marital couple is not an independent entity with a mind and heart of its own , but an association of Pant Bender is a professor of law at the University- of Pennsylvania Law School . two individuals each with a separate intellectual and emotional makeup . if the right of privacy means anything , it is the right of an individual , married or single , to be free from unwarranted governmental intrusion into matters so fundamentally affecting a person as the decision whether to hear or beget a child " the emphasis is the Court 's ) . In last year 's abortion decision ? which has been the most difficult case to date ? the Court solidified the new right by trying to give it both sonic limits and some general theoretical underpinning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had no apparent application , and the Court could not rely upon either marriage I the pregnant plaintiff was unmarried ) or the sanctity of the home . The Court announced , however , that the Griswold , Stanley , and Eisenstadt decisions ( along with a few others of questionable relevance ) had established " a right of personal privacy or a guarantee of certain areas or zones of privacy ... founded in the Fourteenth Amendment 's concept of personal liberty . " This guarantee of privacy , said the Court , applies to , ' personal rights that can be deemed fundamental ' or ' implicit in the concept of ordered liberty . ' One such fundamental right was that of a woman to decide whether or not to terminate her pregnancy . The Court referred to the danger that an unwanted child might cause physical or psychological harm to the mother , as well as " stigma " in the case of an unmarried woman . After the fetus became viable , or capable of life outside the mother 's body , however , abortion might be prohibited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would then be " compelling , " and fundamental rights may be limited by a " compelling state interest . " Our catalogue of cases must close with the only decision thus far in which the Court has explicitly rejectPRIVACIES OF LIFE ed a claim based on the new liberty . A few months after the abortion case , the Court ruled ( 5 to 4 ) that the right of adults to acquire sexual materials in bookstores or theaters was not " fundamental . " The fundamental right to obscenity , wrote Chief Justice Burger , is " restricted to a place , the home . " and does not extend to " places of public accommodation . " The Court conceded that other aspects of privacy do apply in such places abortions are constitutionally protected in hospitals , and contraceptives in hotel rooms , and there is a right to obtain both these things from others . But , said the Chief Justice , these other privacies ? unlike obscenity ? concerned " intimate relationships , " and protection was extended as far as " required to safeguard the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explain what " intimate relationship " is involved when an unmarried woman seeks an abortion or why solitary rights which involve no such relationship are " fundamental " only in " the home . " AS CASES ACCUMULATE , it becomes 2Aclear that the Court 's recognition however inconsistent ) of " zones of privacy " where the law may not intrude must necessarily bring into question the legitimacy of a whole range of " victimless " or moral crimes ? those crimes which directly harm if they harm anyone at all ) only the " criminal " himself or other consenting persons . The crime of obscenity is victimless . So is the crime of abortion , if one ignores the fetus as a victim prior to its " viability , " as the Court seemed disposed to do . Closely related are prohibitions on heterosexual " sodomy , " unmarried fornication , and homosexual intercourse . Moreover , if the hallmark of the new right is not sex hut , as some of the opinions state , the right to fulfill one 's own " intellectual and emotional needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everything from drunkenness and gambling to marijuana-smoking , heroin use , and suicide . Privacy claims have been made against these , as well as against dress and hair codes for schoolchildren and laws requiring motorcyclists to wear protective helmets ; claims may one day he expected over the right to use a car without a seat belt . Which of these activities are ANOTHER WAY in which the Court 's opinions differ from ordinary philosophical debate is in the necessity the Justices properly feel to relate their decisions to the Constitution , and to do so in a way that . will not create rights the Court does , not intend . This problem has been especially vexing in the new privacy cases and has undoubtedly caused at least some of the obscurity in the Court 's opinions so far . The absence of any specific language in the Constitution relating to sex , marriage , contraception , or abortion has relentlessly forced the Court , in its search for a text , toward the provision of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments that government shall not deprive any person " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process of law . " It is possible to read this clause as conferring not only the right to fair procedures , but also the right to have the substance of law " duly " reflect societal concerns more powerful than the private interests they affect . Under such an approach , the Court , acting as a superlegislature , must decide if a particular law " reasonably " resolves conflicting priorities . This kind of " substantive " due process was once very much in vogue in the Supreme Court . It was used in the early part of this century to invalidate all manner of social-welfare legislation that struck an economically conservative Court as gratuitous interference with private property and the liberty of contract . When the New Deal Supreme Court overruled - hese decisions , it held , quite cor. - ectly , that there were adequate so'ietal justifications for minimum 4 , ages , maximum hours , compulsory 1ollective bargaining , and the like . ! t also sought in general to end the court 's superlegislature role , which lad been so much abused . To this nd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it would not . trike down Jaws in the name of " lib'rty " or " property " generally when hey could be thought to bear , by ny stretch of the imagination , a raional relationship to a legitimate ocial end . Until the Griswold case ame along , this test in practice gave . gislatures carte blanche so long as hey avoided collision with the speifics of the Bill of Rights . In creating the new privacy , the : ourt has not wanted to revive the ractice of reviewing the entire range f economic and social legislation for reasonableness . " It has thus had to ice the problem of how it can , under ie same constitutional provision , : tike down laws infringing the librty to use contraceptives and have bortions , while keeping hands off Livs infringing the liberty to give te 's workers the lowest wage or leanest working conditions they an be made to accept . After ignorig the problem in the first few priicy cases , the Supreme Court 's rath-unsatisfactory solution in the recent mrtion decision has been to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ erty under the due-process clause . here is liberty generally , which the . trernely permissive **37;3026;TOOLONG the-imagiition test continues to use to govern fringing legislation , and there is the undamental " liberty , which falls thin the new concept of privacy . hen a law interferes with fundamtal liberty , it is not sufficient at the legislature has acted ration ally ? it must show a " compelling " reason . The Court , that is , will once again be a superlegislature ? indeed a superlegislature with a vengeance but only when " fundamental " liberty is concerned . No one knows just how compelling a reason must be to override privacy , but the abortion case provides some clues , and it appears that it must be very compelling indeed . The Court held there , for example , that a state 's desire to protect fetal life is not compelling unless the fetus is viable , and that even saving viable fetal life is not compelling if the mother 's health is in danger . Moreover , said the Court , the state 's interest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compelling insofar as it justifies making abortions as safe as possible ; protecting the mother 's health is not a compelling reason for prohibiting abortions . On the other hand , the recent obscenity decisions provide some hints as to how uncompelling the state interest may be when merely ordinary liberty is infringed by victimless-crime legislation . After the Court held that the right to acquire obscene sexual material outside the home was , while part of liberty , not part of the new privacy , it found a " legitimate state interest " in " an arguable correlation between obscene material and crime " based on concededly " unprovable assumptions . " If certain books are commonly thought of as " good , " said the majority , why ca n't a state engage in the " corollary " assumption that obscene books have " a tendency to exert a corrupting or debasing impact leading to antisocial behavior " ? And if this flight of fancy was not permissive enough for the states , the majority further suggested that nonfundamental liberty might even be infringed merely in the interest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ' What is commonly read and seen and heard and done however discreetly intrudes upon us all , want it or riot . ' In other words , what we do n't like we may prohibit , so long as it is not " fundamental . " T HE IMPORTANT POINT for us in these complicated legalisms is that victimless-crime laws based on moral or paternalistic considerations may not intrude on personal choices that the Court finds " fundamental , " 41 but are ordinarily valid otherwise . The protected privacies of life under the Court 's present approach thus come down to the Justices ' notions about the " fundamentalness " of private activity . In view of the Court 's explanations to date ( or rather its general lack of explanations ) of what makes one private choice fundamental and another not , one is tempted to conclude that the Justices simply deem " fundamental " those activities that have been part of their own pursuit of happiness ? or that they can more or less readily imagine as being so . If this is indeed the explanation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then the privacies of life have probably already risen close to their high-water mark for the time being . We might expect that a right to engage in certain kinds of consensual heterosexual sodomy ( at least in marriage ) might join the rights of contraception and abortion , and we might perhaps see the recognition of a right of a person suffering extreme pain or physical handicap to decide that life is no longer worth the struggle . A prohibition on cigarettes ( either outright or through taxes which make them practically unavailable except to the wealthy ) would be an interesting case . Rights to homosexual conduct , to drugs , and to gambling on the " numbers " would , like the right to acquire obscenity , be unlikely to find recognition . The Court can , I suspect , do better in the long run than merely to reflect the values of the Justices on an ad hoc basis . Now that the first flush of creation is over and a new right is definitely entrenched , it ought to be possible to take stock and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Start with a recognition of the special nature of the new right ? the way in which it differs from other rights where the " fundamentalness " of conduct may be an issue . Some rights are recognized because of the effect which their exercise has on others and on the shape of society . Political rights are the best example . The fundamentalness of that kind of right can be judged by asking whether the society we want ( or , better , the society contemplated by the Constitution ) would be possible or likely without them . Thus free speech , press , and assembly , the right to petition government , a broad voting franchise , are all " fundamental " because it is difficult to imagine our democracy in their absence . But when we decide to recognize some privacies in life , we decide to recognize a right to make choices , not for their effect upon society but for the pleasure ? or reduction of pain ? they give the actor . If the Constitution is going to protect an area of private choice for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain choices ? as opposed to others ? through their external appearznce or effect . The right to enjoy sex in marriage , then , can not be a more fundamental private one than the right to enjoy sex outside of marriage , because that would only reflect a choice that marriage is a better state than nonmarriage , and that is precisely the decision which a right of privacy must leave to the il individual , if marriage is , indeed , a private matter . Heterosexuality ca n't be more fundamental than homosexuality . Nor can the right to spend one 's time and to use one 's intellect and imagination by reading be more fundamental than the right to use ! mind-affecting drugs . It would be ironic indeed if a right to make private choices were to be used to reward conformity to the popular or " ideal " life-style . If it ever becomes necessary to rank private activities according to their " fundamentalness , " the test should not he tradition , or whether the activity is " sacred " 1 , or involves a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is important to the actor , the extent to which his chosen style of life ? his pursuit of happiness , if you . will ? depends upon it . The primary test of the fundamentalness of private activities , however , must simply be whether or not they are truly private , by which I mean whether they do or do not affect the legitimate interests of those who are not fully consensual participants . If an activity is wholly private in this sense , that alone should make it part of " fundamental " liberty and should also negate the existence of any " compelling " reason to regulate it . Factors such as whether the activity takes place in the home or in a place of " public accommodation " ( relied upon , you will remember , in the recent obscenity cases ) may be relevant to whether an activity is private in the sense I have described , bui they can not be determinative . Despite Chief Justice Burger 's asser tion to the contrary , reading a book on a solitary park bench is just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HE COURT 'S ATTENTION , then , must be focused directly on a question it has largely sought to avoid : what are the legitimate interests of others that deprive conduct of a private character ? Three recurrent assertions of societal interest lie behind a surprisingly large fraction of victimless-crime laws . If these contentions are laid to rest , the main outlines of the privacies of life emerge . First , activity does not become significantly less private merely because others know about it and disapprove . ( There is a contrary suggestion in the recent obscenity opinion . ) If this question were decided otherwise , there would be no meaningful constitutional concept of privacy at all , since society seeks to prohibit only what it knows about and , presumably , disapproves . There is a line to be drawn here between knowing about conduct and being forcibly confronted with it . A bar , opium den , nudist colony , or adult movie theater can fall on either side of the line , depending upon how discreetly it is managed . Second , victimless-crime legislation is often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to save the criminal from himself ( or to save him for the sake of his dependents , or in the interest of minimizing the relief rolls ) . Heroin , it is said , is harmful to the user ; gambling to the gambler . The proper attitude toward such legislation , it seems to me , is that already adopted by the Court in its abortion decision . The dangers of an abortion after the first few months , said the Court , justify licensing and other regulations designed to make such abortions safe , but not legislation outlawing them altogether . Similarly , it would be appropriate , in the name of paternalism , to warn users of the dangers of cigarettes , alcohol , and drugs ; to regulate the purity of these substances ; and to require that gambling odds be clearly stated . Paternalism alone , however , can not justify prohibition in these areas . Third , " unprovable assumptions " must not be permitted to be used to establish " legitimate " societal inter-44 ests in regulating seemingly private conduct . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not take the acquisition or use of obscenity , marijuana , or contraceptives out of the area of privacy merely by choosing to assert that they cause crime . Again , if this were otherwise , the concept of privacy would disappear . One must also be alert to situations where it is not the private activity that causes crime but government 's attempt to prohibit it . This was largely true of Prohibition and may be true of heroin and gambling prohibitions today . On the other hand , once it is clear that the physical , economic , or psychic well-being of others is involved in a way that they are not completely free to control , government should be able to act , and should properly have a great deal of latitude . Laws may validly regulate prices , what an employer pays his workers , or the working conditions he offers them , for these plainly have an impact on the consumers or workers , who do not share fully in the choices which are made . For very much the same reasons , a discriminatory decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exclusionary policy in a private club , is not entirely private because of the involuntary social and economic impact on those who are excluded . Activities involving children as " consensual " participants may also be deemed nonprivate if one takes the view that consent below a certain age should not be effective . Prohibitions upon pollution or the possession of guns are valid if the Court is convinced , as it should be , that these activities implicate the public beyond its disapproval of them . The hardest cases are those in which activities are undertaken primarily for private reasons , where they are exceedingly important to the individual , but where they also impinge to some extent on legitimate societal interests . The abortion case is a good example . Whether abortion is sought before or after " viability , " it necessarily involves the life of another organism , which is often , I assume , a legitimate societal concern , whether or not the organism is characterized as a " person . " ( Thus prohibitions upon cruelty to animals are valid . ) On the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drastic for the potential mother . One way to deal with such situations would be to say that , since we are no longer in the area of pure privacy , there is either no constitutional protection , or only the illusory kind of protection offered when " unprovable assumptions " and phantom " intrusions " are permitted to justify prohibitions . If so , the abortion case was incorrectly decided . I think , however , that the main outline of the abortion decision rings true . It need not be discarded if one is willing to say that , while the Court under a right of privacy should not ordinarily seek to evaluate the legitimacy of society 's response to conduct with a significant nonprivate element , there are some situations in which the discrepancy between the strength of the private and public interests is so great that the private interest must prevail . These situations will be extremely rare , since most private interests can be satisfactorily , if not fully , enjoyed without harm-I fully ' implicating others . Obscenity , for example , can be discreetly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dirty pictures , while those who want them can get them ( albeit with some difficulty ) . A bigot can generally shun those he dislikes , even if they have access to the same premises . In the abortion situation such an adjustment is impossible , and the Court has decided I. correctly , I think , although the question is to me a close one I that a woman 's right not to be subjected to carrying and bearing an unwanted child clearly preponderates over the concerns for an unborn , unviable , and , so far as we know , unconscious fetus . The Court should not go too wrong in this area if it acts in the name of privacy only when it perceives the grossest kind of disparity between the detriment to the private pursuit of happiness which a law causes and the happiness the law it meant to protect . It would be ludicrous , for example , for an employe ' to assert such a gulf between the happiness he loses through being forced to pay a minimum wage and the hap piness his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tional privacies of life is neithe complete nor , I 'm sure , wholly satis factory . It seems to me to be closer 1 ( the spirit of privacy than the Court'f so far largely unexplained categoriza tion of such rights and interests as " fundamental " and " compelling . " The Court 's lack of a coherent approach , for example , was surely primarily responsible for the recent indefensible obscenity decision . I would , however , much rather have the Court stumble about in the way it has , in an effort to give some meaning to the concept of personal liberty , than to have it give up altogether , or wait to act until it can write perfect opinions and invariably reach the correct result ? which would in practice amount to giving up . The price we pay for the Court 's intellectual shortcomings is a result like the obscenity decision ( not really much of a price at all , when you think of it , since , by failing to recognize the right of adults to choose the sexual material they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make things better ; it has n't made things worse ) . The benefits we reap , on the other hand , are occasionally enormous , such as the elimination in many states of abortion laws which would have continued to cause misery . pain , and death for many years if the Court had n't acted . Whatever the results of particular cases , the Supreme Court 's discovery during the past several years of a right to at least some of the privacies of life has coincided with the beginnings of a general reevaluation in our country of the wisdom , from both practical and moral standpoints , of victimless-crime legislation . The re . ports of the federal commissions on obscenity and marijuana are reflections of this , as was the extensive move toward abortion reform that predated the Court 's abortion ruling . These phenomena are not unrelated . Even if the Court goes no further , it will have contributed mightily to American life by setting loose the idea that , whatever the specifics of the Bill of Rights . the concept of liberty includes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ none of government 's business . In doing this the Court has performed one of its vital functions ? vastly more important than its ability to write neat opinions pleasing to law professors . The Framers may not have intended it that way ? and someday we may find that it need not be that way ? but these days the Supreme Court is , more than any other institution we have , the source of the basic postulates of our communal life .                     