@@487964

For many years we ' have been standing on the doorstep of a solar energy storehouse that could put an end to our power shortage . But as a nation we have been bound by a set of priorities  --  a sort of " them as has gits " tradition ? that has fed billions of dollars into nuclear fission and most of the rest of our energy research funds into the old familiar fossil fuels , while treating power from the sun like a stepchild . That research on this resource has survived in spite of federal neglect is a tribute to a band of dedicated men and women who have worked for the most part on isolated projects with too little financing , Four hundred of these solar scientists exchanged ideas here on October 3 ' and 4 at the annual meeting of the U.S. section of the International Solar Energy Society . They had no historic breakthroughs to report , but the Karl Keyerleber , a Cleveland newspaperman and former college instructor , has long been interested in environmental prqblems. papers they read and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reality than most Americans suppose . The general optimism was reflected in an informal poll to which 123 of the delegates responded . Eighty of the 123 said that solar ' heating and cooling of buildings , which takes a large chunk of the fuel supply , can be in commercial use in five years if adequate funding is forthcoming to develop the hardware and launch a components industry . Surprisingly , twenty-six said it could be done in two years . Solar electric power is further in the future but again , according to the poll , less distant than is popularly supposed . The consensus , seventy-four of the 123 , was that sun-powered central generating stations . could be operating by 1983 . That is so close to the timing planned for the government 's nuclear fission fast breeder program , which calls for a demonstration reactor by 1980 , that it ought to give pause to the planners of that type of potentially dangerous power plant . Solar power will not pollute the air or ground waters , burn up irreplaceable resources , or threaten health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poll participants were willing to guess that commercial electric power could be achieved in ' five years if it received unlimited funding , but the majority settled for ten years . Other estimates went as high as sixty years and , one person said flatly " never ! " Results of the poll are remarkably close to the conclusions reported by a solar energy panel of forty scientists which last year conducted what was probably the most exhaustive study ever made of solar possibilities . It was sponsored jointly by ' the National Science Foundation and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration . In a report issued last December this select panel concluded that " if solar development programs are successful , building heating could reach public use within five years , building , cooling in six to ten years . . . and electricity production in ten to fifteen years . " More cautious than most on electric power is Dr. G.O.G. Lof of Colorado State University , who is president of the International Solar Energy Society and was a member of the study panel . " I 'm optimistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " But economics will delay development of solar electric power . It 's tough to compete with cheaper sources of power . Collectors and other hardware for solar plants will continue to be expensive for some time . The home owner has to pay $2 per BTU for his fuel . But the power plant can ' get it for 50 ? per BTU . There is going to be less incentive for the power company to move into solar generating even though it has no fuel cost . " For home heating , however , Lof was among the optimists . He sees commercial availability as possible in only two years . The big development , he said , will be in the ' package concept of space heating , cooling and hot water supply . He has obtained a grant to build such a house in Fort Collins , Colo. by next summer . Some twenty buildings in the country now rely on solar energy for heat or other uses , but his house , according to Lof , will be the first to put the whole package @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only half the job , " he said . " To justify the high cost of the collectors you have to use them for both heating and cooling . " The Fort Collins house will use roof panels to collect and focus sunlight , with water as the agent to transfer the heat and to store it for use at night and on cloudy days . Other systems that have been developed transmit the heat by air and use chemicals for its storage . Cooling will be by a heat extraction pump that operates much like the familiar cooling unit of a home refrigerator . SeVeral existing experimental solar houses and one in which a family has lived for the past year were described at the meeting . The University of Florida has built ' at Gainesville what was termed " a thoroughly instrumented test house " which uses solar energy to supply hot water , heat the house and a swimming pool , recycle part of the occupants ' , liquid waste , and furnish some electricity . for radio , television , lights and small appliances . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The solar system of a house completed by the University of Delaware last July is connected to the utility 's power lines , so that it can draw on that source as needed . In periods of bright sunshine , it can also reverse the process and feed power into the utility 's grid . A member of the small minority , who insisted at the meeting that solar energy is here now is Harold R. Hay of Los Angeles . He presented evidence in the description of a home he built at Atascadero , Calif. , which has been occupied by a ' family of five for the past year . The building has on its flat roof pools of water enclosed in plastic liners that rest on a metal . ceiling . In winter the water absorbs energy from the sun and keeps the house comfortable by radiating heat through the ceiling . At night the water is covered by sliding panels to retain the heat . It can retain warmth for several sunless days , according to Hay . In summer the process is reversed , the water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sun 's rays during the day . No pumps , fans or ducts are used . A team from California Polytechnic State University is now evaluating performance at the house in the ' past year . Meanwhile , said Hay , he has a contractor who will build similar homes at competitive prices . To those who mentioned . California 's mild climate , Hay pointed ' out that tests of the system made in ' Phoenix , Ariz. indicated that no conventional heating or cooling would be needed over a temperature range from subfreezing , , to 115 degrees . Plans for an entire community to use solar energy for both , central power and home heating and cooling were described by representatives of Sandia Laboratories in Albuquerque , N.M . They were developed under a contract with the Atomic Energy Commission , which includes solar energy within its field of nuclear ' power responsibility . Collectors for the entire community would be centrally located and power fed to each home . Various configurations of homes and collectors were tested and it was concluded that such a project might reach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cost parity will depend heavily upon the collector costs and the capitalization costs , " said W.P. Schimmel , Jr . of Sandia . " Indeed , if government financing were available so that a low capitalization rate could be realized , a solar subdivision could reach cost parity very soon . " Schimmel 's report and those of others at the conference indicated that everything needed for home heating and cooling is technically feasible now . But before there can be an industrial base , the solar concept will have to be sold to designers , manufacturers , suppliers , builders , unions , code officials and in some cases legislative bodies . With , all those bases to touch , development will be spotty for some time . There may also ' be some interesting legal developments , cautioned Jerome W. Weingart of the California Institute of Technology . Suppose you build a solar home with heat panels in the roof and then someone erects a taller home on the next lot , shutting off much of your sunlight . Or what if the next-door neighbor plants trees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shade the whole area , , including your collectors ? Old , English common law guaranteed a man 's right to light , air and view , said Weingart , but in the United States the only such right a property owner has is over a public street . Will future real estate deeds have to be three-dimensional ? The interest in solar heating has , risen and dropped periodically in the past . In 1947 , during one of the peaks , a commission appointed by President Truman , reported optimistically that 13 million homes could be heated by the sun by 1975 . If that forecast were on the way to fulfillment , we would have less concern about our energy supply today . Thirteen million solar heated homes , if they had been built in our Northern states and the fuel displaced had been oil , would represent a yearly saving of about 440 million barrels . If they included homes with summer cooling , the saving would be much larger . But generation of electric power is the big breakthrough needed if we are to avoid being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number on which the Atomic Energy Commission has , set its , sights by the year 2020 . It was stressed at the conference that , as in the case of home heating , there are no technical reasons why a solar power station should not be built today . The problem is that they cost more to build than either conventional plants or the nuclear behemoths . Research will have to concentrate on finding ways to cut costs of equipment , reduce the size , and get them into use on a scale that will bring manufacturing savings through volume production . Collectors which gather the sun 's rays and concentrate their heat are the biggest cost items . Present ones also take up a lot of room . Many techniques have been devised for power generation but the most promising can be narrowed down to three . All use Similar collectors . One technique is to use the sun 's energy like any other heat source to generate steam , which drives turbines that spin generators in a conventional way . A second is to collect sunlight and feed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be drawn as needed , night or day . Water is the simplest storage medium but chemical ' solutions , of which liquid sodium is one , promise to be more effective . The third way is to use solar cells , or batteries , to - convert energy directly into electricity , thus dispensing with the steam power cycle . That is the way it is done on spacecraft . To some extent the present generation of solar energy experts are reinventing the wheel . Back in 1913 an American engineer , Frank Shuman of Philadelphia , was building power plants that used the sun 's energy . He did n't generate electricity with them , but could have done so with the head of steam they developed . One of his best knoWn solar engines was a 50-horsepower installation at Meadi , near , Cairo in Egypt , where it was used to pump water from the Nile to irrigate crops . Even , earlier , in 1774 , the French chemist Antoine Lavoisier devised a remarkable solar furnace , which used glass lenses fastened to curved discs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have used it to produce electricity , except that it had n't yet been identified . His invention was put to work melting gold and other metals . Many others have been fascinated by the challenge . New materials , not available to early inventors , facilitate current research , but many of the techniques are remarkably similar . Three scientists who have recently stirred wide interest with radically different approaches to the problem were not at the conference here . Two are the husband and wife team of Aden and Marjorie Meinel , both astronomers at the University of Arizona . They , have worked out a plan for a huge " solar farm " in the sun-drenched Southwest that could eventually furnish all of the country 's needs for electricity . The other is Peter Glaser of Arthur D. Little , Inc . He has proposed a glamorous project to put two mile-wide arrays of collectors in orbit 22,000 miles out in space where one of them would . always be bathed in sunshine undiluted by the atmosphere . Solar cells of the kind that gave Skylab 1 its power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( radar ) , for transmission to earth where it would be reconverted into electricity . The Meinels have won considerable support among their peers . Their multibillion-dollar project could be constructed a section at a time over the next century . The first of the plants , with a suggested capacity of 1,000 megawatts ( about the size of the planned fast breeders ) could , they say , be built by 1980 . Each plant would reqUire about 2 square miles on , which to place collectors  --  heat traps of glass with a , special coating borrowed from optical research to block the escape of heat once it is collected . The collectors would raise liquid sodium to temperatures as high as 1,200 degrees and the sodium would then transfer the heat to storage tanks of molten salt . The tanks would be drawn on as needed to heat water for steam that would drive turbines and generate current in conventional fashiim , day or night . The Meinels , have designated a site for their " farm . " They would place it on a ' desolate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nevada , projecting slightly into Idaho . To those who may object that 5,000 square miles is a lot of land , the Meinels retort that there are 130,000 square miles of land in the Southwest so poor that it barely supports rattlesnakes and prairie dogs . They also point out that the Arizona Public Service Company has more land under lease for strip mining coal than would be needed for one of the plants they envision . And they make a third point . If brackish or salt water were , distilled with heat otherwise wasted , the desert could bloom . The proposal offers clean and plentiful power , but not cheaply , at least to begin with . ' The Meinels have estimated that $10 billion spent over a ten-year period could get ' the farm well under way . Thereafter they see the possibility of gradually phasing out existing dirty power plants and the nuclear reactors already in operation . Developments in high-voltage transmission could , they believe , put all the contiguous forty-eight states within reach of the solar power farm . Major problems would obviously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power station in space could be built , but on a smaller scale most of the technology and components have been tested and proved workable in space programs . The present cost of solar cells is prohibitive but , like other equipment for solar power , these items would cost far less if they were mass-produced . How either of these plans could be financed is not clear . The Nixon budget for 1974 has allocated only $12 million to solar research , a threefold increase over 1973 but still a tiny investment in comparison with the $563 million allotted to various types of nuclear development . The NSF-NASA study panel called for expenditure of more than $2 billion on solar power projects over a period of fifteen years , with the government and industry to share the costs . The Meinel project could , of course , be scaled down , but then it would n't provide the replacement for the nuclear program that its foes would like to see . What is badly needed at this point is objective evaluation of the many ideas that have been proposed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reallyclean power , and selection of one or more projects to receive the kind of funding and federal leadership that has marked the nuclear program . Sixty years ago Frank Shuman said : " We know the sun is the central powerhouse of our universe , and we should therefore attack most seriously the problem of connecting ourselves with the sun direct . " Unfortunately , the climate in Mr. Nixon 's Washington does n't seem favorable to an all-out attack . So we 'll have to settle for a slower pace . But it seems clear that solar power is at a stage where it can make an important contribution almost as quickly as we want it to . En                     