@@488043

Mr. Gilbreth is a staff writer for the Chicago Daily News , specializing in state and local government . Chicago Shortly before Labor Day , hundreds of thousands of Illinois voters , watching reruns of I Love Lucy or other end of the summer fare in the comfort of their living rooms , caught their first glimpse of a television commercial that foreshadowed the most virulent campaign in recent state politics . On the screen they saw a still photo of the bearer of one of the proudest names in Illinois history , Adlai E. Stevenson III , looking for all the world as though he had lost some of his marbles . A voice began asking questions . " Why does n't Adlai Stevenson speak out against campus rioters ? " " What does Adlai Stevenson have against the FBI and the Chicago police ? " With each question , the camera jerked closer to its subject 's face , bringing , to the viewer an ever larger close-up of Stevenson 's wide-open eyes , enclosed by owllike glasses . A dramatic musical chord punctuated each question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scene . The questions built to the climactic one . " Why does n't Adlai Stevenson come out and admit he 's a liberal ? " By now the eyes dominated the screen , and the mystery voice delivered its exit line : " Why ? Ask your Democratic precinct committeeman . " Those who watched closely caught a brief printed legend disclosing that the commercial was being shown to urge the election of U.S. Sen. Ralph Tyler Smith ( R. , Ill . ) . Adlai 's crime , in this year of Agnew , is that he is the Democratic candidate running against the conservative Smith . ' A few weeks later , another Smith-for-Senator commercial focused on a newspaper headline over a story about Stevenson 's reaction to the first Moratorium Day last October . " Adlai Lauds Peaceful Dissenters , " the head-line said . Then , the reassuring voice of Ralph Tyler Smith : " The enemy will not take comfort in my words , " the voice said ; the emphasis was on the word , " , my . " Another commercial ( not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policeman explaining why he could never vote for Adlai Stevenson : the policeman 's brother , also a policeman , had been fatally shot in the line of duty . These commercials have sought to create the impression that Stevenson is a coddler of criminals , an ally of bomb throwers , an enemy of lawmen , and a rallying point for revolutionaries . ' Illinois had not witnessed such venomous television advertising since 1964 , when the Democratic National Committee trotted out its electronic image of Barry Goldwater as a trigger-happy goof who really would n't care if an atom bomb destroyed a young girl picking petals off a sunflower . The Democrats withdrew that ad after Hubert Humphrey disowned it ; Ralph Tyler Smith shows no such inclination , despite the uproar his television assault is still creating in the state . The question remained : would this harsh personal attack cripple Stevenson 's candidacy ? Would the voters buy this grotesque portrait of a scholarly man , nearly 40 , whose father , their late governor , twice ran for the Presidency ? Whose grandfather was a prominent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cleveland ? The preliminary evidence indicates that the attack has , hurt Stevenson 's campaign badly , but as yet not enough to defeat him . The effect is remarkable , considering that Stevenson , as a legislator , wrote the anti-bomb statute now in effect in Illinois . Beyond that , he has always drawn a distinction between peaceful dissent and violence . One measure of the TV campaign is the polls privately undertaken for both the Democratic and Republican organizations . They still show Stevenson ahead ; they also show a sharp drop from his early lead , which one poll last spring indicated to be more than 2 to 1 . At the same time , the new polls reflect an increase in the recognition of Smith 's name among Chicago area voters , Smith , 54 , represented the downstate Alton area in the Illinois House for fifteen years , and was House Speaker last fall when Gov . Richard B. Ogilvie . appointed him to the vacancy created by Everett M. Dirksen 's death . However , Smith was a near nonentity in Chicago and northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the TV slurs can be measured also by the contortions of Stevenson and his top campaign strategists to " prove " that the new Adlai is not " liberal . " ( Neither was his father , really , although his admiring legions believed him to be , and their hero did not flinch from the label , ) Stevenson 's downstate campaign manager , Lt. Gov . Paul Simon , called a press conference to assail the opening Smith TV ad , the one that posed the question , " Why does n't Adlai Stevenson come out and admit he 's a liberal ? " Simon was asked , Is Adlai a liberal ? Evading a direct answer , Simon employed intriguing logic to suggest that by at least one yardstick ( the expenditure of public funds ) , Republican Governor Ogilvie was a " liberal , " and by the same gauge Adlai was a " conservative . " The question was put to Stevenson on a recent national TV interview show , and the candidate said he preferred to be thought of as " progressive , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the TV ads ' effect is the increased defensiveness of Stevenson 's campaign . He has been forced to emphasize , again and again , his record in behalf of " law and order " when he was a state legislator in the mid-1960s . He has had to denounce radicals and extremists , of both the Right and Left , to an extent dangerously close to protesting too much . And he has felt impelled ( finally , to the relief of his staff ) to grapple directly with Smith . I " I 've about lost patience with all the lies and insults in this campaign , " Stevenson angrily told Democratic precinct workers at the party 's state convention in Chicago on September 29 . He denounced Smith as " a frantic man . . . a desperate man who will say and do anything . . . wholruns with the extremists of the Right . " And Stevenson did n't hesitate to liken the Smith " extremists " to " the bombers , the arsonists , the Panthers . " Previously , Stevenson 's pitch had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans around the country appear to be campaigning for sheriff . Smith had risen to that bait and declared : " As long as people are being mugged , raped and murdered on the streets of our city , I will fight as hard as I can to end this tragedy of violence . If this makes me resemble a candidate for sheriff , I am proud to wear that title . " On October 1 , Stevenson responded with a thoughtful and well-researched speech ori , crime statistics , the roots of lawlessness , the need for beefing up the quality and quantity of law enforcement . But the speech was not without its own appeal to emotionalism , coupled with a sledgehammer attack on Smith : Crime is a woman afraid to walk from bus stop to apartment on a dark winter evening . It is waking in the night to hear the footstep of a stranger . . . . It is asking yourself why someone is walking so closely behind you on a lonely street . Just recently a returning Vietnam veteran was brutally murdered near the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He did not survive a walk in the park . I know that park , that chess pavilion , well . It is close to my house . It is where my children play . . . . After referring to Smith as a captive of the radical Right , Stevenson went on : " In 1932 a young man declared : ' The streets of our country are in turmoil . The universities are filled with students rebelling and rioting . Communists are seeking to destroy our country . Russia is threatening us with her might and the republic is in M danger . Yes , danger from within and without . We need law and order . ' That young man was Adolf Hitler . " By inclination and heritage Adlai III shies away from abuse in public dialogue . Like his father , he believes " there are more important things than winning elections . " And like his father , he first reacts to adversity with a wry- blend of grimness and humor . ( For instance , after seeing the first Smith TV ad , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " If they had asked me , I would have given them a better photo . " ) To find himself forced into a position where he equates Adolf Hitler with his opponent ( and Adlai knows that the subtlety of any qualifier is lost on the public ) must be abhorrent to a candidate who despises blood-and-guts , pOlitics . Some advisers , perhaps all of them , rationalize that Stevenson is fighting fire with fire . A few of Stevenson 's friends , however , believe he has allowed Smith 's campaign to set the level of his own , to narrow the contest into a single-issue campaign . , Stevenson borrowed from Smith the not original technique of accusing by not accusing . " President Nixon has been President for two years , and each year the crime rate has risen , " Stevenson said on October 2 in a speech to the Illinois State Chamber of Commerce . " This does not mean that President Nixon is soft on crime . The state that led the nation in violent crime in 1968 and 1969 was Maryland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and our Vice President in 1969 . This does not mean that Spiro Agnew is soft on crime . " In a variation of this , Stevenson ends each sentence , " . . . but I do n't accuse President Nixon ( or Spiro Agnew ) of being soft on crime . " Such utterances probably fall within the bounds of allowable campaign rhetoric ; this does not make them admirable . Ralph Tyler Smith started the name-calling last summer . In a remark quoted in newspapers throughout the state , the Senator said that every time he read something Stevenson had said , " I see red  --  and you can take that anyway you want to . " Reporters returned to that remark at a press conference Smith called a few days later at the Holiday Inn , in Springfield . Did the Senator believe his opponent to be a Communist sympathizer ? " No , of course not , " Smith answered , with a backward toss of his silver-thatched head . He broke into a half laugh , half chuckle , seemingly incredulous that anyone could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ol ' Adlai . But what was that about " seeing red . . . " ? Smith interrupted the follow-up question with a friendly raise of his right arm . Without denying the accuracy of the quote , he launched into an elaborate discussion about how easy it is for a pencil-and-paper reporter to catch only part of a quote , or all of a quote removed from its largef context , and to impart unintentionally an erroneous meaning when that quote appears in a particular sequence of sentences in the reporter 's story . I Ralph Tyler Smith represents the end product of any advertising agency 's campaign to whip up an immaculately packaged candidate . He looks good , like a Senator should . He is tall and straight-shouldered enough to resemble a. statesman , a natty dresser , sporting a large diamond ring on his right hand ( gauche ' for the best country-club circles , but a big item among women at suburban teas ) . Crow's-feet help his eyes sparkle when he roars with i laughter . How can a voter distrust anyone with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a moderate-to-conser- , vative legislator in Springfield . A lawyer with a war record as a Navy gunboat commander in World War II , a bank director and board chairman in his home town of Alton , a good Presbyterian , with a wife and married daughter , his background no less than his experience in politics ' shaped his ideology in the image of middle-class heartland America . The 47-year-old housewife from Payton , Ohio , would like him . The affable Smith owes his Senate appointment to a decision he made three years ago . PIchayj E r ? , , , ilvie , then president of the Cook County board , sought his party 's nomination for governor . Ogilvie faced stiff dawn-state competition in the primary , House Speaker Smith sided with him  --  and he won by a narrow margin . When Senator , Dirksen died , Smith was a natural choice as Governor Ogilvie 's interim appointee . It was too early to speculate on how well Smith would do in 1970 , because it was anyone 's guess whom the fragmented and disheartened Illinois @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where Chicago Mayor Richard J. Daley entered the act . Daley is not only the last of the big-city bosses , he is  --  and always has been  --  the most politically astute of the lot . Hours after learning of Dirksen 's death , Daley journeyed to Libertyville , where Stevenson , widely re , garded as the Mayor 's nemesis , was holding an outdoor Democratic rally on the family farm . Daley 's appearance sent shock waves through the thousands of Democratic liberals ( yes , " liberals " ) and independents gathered at the farm . Stevenson had become the hero of the anti-Daley wing of the party since shortly after the 1968 Democratic National Convention , when Stevenson attacked the more rambunctious of the Mayor 's club-wielding cops as " storm troopers in blue . " . Stevenson had also attacked the Mayor 's potent party machine as an " archaic feudal structure . " . Daley 's pilgrimage to the Stevenson farm was as unexpected as it was seemingly unfathomable . But not so unfathomable in the light of two concurrent events : the death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor that showed Adlai to be the strongest challenger the Democrats could field for any , state office . Daley said kind words about Stevenson at the farm , and there were cheers and tears of joy . The Mayor 's designation of Stevenson served a twin purpose : it foreclosed the possibility of a costly primary contest in which Stevenson might seek nomination to Dirksen 's seat against a Daley-sponsored candidate ; it also assured the Democrats of running their strongest candidate . Mayor Daley has never been accused of blind adherence to ideology ; he wants his party to win every election  --  and he could forgive Stevenson 's past lapses into independence for the sake of a Democratic comeback in IllinoiS this year . Stevenson has already proved his vote-getting potential . In 1964 , he outpolled 235 other candidates of both parties in a statewide at-large election of the entire Illinois House . In 1966 , when U.S. Senate candidate Charles H. Percy led a Republican resurgence in Illinois , Stevenson , as a candidate for state treasurer , was the sole Democratic survivor of the GOP @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been curious . In the Senate , Percy fought his party 's President on a number of key issues  --  the Haynsworth and Carswell appointments , the Anti-Ballistic Missile program , the Supersonic Transport program . Facing a probable primary fight in 1972 , Senator Percy has repeatedly endorsed ' Smith . But the Stevenson forces regard Percy as a positive factor in their own campaign . Stevenson himself tells voters , " Illinois deserves two independent Senators , " the implication being that the Republican Percy is all right , but that Republican Smith is the President 's stooge . Smith resents his characterization as a White House puppet . He , originally came out against the Haynsworth nomination , but changed his mind . He supports most Nixon policies , particularly on Vietnam , but he said he has not made up his mind yet on the SST program . , Stevenson 's residency in Chicago is another problem . Both Percy and Governor Ogilvie are also from Cook County , and Stevenson 's victory would give the Chicago area the state 's top three offices . Smith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He has blanketed the state with full-page newspaper ads proclaiming : " Downstate has one Senator  --  let 's keep him . " The ads were financed by millionaire insurance executive W. Clement Stone , himself a Chicagoan . Stevenson , a Harvard-bred lawyer , looks decidedly more urban thantural . He counters anti-Chicago sentiment as well as he can on a one-to-one basis as he scours downstate for votes . Chatting with a farmer alongside a cornfield , Stevenson , hands in his pockets and shuffling his feet , discusses his upbringing in Bloomington and Liberty vine , and adds , " There 's only one candidate in this campaign with manure on his shoes , and it is n't the other guy . " This doesn't-fool many voters , however , and Steven-son expects to win a majority only in heavily Democratic Cook County . Stevenson 's literature stresses his performance as state treasurer ( an office that controls $1 billion in state deposits ) . He dropped the state 's time-honored practice of depositing funds in banks linked to an incumbent 's political party . He worked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many banks , which could increase their share of deposits according to the extent they were willing to invest in renewal of ghetto and low-income areas . As the Illinois campaign entered its last month , Smith 's television remained the most discussed issue . The Stevenson forces had hoped to budget $500,000 for a whirlwind video windup of their own , but are finding it difficult to raise that much . One candid assessment of TV 's role in the outcome came from Norton Kay , Stevenson 's top press aide who was political editor of Chicago Today before he was recruited into politics . When a newsman suggested that Smith 's TV commercials might backfire , that some voters might even regard them as funny , Kay responded : " Funny , hell ! We 're confident we 'll win , but by how much ? I think television advertising in the final weeks will determine the margin . "                     