@@493567

Amnesty Options In one of his first official acts as President , Jimmy Carter may offer his answer to the most vexing remnant of the Indochina war years : what to do about amnesty , or pardon , or clemency . Because of its timing and complexity , this decision will do at least as much as Carter 's cabinet and White House staff selections to set the tone of his presidency . More than any other immediate decision he faces , Carter 's choice on amnesty is measurable in human terms ; unfortunately it has been defined almost entirely as a political issue . An important factor in the success of whatever program the new President advances will be his ability to set aside the most strident political claims and get to the human dimension . Supporters of unconditional amnesty for all categories of offenders tend to describe every alternative proposal as an invidious compromise , rhetoric that rekindles the fire of Vietnam . Amnesties , they say , have been issued to resisters after every war , and there is ample precedent to go beyond the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they call upon the new President for an across-the-board program on grounds of political expedience , arguing that the predictable outcry from the veterans ' organizations will be no more intense if the proclamation is total than if it is built on a legalistic , procedurally awkward case-by-case review . Besides , some of amnesty 's most prominent advocates say , the black and brown communities to which Carter is much indebted for his election will not benefit unless the program is extended beyond draft resisters to include deserters and veterans with bad discharges . They are right on the facts ; but political debt is a slender reed on which to support an argument of principle . On the other side , opponents charge that unconditional amnesty would diminish the sacrifices of the 2,500,000 veterans who served in Vietnam and the families of the soldiers who lost their lives . They argue that treating all cases alike would demean the applicants themselves , whose predicaments arise from widely divergent circumstances . They believe there is no need for further action ; in the words of a past national commander of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Ford administration gave those who wanted to every opportunity to make their peace and come back home . " There is also the fear that leniency toward Vietnam offenders might undermine America 's future ability to mobilize and maintain a strong military force . It 's as if a war is planned for tomorrow . Charles Kirbo , Mr. Carter 's designee to meet with representatives of the amnesty movement in recent days , apparently shares this fear . No one has come forward to identify the great harm suffered by the military as a result of past acts of executive clemency . Yet those who buttress their arguments with historical precedent are also prone to overstatement . In the last century , war-related amnesties and pardons were often politically inspired ; they constitute a limited precedent for the present controversy . Many presidential clemency actions have been conditioned upon surrender to the military and return to duty , for example . After 1900 , as the scope of war widened , the effects of presidential amnesties narrowed . President Coolidge 's 1923 pardon of federal prisoners who had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War I affected only 31 persons . It was another 10 years before FDR restored civil rights to other World War I resisters , about 1500 in all . Two of Harry Truman 's four clemency proclamations returned civil rights to war supporters ( criminals who had been released on condition of military service ) , not war resisters . Another of Truman 's actions restored civil rights to peacetime deserters , and the last established a case-by-case review of World War II resisters . None of these provided relief for those who fled the country to avoid prosecution . Overall , presidential clemencies most often have merely restored citizenship , with no pardon or even mitigation of the prison sentence . Sevin this context , what the new President is being asked to adopt is a sweeping proposition indeed . Carter 's campaign statements and the Democratic Party platform may give the most reliable clues to the scope of his upcoming proclamation . During the primaries , Carter promised a " blanket pardon " for draft resisters in or outside the country who had not served in the armed forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carter fOrces , the Democratic Platform Committee ex tended that commitment to cover all those in legal or financial jeopardy arising from their opposition to the war , with deserters to be treated on a case-by-case basis . Carter has also been notoriously insistent on drawing a semantic distinction between " pardon " and " amnesty , " and his position is not unique . Although the subtlety has no basis whatever in American law , traditionally amnesty connotes full official forgetfulness , an obliteration of the past offense from the public record , while pardon suggests only that the penalties for the offense are removed . The President-elect 's distinction is slightly different , drawn , he has said , " to assuage my own conscience . " Amnesty , in Carter 's terms , " says what you did was right ; pardon says whether what you did was right or wrong , you areforgiven for it . " His persistent semantic differentiation has advanced the evolution of the meaning of the words . Pardon now implies guilt ; amnesty does not , and that distinction has taken root @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but there is a limit to what semantic distinctions , legal precedents and political obligations can tell us . Just because we have never had an unconditional amnesty of the kind being urged on Carter does not mean that it is inappropriate . The human dimension is more instructive . Consider the people whose lives are affected ? the military deserters , those with punitive discharges and civilian defectors , resisters and dissidents . n Draft resisters . There are about 4000 men who refused induction or went underground and are now under indictment . n Military deserters at-large : Estimates vary widely , but this category apparently holds about 20,000 , and these men are clearly victims of jingoist rhetoric . They are often characterized as having deserted their comrades in battle . In fact , the Ford clemency board found that , even broadly defined , battlefield defections represented only one case in a thousand . n Non-registrants . At least half-a-million and perhaps four times that number of American men avoided Vietnam by avoiding the Selective Service ; they simply failed to register . For the most part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n Excludable aliens . About 7500 men took out foreign citizenship and now lack any means of returning home safely or regaining US citizenship . n Civilian protesters . An uncertain number of civilians committed acts of conscientious resistance ( ranging from destroying draft files and blocking troop trains to displaying the flag upside down ) for which they were prosecuted and convicted under criminal statutes . n Veterans with less-than-honorable discharges . Until Vietnam , the discharge system was used arbitrarily against only Communists and homosexuals . During the Indochina era , however , administrative discharges ? the less-than-honorable categories ? were used systematically as an unappealable form of punishment for dissent , covering a range of sins such as publishing antiwar literature , refusing to be assigned to Vietnam and dozens of others not directly related to resistance or conscientious objection . This category comprises an enormous number of men , about 790,000 by some estimates , including many whom Carter referred to during the campaign when he said , " Where I live , most of the young people who were drafted are poor or black . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know where Sweden was , they did n't have enough money to hide in college . They went to Vietnam . " And many of them are now burdened for life with the stigma of less-than-honorable discharges . The general terms of a blanket pardon are relatively easy to anticipate . It would mean ending all prosecutions under the Selective Service Act , for example , and wiping clean criminal records for previous convictions . By waiving a portion of the Immigration Act , excludable aliens and draft resisters living abroad could be permitted to return . It would be possible to draft a pardon that would simply expunge charges under military law that are not classified as crimes in civilian life ( refusal to serve in Vietnam , or desertion in non-combat circumstances ) and upgrade across-the-board all administrative discharges . At the same time , records of civilian convictions for protest-related charges would be similarly expunged . All this would greatly reduce the need for a bureaucracy to handle a case-by-case review process ? which many people concede will be necessary to sort through the more complicated categories of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and economic privations of the administrative discharge categories can not be ignored in any general pardon , and we find it difficult to imagine that a new President pledged to diminish governmental inefficiency will start by creating the bureaucratic sprawl necessary for a judicious review of more than three quarters of a million potential appeals . There is sufficient evidence from the Ford clemency board of what will not be accomplished in a narrowly conceived , politically safe approach to the Vietnam pardon issue . A wise and compassionate pardon can not attempt to hedge against national security requirements of future wars . The circumstances next time ( should there be a next time ) will inevitably be as different from Vietnam as Vietnam was from World War II . A sweeping pardon or unconditional amnesty would not diminish a citizen 's responsibility during a time of war , for the nation 's resolve in times of crisis does not derive from legal precedent . What matters now is the future ? represented by the thousands of men in the categories enumerated above . For them and their families , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offer a fresh start .                     