@@479277

FEW EPISODES in the tangled history of news broadcasting have been so generally discreditable to so high a proportion of the participants as the fuss attendant on the CBS documentary , The Selling of the Pentagon , in the spring of 1971 . The subject ? the abuse of funds and discretion in the PR programs of the Department of Defense ? was moderately daring ; and given the Nixon Administration 's reaction to Joe McGinniss 's book , The Selling of the President , the title guaranteed negative reactions at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue . But most people , even some in the military , would be willing to agree that pushing weaponry and war is an activity scarcely more defensible than pushing drugs . The key scenes in the documentary , the introduction of children and businessmen to the pleasures of putting little fingers on big triggers , were legitimately horrifying , and there were details here and there in the show that were not part of the fund of common knowledge . Still , said Perry Wolff , the CBS News executive producer whose unit was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be our fast ball for this season . It was just one show in the continuing CBS News Hour . " In fact , what appeared on the air was a considerably slower ball than the first cut that had been prepared for viewing by CBS News senior executives . The problem was in part that CBS itself was heavily involved in some of the activities the program criticized . ( Wolff , in fact , had been the producer of the CBS series on Air Power back in the 1950s . ) One of the sillier bursts of anti-Communism in Defense Department promotion films Mr. Mayer was television critic for Harper 's in 1959-1960 . His reportorial study , About Television , from which this article is ex40 cerpted , will be published this spring . had been uttered by Walter Cronkite as narrator ; and the Cronkite film , though dating back to 1962 , was the most popular thing in the Pentagon catalogue , with more than a thousand showings at Kiwanis affairs and the like in fiscal 1970 . Cronkite is a multimillion-dollar property for CBS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were limits . Producer Peter G. Davis was angry about the war , the military , and much else , and here and there he had forgotten about limits . Wolff screened the show first for his immediate superior , Bill Leonard , then for Richard Salant , president of CBS News , vice president Burton Benjamin , and Cronkite , and there followed a snow of memos . The one from Salant included thirty " review points , " things in the show that ought to be made to conform to policy . The reediting process stretched out , and the program missed its first air date . Among the pieces of machinery set in motion when the show did air , on February 23 , was the bank of videotape duplicating machines at the Pentagon . CBS estimates that Defense made thirty copies of the show and distributed them about to members of the military who might be able to find demonstrable fault . Within a week , the Pentagon had a brief attacking the show in the hands of every major newspaper , and in print in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show , the Pentagon effort was easy to brush off , because there really was n't anything seriously wrong with the show . But in investigating CBS News ' procedures , the Defense analysts had come up with several embarrassing errors , two of which should be sufficiently disturbing to trouble people who liked the show and hate the Pentagon . One was the presentation of excerpts from a speech by Col. John McNeil at a military " seminar " sponsored by a local business group in May 1970 in Peoria , a city much benefited by defense contracts . The episode began with a statement by CBS reporter Roger Mudd : " The Army has a regulation stating , ' Personnel should not speak on the foreign-policy implications of U.S. involvement in Vietnam . ' Colonel McNeil was then shown saying the following six sentences , apparently one right after the other : " Now we 're coming to the heart of the problem Viet-nam . Now the Chinese have clearly and repeatedly stated that Thailand is next on their list after Vietnam . If South Vietnam becomes Communist it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes for Cambodia , and the other countries of Southeast Asia . I think if the Communists were to win in South Vietnam , the record in the North ? what happened in Tet of ' 68 ? makes it clear there would be a bloodbath in store for a lot of the population in the South . The United States is still going to remain an Asian power . " The first of these sentences was from page 55 of Colonel McNeil 's text ; the second , from page 36 ; the third and fourth ( quotes from Prince Souvanna Phouma of Laos , though the CBS excerpt did not indicate that ) , from page 48 ; the fifth , from page 73 ; the sixth , from page 38 . They were made to appear continuous by a standard film-editing technique , in which shots of the speaker ? are alternated with shots of the listening crowd . Now , there is simply no question that this sort of thing is illegitimate . There is also not much question that CBS could have taken a continuous paragraph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well . From a public point of view , producer Peter Davis and/or his film editor stand convicted of improving a good story just a little , which deserves a mild rebuke and an injunction to go and sin no more . Even the most sober and responsible reporters ( men culpa ! o mea maxima culpa ! ) do this sort of thing every once in a while . From Colonel McNeil 's point of view , the situation may be somewhat different , for CBS did show him deliberately and consciously violating a Defense Department directive . while the full text of his speech could be held to leave him at least a loincloth of self-image that he was obeying the rules . He is suing CBS for $6 million , and presumably a court and jury will decide whether or not CBS violated his rights by stripping him of this self-protecting belief . ing to his department , ending with the " Directorate of Community Relations , " which he described as a service that arranged meetings , sent speakers , etc . Mudd then asked , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information , what about your public displays of military equipment at state fairs and shopping centers ? What purpose does that serve ? " Henkin replied , " Well , I think it serves the purpose of informing the public about their armed forces . It also has the ancillary benefit , I would hope , of stimulating interest in recruiting as we move or try to move to zero draft calls and increased reliance on volunteers for our armed forces . I think it is very important that the American youth have an opportunity to learn about the armed forces . " On the air , this sequence appeared as follows : MUDD : What about your public displays of military equipment at state fairs and shopping centers ? What purpose does that serve ? HENKIN : Well , I think it serves the purpose of informing the public about their armed forces . I believe the American public has the right to request information about the armed forces ; to have speakers come before them , to ask questions and to understand the need for our armed forces , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , how we spend these funds , what we are doing about such problems as drugs ? and we do have a drug problem in the armed forces ; what are we doing about the racial problem ? and we do have a racial problem . 1 think the public has a valid right to ask us these questions . Henkin 's reference to recruiting as a purpose in displaying military equipment at state fairs , a reasonable enough reply , had been deleted ; and in its place CBS had inserted , from a subsequent section of the interview , some statements from Henkin 's answer to a question Mudd had asked him about " the instant availability of military speakers at Kiwanis and Rotary and so forth . " This question was not presented on the program ; and the result was to make Henkin seem like a weaseler and a fool . Mudd 's next question , as the show ran , was , " Well , is that sort of information about the drug problem you have and the racial problem you have and the budget problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gets passed out at state fairs by sergeants who are standing next to rockets ? " Henkin 's actual reply was : " No , I did n't ? would n't limit that to sergeants standing next to any kind of exhibits . I knew ? I thought we were discussing speeches and all . " On the program , Henkin 's reply was presented as : " No , I would n't limit that to sergeants standing next to any kind of exhibit . Now , there are those who contend that this is propaganda . I do not agree with this . " The second sentence of the reply had been lifted from the context of an answer to an earlier question . And , of course , Henkin looked confused , because he had thought he was answering a question about speakers at meetings ; and the look of confusion is not unlike a look of guilt . This episode shows at least subconscious malice , a desire by the producers of the program that the man in charge of the Pentagon selling apparatus look bad on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Henkin appears from the record as one of very few heroes in this story . He told the House committee that what had happened to him was unique in his long experience with CBS . Asked whether he thought CBS would " do any violence or damage to the First Amendment . ' by supplying to the committee its notes and records and film " outtakes " not used on the show , he said , " I do want to be candid with this committee and anyone else who may read its record , sir , and I must say that as a newsman on such a matter as this ? I would , of course , first want to consult with my counsel ? but my inclinations would be not to provide my notes or source material . " This drew from Congressman J. J. Pickle of Texas a mock-sympathetic aside about his understanding of why Henkin might wish to " hedge just a little bit for the brothers . ' " ) Nobody in or out of the news business should condone the manipulation of the filmed interview @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editor for news and current affairs at the BBC , says that " anyone here who was discovered to have presented as the answer to a question an answer that in fact had been given to another question would be deprived of his authority to exercise discretion in the production of programs . " How much of this sort of thing there is on American television nobody really knows . Producers and film editors are disgusted by the whole controversy because , in the overwhelming majority of the cases where they wield their scissors , the purpose is to make some tongue-tied clown sound like a fluent statesman . But some Congressmen , and some others who are regularly interviewed on film for documentary programs , do believe that deception is commonplace . There have been problems , for example , about the technique of " reverses . " Where possible , naturally , television news divisions like to send out only one camera , which is trained on the man answering the questions . After the interview is over . the reporter is separately photographed asking his questions , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There undoubtedly have been instances in which reporters have rephrased their questions subsequent to the interview , to give a more favorable impression of their work and perhaps a less favorable impression of their respondents ' replies . Other editing devices create an apparent dialogue between two respondents at different interviews . The two are shown contradicting each other 's statements , and one side or the other can easily be shown to be " winning " this artificial argument ? an especially vicious tactic , because both sides can be said to have had equal time to present their case . N APRIL 7 , 1971 , Congressman Harley 0 . Staggers , chairman of the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce , and of its Special Subcommittee on Investigation , issued subpoenas to CBS , demanding the record of the production of The Selling of the Pentagon , and to NBC , for the record of the production of a conservation-oriented documentary called Say Goodbye , which had shown men in a helicopter shooting and apparently killing a mother polar bear . " At home in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the polar bear for centuries has taken for granted its freedom in the Arctic . But no more . . . " The cubs of the apparently dead polar bear were shown wandering disconsolately on the ice , and the narrator intoned , " Grieve for them . . . and for us . " But the men in the helicopter had merely shot an The fragrance of freshly picked Blackberries . A perfect after dinner treat in a snifter or on the rocks . It 's more than delicious ? it 's De Kuyper . ( Say it like the Dutch do : De-ki-per. ) anesthetic into the animal so it could be tagged for research purposes , and in the original film , not shown on the air , the bear had later been seen lurching to its feet and walking off . NBC had no trouble with the Staggers subpoena , because the program in question had been produced by David Wolper rather than by the network , and had simply been slotted into a time period purchased for the purpose by Quaker Oats . All inquiries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raising any constitutional questions , the material demonstrating the deceptive nature of this relatively brief section of his film . At CBS , however , the subpoena was big trouble . There were a few men at the Pentagon who had given information on a confidential basis , and the producers had a moral obligation not to reveal their names , which were , of course , part of the documentation in the files . Also in the files were the reams of internal memoranda the show had generated . Some of the comments from senior executives would be ammunition for the enemy . Other comments would be upsetting to Cronkite , because it had been quite impossible for the memo-writers to avoid having some fun with " Walter 's " involvement . And the details of how the show had been softened before airing , while they would certainly protect the network against some of the loonier charges launched by the Radical Right , would be embarrassing both to network executives and to the larger world of journalism . Staggers ' subpoena was a little vague in its delimiting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was a fishing expedition that would yield many brightly colored fish , few of them of any conceivable relevance to the law-making powers of the Congress . On April 20 , by appearance of counsel , CBS refused to honor the subpoena . Some of the internal problems at CBS seem to have come to Staggers ' attention , because five weeks later he amended his subpoena to apply only to the film and tape from which the material actually broadcast on the program had been selected . " All we want , " said Staggers , a pink cherub with white hair , one of those country-bumpkin Congressmen who are always foxing city slickers , " is the films from which they took something , from which they eliminated . We 44 think the people ought to know . The government gives them a license , protects them against anybody else who wants to broadcast on those frequencies . That gives us the right to find out whether they 're telling the truth or not ; we 're elected by the people to find out . " And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , much more urban , added , " The truth is not always complicated . " The Selling of the Pentagon was by no means the first CBS program for which Congress had issued subpoenas , and the others had been obeyed . A House Appropriations Committee had investigated charges against Hunger in America , and Staggers ' own committee had subpoenaed the complete records both of a show on marijuana produced by WBBMTV , a CBS-owned station in Chicago , and of a projected but never produced show on an abortive invasion of Haiti . These two had been rather harebrained operations , involving a pot party at Northwestern staged for the cameras , and what amounted to a marginal CBS subsidy to Haitian revolutionaries . In addition , all the networks had made available without subpoena their outtakes i.e. , the portions of film not used on the air ) on the riots that accompanied the 1968 Democratic Convention in Chicago . In response to Staggers ' second subpoena , Stanton came to the hearing room himself , and declared that CBS would not provide outtakes and he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Selling of the Pentagon . He distinguished the current case from the pot party and Haitian matters with the explanation that those had involved criminal or possibly criminal activity . Moreover , there had been no question of investigating editing activities in the Haiti case because nothing had been aired at all . In any event , one can not waive First Amendment rights ; the fact that CBS had yielded to subpoenas before did not mean the network was obliged to do so again . Circumstances had changed : the executive branch had been leaning hard on broadcasting and on the press . In this case , the government itself was investigating the probity of a broadcast critical of the government ; it was hard to think of anything more likely to have a " chilling effect " on the necessary freedom of the press to criticize government activity . By then , a large community had rallied round CBS . The network had circularized broadcasters , newspapers , and schools of journalism and secured large numbers of supporting statements , not to mention letters and telephone calls to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be broadcast to be eligible for certain prizes , several universities and the Emmy committee had given awards to The Selling of the Pentagon . T HE MOST SERIOUS WEAKNESS in the CBS position was the evidence of what had been done in the Henkin interview . When it became clear that Staggers was indeed prepared to force the issue with a contempt citation against Stanton and CBS , the network moved to repair its self-inflicted damage by promulgating new rules to govern editing . To prohibit what had been done in the Henkin incident would confess something CBS was not prepared to confess , so the new rules did not specifically forbid the splicing in of answers to questions other than the one asked on the air . Instead , they required that should such things occur , " the broadcast will so indicate , either in lead-in narration , bridging narration lines during the interview , or appropriate audio lines . " This is in effect , of course , a prohibition : even the most imaginative reader will find it hard to conjure up the image of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about to hear presents as answers to our reporter 's questions answers Mr. X in fact made to other questions . " Unfortunately , the Henkin dilemma went a little deeper than that . Congressmen were disturbed by the possibility that what had happened to Henkin could happen to them , and they would never be able to prove it . CBS in the past had consistently refused to provide anyone with the full transcripts of interviews from which excerpts had been aired , and other interviewees would not have Henkin 's resources . The new CBS rules therefore provided that " transcripts of the entire interview will be made available to the interviewee after broadcast , upon request of the interviewee . " Later , during the Congressional debate on the issuance of the Stanton subpoena , letters from several CBS zenry is left quivering with frustration and rage . The inefficiency of municipal services is not due to bad commissioners , mayors , managers , workers , unions , or labor leaders ; it is a natural consequence of a monopoly system . The public has created the monopoly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are no culprits , only scapegoats . Monopoly systems are also inherently unreliable because of their vulnerability to strikes and slowdowns . Legislators who do not seem to understand the fundamental workings of the system continue to demand that public employees behave as though they did not possess monopoly power . The New York State legislature . for example , persists in drafting futile no-strike edicts. and is now hailing compulsory                     