@@276983

George Balanchine 's 115th ballet is an evocative tribute to a corner of his own past . Who Cares ? , which was given its world premiere by the New York City Ballet last week , is a nostalgic , gently ironic reminder that " Mr. B. " spent a few lean years in the ' 30s as a creator of dance for stage musicals . In Slaughter on Tenth Avenue , which he designed for the 1936 Rodgers and Hart hit , On Your Toes , Balanchine brought a touch of ballet to Broadway . Who Cares ? brings back a little bit of old Broadway to ballet . <P> It is set to 17 lilting show tunes by Balanchine 's longtime friend , George Gershwin . The backdrop is a softly focused photo of the Manhattan skyline , suggesting the unreal city of cities in countless half-remembered Astaire musicals . The casual costumes look as if they might have dressed the working chorus in a hundred would-be Show Boats that never made it down the Hudson . Only the opening and closing numbers , Strike Up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been orchestrated for a brassy pit band . The rest of the evening the dancers were accompanied by Pianist Gordon Boelzner , plunking away in imitation of Gershwin 's strutting , rag-timey style . ( In one number , Clap Yo ' Hands , the dancers prance across the stage to the sound of Gershwin 's own piano playing , recorded in 1926 and raspily reproduced on tape . ) The solo piano is pure serendipity-suggesting the feverish , will-the-show-go-on mood of a storybook Great White Way that never was . <P> In other hands , Who Cares ? could have been nothing but return to camp . Balanchine has too much pride in his own past and too much love for the American stage for that . In structure , the solos , pas de deux and dances for the corps are almost chastely classical ; yet Broadway keeps breaking in . After a serene , supple lift , two dancers will suddenly embrace in a highly stylized foxtrot . A sequence of pirouettes will lead into a flashy split or a sensual side step . The incongruities somehow blend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Who Cares ? , in fact , is practically an anthology in action of his knowledge of dance . Male Lead Jacques D'Amboise has separate pas de deux with three different ballerinas ( Marnee Morris , Patricia McBride , Karin von Aroldingen ) . The mood of each dance is bittersweet romantic ; yet they are wholly different in shape , tempo and feeling . And Balanchine 's leaping , exactingly athletic solo for D'Amboise , in Liza , should forever dispel the snide rumor that he does not choreograph well for male dancers . <P> Just before the premiere , Mayor John Lindsay presented Balanchine with the city 's Handel Medallion in recognition of his cultural contributions to New York . " If we could bottle the New York City Ballet , " said Lindsay , " it would be the city 's finest export . " Then Who Cares ? returned the compliment by offering a splendid sampling : Manhattan , oldfashioned , wry and sweet .                     