@@480036

THE NEWSCASTERS continue to talk about the yin and yang of American economics ? Big Business and Big Labor ? and George Meany 's disagreements with whoever occupies the Oval Office are presented as if the old gentleman 's ire is something for a President to fear . But the heart of the matter is that Big Labor is n't very big anymore . On the teeter-totter with Big Business , the unions find themselves high in the sky with legs flailing . The vaunted labor vote has vanished ; the labor lobby has come down with pernicious anemia , and labor itself , this once mighty force in the society , has shrunk to the status of just another special-interest group , like consumers or the steel industry or the sugar refiners . These past few years have not been a good time for labor . Union member . ship this year had fallen to only 20.1 percent of the labor force , the lowest since World War II . Since 1974 , unions have lost more than half a million members , while in the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past few years , the unions lost more than half of the organizing elections supervised by the National Labor Relations Board , and three-quarters of the decertification elections in which recognized union representation in a plant was challenged . If they were known , the figures on the numbers of strikes lost would be yet more damning , but a Nicholas von Hoffman writes a syndicated column on politics , and is the author of Make . Believe Presidents : Illusions of Power from McKinley to Carter , published in October by Pantheon. union never admits it has lost a strike unless its members are booted out of the plant gate and told they have not only been fired , but will be arrested for trespassing if they return . The decline in labor 's power in the construction industry would have been unimaginable a decade ago . The media had advised us that the industry was helpless before the building-trades unions . Today it is estimated that less than half the buildings under construction are union jobs . Nonunion labor is the rule these days for residential housing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , concessions are being made on wages and work rules . Union contractors are setting up dummy , nonunion companies for customers who have found out that if you do n't want a union crew , you do n't have to have one . If the impression persists that labor is as tough and strong as ever , it may be owing to the demonstration put on by the government employee unions in the Sixties and early Seventies . To the outsider it looked as if craven politicians , scared both by the inconveniencing strikes of cops and garbage workers and by the power of the union vote , were prepared to give away the municipal franchise to every city 's employees . Students of labor relations talked about the two-bites-of-the-apple problem , meaning that public-sector employees , unlike private-sector union members , could strike their bosses and organize to vote the head of the company out of office . But the bills for those expensive labor contracts started coming due aboutthe time of the recession . That was when public-employee unions learned what other unions already knew : You ca @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? and it turned so ferociously against striking civil servants that nongovernment union members wo n't even support them . The largest union of federal employees , the American Federation of Government Employees ( AFL-CIO ) , has lost about 38,000 members in the past seven years . Another measure of organized labor 's diminished power is the frequency with which union officials are being jailed and fined for refusing to obey back-to-work orders from the courts . While this happens most often in government employment , an arena in which the right to strike has by no means been secured , the anti-union injunction historically has been a controversial device . Not now . The only people who are upset by it are those against whom the injunction is issued . The arrest of union teachers , union firemen , and even union police draws no outraged protest from labor 's liberal sympathizers ? if , indeed , this constituency still exists . The pressmen 's strike , closing down New York 's major newspapers for such a long time , may have made the unions look muscular , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an absolute failure . The New York strike , if it can be called a fight for the featherbed , was n't a trend-setter , but a trend-ender . New equipment and new work rules already had arrived in Washington , Dallas , Kansas City , and a number of other cities , sometimes after a fight and sometimes without one ; and on the waterfront , in the railroads , and in other industries , unions have had to roll up their fluffy comforters . HE CREDIT FOR labor 's losses and decline is usually given ? to George Meany , the octo- genarian who personifies ex-pense-account trade unionism . " A picture of George Meany on the front page of an American newspaper , " laments William Winpisinger , the atypically dynamic president of the machinists ' union , " has the same kind of impact a picture of Jay Gould or J. Pierpont Morgan once had : that of a cigar-smoking , affluent patriarch . " But this view overestimates the old plumber 's power to persuade the independent international unions that make up the AFL-CIO to depart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but even if he had , he would not have been able to push his constituent organizations into supporting a cause such as the civil-rights struggles . A close association with the civil-rights movement , a natural ally , might have rejuvenated the unions , which needed the talent , energy , and romanticism of the black upheaval . The civil-rights movement , in its turn , needed the structure , stability , and staying power of the unions . Some labor organizations with significant black membership , such as the auto and packinghouse workers , did commit themselves to civil-rights agitation , but for the most part the unions were diffident to the point of antipathy . Either they had no black members and were n't about to risk matriculating any , or , like the steelworkers , the union worked with management in arrangements that discriminated against black members in ? favor of white ones . Only with Cesar Chavez did big but dwindling labor find a way to unite itself with the last decade 's ethnic upsurge . But it was n't enough . Life in the old-line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen principally as a Chicano leader and only very indistinctly as a colleague of George Meany 's . Labor also failed to rally to the antiwar movement , though here the opportunity for a transfusion for organized labor 's tired blood might not dward Behr Not so much Gregory Peck in a trench coat as Woody Allen in a swivet . " ? Washington Monthly " Scoop with commitment , Waugh without spleen . " ? torkus Reviews $1.2.50 THE VIKING PRESS 625 Madison Avenue , New York , N.Y 10022 Card Number q Exp . Date Name Address City , Inc. 681 Casco St. , have been as great . Even if the unions had strongly supported the antiwar protests , they would have been supporting people from occupational groups that traditionally have not been attracted to trade unions . These people , of course , now constitute the " new class , " the new clericals , the professional , technical , and service-worker sector of the economy . Had the AFL-CIO identified itself with the antiwar sentiment instead of opposing it , a way might have been found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupations . In any event , this was organized labor 's best chance to show that unions had something to offer college-educated people , that unions were n't surly , overly combative organizations of irreconcilably plebeian taste and mentality . Even more serious was the failure to support the women 's movement . The unions had an opportunity to organize office workers on a dramatically large scale , and the AFL-CIO was in a position to offer a dignified , bread-and-butter , trade-union feminism to the millions of women who do the work of the nation 's banks , insurance companies , and other white-collar factories . But the modern women 's movement was in large part made possible by sensibilities opened up during the civil-rights and antiwar efforts , and the unions , having sat these out , once again were content to remain complacent . Regardless of how rambunctious organized labor may have been in the past , its officers now want to settle down and live comfortably , which means they do not live up to peoples ' expectations of idealistic behavior . Heads of labor unions are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , making his protest pilgrimages down the highways of the San Joaquin Valley with Ethel Kennedy and other personages from the pages of People magazine , enjoys a unique respect . Meanwhile , in front of the marble temple to labor on Washington 's 16th Street , the cameras show George Meany getting in and out of limousines like any other member of the American ruling class . For this and his $90,000-a-year salary , he is regarded as a sellout . We are troubled by union officials who make more money than we do , although they do n't make nearly as much money as their adversaries across the felt-topped bargaining tables . Only nine officers of international unions were paid more than $100,000 last year , including expenses . ( Here and there a few business agents in gangster locals are also in the six-figure bracket . ) The highest-paid union officer , Frank Fitzsimmons , the president of the Teamsters , earned $159,000 in 1977 , slightly more than 10 percent of the earnings of the highest-paid corporate executive , Archie McCardell of International Harvester . A union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is considered hypocritical , because unions , to be good in nonunion eyes , must be forever young , forever enjoying the mendicant privations of an organizational Petite-cost . Catholic cardinals and Protestant television evangelists find more public approval for their lush living than union bosses , who have to be poor to prove they 're honest . Harold Geneen of ITT last year earned $896,000 . His company 's profits totalled $563 million , so the stockholders had no reason to complain . Labor union presidents who take salaries of one-tenth that size ca n't justify them by pointing to the raises they negotiated for their members . Corporate heads who enlarge profits are hailed as masters of the bottom line ; union officials who do the equivalent for their stockholders ? the dues-paying members ? run the risk of being castigated for fueling inflation . There 's a double standard being applied here . The reigning ideology permits the leaders of capital to submit to the amoral discipline of the free market and to no other ; leaders of labor are expected to adhere to a higher , more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be democratic . A union must be run under conditions of moral asepsis . It must live up to a nebulous idealism that not even business 's detractors expect from cor- e porate America . Businessmen are accorded a leniency and understanding that unions are not . Businessmen who break the law commit white-collar crime ; union officials who do the same are racketeers . When the prosecutorial authorities realized the dimensions of the illegal campaign contributions in the 1972 elections , they offered a de facto amnesty . Perpetrators who quickly came forward and confessed to dropping bundles were given a wink and had their cases handled charitaMy . No such courtesy has ever been extended to the officers of the Teamsters Union . American business executives obtain a sympathetic hearing when they admit they had to commit a little crime . Unions were once offered a similar sympathy . Back in the era when Pete Seeger was singing " Which Side Are You On ? " cracking open scabs ' heads with brickbats was , if not a socially sanctioned activity , one that people understood was necessary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and in the contest for public approbation , the unions have lost to their opponents . w ITT IOUT A DOUBT the unions brought upon themselves their low ratings in the public-opinion polls . They failed to convince people that they cared enough about dishonesty in their organizations to do something about it . They failed to recruit able , younger executive talent in the ' 50s and Us , so that now , depressing as the bull-walrus labor bosses sitting around swimming pools in Miami may be , the lower-echelon nonentities waiting for them to die are even less appealing . However , organized labor 's image problems also depend to an extent on a mass media that depicts unionists as featherbedding gangsters , corruptionists , parasitical cynics , authoritarian boors , and racketeers engaged in the business of entrapping working people into closed-shop slavery . Union members are typically referred to in our mass media as lazy , overpaid louts who contribute nothing to the national commonweal but poor workmanship and inflation . As union power eroded during the past two decades , the anti-labor rodomontade has increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavily anti ? labor union , but in the past there were always a few countervailing periodicals . It is safe to say that no pro-labor mass medium exists any longer . Those that are not hostile in their editorials hold to a position of neutrality , at the same time running stories about organized labor 's connections with crooked pension funds and gangsters . Chavez aside , the most unions can hope for from the media is the kind of impartiality that brackets big business , big government , and big labor in a despicable trinity , as if all three wielded comparable power and influence . Labor 's opponents have been so successful in putting over their case that they have convinced the public that our pro-business mass media suffer from a liberal , pro-labor bias . Unions are so weak and their opponents so strong that businessmen are now prepared to rupture the social concordat that emerged from the industrial wars of the 1930s ? the sometimes tacit , sometimes explicit recognition that unions were here to stay and that in contesting them , manage . ment would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country , businessmen have been at ? tending seminars on union-busting conducted by persons who style themselves " labor relations consultants . " The big corporations , which . it had been assumed , made peace with organized labor long ago , are attempting to keep unions out of their new plants in the " Sunbelt " states . An industrial relations vice-president from one of the corporate megaliths was recently quoted as saying , " All big managements want to operate ' double-breasted , ' whatever they say . That goes for du Pont , General Electric , General Motors , Union Carbide , you name it . Most of the new plants they open are nonunion and they are staving that way . " Even without the rigidities of orga. nized labor 's reigning gerontocracy , and even without the impact of the media and the techniques of " labor consultants , " union power might have declined . History has not been on the unions ' side . Their main strength in the past has been the highly skilled craft unions , whose members ' services were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no small measure by nonunion , quasi-professional technicians . Not only are the great industrial unions of semi- and unskilled workers finding their members ' services increasingly dispensable in a cap . ital-intensive , high-technology world , but their fates are bound to the fortunes of the companies in whichever industries they work . Unlike English unions , American labor organizations have no party as a political base to extend their power past the contract arm . wrestle with management ; nor do they have the control that German unions share with management at the boardof-directors level . There have been occasional attempts by unions to dominate an industry ; the most interesting and far-reaching being that tried by John L. Lewis , the fabled head of the United Mine Workers , who founded the CIO and played a large part in organizing the steel , auto , and rubber workers . Lewis 's power rested in part on charisma and in part on a goon squad the Mafia would have envied . Most miners adored Lewis , and the minority who did n't were too intimidated to go against him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not only was there peace in the coalfields , but millions of dollars in union money were lent to coal companies to buy modern equipment . The small , economically marginal mine operator was driven out of business . Lewis envisioned a modern industry in which machines rather than men did most of the mining , and an industry that was unified enough to keep production down and prices up . The miners were not the only union to provide working capital to their industry . The Amalgamated Clothing Workers did it , as did the Teamsters , but in the 1950s Lewis had control of the union welfare fund , which received a royalty on every ton of coal dug , and he was in a position to invest huge amounts of money that the industry could not possibly have obtained elsewhere . Had Lewis not been in his seventies and close to retirement , he might have moved to give the union overt and public financial and managerial control , provided he could have circumvented the antitrust laws . Had he done so , the nation would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if not by its workers , at least by the union they belonged to , or more accurately , by its autocratic president . ? HE CONSEQUENCES T of the unions ' decline are more easily appreciated than the causes . Ideas , as everyone knows , are taken seriously only when backed by power . At the moment , the Right has the power and the representation , so it should not be surprising that Congress , which we are told by columnists is as liberal as it is numerically Democratic , can devote itself to working on a huge increase in the Social Security payroll tax and a drastic cut in the capital gains tax . The country 's much-discussed swing to the right arises less from any great shift of opinion than from the decline in political power of those with different ideas . If the people making less than $20,000 a year do n't even have the organization to elect a Congressman , they 're not a threat to the republic ; they 're not even a threat to the reelection of the republic 's upper-class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other countervailing force , it is just that sort of person who dominates the national government . The available income figures ( which seriously underestimate the members ' wealth ) show that the House is an upper-middle-class body with fifteen blacks and a Blue Collar Caucus of only twelve members . The Senate remains what it was back in the era when its members were n't popularly elected ? a millionaires ' club . Seventeen of its members admit they are millionaires , but a greater number probably are as well . Individual Senators may , of course , have truly hemorrhaging hearts for their less well-to-do countrymen , as the millionaire Teddy Kennedy has shown in his long fight for a comprehensive national medical program , but if his equally rich colleagues see no reason to pass such a bill after thirty years of study and discussion , one explanation may be that they can afford to go to the hospital . Without a kick in the pants of the kind unions can no longer deliver , labor must suffer increasing rejection from the national government . The last session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in particular the labor-law reform bill , which sought to give workers who want to organize unions a measure of protection , and to chastise companies who punish their employees for trying . Without such a bill , the prospects of organizing such companies as J.P . Stevens , the giant southern textile operation that has repelled AFL-CIO boarders for years , are poor to nonexistent . A union too weak , too poor , and without enough community support may find itself , not destroyed , but forced to give up its adversary role with management , and to accept that of a junior partnership . " I run this place just like a business , " said Dave Beck , Jimmy Hoffa 's predecessor in the presidency of the Teamsters Union , who , like Hoff a , left office to go to the penitentiary . But what kind of business did Beck mean ? " Our business is selling labor , " he explained . It 's a parlous easy thing for a union to exchange functions and become a labor contractor , an enforcer of discipline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for management . That 's what unions in Russia do , and although it would be an exaggeration to say American unions have been reduced to a similar nullity , they do often serve as management tools . It would not do to talk too loudly about the AFL-CIO being turned into Daddy Bigbucks ' little helper , yet sometimes you can read a not too oblique acknowledgment of the true state of labor relations in the business press , as in this excerpt from Forbes ( February 20 , 1978 ) : Organized labor is now so interwoven into the fabric of the U.S. economy , especially in basic industry , that any sudden and serious loss of its authority would probably distress management more than please it . General Motors " needed " the United Auto Workers to police its huge ? more than 450,000 people ? work force , a high GM executive once remarked . If the UAW did not " police " the contract , he said , GM plants would be chaotic . In Washington , union and management often team up to testify and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high protective tariffs . Even without this lugubrious coupling of theoretically antithetical forces , the absence of powerful unions or other organizations representing the working millions has resulted in the maintenance and increase of much of the centralized federal planning and regulation that victors over labor so detest . Stronger labor organizations , working in conjunction with management , might be able to develop and carry out programs for occupational health and safety , medical and infant care , and retirement . Indeed , one of the saddest casualties of the loss of the coal strike was the breakup of the union 's unique network of clinics and family health-care programs . Back in the Samuel Gompers era , labor organizations were almost as skeptical as the boss about having government take over welfare activities . But unions too weak to compel the owners to protect their workers from poison chemicals , irradiation , or any of the other things that maim and kill , leave the society with the choice of federal regulation or nothing . Hence our characteristic pattern of tragedy first , then regulation ? first the exploding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department of Transportation rules and regulations . Without strong unions or some substitute we are a badly underrepresented nation . In 1900 , 64.1 percent of our employed adult population worked for somebody else . The rest were self-employed farmers , merchants , and professionals . They , with their wives , were often hard-pressed financially , but they were independently situated and therefore able to devise endless organizational schemes and arrangements for their political and economic representation . Today 94.1 percent of the employed adult population works for somebody else . For most of those people , without union power there is no power . Assuredly the petrified political parties are incapable of offering representation , so that we are left with only merchandising surveys and public-opinion polls to make our preferences known . Moreover , in the workplace at a time when the society has become totally job dependent , the members of the society have lost all control over their jobs . Unions have gone through periods of declining power and membership before , just as we 've had to suffer through earlier periods of business worship . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faith in the private sector weakens , without unions and without any other broadbased economic or political organization for the employee society , it is difficult to see what else people can turn to but the governmentalism most of us detest . If there are no unions to keep the wages up through collective bargaining , Washington must pass minimum-wage laws . There may be some truth in the old adage you do n't hear anymore , that a bad union is better than no union at all .                     