@@479476

RECOGNITION OF FAILURE dawns slowly in a bureaucracy but dawned it has in California prison treatment circles . Prison psychiatrists who are willing to level with reporters admit that they now spend 90 percent of their time on paperwork , writing up reports for the Adult Authority based on perfunctory annual interviews with prisoners , that " treatment " most often takes the form of heavy tranquilization of inmates labeled psychotic as well as those diagnosed as troublemakers . Group therapy , once hailed as an exciting new technique for transforming the " deviant personality , " is withering on the vine . Nor have the treatment programs produced the anticipated docility in the convict population ; work strikes , hunger strikes , and other forms of protest are now endemic throughout the California prisons . Some disconcerting conclusions about the efficacy of treatment are set forth in a report to the State Assembly titled " The California Prison , Parole , and Probation System . " It cites an exhaustive study conducted for the Department of Corrections in which the researchers observed gloomily , " Thousands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program at a substantial cost to the Department of Corrections in time , effort , and money . Contrary to the expectations of the treatment theory , there were no significant differences in outcome for those in the various treatment programs or between the treatment groups and the control group . " They further reported that group counseling did not lessen adherence to the inmate code , nor did it reduce the frequency of discipline problems . James 0 . Robison , author of the report and longtime researcher for the Department of Corrections , traced the course of disillusionment , " The high mystique of treatment peaked at the end of the Fifties , " he told me . " The idea took hold in Corrections that at last , through sophisticated techniques of psychotherapy , we have it in our power to transform the deviant and to predict with accuracy his future behavior . But in the early Sixties the high priests of Corrections began a sifting of the entrails . After that , disenchantment and embarrassment set in the rea-son was the evident empirical failure of the treatment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the years . " The rationale for failure was always , ' We have n't carried treatment far enough , there is n't enough of it , it is n't professional enough ' ? inother words , we need more and better of same , in spite of the fact we 've seen it does n't work . Even this reasoning began to break down in the middle Sixties , when there was more attention paid to the fact nothing was happening and more talk of Ir hy " What you are likely to see now is the end of the liberal treatment era ? the notion that you can make convicts into converts of the dominant culture ' religion , ' the missionary fervor ? that 's being replaced with ' behavior modification ' experiments . The latest reasoning is that it 's costly and inappropriate to go the psychotherapy route with these people , to pay high-priced psychiatrists to talk them into recognizing the truth of our ' religion. ; instead , we 'll focus on their deviant behavior and force them to shape up . Of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Behaviorists say they are bad , not mad , and we can stop them being bad by utilizing new techniques . This fits in with the law-and-order , no-nonsense conservative viewpoint : henceforth the slogan will be , ' They must be made to behave . ' " Jessica Milford is the author of The Trial of Dr. Spock aml The American Way of Death . Copyright 1973 by Jessica Mitferd . From Kind and Usual Punishment . To be published in September by Alfred A. Knopf , Inc . This new trend in Corrections must be highly inspiriting for the behavioral scientists , who have long been eyeing the prisons as convenient reservoirs of human material on which to try out new theories . The shape of things to come was forecast a decade ago at a seminar of prison wardens and psychologists chaired by James V. Bennett , then director of the U.S. Bureau of Prisons . As described in Corrective Psychiatry &; Journal of Social Change , Second Quarter , 1962 , the seminar provided " provocative , fruitful interaction between social scientists and correctional administrators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Man : Brainwashing , " Dr. Edgar H. Schein , associate professor of psychology at MIT , told the assembled wardens : " My basic argument is this : in order to produce marked change of behavior and/or attitude , it is necessary to weaken , undermine , or remove the supports to the old patterns of behavior and the old attitudes " ; this can he done " either by removing the individual physically and preventing any corn . munication with those whom he cares about , or by proving to him that those whom he respects are not worthy of it and , indeed , should be actively mistrusted . " Dr. Schein , who said he got most of his ideas from studying brainwashing techniques used by North Korean and Chinese Communists on GI prisoners of war , cautioned his audience not to be put off by this fact : " These same techniques in the service of different goals may be quite acceptable to us . . . . I would like to have you think of brainwashing not in terms of politics , ethics , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human behavior and attitudes by a group of men who have relatively complete control over the environment in which the captive population lives . " Some of the techniques which could usefully he applied in the U.S. prisons : " Social disorganization and the creation of mutual mistrust " achieved by " spying on the men and reporting back private material " ; " tricking men into written statements " that arc then shown to others , the objective being " to convince most men they could trust no one , " " undermining ties to home by the systematic withholding of mail . " The key factor 18 is change of attitude : " Supports for old attitudes have to be undermined and destroyed if change is to take place .... Do we not feel it to be legitimate to destroy the emotional ties of one criminal to another , or of a criminal to a sick community ? " flow to bring about the desired change was explained by Dr. Schein : " If one wants to produce behavior inconsistent with the person 's standards of conduct , first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his other emotional supports , then put him into a new and ambiguous situation for which the standards are unclear , and then put pressure on him . I leave it to you to judge whether there is any similarity between these events and those which occur in prisons when we teach prisoners ' to serve their own time ' by moving them around and punishing clandestine group activity not sanctioned by the prison authorities . " The discussion , says the report , ranged from " specific , practical management issues such as ' How shall we manage the Muslims ? " Whom should we isolate ? ' " to more basic questions , such as " the use and effectiveness of brainwashing and other means of persuasion . " Dr. Bennett recalled that " during the war we struggled with the conscientious objectors ? nonviolent coercionists ? and believe me , that was really a problem we were always trying to find some way in which we could change or manipulate their environment . " Much attention was focused on what to do about the Black Muslims : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a group , " as one speaker put it , " but how can you counteract the effects of the kinds of techniques they use to recruit members and cause general mischief in the prison system ? " To which a Dr. Lowry responded , " We found that many of these Negro Muslims were highly intelligent ... here again , we have to apply the techniques which we heard about in terms of appreciating what the goal of the Muslims is , or of any other group , and then doing sonic analytic study of the methods that they are using so that we can try to dissipate the forces that are going in the direction that we regard as destructive . " On ways of dealing with the unruly a panelist offered this : " To some extent where we formerly had isolation as a controlling technique , we now have drugs , so that drugs in a sense be come a new kind of restraint . The restraint , therefore , is biochemical , hut it is restraint nevertheless . " Summarizing the discussion , Dr. Bennett @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 24,000 men in it , presents " a tremendous opportunity to carry on some of the experimenting to which the various panelists have alluded . " He added , " What I am hoping is that the audience here will believe that we here in Washington are anxious to have you undertake some of these things : do things perhaps on your own ? undertake a little experiment of what you can do with the Muslims , what you can do with some of the sociopath individuals . " T HAT DR . BENNETT 'S counsel was taken to heart by his subordinates in the federal prison system can be inferred from a report addressed to the United Nations Economic and Social Council , prepared and smuggled out of Marion Federal Penitentiary in July 1972 , by the Federal Prisoners ' Coalition , a group of convicts housed in the segregation unit for refusing to participate in the behavioral research programs . " In the latter part of 1968 some changes in the U.S. Department of Justice enabled the U.S. Bureau of Prisons to make a quiet beginning at implementing an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand how effective a weapon brainwashing might be for the U.S. Department of Justice 's future use , " says the report . It describes how Dr. Martin Groder , prison psychiatrist , applies the pro ? posals outlined in Dr. Schein 's paper to " agitators , " suspected militants , writ-writers , and other troublemakers . The first step , according to the report , is to sever the inmate 's ties with his family by transferring him to some remote prison where they will be unable to visit him . There he is put in isolation , deprived of mail and other privileges , until he agrees to participate in Dr. Groder 's Transactional Analysis program . If he succumbs , he will be moved to new living quarters where he will be surrounded by members of Dr. Groder 's " prisoner thought-reform team , " and subjected to intense group pressure . " His emotional , behavioral , and psychic characteristics are studied by the staff and demiprofessional prisoners to detect vulnerable points of two minutes ' duration . " Of those selected to endure these consequences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men , " say the authors . Some seem to have been made a good deal angrier by the experience , for the report notes that of sixty-four prisoners in the program " nine persons not only did not decrease but actually exhibited an increase in their overall number of disciplinary infractions . " According to Dr , Arthur Nugent , chief psychiatrist at Vacaville and an enthusiast for the drug , it induces " sensations of suffocation and drowning . " The subject experiences feelings of deep horror and terror , " as though he were on the brink of death . " While he is in this condition a therapist scolds him for his misdeeds and tells him to shape up or expect more of the same . Candidates for Anectine treatment were selected for a range of offenses : " frequent fights , verbal threatening . deviant sexual behavior , stealing , unresponsiveness to the group therapy programs . " Dr. Nugent told the San Francisco Chronicle , " Even the toughest inmates have come to fear and hate the drug . I do n't blame them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Declaring he was anxious to continue the experiment , he added , " I 'm at a loss as to why everybody 's upset over this . " More upset was to follow a year later . when the press got wind of a letter from Director Raymond Procunier to the California Council on Criminal Justice requesting funding estimated at $48,000 for " neurosurgical treatment of violent inmates . " The letter read , in part : " The problem of treating the aggressive , destructive inmate has long been a problem in all correctional systems . During recent years this problem has become particularly acute in the California Department of Corrections institutions .. . This letter of intent is to alert you to the development of a proposal to seek funding for a program involving a complex neurosurgical evaluation and treatment program for the violent inmate surgical and diagnostic procedures would he performed to locate centers in the brain which may have been previously damaged and which could serve as the focus for episodes of violent behavior . If these areas were located and verified that they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be performed ... " Confronted by reporters with this letter , Laurence Bennett , head of the Department of Corrections Research Division , explained : " It is not a proposal , it 's just an idea-concept . " He added wistfully , " It 's quite likely that we will not proceed with this , but if we had unlimited funds we would explore every opportunity to help anyone who wants such assistance . " Although the plan for psyehosurgery was halted ? at least temporarily ? by the newspaper uproar that ensued . the authorities have other methods at hand for controlling the unruly , principal among which is forced drugging of prisoners . In widespread use throughout the nation 's prisons is the drug Prolixin , a powerful tranquilizer derived from phenothiazine , which , if given in large doses , produces dangerous and often irreversible side effects . A petition addressed to the California Senate Committee on Penal Institutions by l.a Raza Unida , a Chicano organization of prisoners confined in the California Men 's Colony , describes these : " The simple fact that a number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somnambulists , robots , and vegetables as a result of this drug should be reason enough to make people apprehensive as to the effect it is having . That no prisoner feels safe because he never knows when he will become a candidate for said drug is another factor in producing tension in this institution . " According to its manufacturer , E. R. Squibb , Prolixin is " a highly potent behavior modifier with a markedly extended duration of effect . " Possible adverse side effects listed by Squibb include : the induction of a " catatonic-like state , " nausea , loss of appetite , headache , constipation , blurred vision , glaucoma , bladder paralysis , impotency , liver damage , hypotension severe enough to cause fatal cardiac arrest , and cerebral edema . Furthermore , Squibb cautions that " a persistent pseudoparkinsonian palsy-like syndrome may develop . . characterized by rhythmic , stereotyped dyskinetic involuntary movements ... resembling the facial grimaces of encephalitis ... The symptoms persist after drug withdrawal , and in some patients appear to be irreversible . " HE THEME OF tottsoN as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in current penological literature . In I Chose Prison , James V. Bennett poses the question , What will the prisons of 2000 A.D. be like ? And answers it : " In my judgment the prison system will increasingly be valued , and used , as a laboratory and workshop of social change . " Dr. Karl Menninger echoes this thought in T he Crime ? I Punishment : " About all this causes of crime , we need more information , more research , more experimental data . That research is the basis for scientific progress , no one any more disputes ... Even our present prisons , bad as many of them are , could be extensively used as laboratories for the study of many of the unsolved problems . " Taking these injunctions to heart , researchers are descending in droves upon the prisons with their prediction tables , expectancy scales , data analysis charts . With all the new money available under federal crime control programs , and the ingenuity of grant-happy researchers , the scope of the investigations seems limitless . In California some $600,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but this is just the tip of the iceberg , for most of the work is done under lavish grants from universities , foundations , and government agencies . Something of the quality of the research , and the bitter irony of the situation in which the convict-research subject finds himself , can be inferred from the stream of monographs , research reviews , and reports that flow out of the prisons . His captors having arranged life for the prisoner so that he becomes enraged , perhaps goes mad , and ( no matter what his original sexual preferences ) turns homosexual , they invite researchers to put him under their microscopes and study the result . A forty-eight-page monograph titled " Homosexuality in Prisons , " published in February 1972 by the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration , reports , " in view of methodological difficulties , the following estimates of male homosexuality should be viewed with caution , " and proceeds to give them , complete with footnotes referring the luckless reader to yet other publications on this subject . Estimates of the incidence of homosexuality given by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 90 percent , He concludes , " There is above all a compelling need for a wide variety of comparative data , " and proposes to fill the need by conducting " longitudinal or retrospective studies . " Among the offerings of the California Department of Corrections Research Review for 1911 is " The Self-Esteem Project , " its aim " to obtain some picture of the effect of incarceration upon the perception of self-worth , " in which the Modified Coopersmith Self-Esteem Scale is found to be " a useful instrument for measurement . " Having subjected the inmate 's self-esteem to the pulverizer of prison , the department proceeds to measure and tabulate what is left . If the prisoner happens to be Chicano , he will be eligible for a study entitled " The Consequences of Familial Separation for Chicano Families , " its purpose " to study the consequences of separation from family members for Chicano inmates and also for their families in terms of social , psychological , and economic needs and stresses . " Thus the precise quantity and quality of suffering , anxiety , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be tidily computed and catalogued for the edification of social scientists . By now the prisoner may well be ready for the Buss Rating Scale of Hostility or the Multiple Affect Adjective Checklist , " a standardized and reliable rating instrument that can be scored for anxiety , depression , and , most importantly , hostility . " Omitted from the 1971 Research Review is one of the more ambitious experimental projects of that year : establishment of a Maximum Psychiatric Diagnostic Unit ( MPDU ) designed to hold eighty-four convicts ( a number possibly chosen in subconscious tribute to George Orwell ) selected as research subjects from the 700 inmates of the state 's Adjustment Centers . The goal of MPDU , as defined in the department 's grant application to the California Council on Criminal Justice , is " to provide highly specialized diagnostic service for Adjustment Center inmates who are violently acting-out and management problem cases within the California prison system . and arriving at decisions as to the needed intervention and placement . " The budget for this " service " would he approximately $500,000 . Who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be chosen ? Robert E. Doran , who made a study of them under a grant from LEAA for the American Justice Institute , says they are " deviants within a society of deviants , " or put another way , rebels who refuse to conform to prison life . They are younger and darker than the prison population as a whole : 61 percent are under thirty compared with 39 percent for the total prison population , 60 to 70 percent are black or Chicano compared with a nonwhite overall prison population of 45 percent . The majority are there for " disrespect for authority , " disobeying some disciplinary rule ? refusing to work , shave , attend group therapy ; a growing number are there because they are suspected of harboring subversive beliefs . N 1972 TEN INMATES of Folson PrisI on filed a federal suit ( unsuccessful ) , charging they had been kept in long-term solitary confinement because of their political views , and alleging that the practice is routinely used against prisoners who are outspoken about prison conditions or voice " militant " political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Adjustment Center as punishment for political dissidents and leaders of ethnic groups . Philip Guthrie , press agent for the Department , told the Sacramento Bee on March 10 , 1972 : " We 're very careful not to lock a guy up just because of his political views . " But in their closed departmental meetings it is a different story . As reported in the confidential minutes of the wardens and superintendents meeting , October 11.12 , 1972 , under the topic " Inmate Alliances , " Director Raymond Procunier " asked the problem be kept in perspective , comparing it to the Muslim situation ten years ago . The director suggested the leaders of the various groups be removed from the general population of the institutions and locked up . " Much has been written about the California Adjustment Centers , for it was in the exercise yard of " 0-Wing , " Soledad Adjustment Center , that three unarmed black convicts were shot to death by a guard in early 1970 , triggering a series ofevents that culminated in the death of George Jackson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trial of Angela Davis , all acquitted by juries . From three sources one can infer something about conditions of life in the Adjustment Centers , and the roots of violence therein . Departmental memoranda to staff in charge of " 0-Wing " contain these directives : Yard Exercise : Two officers ( one armed with a Gas Billy and one armed with Mace ) will enter the tier to be released and , after subjecting each inmate to an unclothed body search , release him from his cell , by key , directing him to the yard . All inmates housed in " 0-Wing " first tier , when escorted from the security section for any reason , are to be given an unclothed body search while still in their cells . . . The inmate will be given a visual inspection of his body , to include his hair , ears , mouth , private parts and feet . . The inmate will be handcuffed behind his back and escorted from the section .. . " 0-Wing " Equipment : I. Gus Billy ( blast type ) . 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 . Aerosol Mace ( Mark IV Atomizer ) .. . Any inmate who self-mutilates or attempts to hang himself will be housed in the Hospital Annex cells only on the direction of the medical stag . Robert E. Doran describes what he learned about the guards ' view of assignments to the Adjustment Center . " Those staff who have ' really been there , ' experienced the trouble , used the gas , the batons , the weapons , and the muscle , and did so effectively , receive the highest status and deference from other custodial staff . . . . Staff battle ribbons and badges are won or lost within the A/C when trouble takes place . Actually the A/C , much like the general prison situation , has in terms of relative percentage of time , very little trouble . But it is the folklore , the beliefs and the history as passed from one generation of custodial personnel to the next that promulgates the idea that has grown up around the A/C which in effect says , ' This is the front line : here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff who wear the custodial uniform . ' " Testifying in San Francisco before a Congressional subcommittee , two lawyers related some exploits of these frontline heroes . Edwin T. Caldwell of San Francisco said , " I will testify for the record that I am a registered Republican from a conservative background . This is such a shocking thing for me I just ca n't believe it exists . " Caldwell told the committee his client in Soledad 's " 0-Wing " had been " viciously attacked " by guards on numerous occasions , and had suffered a fractured tooth , a broken jaw , and lacerations requiring six sutures . Fay Stender of Oakland handed the committee chairman a note signed by Lieutenant Flores , Adjustment Center guard , written in response to an inmate who was coughing blood and had asked for help . The note said : " Yell for help when the blood is an inch thick , all over the floor , and do n't call before that . " D E TAILS OF THE HIGHLY specialized services to he rendered the eighty-four chosen from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were discussed at a " think session " called in November 1971 at the University of California at Davis by Laurence Bennett , head of the Department of Corrections Research Division . Participants were some twenty-five representatives of the healing professions ? medicine , psychology , psychiatry ? many of them faculty members from nearby universities and medical schools . The new unit , said Max May , program administrator , would be closely modeled after Patuxent Institution in Maryland , with four twenty-one-man cellblocks , " single five-by-seven-foot cells with bars , only we call them barriers . " Construction costs would be kept to a minimum since the prisoners were to build their own cages , the work , according to the grant application , consisting " primarily of pouring two concrete floors , erecting wire screen partitions , also a gun tower . " The objective , said Bennett , is " to develop a basic. knowledge of the causes of aggressive , violent behavior . Our aim is to learn how to identify small groups , how to deal with them more adequately . We hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ potential . " Discussion from the floor , and at the pleasant luncheon gathering in the faculty club dining room , centered on methods by which this might be accomplished : " We need to find the stimulus to which the subject responds . We also need to find out how he thinks covertly and to change how he thinks . " " We need to dope up many of these men in order to calm them down to the point that they are accessible to treatment . " " Those who ca n't be controlled by drugs are candidates for the implantation of subeortical electrodes electrodes plunged deep into the brain . " Dr. Keith Brody of Stanford University , who said he runs a " unit for mood disorders , " stressed the importance of " intensive data collection " via spinal taps and other tests : " These tests can lead to therapy decisions . We need to segregate out and dissect out these sub-groups . " Other proposals for therapy were to burn out electrically those areas of the brain believed to be the " source of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 percent of the inmates might he candidates for this treatment ; the administration of antitestosterone hormones , which have the effect of emasculating the subject ; the use of pneumoencephalograms ( injecting air into the brain cavities ) . Asked whether the Anectine torture " therapy " would be resumed in the new unit , Bennett did not answer directly but declared with some exasperation , " If it could be shown empirically that hitting an inmate on the head with a hammer would cure him , I 'd do it . You talk about his civil rights ? civil rights for what ? To continue to disrupt society ? " Nor would he answer the further questions : " Does not the prison system itself , and particularly the Adjustment Center , generate violence ? " and " Would the researchers be directing any part of their inquiry to violence by guards against prisoners ? " As for the compliant participation of the distinguished group of faculty members in this bizarre discussion , one possible explanation was suggested by the lone black psychiatrist present , Dr. Wendell Lipscomb , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declaring he " could n't take any more of this crap . " Later , he told me , " What you were seeing at that meeting were the grant bunters , hungry for money , willing to eat any shit that 's put before them . "                     