@@251189

Peking has banned the publication of medical journals since 1968 , and if the authorities compile comprehensive statistics , they arc unknown in the West . But when a handful of American physicians and scientists followed the table tennis players last year , expert outsiders got a good look at how Maoist medicine is being practiced today . TIME interviewed four of the doctors : Paul Dudley White , the Boston cardiologist ; Samuel Rosen , a Manhattan ear specialist ; E. Grey Dimond , provost for the health sciences at the University of Missouri 's new Kansas City School of Medicine ; and Victor Sidel , head of the department of social medicine at Montefiore Hospital in New York . Their stays ranged from two weeks to a month , the most recent in September . On balance , all four were favorably impressed with what they saw in the cities and the countryside . Their appraisal : <P> The Communist regime made an early policy decision to marshal all medical manpower for two basic missions : to make some sort of care available to the entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in public health campaigns . This approach consciously downgraded advanced research in pure science and exotic new techniques such as heart transplants . Clinical treatment and preventive measures monopolize Chinese medicine . <P> Barefoot Doctors . Training has been reorganized to meet these goals . The classical six-year curriculum has been cut in half . Each of the three years is punctuated by periods of military training , manual labor and political indoctrination . Before graduation , the students also get a good deal of on-the-job experience , and training includes Western medicine and the traditional Chinese arts of acupuncture and herb treatment . As a result , China is turning out far more doctors than in the past . Overall figures are not available , but there are some indicators . In the four decades prior to the Communist takeover , Sidel reports , First Peking Medical College had just over a thousand graduates . Since 1949 , there have been more than 10,000 . Despite the speedup , Sidel says , " the Chinese are the first to admit that they are still limited in manpower and resources . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of paramedics , who are called " barefoot doctors " in rural areas and " Red Guard doctors " in the cities . They are peasants , housewives and factory workers who divide their time between their regular jobs and medical duties . Based in commune dispensaries or urban " lane clinics , " the paramedics get little formal training ; they learn by watching and listening to physicians . <P> The barefoot doctor 's basic assignment is to know his co-workers and neighbors intimately , keep immunization records on each individual assigned to him , keep track of the contraception methods used by each woman in his jurisdiction , and arrange for consultation with a real doctor when necessary . The government has been heavily promoting birth control and immunization against contagious diseases ; the barefoot doctor is the grass-roots salesman of these programs .                     