@@479437

" And the Lord said , ' Behold , they are one people , and they have all one language ; and this is only the beginning of what they will do ; and nothing that they propose to do will now be impossible for them . Come , let us go down , and there confuse their language , that they may not understand one another 's speech . ' . Therefore its name was called Babel , because there the Lord con fused the language of all the earth . . " ? Genesis 11:6-9 We all know what is the first or " original " sin : " the knowledge of good and evil . " But we do not know , or tend to forget , what is the second sin : speaking clearly . Knowing and doing good and evil , thinking and speaking clearly ? these are man 's fundamental affronts against Cod , the child 's against the parent , the citizen 's against the state . This is why man is enjoined to avoid these sins ; and why 7ehen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is to be human ? he has been punished by the Family , the Church , the State , and , in our day , Psychiatry . Many o f the aphorisms , definitions , and maxims assembled here refer to ideas or practices formally recognized as falling within the provinces of psychiatry and psychology . Others do not , unless one believes ? as increasing numbers of people apparently believe ? that everything people do is a legitimate matter for psychiatric inspection and management . I have tried to dispel this notion and other psychiatric mystifications and to ridicule the psychiatric humbug that displaces ever more of our common sense and ordinary language . Childhood To the child , control means care and love ; to the adult . disdain and repression . Herein lies the fundamental dilemma and task of society : to encourage parents to love and control their children ; and politicians to respect their fellow citizens and to leave them alone ( except when the latter deprive others of life , liberty , or property ) . Modern societies are well on their way to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their children and thus justify their failure to control them ; and politicians to fake love for their fellow citizens and thus justify their efforts to exercise unlimited control over them . Thomas Szasz , professor of psychiatry at the State University of New York Upstate Medical Center , Syrai'use , is cofounder and chairman of the board of the American Association for the Abolition of invoinnrary Mental Hospitalization . From The Second Sin . Copyright ? 1973 by Thomas Szasz To be pub . lished to April by Doubleday &; Company , inc . A child becomes an adult when he realizes that he has a right not only to be right but also lobe wrong . In the United States today there is a pervasive tendency to treat children like adults , and adults like children . We speak of infantilizing adults , and call their childish behavior infantilism . We should recognize the counterpart of this pattern : causing children to behave in an adult-like fashion , which results in " adulticism . " The options of children are steadily expanded , while those of adults are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fewer people as they really are . By allegedly protecting children from the evils of authoritarianism , and adults from the evils of competition , we define and maintain control over them , while claiming that we are helping them . Sex Perversion : sexual practice disapproved by the speaker . One can not he an individual , a person separate from others ( family . society , etc. ) , without having secrets . It iF because secrets separate people that individualists treasure them and collectivists condemn them . As keeping secrets separates people , so sharing them brings them together . Gossip , confessional , psychoanalysis , each involves communicating secrets and thus establishing human relationships . Traditionally , sex has been a very private , secretive activity . Herein perhaps lies its powerful force for uniting people in a strong frond . As we make sex less secretive , we may rob it of its power to hold men and women together . Education Every act of conscious learning requires the willingness to suffer an injury to one 's self-esteem . That is why young children , before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily ; and why older persons , especially if vain or important , can not learn at all . Pride and vanity can thus be greater obstacles to learning than stupidity . Psychoanalysis is an effort to teach the " patient " something about himself without humiliating him in the process ; often , he could learn what the analyst teaches him from his wife ( or husband ) , friends , children , or himself : but this would entail a loss of face that , he feels , he can not afford . To the institutional psychiatrist , lies are delusions . In abolishing the lie , he aholishes language ; and in abolishing language , he abolishes ? as C. S. Lewis warned that he would ? man . Definers ( that is , persons who insist on defining others 1 are like pathogenic microorganisms : each invades , parasitizes , and often destroys his victim ; and , in each case , those whose resistance is low are the most susceptible to attack . Hence , those whose immunological defenses are weak are most likely to contract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? that is , the young and the old , the sick and the poor , and so forth ? are most likely to contract invidious definitions of themselves . If the essence of conversion hysteria is that it is an indirect , ambiguous sort of communication , then professional jargon may be regarded as semantic hysteria . When a person speaks or writes in political , psychiatric or sociological jargon , he expresses himself with a certain indirectness and ambiguity ; and like the hysteric , he dramatizes what he says as something profound , although it may be trivial . This indirection also allows the speaker to express dangerous and forbidden ideas without fear of retribution by censor or colleagues . Compare the articles in contemporary psychoanalytic journals with Freud 's early case histories ; or sociological studies on war with Hemingway 's stories . in short , if you want to learn about psychology or psychiatry , do not read psychology or psychiatry , but great literature , and especially biography . In the professional literature , for every sentence that clarifies ( if , indeed , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and mystify . Were a novelist or playwright to write like that , he would never get published . Significance In many people 's lives , the need for attention is the dominant motive . This explains why people often espouse one opinion one time , and its opposite soon after : it does not matter what they say , so long as it draws attention to them . Tolstoy was a dramatic example . Henri Trovat remarks that Tolstoy 's family and friends L . could not understand how he had married an upperclass girl after declaring that to marry a woman of society is to swallow the whole poison of civilization . ' " Psychoanalysts interpret this sort of behavior as the expression of ambivalence . Moralists call it hypocrisy . It may be both of these things . But it often is simply the result of a passion for attention , which can not be as easily satisfied through consistent behavior . Emotions Happiness is an imaginary condition . formerly often attributed by the living to the dead , now usually attributed by adults to children , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speak about " legalizing " abortion , gambling , marijuana , and so forth shows that they no longer look down on their government as their servant but look up to it as their master . For to legalize is to permit : and to permit implies a relationship between a superior and a subordinate as when a parent permits a child to go swimming , stay up late , or eat sweets after his meal . Punishment There can be no humane penology so long as punishment masquerades as " correction . " No person or group has the right to " correct " a human being ; only God does . But persons and groups have the right to protect themselves through sanctions that are , and should he called , " punishments , " which , of course , may be as mild as a scolding or a small fine . or as severe as life imprisonment or death . I Drugs Voltaire said , according to legend : " I disapprove of what you say , but I will defend to the death your right to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I disapprove of what you take , but I will defend to the death your right to take it " ? Yet it would seem to me that the right to take things is more elementary than the right to say things ; for taking things is less likely to harm others than saying them . In a free society , it is none of the government 's business what idea a man puts into his head ; it should also be none of its business what drug he puts into his body . Treating addiction to heroin with methadone is like treating addiction to Scotch with bourbon . Powerful " addictions " ? whether to smoking cigarettes or injecting heroin ? are actually both very difficult and very easy to overcome . Some people struggle vainly against such a habit for decades ; others " decide " to stop and are done with it ; and sometimes those who have long struggled in vain manage suddenly to rid themselves of the habit . How can we account for this ? Not only is the pharmacology of the so-called addictive substance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the so-called addict . What is relevant is whether " the addiction " ? smoking , drinking , shooting heroin ? is or is not a part of an internally significant dramatic production in which the " patient-victim " is the star . So long as it is ( and if it is , the struggle to combat the addiction is only a part of the play ) , the person will find it difficult or impossible to give up his habit ; whereas once he has decided to close down this play and leave the stage . he will find the grip of the habit broken and will " cure " himself of the " addiction " with surprising ease . Some advocate that heroin be prohibited ; others , that it be given " free " to " addicts . " Both positions reveal a shocking lack of a sense of equity : why should heroin he prohibited when alcohol and nicotine are not ? Why should heroin be dispensed at the taxpayer 's expense to those who crave it when alcoholic beverages and cigarettes are not to those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our propensity for meddling that every conceivable intervention in the lives of " addicts " is now seriously advocated and widely supported , save one : repealing all antidrug laws and leaving so-called addicts alone . Suicide He who does not accept and respect those who want to reject life does not truly accept and respect life itself . Psychiatry Psychiatry is a moral and social enterprise The psychiatrist deals with problems of human conduct . He is , therefore , drawn into situations of conflict often between the individual and the group . If we wish to understand psychiatry , we can not avert our eyes from this dilemma : we must know whose side the psychiatrist takes ? the individual 's or the group 's . Psychoanalysis Psychoanalysis is an attempt to examine a person 's selfjustifications . Hence it can be undertaken only with the patient 's cooperation and can succeed only when the patient has something to gain by abandoning or modifying his system of self-justification . The early Freudians believed that insight " cured . " Later it was realized that it did n't , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is senseless to speak of a cure where there is no disease . In the second place , insight stands in the same relationship to personality change as " is " stands to " ought , " fact stands to value , or science stands to politics . This explains why insight can not suffice to change anyone ; and also why those who maintain that it is unnecessary in psychotherapy are as wrong as those who maintain that it is indispensable . ' Whether psychoanalysis is or is not a science has been debated at length by philosophers , psychiatrists , and others . The question is deceptive : actually , the issue is whether psychoanalysis is good , true , or valid . Those who argue for the scientific basis of psychoanalysis affirm that it is " good , " while those who argue against it deny this . This is an ironic confusion , first , because it rests on the tacit assumption that what is scientific is good : and second , because although psychoanalysis is not a science there is some good in it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one , that it was not necessary that a person have medical or psychiatric qualifications to practice psychoanalysis ; the other , that neuroses ( and perversions , psychoses , etc. ) were diseases . I think the reason for this was quite simple : on the one hand , he wanted to acquire the prestige and protection of medicine for the religious cult he was creating , and over which he wanted to rule ? from the Berggasse , while alive , and from the grave when dead ; on the other hand , he knew , and realized that others would know , that conversation is not a form of medical treatment . Mental illness We do not expect everyone to be a competent swimmer , golfer , chess player , or marksman ; nor do we regard those who play games poorly as " sick . " The activities that comprise being a student , parent , worker , etc. are , in many ways , similar to the activities that comprise being a golfer or chess player . Yet we act as if we expected everyone to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard those who play poorly ? at - being husband or wife , mother or father ? as " sick . " that 1is , " mentally ill . " When a person does something bad , like shooting the President , it is immediately assumed that he might be mad ? madness being thought of as a " disease " that might somehow " explain " why he did it . When a person does something good , like discovering a cure for a hitherto incurable disease . no similar assumption is made . I submit that no further evidence is needed to show that " mental i Ilness " is not the name of a biological condition whose nature awaits to be elucidated but is the name of a concept whose purpose is to obscure the obvious . Doubt is to certainty as neurosis is to psychosis . The neurotic is in doubt and has fears about persons and things ; the psychotic has convictions and makes claims about them . In short , the neurotic has problems , the psychotic has solutions . Phobia : a type of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " I am afraid of X f cats , spiders , being alone , etc. 1 , even though there is no reason to be afraid of X. " His ( or , more often , her 1 impoverished life thus becomes a kind of detective story , a cinematic thriller , or Grand Guignol . An empty life is thus transformed , without any real exertion or work , into a life full of interesting dangers , threats , and terrors . This solves the patient 's problem of what to do with his life : he must protect himself from the dangers that threaten him . Myth of mental illness Bodily illness is to mental illness as literal meaning is to metaphorical meaning . We may be dissatisfied with television for two quite different reasons : because our set does not work , or because we dislike the program we are receiving . Similarly , we may be dissatisfied with ourselves for two quite different reasons : because our body does not work ( organic illness ) or because we dislike our conduct ( mental illness 1 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if we were to try to eliminate cigarette commercials ( ruin television by 72 having TV repairmen work on our sets . How much more silly , wasteful , and destructive to try to eliminate phobias , and obsessions , and delusions , and what not by having psychiatrists work on our brains with drugs , electroshock , and lobotomy ) . When I say that so-called mental illnesses are " problems in living , " I mean only that they are matters of existence and meaning , not of health and disease . Freud knew this and said so when he acknowledged that his case histories read more like something that a novelist would write than what a doctor would . This is exactly the point : novelists write about how people live , and what they write is often largely autobiographical . When so-called psychiatric patients tell their doctors the same sorts of " stories . " the doctors conclude that people who live like that must be sick and diagnose the patients as mentally ill . If this be diagnosis , it is the greatest folly of modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of a certain kind of childhood development with respect to rule-following . Normally , the child learns his basic repertory of rules through loving submission to adult authority : language , patterns of dress , and a great deal of everyday conduct are learned in this way . If the adult is uncaring , or is not respected by the child , we witness the development of the coercive megalomania so typical of the behavior of the person later diagnosed as schizophrenic . This usually starts in the early teens . Not having a rule-maker he can respect , the young person becomes his own lawgiver . He acts and feels as if there were nothing he could not do ( especially if he tried hard enough ) ; and nothing he should not be allowed to do . And he comes to believe that if he Can not do something , it must not be worth doing . such a person then tries to live not by the rule that anything worth doing is worth doing well , but by the maxim that only those things are worth doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since he does not know how to do anything well , he alternately pretends and claims mastery of arts , crafts , and knowledge he does not possess ; and scornfully rejects the value of all practical endeavors . In short , some ) schizophrenia is a type of arrogance and immodesty . Why have psychiatrists paid so much attention to the socalled schizophrenic 's symptoms , and so little to his rights ? Perhaps because many schizophrenics conduct themselves as if others had no rights : they violate their privacy , not to mention their sense of reality . Thence , the schizophrenic may be treated as ( 1 ) a dangerous madman , 121 a person having highly dramatic and unusual experiences , or ( 3 ) a person disrespectful of the rights of others . The first view is that of traditional psychiatry ; the second , that of the glamorizers of schizophrenia : the third is my own . When Jones says he is Jesus , scientific psychiatry declares him to have a delusion . I say he is lying . What is the difference ? A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have . A lie is something you make happen ; something you do . Which view is correct ? Something that happens to a person ? an accident or an error ? is motivationally neutral : hence it may be to the person 's advantage or disadvantage . But people with such delusions never claim that they are Doe or Smith I their friends and neighbors ) ; they always insist they are Jesus or Napoleon ( someone important ) ? Some so-called paranoid delusions are , in effect , the expression of lack of courage . For example , the elderly woman who complains that her husband is poisoning her . She accuses . She complains . But she does not act . Why does n't she kill him ? Or leave him ? Why does n't she put her money where her mouth is ? Because she lacks courage . She wants someone else to act on her belief . and be responsible for the action . Psychology Before the bar of justice , ignorance of the law is no excuse . Before the bar of psychology , ignorance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for recognition . Intelligence tests : hocus-pocus used by psychologists to prove that they are brilliant and that their clients are stupid . The general acceptance of these tests suggests that this claim may not he without foundation . Projective tests : hocus-pocus used by psychologists to prove that they are normal and that their clients are crazy . The popular acceptance of these tests suggests that this claim , too , may not he without foundation . Personality theory : familial and social policies disguised as empirical observations and promoted as scientific laws . Psychotherapy People seeking help from psychotherapists can be divided into two groups : those who wish to confront their difficulties and shortcomings and change their lives by changing themselves ; and those who wish to avoid the inevitable consequences of their life strategies through the magical or tactical intervention of the therapist in their lives . Those in the former group may derive great benefit from therapy in a few weeks or months ; those in the latter may stand still . or.sink ever deeper into their self-created life morass , after meeting with psychotherapists for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's role vis-a-vis his client is like the court jester 's vis-a-vis the monarch : therapist confronts client with painful reality , but in as friendly a way as possible ; client retains all the power over whether he wants to listen or not that is , whether he wants to continue or terminate the therapeutic relationship ) . People with personal problems often behave like the proverbial drunk who looks for his house key under the streetlight , not because that 's where he dropped it but because that 's where the light is . Should such a person consult an autonomous psychotherapist , the therapist 's job is not to try to find the key but to suggest to the - patient " that he light a match or borrow a flashlight from a neighbor and go look for his key where he dropped it . " Hard ard cases make bad law " is a sound legal maxim . M ututis mutandis : desperate clients make bad psychotherapy . Sound and sensible rules for psychotherapy must rest on a contract between a client able to inspect his own life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help him with this task . Desperately distraught clients often suffer from the consequences of their stupidity compounded by their stubbornness ; and they often succeed in provoking a matching set of stupid and stubborn responses in their psychiatrists ? which the latter rationalize and even glorify as " emergency methods of psychotherapy. " " v A Science and scientism The essence of the scientific enterprise is the effort to understand something in order better to control it . In natural science , this means that the scientist , man , studies and controls the object of his interest , a thing . The thing studied has no say in this matter . Hence , the moral dimensions and dilemmas of natural science derive not from a conflict between the scientist and the object he studies but from a conflict between the scientist and other persons or groups who may disapprove of the personal and social consequences of his work . In human or moral science ( if it may be called a " science " ) . the situation is radically different . Here , the scientist , man , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person . The subject studied is very much concerned with this process . Hence , the moral dimensions and dilemmas of human science derive from two distinct sources : first , from a conflict between scientist and subject . and second , from a conflict between scientist and other persons or groups who may disapprove of the personal and social consequences of his work . In short , although both the natural and moral sciences seek to understand the objects of their observation , in natural science the purpose of this is to be able to control them better , whereas in moral science it is , or ought to be , to be better able to leave them alone . The morally proper aim of psychology , then , is self-control .                     