@@494880

How Much , To Whom ? Energy Self-Sufficient by 1980 ? In his Disney World session with the editors November 17 , President Nixon said : " If the Congress cooperates , if the nation cooperates , this nation in 1980 can have all the energy we need . " And in his energy message of November 25 , the President reiterated that " by the end of this decade Americans will not have to rely on any source of energy beyond our own . " The slow-down of motor traffic and the turn-down of thermostats may ease this winter 's oil crisis and other conservation measures may lessen the impact on industry and commerce , but it adds up to an energy recession , the first of its kind in our history . It 's true that the nation suffered a 28 percent fuel use reduction in the early 1930s , but this was dictated by economic setbacks , not by unavailability of energy . Furthermore at that time the United States depended primarily on coal , our population was not suburbanized as it is today , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Can we achieve energy independence in seven years ? What if we fail ? The first question requires that we look at today 's energy consumption and at projections for 1980 . US use of energy in 1973 will amount to about 6.3 billion barrels of oil , accounting for slightly less than half of all energy consumption . Before the Persian Gulf oil embargo we were getting almost 40 percent of our oil from foreign sources . Natural gas will supply slightly less than a third of our energy this year and coal about a fifth . Hydropower and nuclear power supply the remainder , the uranium contribution being less than two percent of total US energy . All told , our energy consumption for 1973 is the equivalent of 13 billion barrels of oil . Over the past decade our burn-up of fossil fuels has increased at the rate of 4.2 percent per year . At this rate , normal for our economic growth , we will need the equivalent of 17 billion barrels of oil in 1980 . The National Petroleum Council estimated earlier this year that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ billion barrels . If we make the optimistic assumption that higher prices will stimulate natural gas production so that the present level is maintained and that coal production will increase by 20 percent by 1980 , it 's obvious that the US has to lay its hands on vast new supplies of energy . Given the demands of our cars , trains , planes and furnaces , this energy is ? DECEMBER 15 , 1973 most required in liquid form . That means oil . Domestic production of all oils is now " flat out " or dropping and even with 0.6 billion barrels pumped through the Alaskan pipeline in 1980 US production will probably not be much over four billion barrels a year . Therefore , energy self-sufficiency in oil , assuming normal growth , will demand " finding " about four billion barrels a year ? or its energy equal in some form acceptable to users . Can nuclear power help fill the energy gap ? The answer is ? no more than plants now under construction can provide electric power , for it takes eight to 10 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power operation . With luck , nuclear power plants will number about 120 in 1980 and save the nation fuel equivalent to over one billion barrels of oil . Unfortunately , uranium is less versatile than coal , being restricted to use as a boiler fuel in steam-electric plants . There 's no way for the hundreds of millions of gasoline and oil-guzzling engines to be replaced by electric motors in 1980 . Coal , on the other hand , can be converted into oil , jet fuel and heating oil by chemical processing and oil shale can be " cooked " to yield synthetic crude oil . Three decades ago coal . from the Ruhr was converted into synthetic fuel to help power Hitler 's Wehrmacht . A ton of coal has the potential of being converted into 100 gallons of liquid fuel and a ton of oil shale may yield 25 or more gallons . This means that if these fossil solids are to be synthesized to fill the oil gap , then billions of tons will have to be mined and processed annually . The sad fact is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it were advanced there are formidable barriers to the establishment of a domestic synthetic oil industry . About the only way to obtain sufficient coal would be to strip-mine and , if allowed , such operations , now at a 0.3 billion ton annual level , could hardly meet any significant 1980 demand for synthetic oil . Then , too , the water requirements and l environmental impact of the synthetic plants pose very great problems . Congressman Mike McCormack , chairman of the subcommittee on energy of the House Science and Astronautics Committee , concludes : " Coal gasification and liquefaction will not have a significant energy impact by 1980 . " One of two scientists elected to the House of Representatives , McCormack scoffs at the notion that crash programs and research and development can pay off by 1980 . He stresses that enormous capital investments will have to be made in order to create a synthetic oil industry , and that risk capital will be hard to find unless the synthetic product can be protected against possible lower-priced oil in the future . President Nixon has urged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of World War II ) approach to our fuel problem , but there is a vast differ- 11 ence between wartime development of a destructive weapon and peacetime evolution of energy technologies capable of meeting the demands of the US market . Project Apollo did succeed in landing men on the moon , but it cost $25 billion and produced virtually no economic payoff . Had the nation spent a fraction of this sum on systematic research and development of new energy sources , beginning in 1960 , we would be in a far better position to seek energy self-sufficiency . Energy from the sun , wind and tides is potentially available , along with geothermal power from the earth 's crust , but these are not viable energy options for contributing significant power by 1980 . If new energy sources are to be real power-producers seven years from now , they must be in sight , not buried below the technological horizon or out of economic reach . It is fair to say that the scientific and technical community has been excommunicated by the White House and is mystified by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ About the only way to attain such a condition is to reduce demand through ever more stringent conservation measures until it is compatible With domestic supply of energy . Then the price of energy independence will be fuel limitation with severe economic consequences . But assuming that the President is not taking the nation on a zero growth course , let 's examine the ' consequences of shortfalls in fuel supply . This year 's Gross National Product may approach $1.3 trillion and if we link this to consumption of energy equivalent to 13 billion barrels of oil , then one barrel is related to $100 of GNP . If a reduction in energy usage is paralleled by a $100 per barrel drop in GNP , a one billion barrel decline in energy consumption would mean $100 billion decrease in Gross National Product . Less gasoline available means fewer luxury cars sold , sharp cuts in boat sales and domino effects in industries where lack of fuel or petroleum products needed for production cripples the production line . We are in the dark about the real economic crunch of fuel deprivation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No matter how the energy situation is analyzed , ours is an oil-based economy in which the fluid fuel is as vital as blood in the human circulatory system . Yet Americans persist in displaying a pioneer mentality toward the continuity of our energy supply , forgetting that the nation has fixed resource boundaries and that in a relatively few decades The premium liquid and gaseous fuels have reached a peak of exploitation . Except in the instance of nuclear power y a military derivative ? the United States has failed to evolve an energy policy of bringing domestic supplies in consonance with demand . The Persian Gulf crisis aggravates the supply problem , but we may trace back the origins of our energy dilemma to the early postwar years when oil imports began . With it commenced the war-interrupted and Depression-inhibited growth of motor vehicles , prime villains in the present , crisis . US demand for oil was paced by the internal combustion engine 's unslackable thirst , recently accented by pollution controls that increased gasoline consumption . A 42-gallon barrel of oil yields about 20 gallons of gasoline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 110-billiongallon mark . The automobile is villainous , since from wellhead to roadbed our cars average less than 10 percent efficiency in fuel use . Talk of $1 per gallon gasoline makes little sense if taxes hold steady because this would mean paying more than $20 per barrel of oil . At such a price it would not matter if the oil sheikhs refuse us since our trade deficit would rule out its purchase . Jacking up the price of gasoline by European-type taxes could curtail consumption , but the economic effect would be detrimental . However , a modest six cents additional federal tax per gallon could bring in six billion dollars which could be used to fund energy research and development , subsidize synthetic fuel production and promote energy-saving mass transit systems . The House and Senate are becoming an " energy Congress , " yet it 's doubtful if it will hammer out a long-term energy policy for the country . Congressmen think in terms of two- and six-year time spans while the energy problem has a time-frame of 20 , 30 and even 50 years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy targeted on energy-sufficiency but it will require profound changes in our life-style ? not just a transition from the Cadillac to the Volkswagen but a system of planning transportation on the basis of energy efficiency . In effect the United States will have to plan an energy economy , one that is integrated with national systems of efficient transportation . Our energy affluence is not at an end , but unless a prudent energy policy is developed , the present fuel crisis will become protracted and the Nixon promise of plenty in 1980 will come to haunt Republicans even more than Watergate .                     