@@431931

 | REVISING THE FACTS OF LIFE @# @# Every few weeks , it seems , the front pages of newspapers announce startling medical or biological discoveries . Our response usually reflects our pragmatism . When these advances are of obvious benefit to mankind , perhaps because they prolong life or ease suffering , we readily appreciate them and take note of their discovery with approval , even gratitude . Experimental research that may lead to major breakthroughs , but as yet has only potential application ( such as the recombinant DNA experiments now being conducted ) , we tend to treat with skepticism . Increasingly , however , our response to news from the biological front is bafflement . Most of us lack an understanding that enables us to place discoveries in perspective , or even to place them within the framework to which they belong . God and the Geneticists NOT SO VERY MANY years ago people talked about " God and the physicists , " but today the geneticists have elbowed their way to the footlights , and a great change has come about in relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main very well disposed towards God , but the geneticists are not . It is upon the notion of randomness that geneticists have based their case against a benevolent or malevolent deity and against there being any overall purpose or design in nature . Randomness enters into the genetic process at two levels : first , in the entirely random process of mutation , The following compendium of information is intended to provide this perspective . These are excerpts from a forthcoming book , The Life Science : Current Ideas of Biology , by P.B. and J.S. Medawar . The subjects included here are heredity , evolution , eugenics , molecular biology , immunology , cancer , and senescence . A glossary of biological terms may be found on page 60 . Peter Medawar is former professor of zoology at London and Birmingham Universities . He was director of the British National Institute for Medical Research from 1962 to 1971 . In 1960 he received the Nobel Prize for Physiology and Medicine . His wife and coauthor , Jean Medawar , is director of the Margaret Pyke Trust and a Trustee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plays an important part in providing a candidature for evolutionary change , and , second , in the random allocation of chromosomes to germ cells and the random pairing of germ cells to form a fertilized egg . Indeed , the simple segregation ratios that represent the numbers of offspring of each genetic type expected according to Mendelian rules are quite widely used to illustrate the practical applications of probability theory . It is like a vast lottery in which booby prizes are more obtrusive than rewards . If two parents are both carriers of that deleterious recessive gene which , when inherited from both parents , causes phenylketonuria , then we can pretty confidently say that on the average one-quarter of their children will be victims of phenylketonuria , an " inborn error of metabolism " that may lead to serious mental retardation . It is not quite good enough to dismiss this unhappy conjunction of deleterious genes as " bad luck " in the sense in which such a description might be thought to apply to a young parent 's being killed by a falling roof tile . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ falling roof tile presents only the casual and in general 41  | terms unforseeable intersection of two otherwise unconnected trains of events , whereas the randomness that enters into genetic mutation and segregation is an integral and essential part of the genetic process , something provided for by the genetic mechanisms themselves . The randomness and the calamities that may go with it are " laid on " rather than casual . A disputant intent upon defending the Argument from Design might at this stage declare that the entire genetic system showed clear evidence of design in the way in which Nature provides for and takes advantage of the random element in the genetic process . This is a poor argument and one that would apply almost without qualification to the proprietor of a casino . It can not be denied that there is an overall progressive tendency in the course of evolution ? i.e. , that living organisms seem to find ever more complicated and elaborate solutions of the problem of remaining alive and combating a hostile environment . On the other hand , it must not be forgotten that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elements of an optical illusion . We are judging retrospectively when we say that evolution has been progressive in character and in doing so we tend to remember the success stories and forget the failures . Unfortunately , the testimony of Design is only for those who , secure in their beliefs already , are in no need of confirmation . This is just as well , for there is no theological comfort in the amplification of DNA , and it is no use looking to evolution : the balance sheet of evolution has so closely written a debit column of all the blood and pain that goes into the natural process that not even the smoothest accountancy can make the transaction seem morally solvent according to any standards of morals that human beings are accustomed to . Believers are no more likely to be shaken in their faith by the misgivings of geneticists than they were confirmed in them by the patronizing approbation of theoretical physicists ; for faith rests upon quite other foundations ? as secure to those who hold them as the derivation of a logical theorem . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established or less likely to be qualified than that of " biogenesis , " which avows that all living things are descended from living things . Behind each living organism today there is an unbroken lineage of descent going back to the beginnings of biological time . In its negative form the principle would state that there is no such thing as " spontaneous generation " ? e.g. , the spontaneous generation of bacteria from putrefying organic matter or of protozoa from infusions of hay . Louis Pasteur , the greatest of all experimental biologists , is rightly credited with having carried out the 42 experiments that falsified the notion of a spontaneous generation of bacteria and at the same time made an alternative hypothesis much more attractive , namely , that the bacteria which so readily proliferate in warm organic broths derive from airborne organisms . This discovery . of which the medical significance was clearly perceived by Joseph Lister , lies at the root of all antiseptic and aseptic techniques in surgery today . The principle of biogenesis applies not only to whole organisms but also to some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biogenetic in origin in the sense that they do not arise de novo by some synthetic process in the cell but are derived from preexisting mitochondria only . Biogenesis does not imply evolution , but an evolutionary relationship does of course imply biogenesis . Normal biogenesis is often given the extra connotation of " homogenesis , " i.e. , of like begetting like . Broadly speaking this particularization is true , although the theory of evolution obliges us to qualify it in detail . Thus the offspring of mice are mice and of men are men . No genuinely extravagant heterogenesis ever occurs , although in the days before empirical truthfulness was thought to be either a necessary or a desirable characteristic of professedly factual statements , all kinds of strange notions were rife ? the most famous being the myth that geese might be born of such organisms as the attractive crustacean the goose barnacle . Lepas anati f era . Such notions belong to " poetism , " a style of thinking which arouses as much indignation among scientists as the more idiotic extravagances of computerized literary criticism arouse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that zoology was in danger of falling asunder ? the consequence of its huge mass of uncoordinated factual information . The evolutionary hypothesis* is that which brings an order and connectedness to what Coleridge saw as the great toppling heap of information that made up the zoology of his day . It can be regarded as an amendment to the biogenetic principle that like begets like . The hypothesis states that the existing diversity of life-forms has arisen by progressive diversification during the course of biogenesis . It remains generally true to say that the offspring of mice are mice and of men are men , yet variants arise from time to time that may be recognized retrospectively as the beginnings of new specific forms . It is to the origin of these variants and the processes which keep them in being that we owe all the existing forms of life at present on the earth . Pedagogic " proofs " of the past occurrence of evolution are of the same kind and unfortunately the same intellectual stature as those " proofs " of the roundness of the earth which we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these so-called proofs , however , that the acceptance of such a hypothesis depends . It is rather that the hypothesis of evolution pervades , underlies , and makes sense of the whole of biological science in much the same way as the idea of the roundness of the earth permeates the whole of geodesy , chronology , navigation , * The word hypothesis in this context is used in its correct and technical sense : it is a vulgarism to suppose that the word has a pejorative flavor and that in describing as a hypothesis what is usually called the " theory " of evolution we are in some way depreciating it .  | and cosmology . The evolutionary hypothesis is part of the very fabric of the way we think in biology . Only the hypothesis of evolution makes sense of the obvious relationships between organisms , the phenomena of heredity , and the patterns of development . Heredity , DNA , and the Genetic Code IN EVERYDAY LIFE we do ( or more often do not ) inherit wealth , property , honorific titles , or personal possessions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what we inherit is a chemically coded message ? a coded set of instructions ? which specifies very exactly the course which the development of the next generation of organisms is to pursue . The chemical molecules that encode this genetic information are the giant polymeric molecules of deoxyribonucleic acid ( DNA ) . The information-carrying capability of nucleic acid molecules depends on the virtually inexhaustible combinational and permutational variety of the four different nucleotides out of which the molecule is compounded . The information transfer system may thus be likened to a Morse code with four different symbols instead of the familiar two-symbol dot and dash . The nucleic acids are transported within , and form a major part of , the substance of the chromosomes in which the nucleic acids are stabilized by combination with a basic protein . Chromosomes are the material objects transmitted in the sperm and egg cells from one generation to the next ; they are differentiated along their length and the singularities of nucleotide order which distinguish one stretch of chromosome from any other are known as genes . Chromosomes are visible under an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning to be identified by electron microscopes of sufficiently high resolution . It is noteworthy , however , that even if the microscope had never been invented and the biologist had no means of magnification at his disposal , we should still know of the existence of chromosomes and genes by reasoning of the same kind as that which has allowed us to believe in the reality of molecules and atoms , but in this case the reasoning is purely genetic , i.e. , has to do with the outcome of breeding experiments . It is , indeed , still by this means that the existence of most genes is known to us . Some genetical purists of an older tradition , anxious to establish the autonomy of genetics and to protect themselves from the pretensions of molecular biology , are fond of emphasizing the degree to which they would have been able to work out the material basis of heredity without recourse to physical or chemical methods of analysis . Geneticists of the generation of William Bateson ( 1861-1926 ) , who did so much to promulgate and at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were indeed sometimes even impatient of all the talk then current about chromosomes . The elementary account of Mendelism which follows is still essentially Bateson 's , although it is reworded to bring in chromosomes . In the fertilized egg chromosomes are present in pairs ? the diploid condition ? one chromosome from each pair having been contributed by each parent . Inasmuch as the ordinary " somatic ' ' cells of the body are derived from this fertilized egg by a succession of symmetrical cell divisions , replicas of these chromosomes are present in pairs in virtually all the cells of the body . However , in the process of gamete formation ( the gametes , " germ cells , " are sperm and egg cells ) , the chromosomes of a pair separate in such a way that only one chromosome from each pair enters each gamete ; the number of chromosomes in each is therefore half that of the ordinary somatic cell ? the haploid condition . When fertilization occurs in the union of gametes from individuals of different sexes , the diploid number is restored and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other sex . It should be emphasized that after parting the chromosomes are dealt out into gam etes entirely at random : there is no knowing into which gamete any one chromosome of a pair will go and the chance of any one chromosome 's going into one specified gamete is exactly the same as the chance of its opposite number 's entering that gamete . Fertilization is also an entirely random process from a genetical point of view , but the mechanics of the process of chromosome segregation and reunion ensure that there is a certain statistical regularity in the apportionment of heritable characteristics among the offspring . These regularities are embodied in Mendel 's famous segregation ratios ( 3:1 ; 9:3:3:1 ) of which an account may be found in any elementary genetics or biology textbook . It was not until after the turn of the century that biologists came to realize that the observable behavior of chromosomes conformed pretty exactly with that which would be expected of any material agent responsible for propagating Mendel 's " hereditary factors . " Chromosomes corresponded to linkage groups , i.e. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all , and the material basis of the genetical factors themselves came to be called genes , after the outstandingly brilliant work of Thomas Hunt Morgan and his genetical school at Columbia University had made it certain that chromosomes are differentiated along their lengths . Thanks to Morgan 's school a new and highly important source of genetical variegation was uncovered ? one that adds very greatly to the combinational varieties of the genes that may be found in the different individuals of a species. * This is crossing over , a process in which genetical material is exchanged between the chromosomes of a pair , so breaking down conventional linkage groups . Thus just as the phenomenon of linkage may be thought of as a qualification of the principle of the independent assortment of genes into gametes , so crossing over may be thought of as a qualification of the phenomenon of linkage . Crossing over , independent assortment , and the random recombination of gametes provide among them for the enormously broad spectrum of * The combinational varieties of known human genes outnumber all the people who are alive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to live . 43  | genetic diversity which distinguishes every outbreeding species of organism . It is a fundamental characteristic of Mendelian inheritance that genetic determinants maintain their integrity generation by generation , so that genetic determinants temporarily lost in a cross may be recovered many generations later in their original form and exercising the same effects . This is a genetical expression of the quite extraordinary molecular stability of the nucleic acids , i.e. , of their comparative immunity to the disruptive influences which might be expected to affect molecules of this size . One of Mendel 's most brilliant achievements was to recognize and comprehend within his theory the phenomenon of dominance . A gene is said to be dominant when it can express itself in spite of being inherited from only one parent , i.e. , when present in the heterozygous ( see below ) state ; conversely , genes that can express themselves only in the homozygous state , i.e. , when inherited from both parents , are said to be recessive . Dominance and recessiveness are properties , not of genes , but of the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by many other genes in the genome . In the simplest examples of dominant and recessive gene pairs ? e.g. , genes affecting our ability or inability to taste the chemical compound phenylthiourea ? the dominant gene completely masks the effect of the recessive , for the ability to taste phenylthiourea leaves little room for the expression of an inability to do so . Blood group genes , however , are said to be " codominant . " Codominant genes express themselves even when paired with genes of a different kind . Such is the case of members of the blood group AB . If our methods of analysis were sufficiently sensitive , recessive genes could be identified even in those heterozygotes in whom their effects were masked by the action of dominant alleles . In the simplest early formulations of Mendelian heredity , it was supposed that all hereditary determinants existed in binary alternative forms ? alleles . Their alternative manifestations were sometimes as simple as the mere presence or absence of a particular character trait , such as ( in human beings ) the ability or inability to taste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ famous by some of Mendel 's early experiments , e.g .. green as opposed to yellow peas or round as opposed to wrinkled peas . When genetic determinants of the same kind are inherited from both parents ' a subject is said to be homozygous with respect to that determinant . People who are homozygous for some character trait produce gametes which all have the same determinant in respect of it . When dissimilar genetic determinants are inherited from the two parents the subject is said to he heterozygous in respect of that characteristic . Heterozygous individuals produce gametes of different kinds , because the chromosomes which are the vehicles of the corresponding unlike determinants separate and enter different gametes . The members of ordinary , outbreeding , natural populations are unlike , hybrid , or heterozygous for most character traits . It is indeed very unlikely that complete homozygosity for all genetic determinants can be achieved in any naturally outbreeding population , although an approximation to it can be arrived at by systematic and prolonged inbreeding . Inbreeding and hybrid vigor . The genetic systems of most animals ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? provide for outbreeding . Inbreeding is a systematic pairing , generation by generation , of genetic relatives and in the most extreme form , where it is possible , is the self-fertilization of hermaphrodite organisms . The effect of prolonged inbreeding is to change the genetic makeup of a population in the direction of homozygosity and ultimately of genetic uniformity : the mice used in many cancer research and immunological laboratories have been developed by a program of inbreeding that has involved the mating of brothers and sisters or parents and offspring for upwards of twenty successive generations . In the course of becoming homozygous , deleterious recessive genes will often be brought into conjunction , sometimes with fatal effects . For this reason most attempts to start inbred lines of mammals , which are naturally outbreeding , end in failure . In human beings it is well known that rare disorders of recessive determination turn up much more frequently in the offspring of consanguineous matings such as cousin marriages : the rarer the disorder , the greater will be this relative preponderance of hereditary disorders among the offspring of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be assumed to have excreted highly deleterious genes present in the gene pool of the community as a whole ? i.e. , the unfortunate people in whom their effects were expressed will have died . When two inbred strains of mice are crossed , their hybrid progeny are livelier , healthier , more rapidly growing , and larger mice which are normally very much more resistant to disease and all other forms of stress than the inbred lines from which their parents were derived . This hybrid vigor , " heterosis , " is a phenomenon very familiar to all stockbreeders . Its effects could be due to the masking of the action of rather unfavorable recessive genes by their normal opposite numbers or counterparts ? unless , of course , the same harmful recessive gene should happen to be fixed in both lines . A more general consideration is that natural populations of outbreeding animals are highly heterozygous in makeup , so that the pattern of action of each gene will have evolved in relation to an essentially heterozygous constitution such as the hybrid provides . The experience of stockbreeding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the product of interracial crosses are especially well endowed in respect of physique , beauty , intelligence , and sexual prowess ? though not of course in gentility , for it is part of a cognate system of myths that true gentility , and with it the moral virtues of honesty , courage , and fortitude , can only come from " pure breeding . " There is no real substance to any of these beliefs because all natural populations , including human populations , are heterozygous and heterogeneous and the genetic makeup of each one will be that which has adapted them most effectively to the environments in which they live . There is no reason therefore why the progeny of a cross between members of two such populations should be specially well endowed . Nature and nurture : genetics and epigenetics . Except avowedly as a means of avoiding all kinds of long- winded periphrases , expressions like " the gene for albinism " or " the gene for tallness " are nowadays judged to be clumsy and potentially misleading , for their wording takes no cognizance of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the information transmitted from generation to generation ; epigenetics deals with the processes by which this information is translated into real life ? into flesh and blood and distinctive behavioral characteristics . No mgdern biologist would ever speak of " the inheritance of intelligence , " or of a genetic makeup endowing its possessor with intelligence , because with intelligence the importance of the epigenetic , nurtural element of upbringing is so very widely known and appreciated . It is however safe to speak of inherited differences of intelligence or differences of stature because such a formulation envisages the environment or the developmental ambiance as a parameter in the developmental equation while the genetic contribution varies . It was at one time naively believed that in respect of each character trait it was possible to specify a precise degree to which its manifestation was due to " nature " or to " nurture " ? to inheritance or to environment ; thus it would be gravely asserted that intelligence was due 75 percent to heredity and 25 percent to environment . Such a formulation is utterly unacceptable : as Hogben @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which a character difference may be attributed to the effects of nature is itself normally a function of nurture and vice versa . Thus our human susceptibility to scurvy might have been regarded as an " inborn " character trait in an older way of looking at things , but when we reflect that such a supposedly hereditary trait can make itself manifest only in an environment lacking in vitamin C we conclude that a categorical distinction between the operations of nature and of nurture can not really be drawn . The fact that this is so should not , however , be allowed to derogate from the importance of attempting to define the functional relationship between nature and nurture in , for example , disabilities such as diabetes. * Darwin Updated DARWIN 'S THEORY OF evolution by natural selection was propounded long before he or anyone else had any clear idea about the true mechanisms of heredity . By the early twentieth century , the Darwinian theory of evolution had acquired such an , all-encompassing explanatory glibness that natural historians such as D'Arcy Thompson had become quite uneasy about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature " and " nurture " to distinguish inborn differences from differences due to upbringing is at least as old as Shakespeare : in The Tempest , Act IV , Scene 1 , Prospero describes Caliban with quite undue asperity as " a devil upon whose nature nurture will never work . " ably attribute this uneasiness to the realization that a theory which explains everything explains nothing , and indeed today we can see a general parallel between the explanatory facility of the older form of Darwinism , the doctrines of psychoanalysis , and the Marxian interpretation of history . Nevertheless , Darwinism is the theory of evolution that prevails today , entirely refounded though it has been on the basis of Mendelian genetics and the concepts of population dynamics ? mainly by Sewall Wright , J. B. S. Haldane , R. A Fisher , and , in its more practical aspects , by the research of Theodosius Dobzhansky and his school . Variation , mutation and candidature for evolution . The candidature for evolutionary change is proffered by the prodigious and virtually inexhaustible range of genetic diversity made possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has sometimes been rather naively objected that the variations so generated are merely variations upon a limited number of themes and that , being essentially of finite compass , they can not possibly provide material enough for ' evolutionary change . This objection , however , is like saying that new writing is hardly possible because literature consists only of so many variations upon the twenty-six letters of the alphabet or that Western music must surely be exhausted because it consists of no more than variations upon the notes of the diatonic scale . In reality , prose can be enriched by an enlargement of vocabulary and music by the admission of new notes into the musical vocabulary ? e.g. , quarter tones . It would thus be reasonable to ask if there were any analogous enrichment of genetical variation which might enlarge still further the candidature for evolution . New genetical information does indeed come into being in the process known as mutation . Mutations are random perturbations in the genetic material that change the character of the information they convey . They are sometimes subdivided into those that affect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nucleic acid chain and even of chromosomes . All mutations have it in common , however , that their informational content can not be specifically directed by any environmental event ; thus no mutation arises to fulfill or meet any real or imagined need of the organism . All that may be said is that the frequency of mutations is increased by certain environmental influences , notably ionizing radiations which can directly or indirectly affect DNA , just as the frequency of occurrence of , say , the number ten at roulette may increase by throwing the roulette ball more frequently , though ten will not come up more often because it makes or mars the fortune of any competitor . In spite of very strenuous and not always very scrupulous attempts to unseat it , nothing has yet occurred to challenge the belief that the environment can not act " instructively , " i.e. , can not imprint specific genetic information upon the genetic system of living organisms . No one who really understands the subtlety and enormous explanatory power of the English language need wonder about the adequacy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to provide rich material for the evolutionary process . Nevertheless , it would be foolhardy to say that  | we knew all there was to know on the subject and that no new source of genetic information will ever be discovered . Generalizations of this degree of dogmatic confidence are almost invariably refuted by the progress of science . The notion that genetic information is self-generated , however , pervades the whole of modern biology and underlies our interpretation of , for example , both antibody formation and bacterial adaptation . Natural selection . Charles Darwin was perfectly aware of the animistic connotation of the term natural selection , but of course he did not believe that nature was actually selecting anything in the sense in which human beings pick and choose between alternatives . He made it perfectly clear in his correspondence , especially with Asa Gray , that he used the term natural selection in order to avoid the tedious periphrases that would be necessary if on each occasion he used it he were to cast the expression into a suitably objective form . An objective explanation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is long-winded but formally exact ) . All human beings alive 100 years from now will be the descendants of the human beings alive today , so that the human beings alive today make up 100 percent of the ancestry of future generations . Human beings , however , are of very many different genetic kinds and it is not to be expected that each genetic kind will make an equal or numerically proportionate contribution to the ancestry of the future population . Some genetic types will take a disproportionately large share and these are accordingly said to be " selected " and to confer extra fitness upon their possessors . The judgment is of course an entirely retrospective one so that the equation of natural selection to the survival of the fittest is a tautologous judgment . It is the pith of the theory , however , that the organisms with the higher net reproduction rate are more highly adapted to their environments than their less favored contemporaries . The word net in the expression net reproduction rate is of special significance . Even very senior biologists who ought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selection 's working entirely through the numbers of offspring produced , whereas in reality selective values are expressed by a figure that represents the net likelihood of living and reproducing , i.e. , chances of an organism 's giving birth to offspring that will survive to the age of their parents when they were born . In the process of natural selection , what is or is not selected is an individual organism , but in the classical formulations of the genetical theory of selection the subjects of selection are envisaged as individual genes . In a freely interbreeding population , the Mendelian processes do not affect the frequency of individual genes . Gene frequency can be assumed to remain constant from generation to generation except ? speaking in a deliberately figurative way ? insofar as some external " force " causes the gene frequency to alter . One such force is " mutation pressure , " which causes the frequency of a mutant gene to increase by reason of the fact that gene mutation is a recurrent process , so that the mutant gene is constantly reintroduced into the population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of genes in a popula-46 tion is ? as Sewall Wright was the first to foresee clearly ? luck . In small populations particularly , one can not assume that the genes present in the gametes are an exactly fair sample of the genes present in the parental population : some genes will increase in frequency by luck , therefore , and others will decline or perhaps even disappear ? a phenomenon known as " genetic drift . " Whatever effects may be attributed to these other agencies , however , all students of evolution agree that the factor which outweighs all others in bringing about a change in gene frequency is natural selection in the sense described above , i.e. , the net reproductive advantage of the possessors of some genes over the possessors of their alternative or allelic forms . There is an almost Newtonian flavor about the way in which natural selection enters the genetical theory of evolution by selection : the frequency of genes in a population remains constant generation by generation except insofar as some " impressed force " is brought to bear upon it that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important of these impressed forces is that of natural selection . Although the usage of " force " is figurative , natural selection may be said to have both a magnitude and a direction . Magnitude is measured in terms of net reproductive advantage and direction in terms of the nature of the replacement of one specified allele by another . It would go beyond the authority of any philosophically literate scientist to say that the theory of evolution just outlined was so firmly established as to be beyond the possibility of question or challenge in the future ; on the other hand one should be clear where its real or imagined weaknesses lie . There is no serious doubt about the ability of natural selection to bring about the most radical and far-reaching changes in the genetic makeup of a population : the element of the theory that might raise misgivings is that which has to do , with candidature for evolution . Even while recognizing the profusion and degree of detail of the heritable variation made possible by Mendelian process with mutation in the background to add extra combinatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been told and whether there may not be some other hitherto unrecognized source of variation . The Politics of Biology EUGENICS IS THE political arm of genetics . The word was coined by Francis Galton ( 1822-1911 ) , who introduced it in the following terms : Eugenics is the science which deals with all the influences that improve the inborn qualities of a race ; also with those that develop them to the utmost advantage . Man is gifted with pity and other kindly feelings ; he has also the power of preventing many kinds of suffering . I conceive it to f all well within his province to replace natural  | selection by other processes that are more merciful and not less effective . That is precisely the aim of eugenics . These sentiments sound dignified , reasonable , and humane , but closer inspection of Galton 's writing reveals a very sinister streak . He sneers loftily at the efforts at selfimprovement made by people lacking the genetic endowments for leadership and , when proposing that the human race could with advantage be propagated through those most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , says explicitly that if the less well endowed were to persist obstinately with the perpetuation of their kind , they would forfeit their claim to kindly treatment . These passages make sorry reading and are largely responsible for the discredit into which eugenics has fallen today . That part of eugenics which insists unconditionally on the primacy of the genetical composition in making people what they are or are not has equally clear political affiliations , for it is a canon of high Tory philosophy that a man 's breeding determines absolutely his capabilities , his destiny , and his deserts ; and it is equally a canon of Marxism that inasmuch as men are born equal a man is what his environment and upbringing can make of him . As both views are biologically mistaken , it is not surprising that biologists tend to walk delicately when entering discussions on eugenics . This is a pity , for many genuine genetic dangers go unrecognized because biologists have been reluctant to express their views about the way things are going . Three questions are particularly important . 1 . Do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deterioration ? 2 . Can anything be done to diminish the burden or the threat of the so-called hereditary diseases ? 3 . Is it possible to improve the genetic makeup of mankind by procedures that are politically and morally acceptable within the framework of an open society ? ? i.e. , a society in which human diversity is allowed to flourish in all its exuberant variety and in which dissent and disputation , so far from being suppressed , are recognized as agencies of political progress . The answer to this third question ? that which embodies a program of so-called positive eugenics ? is quite simply no : such a project is neither genetically nor politically feasible . The first question is one of the utmost political and economic importance for any country with a national health service , i.e. , one in which the cost of maintaining health is a charge upon the whole population . The answer depends upon whether or not there is any genetic element in differences of susceptibility to disease or the likelihood of cure . That such a genetic element exists is known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be false of any , so we may take it that the first question applies either directly or indirectly to all diseases . The answer to it raises grave politico-economic problems . It is clear that the preservation of relatively unfit genotypes will tend to increase or at least not to diminish their representation in the population . Thus if diabetics are to be kept alive and restored by medical procedures to something approaching a state of normal health , as it is right that they should be , then whatever elements of their genetic makeup may have contributed to their diseased state will for that reason be disseminated more widely throughout the population . Nevertheless , humanity and self-interest alike oblige us to do our best to meliorate diabetes . It should not be necessary to make such an avowal and indeed it would not have been necessary were it not for a recent revival of a kind of medical Luddism that denounces the entire apparatus of modern therapeutics as something that dehumanizes us and makes us increasingly dependent on the Machine . Moreover some people think , though very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the treatment of disease is in any case an officious interference with the working of God 's will or of natural selection . We can be fairly confident that the answer to the question " Do advances in medicine and public health necessarily lead to genetic deterioration ? " is " No , not necessarily . " Historical accounts of plagues and other murderous pandemics of infectious disease combined with even the briefest appraisal of the bills of mortality of London or New York in the middle of the nineteenth century confirm J. B. S. Haldane 's belief that infectious disease is the most powerful selective force that has ever acted upon mankind . A measure of inborn resistance to infectious disease has sometimes been purchased by genetic tricks or metabolic quirks which are positively disadvantageous in an environment in which people are not at risk of the disease . In such situations it is positively disadvantageous to be genetically forearmed against a danger that does not exist . Indeed it is now clear , thanks to the work originally of Haldane and subsequently of Allison and others , that some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the protection they confer against infectious disease . Thus there is now little doubt that the prevalence of sickle-cell trait and sickle-cell anemia in West Africa and of Cooley 's anemia ( thalassemia major ) and thalassemia minor in the Mediterranean basin is to be attributed to the modest degree of protection they confer against malaria . Negative eugenics . We turn now to the second of the three questions posed above : can anything be done to diminish the burden or the threat of the so-called hereditary diseases ? " Negative eugenics " has the realistic ambition of diminishing , and as far as possible correcting , the distress caused by deleterious genes and genetic conjunctions . Even here , alas , ignorance has linked arms with a muddled . benevolence to make some foolish and inhumane proposals . One such proposal , of Scandinavian origin , was at one time given some prominence by a society in England founded to promote eugenics : mentally deficient people should be sterilized so as to bring to an end the propagation of the gene responsible for their unhappy state . On closer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the assumption that mental deficiency was due to the conjunction of a single pair of recessive genes which for the sake of argument we will call d , to distinguish it from the normal gene D , so that the genotype of the mentally defective would be dd . The Hardy-Weinberg Theorem shows how ill-judged such a recommendation  | is , for if people mentally deficient for this particular reason were to occur with a frequency of 1 in 10,000 in the population then the frequency of the gene assumed to be responsible for the condition would be 1/100 and the frequency of its genetic carriers , the heterozygotes Dd , as high as 1/50 . It would indeed be a " night of the long knives " if it were decided to sterilize one-fiftieth of the population , even supposing it were possible to identify the carrier state so as to make sure the knife was wielded on the right people . Only a minority of the offending genes are locked up in the mentally deficient themselves , so sterilizing them would not be effective . In spite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedures in the area of negative eugenics are possible and it is worthwhile outlining the form that some of them might take . Chromosomal aberrations , such as those which give rise to Down 's syndrome ( " Mongolism " ) , Klinefelter 's syndrome , and Turner 's syndrome , being the results of chromosomal accidents of unknown origin are genetically irremediable . Down 's syndrome is due to the presence in triplicate of a chromosome which should by rights be present only in duplicate . Its frequency rises so steeply with the increasing age of the mother at childbirth that its frequency in the population generally could be diminished ? as indeed it is now being diminished ? by a change of fashion or social attitude that favored young motherhood . When an older woman conceives a child , her physician will often recommend the procedure of amniocentesis , in which a drop of amniotic fluid is withdrawn so that the chromosomal makeup of fetal cells can be ascertained . If the fetus suffers from a gross chromosomal abnormality , the mother might well choose to have an abortion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longed-for child that was grossly defective . The parents ' decision will clearly be influenced by their means , family situation , philosophy , and religious beliefs , so there can be no glib formulation of some one correct procedure that will apply to all cases . Dominant disorders . A dominant disorder is apparent even when the gene responsible for it has been inherited from only one parent : it is thus apparent in the heterozygous as well as in the homozygous state . When such disorders are lethal or very gravely deleterious early in life they are genetically self-correcting , and their frequency in the population will be determined solely by the rate at which the malignant gene is reintroduced into the population by recurrent mutation . Nevertheless , specially unhappy problems arise when the gene exerts its action in middle or later life , for if children have already been born then natural selection is powerless to eliminate the gene . Mutations apart , most of the people who contract one of these diseases ? including Huntington 's chorea and a form of intestinal polyposis leading to cancer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after they have had their children . Taking now D as the symbol of the malignant gene and d as its normal counterpart , the afflicted will generally be of the composition Dd . Approximately half the children of the afflicted will therefore contract the disease and all will live in con- tinued dread of doing so . Under these circumstances charity suggests that potential carriers should decide not to become parents . Recessive disorders do not make their appearance unless the gene responsible for them has been inherited from both parents . In the small but rapidly increasing proportion of such disorders in which the carrier state can be identified they are eugenically manageable . Although the disorders are individually rather rare , they form between them a numerous and important category , including certain grave inborn defects in the power to metabolize foodstuffs ( phenylketonuria and galactosemia I. Most of the overtly afflicted are the children of parents who are both carriers : approximately one-quarter of their children will be afflicted and half will be carriers too . To illustrate the possible eugenic management of such conditions along the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " recessive disease " with a frequency in the population of 1 in 40,000 . In such a case the frequency of the gene responsible for it will be 1/200 and the frequency of the carrier state 1/100 . Eugenic management turns on the possibility of being able to identify the carrier state . Most overt cases of the disease could be eliminated in one generation if , having been identified , the carriers of the same harmful recessive gene were to be discouraged from marrying each other , or at least from having children by each other . The one carrier among each 100 people would therefore have to find a mate from one of the other 99 , among whom only a few would be disqualified by carrying some other unfavorable recessive gene also possessed by the intended spouse . Fundamental Advances I. Molecular Biology MOLECULAR BIOLOGY has been , and still is , the greatest success story in biology since the formulation of the theory of evolution . The importance of molecular biology and the undisguised hubris of its practitioners has aroused envy and resentment in many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there is a certain nouveau-riche air about molecular biology , of the riches there now is no serious question . Gunther Stent , one of its most discerning historians , distinguishes two main streams of development in molecular biology ? one structural and very largely European and the other informational , i.e. , having to do with the storage and transfer of information in biological systems , perhaps carried farthest forward in the U.S.A. Structural molecular biology may be said to have begun with the audacious application by W.T. Astbury of X-ray crystallographic techniques to such biological objects as feathers , hair , tendon and the fibers that make  | up a blood clot . The great importance of Astbury 's work was to reveal that these biological structures have an essentially crystalline orderliness and regularity , a discovery which gives special point to Schrodinger 's famous epigram that the " so-called amorphous solids are either not really amorphous or not really solid " ; Astbury 's work abolished forever the idea of a hard and fast line of demarcation between physical objects and the substances of the living world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater than that said ( in retrospect ) to have been brought about by Wohler 's reputed synthesis of urea in 1828 . The elucidation of the structure of proteins ? work which will one day make it possible to interpret most of the biochemical performances of the body in molecular terms ? grew out of a number of distinct discoveries : one was the development by Sanger of chemical methods for " sequencing " proteins , i.e. , for spelling out the arrangement along their polypeptide backbones of the various amino acids of which proteins are compounded , and so making it possible to define the structure of proteins in terms of the linear order known as its " primary " structure . The secondary structure is that which completes the specification of the backbone , especially as it relates to its branching . The tertiary structure of a protein is the pattern of folding , bulging , et cetera , and the complete specification of a protein as a three-dimensional structure . When the work of Perutz and Kendrew on myoglobin completed our understanding of the structure of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this as a milestone in the history of biology . Since then , R. Valentine and H.G. Pereira have pretty well elucidated the structure of a virus , adenovirus 12 . The informational stream in the history of molecular biology began with the discovery by Avery , Macleod and McCarty that deoxyribonucleic acid ? DNA -- fulfilled some of the qualifications of a biological philosopher 's stone , for it turned out to be a DNA that was responsible for the transmutation of one pneumococcal variety into another , something that had , until then , been a most perplexing phenomenon . In a few years it became clear from research on bacterial viruses and in orthodox genetics that DNA is indeed the repository of genetical information and the agency by which it is communicated from one generation to the next . Except for the small quantities of DNA in mitochondria the DNA of animal cells , including the germ cells , is confined to the nuclei , as we should expect , having regard to the fact that the nucleus of the germ cells is the only material nexus between one generation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ molecular biology that genetically coded information can flow only in the direction of nucleic acid -+ protein and not the other way about ? a view long resisted by conventional biochemists , who were most reluctant to see proteins dethroned and denied what seemed to them a natural right to be credited with the execution of all biochemical performances . According to this revolutionary view , nucleic acids must specify the structure of all the proteins made in the cell . A substantial fraction of molecular biology ? that which is sometimes called " molecular biochemistry " ( it would be hard to imagine a nonmolecular biochemistry ) ? has been devoted to working out the means by which the structure of a nucleic acid is eventually mapped into the structure of a protein . Inasmuch as there are more than twenty different amino acids in proteins but only four different kinds of nucleotide in DNA , more than one nucleotide ? in fact , a triplet ? must code for each amino acid . The mapping process takes place at two stages , each involving the transfer of information to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nucleotide sequence of DNA is mapped uniquely into the nucleotide sequence of messenger RNA , and translation , mediated through transfer RNA molecules that recognize both amino acids and the RNA code and can thus assemble the amino acids in the right linear order . This translation of genetic into structural information is irreversible , so there is no known or at present conceivable method by which germinal DNA could be imprinted with information acquired in an organism 's own lifetime . This is the principal technical reason no one now believes in the feasibility of evolution in the Lamarckian style . II . Immunology THE EXPLOSIVE GROWTH of immunology during the past ten or fifteen years has been one of the most remarkable phenomena in modern science , although from the standpoint of the history of ideas its rapid growth in recent years is not nearly so surprising as its almost complete intellectual indolence from about 1900 until the mid-1930s . The reason , we believe , is this : until the mid-1930s or thereabouts , immunology was treated as an appendage to bacteriology from the point of view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was therefore confined to its immediate practical applications : it was a matter of vaccines , skin tests , diagnostic antisera , blood groups , allergic reactions , and not much else . It had indeed every imaginable shortcoming of an " applied science " pursued without regard to its deep theoretical foundations . A new era began when chemists , zoologists , and geneticists started to build up an entirely new conceptual structure for immunology , whose pillars were to be a study of the biology of self-recognition , the molecular basis of specificity and the process of information transfer in biological systems . To these basic researches we may add an examination of the possibilities of immunology for transplantation , the treatment of cancer , and a finer genetic fractionation of the population than any other method has made possible . An immunity reaction is an adaptive response of an organism which has the effect of destroying , neutralizing , sequestrating , or annulling the effects of some foreign intruder such as a bacterium , virus , protozoan parasite , a  | graft from another individual and quite possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are described as antigenic or substantively as " antigens . " The distinguishing characteristic of an antigen is its foreignness , i.e. , its property of being non-Self . However , even Self-constituents can sometimes arouse an immunity reaction , for the foreignness that is a qualifying property for being an antigen means only foreignness to the reacting system , and if some parts of the body have been sequestered throughout life , their liberation through injury or some degenerative process enables them to exercise their antigenic power . Reactions upon such Self-constituents are referred to as " autoimmune . " Bodily constituents altered by chemical action or virus infection may also arouse autoimmunity . The pattern of immunological reaction which has come to be regarded , almost certainly wrongly , as typical ? indeed , as prototypical ? is that in which an antigen excites the formation of an " antibody . " An antibody is a protein circulating in the bloodstream , whose structure is exactly complementary to that of the antigen or , more accurately . to that part of the antigen which confers its antigenicity upon it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a whole variety of reactions may take place : agglutination or clumping if the antigens are in the form of cells , sometimes a rupture of the cell membranes , a coprecipitation when the antigen is itself a soluble protein , or a detoxication when the antigen is a poisonous substance a toxin ? produced by a bacterium . The end result , in a successful immunological reaction , is a destruction of the antigen or an annulment of its effects . Cellular immunity . For very many years antigens and antibodies dominated the thoughts of immunologists so completely as to exclude any other conception of how the immunological response might work , but nowadays it is realized that an entirely different kind of immunological reaction is mediated through the action not of antibodies , but of lymphocytes ( see below ) , which are hostile to and bring about the destruction of the antigen or whatever its vehicle may be . The reactions mediated through the action of lymphocytes are just as specific as those of which the agents are circulating antibodies . Cellmediated immunity is that which is responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destruction of intracellular parasites , for antitubercular immunity and possibly also for antitumor immunity ; on the other hand humeral ? that is antibody-mediated ? immunity is thought to be responsible for coping with most ordinary bacterial and viral infections . Lymphoid system . Cells responsible for recognizing antigen and for reacting upon it in one way or another belong to the lymphoid system , a system of cells of which the prototypical member is the lymphocyte . Recognition of antigen . Even with antibody formation ? basically a much simpler process than cell-mediated immunity ? the informational problem of how an antigen is recognized and of how a structure exactly complementary to it is then synthesized is one of which the solution was very far from obvious . The problem would not be so difficult if antigens were limited in variety and the antibody formed was one or other of a limited repertoire , but the trouble is that antigens are as various as living organisms themselves , and an organism can manufacture antibodies against antigens which have not even been invented yet ? e.g. , the synthetic organic chemicals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are perfectly capable of conferring antigenicity upon any macromolecule they attach to . Before the coming of molecular biology , the problem did not seem to be a dismayingly complex one , for it was believed that an antigen could itself inform the structure of an antibody , i.e. , it could itself provide the information which directed the synthesis of an antibody molecule , and thus the antibody molecule could be built around and upon the antigen in such a way as to have an exactly complementary structure . But when it became clear that information can not flow from protein to protein , but only from nucleic acid to proteins , some other explanation had to be sought . One possibility is that lymphoid cells in the course of their development become randomly diversified so that to every possible antigen there corresponds a lymphoid cell , and therefore a potential " clone " or cell division lineage of lymphoid cells capable of manufacturing the antibody complementary to it . This diversity could arise mutationally in the line of cells that leads from the fertilized egg to the billions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process could be one that takes place in some lesser cellular component than the nucleus . At any event , the process envisaged is one in which lymphoid cells with a vast number of reactive potentialities are already available and waiting only to be aroused into full activity by confrontation with an antigen . The occurrence of random variation in the line of cells arising from the zygote to bring forth adult lymphoid cells is not the only possibility , however ; it is at least conceivable that all the information necessary to underwrite the formation of antibodies is already present in the fertilized egg and is therefore equally apportioned to all the lymphoid cells that descend from it . At first this sounds rather like a tall order , but it ceases to be so when one reflects upon the enormous variety and subtlety of information already coded within the zygote nucleus e.g. , upon the fact that the complete repertoire of female behavior insofar as it is programmed is encoded in the male zygote and vice versa , waiting to be released or realized by the appropriate external stimuli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developmental process which make it possible to say that an infant has got exactly his mother 's nose or his uncle 's habitual leer . If this interpretation is true it follows that when an antigen acts upon lymphoid cells it acts in a manner pretty closely analogous to that of an embryonic " inducer , " and like an embryonic inducer it arouses one rather than another potentiality of the responding cell . Although the matter is not yet finally settled , it can be taken as certain that unless a mechanism is stumbled upon that no one has yet even dreamed of , an immunological response to no matter how strangely exotic an antigen represents an awakening or activation of some preexisting potentiality in the responding cell and is not  | in any sense an indoctrination of the cell by some molecular property of the antigen . Transplantation immunity and tolerance . The chemical makeup of one human being 's organs must be so closely similar to another 's that the phenomena of transplantrejection may seem specially surprising ? so surprising , indeed , that for very many years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some surgeons in Russia still believe , that the failure of a transplant was to be attributed more often to faulty surgery than to the extreme precision of the body 's ability to identify " non-Self . " To say this is not by any means to depreciate the importance ? as it has turned out , the increasing importance ? of surgical expertise in the execution of transplants . Nevertheless , the immunological element outweighs all others in importance . Other factors that play a very important practical part are whether or not the operation is physiologically feasible and whether or not an organ substitute can be rigged up to tide a patient over what otherwise might be a period of acute deprivation in which his condition would deteriorate seriously . The transplantation of brains belongs strictly to science fiction : it is not possible today , and there is no serious possibility of its becoming possible in the future . As to organ substitutes : heart transplantation would not of course have been possible unless apparatus was available to maintain the process of respiration . There is unhappily no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to use a pig 's liver outside the body in much the same way as a patient might use a kidney machine . Kidney transplantation was given a great boost by the invention of the kidney machine , because one could then bring a patient with diseased kidneys to the operating table in a condition fit enough to withstand the therapeutic procedures to be used on him . Among these therapeutic procedures ? and that upon which the whole of modern transplantation rests ? is the use of immunosuppressive agents , drugs that depress the immunological response long enough to tide the patient over the period during which rejection might occur and at the same time to help the graft to start to undergo the rather mysterious adaptative process which ends by making it fairly acceptable to the body . Most of the immunosuppressive agents used in transplant surgery are agents that prevent cell division , and thus prevent the full expression of the immunological response . With very few exceptions , they were plundered from the huge armory of cancer chemotherapy . The drug now in most general use throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trials of kidney transplantation in dogs . This is the drug Imuran , a derivative of the drug known as 6-mercaptopurine , which mimics one of the essential ingredients of nucleic acid closely enough to derange cell division . In addition to Imuran , it is customary to use steroid drugs related in their mode of action to cortisone ; the dosage of steroid drugs is always raised if there is any suspicion of a transplant 's being rejected , because steroid drugs are able to reverse the rejection process . The use of steroids is , however , fundamentally objectionable Because of their highly unpleasant side effects , and the whole immunosuppressive procedure still leaves 1 very much to be desired . The entire dosage regimen is a knife edge in which underdosage will lead to the rejection of the graft and overdosage to secondary damage on cells other than those that transact immunological responses ? particularly blood-forming cells ; in addition to this there is the ever-present danger that immunosuppression may so far weaken the body 's immunological defenses as to make the patient , an easy prey to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no real immunosuppressive agent is known , i.e. , no agent that suppresses an immunological response without suppressing a great many other things as well . The one exception is antilymphocyte serum , which effectively eliminates the kind of immunity described above as cell-mediatedthat which causes transplant rejection . Unfortunately , antilymphocyte serum has grave shortcomings of its own , not the least of which is that if it is to be supplied at an economic price a course of injections costs in the neighborhood of $2,000 . Even in countries without a national health service , means would doubtless be found to get round this difficulty if it could be shown that antilymphocyte serum or the active protein extracted from it was unconditionally safe and very much more effective than any combination of agents already known . Techniques of immunosuppression are constantly being improved , and it may be taken for granted that if there is a demand for them , heart , liver , and lung transplantations will become as frequent and as successful as kidney transplantation is today . Oddly enough , the one tissue which has so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to another is skin . It is either particularly adept at arousing an immunological response or particularly vulnerable to it . Biological Enigmas I : Cancer @# CANCER IS A GENERAL name for a great variety of different growths , so that to speak of " the cause of cancer , " or indeed to speak of " cancer " as if it were a single disease , makes no more sense than to lump together tuberculosis , pneumonia , and plague under the heading of " bacteritis " and to enquire plaintively what is the cause and cure of bacteritis . Kinds of cancer . Cancers of epithelial tissues , i.e. , of tissues that bound surfaces , particularly of the skin and mucous membranes , are known as carcinomas . Cancers of connective tissue cells or of cells that are normally disperse in character are called sarcomas . Tumors of the white blood corpuscles are known comprehensively as leukemias . A further differentiation is marked by specific mention , of the tissues from which tumors arise ; thus a malignant tumor of bone is an osteosarcoma and of lymphoid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the skin , known as melanocytes , are melanosarcomata and tissues of the supporting cells of  | the central nervous system are called gliomas . Very often the plain suffix - oma is used to distinguish a benign as opposed to a malignant growth : thus an osteoma may be no more than a bony excrescence or protuberance and neuroma no more than a swelling of a nerve caused , perhaps , by some miscarriage of the regenerative process . Causes of cancer . Transformation of normal into malignant cells can be brought about by very many different agencies . Among them are X rays or other ionizing radiations and a whole variety of hydrocarbons , many of which were first extracted from or identified in distillates of coal tar , among them methylcolanthrene , benzpyrene , and dibenzanthracene . Viruses are well known to cause certain tumors in chickens ( a discovery of Peyton Rous 's ) and also to cause leukemias in mice and cats and probably ? though this has not yet been the subject of a completely convincing demonstration ? in man . One of the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bewildering , of methods for producing tumors in experimental animals is insertion into the subcutaneous tissues of a small , relatively impermeable , plastic film . If the film is perforated no tumor forms , so evidently it is not the material of the film itself that can be held responsible : some impairment of cellular or fluid movement is more likely to blame . Treatment of cancer . Tumors are treated by surgical excision whenever possible ? a procedure in which early recognition and the ability to localize the tumor growth by X radiography are both of the utmost importance . With some tumors extirpation is of course not possible . Among these are leukemias and tumors so far advanced that secondary growths ( metastases ) have already established themselves throughout the body . Alternatively , or in addition , tumors are treated by one or other of the great variety of antiproliferative agents ? agents that impede cell division ( not in malignant tissues only , unfortunately , but in dividing cells throughout the body ) . X radiation or gamma radiation ? such as is emitted from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedures . Their great advantage is that radiologists have learned to control the administered dosage very exactly and that , unlike the chemical antiproliferative agents , they can be switched off when they are thought to have done their duty . Chemical antiproliferative agents improve year by year , or almost month by month . Another line of attack is through hormones , for some tumors are made up of cells which are hormone-dependent : tumors of this kind can often be kept under control by withdrawing the hormone they need and sometimes substituting for it a hormone with the opposite effect . A case in point is the treatment of tumors of the prostate gland , an accessory male sex organ , by the administration of , for example , the synthetic estrogenic hormone , estradiol . The possibilities of an entirely different style of treatment have been explored rather excitedly in recent years : this is immunotherapy , based on our knowledge of immunity to tumors . One of the earliest discoveries made in the experimental 56 analysis of tumors was that by repeated coaxing ( in effect by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arising in rats and mice could often be . transplanted to other rats or other mice respectively . It was not very often that the little tumor grafts " took " and started growing right away ; on the contrary the more usual thing was for the tumor first to grow and then to dwindle away to the accompaniment of a rather fierce attack by the recipient 's lymphocytes , cells which play a crucially important part in the immunological defenses . A mouse or rat in which a tumor had first grown and then dwindled away was absolutely refractory to the inoculation of that same tumor on a second occasion . The same refractory state could sometimes be set up merely by the inoculation into the intended recipients of the tumors of a hodgepodge of normal tissue cells , especially embryonic cells . Phenomena such as these encouraged early students of tumor transplantation to believe that the regression of a tumor was , in effect , a cure and that forearming of its intended recipient by inoculations of tumor cells and specially of normal embryonic cells was a preventive measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pathologist of his day , was perhaps the first man to shatter these illusions . He asked what evidence there was that the " immunity " so commonly spoken of was an immunity directed against the tumor as such , or whether it might not merely be an immunity directed against the tumor graft considered as a genetically foreign cell ? whether , in fact , it might not be an immunity similar to that which is directed against foreign grafts generally . In the 1930s a number , of American cancer research workers discovered true tumor immunity , i.e. , an immunity directed against malignant cells as such . They found , in effect , that a mouse sometimes develops immunity even against an autochthonous tumor , i.e. , a tumor arising and growing in itself . No such discovery would have been possible before the development of strictly inbred strains of mice ? mice which , differences of sex apart , resemble each other as closely as if they were identical twins . Great hopes have been built on this phenomenon of autochthonous tumor immunity , and some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immunity is of the same general kind as transplantation immunity , i.e. , the process which leads to the rejection of foreign grafts . However , tumor antigens are not all that easy to identify and define by orthodox immunological methods and it is a cloud on the horizon that there has not yet been a finally conclusive demonstration of an immunological response to human tumors generally . Circumstantial evidence in favor of human tumor immunity is nevertheless strong enough to have persuaded most pathologists to have accepted the idea on probation , and it is therefore worth examining some of its practical consequences . The most important are : 1 . The regression of tumors , so far from being a great rarity and something only reluctantly believed in , must be quite a common phenomenon . Indeed , many more tumors must arise than we ever become aware of in a clinical sense ? tumors which have been spied out by circulating lymphocyfes and which have aroused and succumbed to an immunity reaction .  | 2 . It will be worthwhile to remove the greater part of a tumor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the clear realization that the whole of it can not be removed . The rationale of doing so is to remove the burden thrown upon the subject 's immunological defenses by the constant outpouring of antigenic matter from the tumor ? a process which may very well impede the immune reaction . 3 . The center of gravity of clinical cancer research will change from the empirical trial of antiproliferative agents to an inquiry into why immunological processes that ought to work very often do n't and into how the immune process can be boosted . 4 . Cancer chemotherapeutic agents which are also immunosuppressive agents ( and most of them are ) should be used with the utmost circumspection ; moreover , it should not be taken as a matter of course that in the removal of a regional tumor all the regional lymph nodes should be radically extirpated . Indeed , in the extirpation of mammary tumors there is no convincing evidence that wholesale removal of all draining lymph nodes is a beneficial procedure . II . Senescence THE EXTREME ORDERLINESS , predictability , and apparently " programmatic " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for very many years . The most famous pathological theory of aging ? the theory that treats aging as a diseaselike process ? was that of the Russian zoologist Elie Metchnikoff . Aging , he believed , is due to cumulative self-poisoning ? autointoxication ? by the toxins of bacteria normally resident in the gut . He thought that these processes might be diminished or annulled by replacing the gut flora with lactic acid bacilli . It is to the advocacy of Metchnikoff that we owe the widespread popularity of yogurt today as an article of diet ; and from him also arose the belief that Bulgarian peasants owe their longevity to the regular consumption of sourmilk curds . Although Metchnikoff 's special theory of the aging process has not found favor , he deserves great credit for having been the first to treat aging as an epiphenomenon of life ? something superimposed upon the normal processes of living ? rather than as a phenomenon somehow entailed by the life processes themselves . This is now widely thought to have been a sign of good judgment on his part . Another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequence of accumulated errors of information processing in the body . Among dividing cells such errors may of course arise in the nucleic acid information source itself , but in addition mistakes are bound to occur in the transcription and translation of genetic infor-@# mation into bodily constituents , and if these happen to be enzymes then the products whose manufacture they make possible will be awry as well . The attempts that have been made by Holliday and others to test this theory ? e.g. , by feeding organisms on kinky amino acids , et cetera ? have on the whole tended to support it . Cures of aging . From a therapeutic point of view , Orgel 's theory is a bit depressing because if aging is due to the process he envisages then nothing very much can be done about it . In general , however , there is no reason in principle why some of the more disagreeable changes that accompany aging should not be diminished or annulled ? particularly those which are clearly secondary in nature , i.e. , consequent upon a failure or a deterioration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , no different in principle from other disease processes and no less amenable to investigation and treatment . The idea of prolonging life has nevertheless aroused a great deal of disquiet among those who are especially conscious of the consequences of overpopulation and the danger of interfering with the natural order of things . It should be borne in mind , however , that almost all advances in medicine may prolong life and it is not at all easy to draw a sharp dividing line between research which is demographically acceptable and that which represents a gratuitous interference with the natural order . As with all lifesaving and life-prolonging measures , the real mischief arises from their being adopted piecemeal and haphazardly instead of being part of a well-thought-out political program . By far the most important single factor that has contributed to the growth of populations has been the reduction of mortality in infancy and childhood ; there would be no objection at all to the measures that have made this possible if only they had been accompanied by an equal concern over the possible mischief of a disproportionately high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ senescence can only be understood in the light of the principles that underlie the measurement of aging . It is clear that aging could be measured on an individual and personal basis , by choosing some suitable biological performance and noting how it fell away with advancing years , but the shortcomings of such an approach are so obvious as hardly to need discussion . A measure that has universally been agreed upon also has its shortcomings : it is a measure of vulnerability and its rationale is that , inasmuch as no one can die merely from getting a good chronological score , the essential change that takes place in the course of life ? to which every source of deterioration will contribute ? is an increase in vulnerability , i.e. , in the likelihood of dying . The principle of the measurement of vulnerability is extremely simple : if all organisms die from accidental causes only , e.g. , from infection , predation , starvation , or accident , and if there were no senescence , i.e. , no deterioration with increasing years , then the organism will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chronologically younger . Translated into human terms this would mean that a human being would be no more likely to die in his sixth decade than in his fourth or his third or his second .  | Imagine , then , a group of a thousand organisms marked or somehow identified at birth and followed through lifeuntil all of them have died ( ex hypothesi from accidental causes ) . If there is no process of aging then a constant fraction of this population will die during each year ? say 5 percent . If the rate of mortality is indeed 5 percent per annum the numbers left in the population at the end of each year will be as follows : ( 1,000 ) , 950 , 903 , 858 , 815 , 774 , 736 , 699 , 664 , et cetera , approaching zero asymptotically , i.e. , getting nearer but never quite getting there in theory ? although it does in real life . If this series of numbers is plotted against age , it will form a curve of a kind very familiar in physics and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the curve of unrestricted exponential growth , the logarithm of the numbers remaining in the population will form a straight line when plotted against time , because it is characteristic of logarithmic graphs that equal distances represent equal multiples or submultiples instead of equal increments or decrements , as in the ordinary arithmetic plotting . This at once suggests a method by which we can ascertain the degree to which senescence plays any part in the mortality of this population : if the curve of mortality is more-than-logarithmic , it signifies that there is an aging process , i.e. , that vulnerability is increasing with advancing years ? the property for which a measure was sought . Nevertheless , this measure is full of difficulties that should not be underestimated . It takes no account of certain good reasons why an animal 's vulnerability should diminish with increasing years . For one thing , animals become behaviorally wiser ? wiser in all the senses embodied in " once bitten , twice shy . " They also become immunologically wiser , for an animal which has been exposed to an infection once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the same infection if exposed to it a second time . Then again , some changes that are unmistakably senescent in character ? e.g. , the menopause in women ? are not accompanied by any increase in vulnerability . On the contrary , some causes of death ? such as those associated with childbirth ? have now been outlived . Another objection to the use of vulnerability as a measure of senescence is that it is essentially statistical in character and can not be applied to a single individual . Nevertheless , if a supposed " cure " for aging or anyhow for senile decay is to be tried out on , for example , a population of mice , the only measure of its efficacy that scientists will accept is the degree to which it changes the life table of the mice from its ordinary senescent form into something more closely approaching the exponential die-away form of a population in which senescent changes do not occur . The orderliness , predictability , and ostensibly programmatic character of senescence has tempted many biologists to believe that senescence has evolved in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a process ? Weismann thought of aging as an agency of population control : it eliminated the unfit from the population and so made room and gave extra food to the young and vigorous . It is , however , difficult to see how this would work in terms of an evolutionary process , for if the chronologically older animals were indeed decrepit and generally speaking in the way , the supposedly young and vigorous should have no difficulty in elbowing them aside from the trough and would not- in reality be put to a great disadvantage . Weismann was a shrewd man , however , and he may intuitively have suspected that populations do better when propagated through relatively young germ cells ? particularly oocytes ? than through older germ cells . This is certainly a possibility , but no one has yet demonstrated that any mammal does better for being propagated from generation to generation through young oocytes ( in effect young mothers ) than through old oocytes ? something that would make an interesting subject of research . Medawar and Williams independently propounded the idea that an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any positive advantage in the process of senescence as because of the absence of any disadvantage . Their argument turns upon the fact that , even in the absence of a process of senescence , the numerical contribution that chronologically older animals can make to the population of the future becomes progressively smaller , so that the force of natural selection is progressively attenuated . This is not because the chronologically older members of the population need be supposed to be less fertile , but simply because the forces of mortality acting upon them are so fierce that as time goes on fewer and fewer are left . This will be true even of a theoretically immortal population exposed to a real mortality , for example of 10 percent per annum ? an unnaturally low figure . The life table of such a population will follow that of the exponential die-away curve already described . One consequence of this is that selection in favor of or against genes that come to expression somewhat late in life will be very much reduced , and indeed one method of eliminating a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of action until the latter period of life . Conversely , it can be shown that if there is genetic variation in the chronological age at which a gene comes to outward expression , then the time of expression of a gene conferring selective advantage will be progressively brought forward in life , while that of a deleterious gene will be progressively postponed ; a genetic disaster that befell an organism only at an age which in fact it never reached could not affect its wellbeing in any way . Once begun , any senescence , i.e. , deterioration with increasing chronological age , would be a self-reinforcing process . The process of senescence being already established in human beings , the force of selection against any genetic disabilities that occur late in life is reduced virtually to zero . This " genetic dustbin " theory of senescence almost certainly represents part of the truth , but equally certainly is not the whole truth . Whatever the truth may turn out to be , it is now certain that senescence is part of the natural order of things . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utmost care and circumspection . In any case the present incentives to do research into aging are not very great . The time span of the research is too long for those anxious to make a reputation in a hurry .  | The Great Amateur PEOPLE OFTEN WONDER whether human beings are capable of further evolution . Leaving open the question of whether any such evolution will occur or not , the answer is assuredly yes . Human beings have a vast reservoir of inborn diversity and an open or " wild type " breeding system which would make it possible for that diversity to be fully exploited ; they have no extreme specialization such as the anteater 's snout or the fly trap of an insectivorous plant ? no specializations that commit them to one particular kind of life . Indeed , from an evolutionary point of view man is the great amateur among animals . A merely professional animal would probably have committed itself by structure or function to a bondage it could not now escape . It is , however , very unlikely that any major evolutionary change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth ; but although it is unlikely that any major evolutionary change will occur , small systemic changes in gene frequency ? which are , in a technical sense , evolutionary ? are quite likely to happen : the age of pandemics may not yet be over . Certain viruses which may hitherto have lived in comfortable symbiosis with man might become pathogenic in a mutant form , and if so the differences of genetic makeup could have a profound effect on our susceptibility , and our genetic makeup will change accordingly . There may also be a change in the tempo of aging : as life extends farther and farther beyond the age of reproduction or as reproductive age becomes younger and younger , so the pressure of natural selection against harmful late-acting genes will progressively diminish and any senescent changes for which they are responsible will take even deeper root in the human population ; this effect will become increasingly obtrusive because the chronological age at which people admit to getting on in years ? e.g. , to being middle-aged ? gets later and later . Our reasons for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the first place the exercise of any artificial selection over very many generations would require acquiescence in the rule of a long dynasty of tyrants , and although such a tyranny is not inconceivable , such consistency of policy assuredly is . In the second place ordinary or endosomatic evolution is no longer a principal agency for securing fitness in human populations . Many important differences distinguish the long-term prospects of human beings from those of any other species of animal . For good or ill , human behavior is purposive : we do things because we intend to or fail in spite of our intentions . Human behavior can , be genuinely purposive because only human beings guide their behavior by a knowledge of what happened before they were born and a preconception of what may happen after they are dead ; thus only human beings find their way by a light that illumines more than the patch of ground they stand on . The argument that human beings will not survive because most other animals have not is poor : the possibility of acting on good intentions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral judgment on the ground that it has evolved because of its survival value is not a valid counterargument : survival value is the very quality we are claiming for it . At no time since the early years of he seventeenth century have human thoughts been so darkened by , an expectation of doom . In their apocalyptic moods people nowadays foresee a time when pressure of population will become insupportable , when greed and self-interest have so far despoiled the environment that the life of man will once again be solitary , poor , nasty , brutish , and short , when international rivalry has brought commerce and communications to a standstill . We , on the contrary , do not believe that any evil which may befall mankind can not be prevented or that any evil which now besets it is irremediable . It is not reasonable on the one hand to cower at the havoc science and technology may cause in achieving the Baconian ambition of " effecting all things possible " and at the same time to exclude from all things possible the discovery of remedies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science and then look away in disappointment , partly because they mistake the nature of the problems and partly because they have grown so used to thinking of science and technology as a secular substitute for the miraculous ; but most of the problems that beset mankind call for political , moral , and administrative rather than scientific solutions . Another way in which human beings are amateurs in a professional world is that not all human activities have survival as their principal purpose . Even though our extracurricular activities are those that make life worth living ? Mozart 's piano sonatas and the paintings in the Uffizi Gallery amplify the human spirit and not human DNA ? nothing will reconvert human beings from amateurs into pros more quickly than the imminence of mortal danger . In this context , being professional may imply submitting again to the tyrannical philosophy of reproductive advantage that has brought us this long way already . Clearly some compromise between the amateur and the professional is called for . Although it is widely regarded as frivolously superficial to suppose that the human predicament is remediable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to realize that acquiescence in the notion of impending doom is a principal factor in helping it to come about . In spite of all its frightening groans and rattles , the great world machine can still be made to work , but not unless it comes to be accepted that the long-term welfare of human beings can not be secured by policies that promote the interests of some people at the expense of others or even the interests of mankind at the expense of other living things . The unity of nature is not a slogan but a principle to the truth of which all natural processes bear witness . The lesson has been learned too late to save some living creatures , but there may just be time to save the rest of us.                     