@@494814

Peter Brooks on art Meeting of Poet and Painter Christmas is coming , the books are getting fat . And few fatter than this super-luxurious two-volume Matisse , with its 541 illustrations , 155 of them in color . It is all very sumptuous , and the quality of color reproduction high ? though not adequate to Matisse , and the volumes are marred by some sloppinesses in production . Yet this is not the standard cofHenri Matisse by Aragon , translated from the French by Jean Stewart ( Harcourt Brace Jovanovich ; 2 vols. , $75 ) fee-table art book . The illustrations this time are chosen to support and exemplify a text . There is a real working relationship between text and image : the book is constructed , and not simply ( despite the overblown price ) a piece of commercial packaging . It 's not , on the other hand , properly a piece of art criticism : it is n't analytical , it does n't attempt to give any coherent picture of Matisse 's career , or any estimate of his place in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal meditation by a poet and novelist , whose own place in 20th-century letters has at least minor distinction , on an artist whom he admired from youth , then finally met , to establish a rather formal friendship , dialogue and collaboration . The result is this marriage of a series of texts composed over a period of 27 years with a profusion of images , constituting what Aragon prefers to call a novel , with Matisse evidently the protagonist . The book can be seen as belonging to a long and more or less glorious French tradition : the Meeting of the Poet and the Painter . Diderot and Greuze , Baudelaire and Delacroix , Valery and Degas are among the most distinguished couplings that come to mind . To append oneself to this tradition is not without its dangers , and Aragon 's effort is inevitably marked by a certain pretentiousness . This is in part a product of the excessive nonchalance of the form : an assemblage of several different fragments written on different occasions ( for periodicals , catalogues , lectures ) , interspersed with more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , comments by Matisse himself , followed by Aragon 's comments on the comments . There is a kind of implicit claim that every word generated by the Meeting is worth pietistic preservation . In fact , different strata of the text are of differing value , running from the merely celebratory to the illuminating . A dispassionate editorial eye would have done no harm . Yet , all told , the Meeting comes off , and both Aragon 's text and his choice of images provide considerable insight into Matisse 's creative processes . By the time the two met in fact ? in 1941 , in wartime Nice ? Matisse was already in his 70s , yet standing on the threshold of further innovation and renewal as important as the breakthrough of Fauvism which he led some 35 years earlier . He says to Aragon , " I have been working at my craft for a long time , and it 's just as if up till now I had only been learning things , elaborating my means of expression . " And , in a further remark which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' 40s and early ' 50s , and the audacious simplicity of the Vence Chapel : " It 's just as if I were someone who is preparing to tackle large-scale composition . " The presence of Matisse is impressive in these pages . It is not so much his presence as a man ? we see very little of the private man in Aragon 's text : even in the chapter on " Pain , " he remains curiously distant , formalized ? but as a hero of art , someone whose dedication to his medium , its rules and possibilities , is so total that one understands at once why he should become , even to younger , avant-garde generations , the modern painter who mattered most . What Aragon conveys well is the gravity of a heroism that comes from an exploration to their outer limits of the means of expression of an art , the patient , unceasing reinvention of the language of painting . It is in his attention to this language that Aragon is most valuable , most consistently serious and illuminating . He does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little compositional analysis . He is , on the other hand , intelligently aware of the unbridgeable gap between written language , however poetic and evocative , and the painterly language . Through this awareness , he is able to evoke , indirectly but cogently , the painter 's sign system , his vocabulary and syntax . " The importance of an artist : ' Matisse tells him , " is to be measured by the number of new signs he has introduced into the language of art . " Matisse explains and illustrates some of the signs he has perfected : the sign-for-a-hand , the sign-for-a-mouth , propounding the ways in which representation must simultaneously obey the laws of mimesis and the laws of its own syntax . " I do n't paint things , " Matisse states , " I only paint the differences between things . " The sentence suggests by implication the postulate of modern structural linguistics that sense is created by oppositions and spacings . Aragon ? whose first allegiance , as a surrealist , was to modern literature 's most audacious play with language ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analysis , to the idea of meaning generated from a relational field . He does n't ever really undertake a systematic " linguistic " discussion of Matisse 's work , but his remarks on the use of line and color , his extrapolations from Matisse 's own reticent comments , are suggestive . They let us glimpse , at least , the dynamic of the process by which Matisse was to spend a lifetime in anxious daily experimentation , painting over , simplifying , correcting color values and spaces , reaching finally the art of the scissors , the bold decoupage of form and meaning . From his concern with Matisse 's signs , Aragon is led into a reverie over the objects which , like faithful servants , people Matisse 's canvases through the years : vases , a pewter pitcher , three or four armchairs , a ceramic pot inscribed Tabac Royal , and so on . Aragon assembles them for group photographs and juxtaposes their photographic existence to their artistic transformations . This is all a bit coy . Yet it has its point . We do gain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , both his reaction to their sensuous presence and his search for syntactic arrangements . We are brought close to what Wallace Stevens called " The poem of the mind in the act of finding/What will suffice . " Aragon is at home in the atelier , following the labor and exaltation of appearances recorded and fixed . He gives , for instance , different versions of the same painting ( Matisse would often have a version photographed before proceeding to paint over it ) , and groups paintings that are thematically or structurally analogous . Then , in a sequence called " The Comedy of the Model , " he shows Matisse , in a series of photographs , during a drawing session , where the model becomes , as Matisse puts it , the focus of the painter 's energy . The focus exists only to provide a leaping-off point : the model is necessary , Matisse contends , so that he may depart from it . Some of Aragon 's most interesting pages turn on this question , the problem of " Theme and Variations , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creation of the " theme " picture , slowly elaborated from the model in charcoal . Then come the variations , in pen-and-ink or pencil , where the hand moves rapidly , with strokes of radical simplicity . " Every face has its individual rhythm , " Matisse has written ; and in these " inspired " drawings , that rhythm is fixed as a hieroglyph of character . The problem of likeness and representation leads ? one might almost say seduces ? Aragon into a meditation whose point of origin is one Madame de Senonnes , a rich and evidently sensual bourgeoise whose portrait , by Ingres , hangs in the Nantes Museum . With Matisse 's own authorization , Aragon sees her as the mythic progenitor of a certain type of sensuality that preoccupied the painter , a type marked by a swelling in the base of the throat ? a condition of thyroid deficiency , remarked by medical commentators on Ingres ? and by a particular voluptuousness . Madame de Senonnes becomes Aragon 's means for linking together , in a kind of demonstrative chain , Matisse 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is something close to the best pages Aragon did , nearer his surrealist days , in such a book as Le Paysan de Paris : a rich , arcane , subterranean illumination . of a creative fixation . One of Aragon 's fragments is the " Defence of Luxury " which , some 20 years ago , provoked Alfred H. Barr ( in his maDECEMBER 16 , 1972 jor study of Matisse ) to ironic commentary : a committed communist who must in defending Matisse provide an apologia for luxury ! But the point is that Aragon has not felt his communism to be in opposition to his sensuality and his feeling for the voluptuous presence of the world , which he so admires in Matisse . And the point is further that Matisse , whom we think of as preeminently the painter of interiors , of bright , high-windowed rooms opening onto sun-filled gardens , and of a rich profusion of objects , bursting flowers and fruits , is only superficially the preserver and celebra --  tor of a bourgeois ' world of luxurious objects . As Aragon notes , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beauty of things made available through the patient , ever-renewed elaboration of signs for things ? of their syntactic equivalents , of a painterly language which strives toward the Baudelairian " luxe , calme et volupte . " And as the perfect simplicity of the last work ? the Vence Chapel , the paper cut-outs ? suggests , the objects and the richness were always there simply as the imaginative support of a supremely balanced and luminous art .                     