@@491746

Restored Villages Our Living Heritage By James S. Wamsley I have this recurring dream , and it 's the fault of my friend the preservation expert . " Someday , " he said , with the far-off look of a general contemplating future battles , " one of us will he lighting to save a hamburger stand . " In my dream it 's 400 years from now . 1 have just excavated the remarkably intact ruins of a McDonald 's hamburger outlet . The faded letters of its red and yellow plastic sign still proclaim OVER 15 BILLION SOLD ; inside the cinder-block walls , the original grille still bears smudgy traces of the great American food staple of 1973 . Local historical societies have pledged support and newspapers recount my trowel-and-brush triumph in feature stories . My McDonald 's is on the verge of registration as an official landmark , and the National Geographic Society is considering a grant . And then the state highway department comes along and starts a new road that will engulf the site . But all is not lost . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his private desert ) a four-century-old American suburban shopping district . He buys my ruin just ahead of the bulldozer 's arrival and carts it off for installation beside his authentically re-created used car lot , whose other side will he enriched by a recreated Colonel Sanders fried chicken franchise . Frivolous as it may first sound , this Ghost of Restoration Future holds up rather well when viewed by the dawn 's light of 1973 's restoration climate . Given any continuation of the trend somebody , somewhere , someday will reconstruct a specimen of today 's ubiquitous fast food shop . And I hope they do . After all , as my expert friend says , the hamburger emporium is as much a part of our lives , society , design and building techniques-our culture , if you will  --  as an I gth-cen tury tavern was in its day . America 's nostalgic craving for yesterday 's real estate is hardly unique to our place and time . Nineteenth-century Europeans went honkers over romantic reproductions of Gothic towers . They even built new ruins , from scratch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is generally limited to careful and scholarly maintenance of national architectural treasures , to which a central government holds title . Nowhere else is the nostalgia scene as fragmented and personal , as uncontrolled yet sophisticated , as  --  well  --  tumultuous as in the United States . . Here you can sample the past in restorations from near-medieval Jamestown , Virginia , to such late 19th-century preservations as Virginia City , Montana . There is no shortage of periods , architectural styles , furniture epochs or vanished crafts being revived . Among experts there is disagreement on the subtleties of **35;3493;TOOLONG , but the average visitor is satisfied if he has some fun while adding a bit of painlessly acquired knowledge about his country 's past . He may do this in a village restored to its approximate look at some former time ; he may do it where there is a collection of authentic structures brought in and reassembled on a new location to suggest a past that might have been ; he may do it in a historic zone emparceled in some larger community . ( He may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are slim . at such anomalies as fake " Western " towns in the Appalachians or at ersatz " frontier stockades " near Eastern battlefields . They are amusement parks , making hay out of counterfeit history . ) Towering above them all , casting a benign shadow by which  --  like it or not  --  all others are measured , is Colonial Williamsburg , Virginia . Williamsburg has , or is , everything : a colonial town so drenched in history that it is called the cradle of American democracy , a place where supremely important deeds were performed by a roll call of the founding fathers ; a long period of post-Revolutionary quietude when it became almost a ghost town ( meaning no " progress ' disturbed its ancient cha racier ) ; finally , a hairbreadth save.by one of the great American fortunes ( Rockefeller ) joyously pumped into Williamsburg to restore it as a living , working town . The quirks of fate preserved Williamsburg in accidental amber . Destiny could not have picked a better town for such rare kindness . Its character from its very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the rickety hodgepodge of Jamestown , Virginia 's colonial authorities moved a few miles inland , to higher ground , and laid out the ideal capital . Its heart was mile-long Duke of Gloucester Street , down which - from spacious grounds at either end -- the new capitol and the new College of William and Mary faced each other . Zoning was strict . Lots had to be a certain size ; the setback of buildings assured a pleasing uniformity . As construction progressed , the beautiful simplicity of Queen Anne style melded into the more elegant lines of early Georgian . It was one of history 's pinnacles of architecture and design . Williamsburg reached its blazing apogee just before the Revolution , when such patriots as George Washington , Patrick Henry . George Wythe , 116 Thomas Jefferson , and George Mason gathered at the capitol , in gracious homes and in such centers of revelry and social tone as the Raleigh Tavern . Years later , Jefferson would write of his training ground as student , lawyer , politician and sophisticate : " Williamsburg was the finest school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But during the Revolution the Virginia capitol was moved to Richmond , and Williamsburg went to sleep for nearly 150 years . It remained a backwater country town where people had neither the money nor inclination to replace the old . When John D. Rockefeller , Jr. , arrived on the scene in 1926 , he found about ninety original houses , shops , taverns , public buildings and dependencies . They included the Wren Building of William and Mary , Bruton Parish Church , the courthouse , the powder magazine and Market Square Tavern . Quietly , Rockefeller put his fortune to work , buying the town . Soon reconstruction began on such vanished major buildings as the capitol and the royal governor 's palace , based on meticulous archeological research and such fortunate discoveries as original drawings and maps . In all , about fifty buildings rose again from their original foundations . More than ninety acres of gardens and public greens sprang forth in a new eruption of 18th-century horticulture . The visual feast of Williamsburg gorges the mind with beauty today , though it can also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this impeccable world for the chrome and plastic one outside . Yet the restored town 's beauty and completeness is also a backdrop for the life of Williamsburg , which may be the most important contribution of all . Walk through any of the town 's more than 200 period rooms and you feel the original occupant just stepped out for a minute , perhaps to stroll over to the capitol to hear a strenuous address by Patrick Henry . The farthingaled votaries who guide you through Williamsburg 's interiors do not prattle stale memorized lines ; they explain with the patience and fire of true scholars . The rooms range from humble to elegant , and display a priceless inventory of mostly American and English antiques . Special concerts bring the squeak of flute and the trill of harpsichord to the visitor 's ear . The town 's twenty craft shops put a still livelier cast on Williamsburg 's arrested calendar . A partial list includes the cabinetmaker , silversmith , clock-maker , printer , cooper , miller , papermaker , music teacher , flaxbreaker and basketmaker . Children gravitate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gunsmith , a personable young man from the Virginia mountains who taught himself to build long rifles the ancient way ; the weaver , a Scot who learned his trade as an apprentice in a traditional Highlands shop , and who enlivens his demonstrations with bursts of Scottish folk song ; and the cooper , another Briton who amazes viewers with near magical skill in forming staves by a few dexterous hatchet chops . The craft shops employ more than 100 full-time craftsmen and interpreters ( at least two per shop ) which adds up to a lot of sparks and chips flying and many piquant smells and sounds in the air . This action , the reestablishment of crafts almost extinct now being performed before one 's eyes by masters , is presented with intimate details of the great and ordinary of centuries ago . Thus the Pasteur-Galt Apothecary Shop flourishes a faded ledger revealing an unpaid bill of seven shillings charged to Patrick Henry ; at the miller'swindmill , we learn the wherefore of that mysterious pile of sawdust : millers , bless their rascally hearts , often adulterated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the pure product for themselves . Regrettably the soaring costs of doing 1773 's jobs in 1973 brought a change last January in Williamsburg 's old admissions policy . Formerly , visitors could spend days wandering in and out of the shops at no cost . Now the craft shops come under a new system of general admission tickets giving entry to more than thirty colonial homes , shops , and public buildings . And no more can the visitor buy handcrafted products from the hands that shaped them . The goods are now for sale at two new stores on Duke of Gloucester Street , opened specially for the craft shops ' items . The result is a still better job of interpretation in the shops , and better training programs for apprentices . A merchandising distinction is necessary . Visitors to Williamsburg sometimes are confused over the difference between the output of the craft shops  --  plainly limited  --  and the vast trove of goodies available to them at the old town 's Craft House . The Craft House is the restoration 's official display and sales area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at last inventory , 1,500 different items ranging from porcelain to wallpaper to silver to furniture , made by selected manufacturers to rigid standards of approval by Williamsburg 's curators . The quality and authenticity are superb ; the prices are not cheap , a fact which does not deter the battalions of matrons who daily assault the Craft House with checkbooks aflutter . The final touch in sampling Williamsburg 's 18th-century life should be  --  with a bow to man 's mortality  --  at least one repast in any of the town 's three 18th-century taverns . At Chowning 's , the King 's Arms , or Christiana Campbell 's , a costumed waiter will tie a half-acre sized napkin of snowy linen around your neck , place such ancient utensils as three-tined forks before you , ply you with tankards of ale , and beamingly assist in selection from the Herculean menu . Life in 18th-century taverns was convivial , hedonistic , sometimes boisterous , always robust . Today 's revival at Williamsburg lives up to that glorious tradition . It 's a long way from a restoration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the hills of Pennsylvania . Yet St. Peters Village , one of my favorites , demonstrates that a revived period town does n't have to be tracked with the footprints of the founding fathers , or filled with architectural wonder , or even very old , to be-interesting and fun . St. Peters ' comeback only began four years ago , and it 's still a relative unknown , so you can probably be the first of your particular set to discover it . Tucked away in a deep forest near Pottstown and only forty or so miles west of Philadelphia , St. Peters is a collection of mid-19th-century cottages topped by a jaunty little hotel of three mansarded stories , circa 1868 . The place flourished , oddly , as both a granite quarry town and summer resort during the Gilded Age ; then slipped into 20th-century oblivion . But St. Peters never was sold by the family which has owned all the land thereabouts since 1731 , the Knauers . In the late 1960 's the great-grandchildren of the Knauer who built the town decided to dust it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refurbished the hotel , hired a splendid chef specializing in haute cuisine . They encouraged artisans and shopkeepers to set up in the cottages . The mix worked . Set beside the boulder-strewn falls of a lusty stream called French Creek , St. Peters is a lighthearted addition to the sometimes serious family of restored villages . The final note of antic gaiety is struck by Mrs. Lena Knauer , astonishingly beautiful at age eighty-five , who entertains nightly in the hotel 's high Victorian dining rooms . Dressed as a grande dame of the Grant era , she plays the musical saw . Pennsylvania , that cornucopia of the American past , has other community sites where I like to half-close my eyes and project time backwards a century or more . Hopewell Village is one ( coincidentally , it 's near St. Peters , in French Creek State Park on the fringe of the Dutch country ) . This tiny settlement is an early American iron foundry town . The National Park Service administers it as a historic site , and it 's a treasure for those interested in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in all its Vulcan glory , is an authentic pre-Civil War foundry , demonstrating everything from making charcoal to smelting the ore , and even casting fancy iron stoves from original molds . In the homes of the workmen , costumed women demonstrate such cottage crafts as spinning and weaving , candle dipping and bread making . Hopewell Village is a bona fide site , but over at Lancaster . another Pennsylvania outdoor museum operates from a different concept . The Farm Museum of Landis Valley is the Keystone state 's tribute to its rich agricultural heritage . It 's a collec117 tion of authentic buildings brought in from other sites where they were threatened with destruction . At Landis Valley the rural eighteenth and nineteenth centuries come to life in homes , barns , inns , shops , Conestoga wagons ( they were made on nearby Conestoga Creek ) and even a one-room school . Museum buildings hold an indescribable collection of early equipment . One day last year , I watched an old farmer , nearly ninety , patiently demonstrating to younger men the art of making rye bundles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thatched roofs in Pennsylvania ; he was said to be the last living man who knew the technique . I hope he succeeded in passing it along . On the north side of the St. Lawrence Seaway , the province of Ontario offers a prime restoration that should be better known by travelers from the United States . Upper Canada Village , near Morris-burg , 260 miles east of Toronto , is composed of buildings brought in from other sites . But there 's an interesting distinction on why it all happened . When the Seaway was under construction , the engineering requirements decreed that several ancient communities along the old St. Lawrence banks would be flooded . Concerned Canadians saw the inundation as an opportunity to re-create a new community typifying life in early 19th-century Ontario . Thus the demands of progress actually spurred a major restoration which otherwise probably would never have occurred . Upper Canada 's character is best described as the genteel frontier . Log cabins with lace curtains . There are forty-odd buildings , including fifteen houses , two taverns , two churches , assorted barns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . My vote went to an amazing sawmill , driven by a crude and noisy water turbine that drove a big vertical saw on an imprecise and grunting journey through massive logs . Another water-powered mill ( c. 1840 ) turns out wool blankets . Appropriate food is served at Willard 's Hotel , dating from 1850 . A horse-drawn bateau will waft you along a primitive canal , or you can rough it on an ox-cart ride . Upper Canada is an enchanting place , touched with just enough of a slightly different culture to make it all the more appealing . Roughly the same historical period is covered by that Massachusetts standout , Old Sturbridge Village . It , too , is a collection of moved buildings , brought together as a statement of the simple , hard life that formed the character of interior New England . There are outstanding collections of choice homely antiques , with reproductions for sale . But New England was known still more vividly as the home of seafarers , and Captain Ahab himself would feel comfortable on the cobblestones of Seaport Street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Greenman Brothers once built square-riggers , the nautical past comes alive in some forty exhibition buildings ; they line wharves that provide the last home for Mystic 's collection of sailing ships . The Charles W. Morgan , apparently the last survivor of America 's whaling fleet of the nineteenth century , is the star . The Morgan and her associated exhibits -- if studied seriously  --  bring more than a touch of sobering reality to the rose-colored romanticism often linked with the age of sail . It was a hard , stingy , often bitter Life . The crews of the Morgan lived little better than galley slaves . Even the captain 's lot was tough in his claustrophobia-inducing cabin . You 'll come away wondering how any normal-sized man could 