@@431944

 | NEW LIGHT CHOLESTEROL @# FOR THE PAST 25 YEARS cholesterol , a fatty substance both manufactured in the liver and derived from such foods as meats , shellfish , dairy products and eggs , has been the focus of a major medical debate . One side argues that people who have high levels of cholesterol in their blood face far greater risk of heart disease . The other side cites examples of people who eat eggs , butter and well-marbled beef , and who have high blood-cholesterol readings , yet live long lives apparently free of cardiovascular disease . Now the arguments are subsiding , for recent studies have turned up key pieces in the puzzle of how the body handles cholesterol . The emerging picture shows that the fatty substance does not float around in the bloodstream like lumps of clay waiting to be plastered against a coronary-artery wall . Instead , viewed under an electron microscope , cholesterol looks very much like oil drops in vinegar . It is carried through the blood by a series of molecules called lipoproteins . And not all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bad ' and good ' lipoproteins , " explains Dr. William P. Castelli , director of laboratories for the Framingham ( Mass . ) Heart Study , which has followed the health of 5127 people for 28 years . Of the bad guys , the worst are low-density lipoproteins ( LDLs ) . They pick up cholesterol that originated from the diet or was manufactured in the liver and deposit it in cells for processing . If , for dietary or other reasons , there is more cholesterol than is needed for daily metabolism , some of the LDLs may 100  | deposit their fatty cargoes on the interior linings of coronary arteries . Eventually this build-up of fatty plaques sets up conditions for a heart attack . Now come the high-density lipoproteins ( HDLs ) in their white hats . They work in the opposite direction : floating around in the bloodstream , they pick up excess cholesterol and appear to carry it back to the liver for excretion from the body . " This explains why we sometimes see patients with high blood-cholesterol levels who do n't fit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examination of their blood reveals they have a higher ratio of HDLs to LDLs than is normally found . As a result , excess cholesterol and saturated fat are carried out of the system before they can do any harm . " Ironically , researchers had this important knowledge at their fingertips over 25 years ago . In 1951 , Dr. David P. Barr , then professor of medicine at Cornell University Medical College , suggested the possible relationship of high-density lipoproteins and heart disease . He found that there was a " relative and absolute reduction " of these molecules in atherosclerosis . Unfortunately , these findings went largely unnoticed . Nobody suspected that HDLs might be carrying cholesterol out of the body . " We simply assumed that all fats wound up one way or another in the cells , " says Dr. Castelli , " and therefore concentrated only on total blood-cholesterol values . " This produced a shotgun approach to the problem of heartattack prevention . If a patient had an above-average cholesterol count , he would be advised to cut down on eggs , dairy products @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than average , he might be put on a rigid low-fat , low-cholesterol diet and a cholesterol-lowering drug . Still there were gnawing questions . What about those patients in their Sos and 90s , and even entire families , who ate all kinds of " forbidden " foods , exhibited high readings , yet did n't have any signs of cardiovascular disease ? Why were women seemingly immune to the effects of cholesterol during their childbearing years ? Then , in 1969 , the Framingham investigators decided to take a closer look at the lipid system . From their pool of people being studied , 2815 were randomly picked for measure of their lipoprotein levels and total cholesterol values at intervals of two years . A clear-cut pattern emerged , showing ? as Dr. Barr had predicted ? that the level of HDLs is a powerful indicator of heart-attack risk . Those who suffered heart attacks during the first four years of the study had lower HDL levels in their blood than others in the group . Generally , women had significantly higher levels of HDLs than men of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ menopause . Older men who seemed to be im-101  | mune to atherosclerosis had clearly , ore favorable HDL-to-LDL ratios . But why do some people have more HDLs than others ? For ten years Dr. Charles J. Glueck , director of the general clinical research and lipid research centers of the University of Cincinnati Medical Center , has monitored families with a history of longevity . Comparing these individuals with a control group from the general population , Dr. Glueck found that many of the long-lived family members had very high levels of HDLs in their blood . In the general population group , the ratio of cholesterol carried by LDLs to that carried by HDLs was 2.5 to i , while in the longevity group , the ratio was much lower ? approximately i to I. And heart attack occurred in these families roughly five times less often than in the control group . Dr. Glueck and his associates are convinced that a genetic trait , or inherited factor , is often responsible for the protective ratio of " good " lipoproteins in the blood of long-lived families . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It appears that one family in 500 may have this natural protection . " Laboratory analysis of blood samples can determine whether you are one of the few lucky , protected individuals . But if you are not , what can you do to create a more favorable HDL-to-LDL ratio ? ? Prudent Diet . In 1971 , Dr. Edward Kass and a team of medical researchers from Harvard Medical School studied the blood pressure of more than 200 advocates of a macrobiotic diet in Boston . The bloodpressure readings of these people , who adhere to a vegetarian diet , were well below both the local and national averages for their age and sex . Collaborating with Dr. Castelli , the researchers examined the diet 's effect on the lipid system and found that virtually every one of the vegetarians studied had extremely high HDL-to-LDL ratios . Says Dr. Castelli , " It appears that a low-fat , low-cholesterol diet can have almost the same effect as a favorable genetic trait . It is n't necessary , however , to adopt a totally vegetarian regimen . Our investigations show that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cereals , fish , little meat and no junk foods , such as fatty hot dogs and potato chips , can do just as well . " ? Exercise . Regular , vigorous exercise ? particularly jogging and running , which strengthen the heart muscle and increase blood flow to the heart ? emerges as an increasingly important factor in creating a favorable level of HDLs . Records collected for the past eight years by Dr. Peter Wood and his group at Stanford University in Palo Alto , Calif. , show clearly that long-distance runners , who have a much lower risk of cardiovascular disease than the general population , also have extremely high amounts of HDLs compared with the national average . Moreover , they appear to have fewer LDLs , making the favorable ratio even 102  | more dramatic , and increasing the protection against heart attack . " Fortunately , you do n't have to run marathons to get a protective effect , " says Dr. Castelli . " When a group of medical students in New Orleans participated in an exercise program which combined jogging , bicycling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week , their HDL levels began to climb after only seven to ten weeks . " These studies leave some critical questions for you , the individual : Do you have a favorable enough ratio of I-HDLs to LDLs to carry away excess cholesterol ? Or do you need to improve your ratio through dietary changes and regular exercise ? A test which measures cholesterol carried by high-density lipoproteins is now available to help doctors pinpoint those people most likely to suffer a heart attack . Many medical labs already have incorporated it into their standard blood-analysis operations and , because the procedure is relatively simple , most labs should be able to perform the analysis in the near future . Not all physicians , however , are fully aware yet of the value of lipid analysis and , it should be noted , not all scientists are convinced that the answer to cholesterol-plaque build up lies with lipoproteins . " So to many cases , " says Dr. Castelli , " It may be up to the patient to request the analysis . " Dr. Glueck suggests that such blood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eight years of age ? with another analy sis performed at adolescence . These two readings should give the doctor a good idea of whether the individual is protected . If LDLs are excessively high , appropriate dietary precautions should be observed in combination with a program of regular exercise . Monitoring lipoprotein levels can be valuable at any age , Dr. Castelli emphasizes . There is some evidence that you can clear away already established fatty plaques and reverse much of the blood-vessel damage that has already been done . " At the least , " says Dr. Castelli , " you can take steps to halt the process ? before it halts you . " Considering that it 's your life at stake , this is n't too much to ask . @# 103                     