@@251887

It was a piece of contemporary American theater , exceeded in noise , confusion and chaos only by a performance of Hair . General Motors ' annual meeting last week in Detroit 's enormous Cobo Hall played to an S.R.O . audience . Coolly and with remarkable stamina Chairman James M. Roche presided for 61 hours , answering a determined barrage of questions . This year , for the first time , the usual chorus of gadfly critics was bolstered by a group of more formidable antagonists . Among them : Harvard Biologist Dr. George Wald , Avis ex-President Robert ( Up the Organization ) Townsend and the new U.A.W. president , Leonard Woodcock . <P> At issue were two precedent-setting resolutions proposed by " Campaign G.M. , " an organization started by four young Washington lawyers inspired by some of Nader 's efforts . One of the proposals would have added three " public representatives " to the corporation 's 23-man board . The nominees : Environmentalist Dr. Rene Dubos ; Betty Furness , who was Lyndon Johnson 's consumer adviser ; and the Rev. Channing Phillips @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sit on G.M. 's board . The second proposal would have created a Shareholders ' Committee for Corporate Responsibility , authorized to spend one year investigating and increasing the company 's contributions " to the social welfare of the nation " - such as its efforts to produce safer and nonpolluting cars . The critics argued that G.M. 's management should respond to a wider constituency-not only shareholders and suppliers , dealers , employees and customers , but everyone who breathes the air that cars pollute . <P> Silent Shareholders . As expected , the proposals went down to overwhelming defeat , winning less than 3% of the vote . One reason for the lopsided result was that G.M. 's shares are widely dispersed among 1,400,000 stockholders , and the campaign 's organizers , with only a $30,000 budget , could not afford to contact all of them . More important , the outcome reflected the entrenched power of management , backed by a silent majority of shareholders who usually give the company their proxies to vote as it wishes . <P> This time the company had worked harder than ever to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Motors as a means through which it can challenge the entire system of corporate management in the United States , " declared Chairman Roche in a statement mailed to shareholders . The corporation claimed that any new directors representing " special interests " would introduce " partisanship " to the board . As for forming a special shareholders ' committee , the corporation contended that it " would do serious damage to General Motors and to its stockholders and to the general public , " because it would be " structured for harassment and publicity . " G.M. also sent every shareholder a 2-1 - page booklet defending its record on safety and pollution . Roche himself wrote to the heads of foundations , bank trust departments and university endowment funds , urging them to vote down the proposals , and G.M. officials followed up with phone calls .                     