@@491594

Could it be that a change in our food habits as simple as adding high-fiber bran to our diet could give protection against a whole battery of Westernized man 's diseases ? Hope springs eternal in the human breast and hopeless optimists always stand ready to believe . Others among us , including our most learned nutritionists , may feel immediately offended at the thought that experts could have overlooked something so basic  --  and be first inclined to cast doubt and disparage the whole subject . But the history of medicine proves repeatedly that we medics have erred in the past in our reluctance to change accepted doctrine . To carefully investigate any new proposition with an open mind is still the best method of furthering scientific discovery , and so it was with an open mind  --  not too much optimism and not too much skepticism , but an " I 'm from Missouri , show me " attitude  --  that SatEvePost editors embarked on a high-fiber diet fact-finding mission to South Africa . The Republic of South Africa is a haven for physicians and epidemiologists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have , for their entire lives , never tasted of our Westernized refined carbohydrates , who rather have eaten their own " unsophisticated " diet containing surprisingly large quantities of unrefined carbohydrates and undigestible fiber , often in the form of coarsely ground maize , millet or other grains . The other condition which makes South Africa an exceptionally unique area for observing diet and disease is its interface with the still-primitive tribes being treated with sophisticated medical care , brought to the hinterlands by missionaries , volunteers and the South African government . Huge native populations now have available to them the latest medical examinations and treatments . Volunteer medical specialists are dispatched into remote areas by helicopters , and some mission records are available dating back for many generations . We wanted to interview clinicians in the hospitals , many of whom have never published any papers or done research at all , but who have treated the illnesses of primitive Africans by the thousands . We wanted to query the everyday pathologists who never publish in medical journals , butwho have performed hundreds of autopsies on primitive Africans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primitive subjects showed as much atherosclerosis ( cholesterol plaques causing " hardening of the arteries " ) as ours . The story we heard from involved medical personnel all over South Africa came through loud and clear . In a nutshell , appendicitis , diverticulitis , hiatal hernia , varicose veins , cancer of the colon , diabetes , myocardial infarctions , rheumatoid arthritis , obesity , gallstones , kidney stones and hemorrhoids are far less prevalent in the primitive tribal populations and become slightly more prevalent in populations described as rural where the diet habits are only slightly Westernized . In urbanized populations such as Soweto , a black township outside Johannesburg , where traditional " mealie meal " is scorned in favor of white bread with cola drinks , the Bantus ' diseases begin in an orderly progression to parallel those ofour own Westernized population . No self-respecting person of scientific inclination would dare say that just because these people do n't have our diseases until they eat our foods , it then follows that eating our foods gives them our diseases . However , it is enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is what the scientific community in South Africa is doing . Baboons in a large Pretoria research center are being fed a diet of whole meal dark brown bread . An exact number of their counterparts are getting white bread . Blood samples from both groups are being tested . Researchers there , branching out from the fiber thesis , point out that the magnesium in the maize is felt to be protection from kidney stones , which are almost unheard of in tribal villages where maize is the staple diet . We were shown rat kidneys filled with multitudinous stones which resulted when the rats were fed magnesium-free diets . ( White populations have kidney stones ninety times more frequently than people from primitive Bantu tribes . ) No investigation of diet-correlated disease in South Africa could be undertaken without an interview with Dr. Alexander R.P. Walker of Johannesburg , a prolific contributor to the medical journals of most countries of the world . We have him to thank for giving us his source for transit time markers . These are harmless capsules made of completely inert vegetable dye which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capsule , the time it takes to find a red stool is one 's transit time , and there are very interesting statistics to prove that long transit times are associated with cancer of the colon , diverticulitis , hemorrhoids and many other unpleasant diseases . Through his good offices , we were able to buy a supply of the red capsules and to leave a trail of transit time participants in some of the most interesting social circles of Cape Town , Pretoria and Johannesburg . A few competitive sports , believing their fast transit times might set a new record , have sent cables and telegrams asking to be entered into the records . Bantu youngsters , however , are almost always the winners , with average times as short as eight to twelve hours . ( Studies show that the average fiber intake of an African Bantu is about twenty-five grams a day , which is a far cry from the average three grams consumed by most Americans . ) Our best White African transit time has been eighteen hours , and in North America the winner has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Another runner-up is an alleged sixteen hours claimed by a house guest from Paris . A gourmet food editor , after a visit to Indianapolis , sent a postcard in red ink announcing , " The red messenger arrived after forty-four hours . .. , " but she protested it was n't a fair test since travel by air to her home in New England must surely have altered her regular schedule . She demanded a retrial . In case you 're , thinking this talk about transit time is too indelicate a conversation to be included in an article about food , then neither is a colostomy a very pleasant subject anywhere , especially unpleasant I 'm sure if it belongs to you or someone you love . The apparent truth in all this is that compacted food in the form of feces moving through one 's bowel often contains carcinogens ( cancer-causing chemicals ) which , in direct contact with the intestine wall , could induce cellular change leading to malignancy . It also seems evident that impacted bowels often come from food which has " hardened " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diverticulae become infected and cause a great deal of trouble . The facts were more convincing than we had hoped . Dr. Walker 's sincerity and honest dedication made everything he had published seem more relevant . He told about 100,000 black African workers having had only twenty-two cases of appen- dicitis when their diet had consisted of large amounts of mealie meal , legumes and vegetables , whereas 850 such operations would be expected in a corresponding group of whites on their Westernized diets . In the tribal villages , my African host , an internist , told me patients with a " painful abdomen " are not operated on for appendicitis without being asked these questions : " Do you have any money ? " " Can you write ? " " Do you own a wristwatch ? " If the victim answers " No " to all of the above , he is not presumed to have been subjected to our Westernized food long enough to be a candidate for appendicitis , and an appendectomy would not be undertaken . Although as yet no one seems to know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there seems to be much less osteoporosis in the elderly than in Westernized populations . Elderly Africans have only one-tenth the number of hip fractures that our elderly Westernized diet population have ... according to a researcher in Pretoria . " Studies on bone densities of elderly Africans have shown much less attrition of bone in these people than in the Westernized diet population , " he reported as a result of his research . A psychiatric nurse , trained in Dallas , and now head of the government 's nurse training programs for all of the South African homelands , said tribal royalty were usually obese because they would be accustomed to having Western diet delicacies brought to them . Any tribal African patient , she said , who arrived claiming he was royalty but was not obese , would be suspected by the native black medical personnel of being an impostor . In all of the clinics and research centers we visited , we found friends of Dr. Denis Burkitt . There are everywhere those who subscribe to his theories of high-fiber diet lessening degenerative diseases  --  some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the highest respect and acclaim , even from his medical colleagues who might not personally underwrite every one of his theories . For example , a prominent nutritionist in Cape Town believes from a strictly pragmatic point of view that white sugar is an economically efficient food to give energy to the hungry in a continent where there are still some starving populations . He believes that if a diet contains not more than 15 percent unrefined carbohydrates , the sugar can be metabolized without doing harm . It begins to appear that it might he much more important to include plentiful amounts of high-fiber foods in the diet than to eliminate every last trace of sugar . We would like the largest numbers of people to enjoy the immediate health benefits to be gained from adding bran to their diet , since this is the easiest and quickest way to remedy a lifestyle of eating which has become fiber-depleted . After bran , we should begin to include other foods just down the scale from bran in fiber content . We have listed these major fiber-containing foods for your easy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Evening Post editors have set about to make the most enticing cookbook of fiber and bran recipes that has ever been assembled . No matter how effective in disease prevention the high-fiber diet will turn out to be when all the results are in , many years from now , those who have had the fun of following Charlotte Turgeon 's superb and infallibly tasty recipes and Fred Birmingham 's merriment will be the winners . Most of our recipes do not require more than supermarket shopping . For example , in a high-fiber kitchen , you would never be caught without a box of all-bran cereal on your shelf ready to be used for breakfast , for baking , for desserts , etc . Bran is one of the easiest ways to change to a high-fiber diet overnight . You 'd have to eat a peck of tossed salad to give you fiber equivalent to a four-ounce serving of all-bran . We 've undertaken to make the most delicious dishes incorporating high-fiber foods , without neglecting the calorie counter . For those who wish to limit cholesterol , we recommend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an egg is the single highest source of cholesterol in the average American diet , as well as a source of considerable saturated fat , so it seems only sensible to use the substitute in cooking and baking . Since the primitive tribal Africans ' blood vessels are free of cholesterol plaques , and we also noted that dairy products are quite rare in their diets , there is good rationale for using corn oil margarine rather than spreads and shortenings containing animal fats . Selected recipes from the forthcoming Saturday Evening Post Fiber and Bran Better Health Cookbook are included here , along with a chart listing foods which are high in fiber content on page 77 . We urge Post readers to send us their own high-fiber recipes . After testing we will pass them along to others . Without a doubt , adding bran to your food and consuming more high-fiber foods of all kinds will speed up your transit time . A faster transit time is associated with less disease so it makes sense as a health insurance measure . Should you or your physician wish to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Saphron Laboratories , 50 Corn mando Road , Johannesburg and from Fred Ingram Pharmacy , 56 Kotze Street , Hillbrow , Johannesburg .                     