@@493823

" It is a good moment to be a social historian , " Eric Hobsbawm once said , " social history is at present in fashion . " Surely he is right . Two very different books in American social history bear on his conclusion . One is a paradigm of sorts , the kind of historical monograph that is increasingly issuing from university presses ; the other , in the Studs Terkel model . comprises interviews with former workers and managers at Arnoskeag. once the largest texfile mill in the world . Neither book , mercifully . reflects the current scholarly obsession with coding , cross sectional dating , cohort analysis . occupational mobility . Susan Hirsch , in a study that is a model of its kind , certainly makes liberal use of census data and other statistics , but also draws upon traditional sources ? such as memoirs and newspapers as well as secondary works to support her observations about the values and lifestyle of Newark 's antebellum craftsmen and the impact of industrialism upon them . Industrialization was the most fundamental process in our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as Hannah Arendt once wrote . " ever increasing rapidity from one shape into another . " She might well have been commenting upon early 19th-century American society when it first sensed the loss of the old permanence and predictability . Ms. Hirsch finds these reflections appropriate to pre-Civil War Newark . and meticulously and thoughtfully reconstructs the world we have lost . Newark , the paradigmatic small town in 1820 , was that world . It wan governed by a pre-factory economy -- of small shops , a largely local market , household production , the putting-out system and apprenticeship , cultural homogeneity . Church , family and workshop were the institutions forging social unity . Class , social , business and marriage ties knit the family , and the artisanal world view prevailed : pride in manual labor , in the finished product , in the tight-knit Protestant community which prized the labor theory of value and honored skill , independence , craft status Then , with industrialization , the old order did indeed shift and change . Nor was it only a matter of technological change ; industrialization would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class antagonisms , and even- tually new ethnic conflict as well . In effect , it generated a new social milieu , transformed work and its meaning , and putan end to the old order . In what is a beautifully articulated account of apprenticeship , Ms. Hirsch shows how it began to wane , as the complex skills required for craft mastery became less necessary , as craft itself moved out of the home . Equally suggestive is her succinct description of the growing specialization ? " task differentiation " ? which threatened all , elevated a few , and lowered most to the status of permanent journeyman . This division of labor , combined with the rise of the wholesale market , meant an end to the exclusively retail trade , to the casual work rhythms and work day of a pre-factory people . It deprived the craftsman of control over the whole product . over wages , over his very tools , which he ownedin a household economy . Not that this shift from a pre- factory scale of work and life occurred only or suddenly . Rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at different rates , depending on the type of product and , even by the 1860s , factories were not mechanized in a recognizably modern way . Slowly , laboriously , block upon block , Hirsch builds the history of Newark 's industrial plant . It is a largely familiar story ? of how the need for cheap labor drew young women into the labor market ? single girls mostly , as in Lowell and Waltham , who then contributed to the family income : of how the famine Irish , driven out of the Emerald Isle in a vast diaspora , flooded into America 's seaports creating a pool of cheap and unskilled workers , Marx 's reserve army of labor ; of how they destabilized the social order and speeded the end of the community 's ethnic and religious homogeneity : of how they displaced the Yankee girls in their primitive factories ; of how the Germans , with greater skills , entered the old crafts at all levels ; of how immigration and industrialization inevitably catalyzed amounting ethnic- religious antagonism which paralleled and of ten overshadowed mounting class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traumatic impact upon the craftsman 's family ? and not only in the PhY I f g pod t ' outside the home . In so doing , it also isolated women and failed to open comparable work opportunities for them . It transformed the father 's role as well , from that of leader in household production into a breadwinner and authonty in the consumption unit . This patriarchal and increasingly nuclear family of the artisan remained Protestant and Yankee , and thus emulated the Victorian bourgeosie 's childrearing practice and ideology : offspring did not work in the factory , and retained the old values of industry , thrift , sobriety , a stubbornly held sense of expectancy . Industrialization , moreover , privatized the family . It produced divisions between " life " and work ? with " life " being the isolated family unit and work the factory where diverse ethnic groups mingled and even cooperated in job actions . Tamara Hareven 's workers are already caught up in the factory system , but their experiences at Amoskeag in the early 20th century partly overlap those of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transition of Yankee farm girls from rural homestead to the textile mill and the nearby boarding houses ; the same parallel transfer of rural morality ? be it that of farm girl or French Canadian peasant ? with its compulsory church attendance and prohibition of alcohol ; the same ethnic displacement as unskilled Irish labor , as well as a smaller number of skilled German ( and Scottish ) textile workers , replaced the Yankee girls ; the desperately poor French Canadian peasantry which pushed the Irish up and/or out of the industry . Moreover , the usual hiring practices prevailed , with Irish workers in the dye rooms , the French families in spinning , the English and native-born as over-seem . So did the ethnic hostility and ethnic exclusiveness ? as expressed in marriage practices ( you had to marry " your own kind " ) , social clubs , Irish and French Canadian Catholic churches , the French-speaking schools and societies . Ultimately , however , it is the differences beteen Amoskeag and Newark that are most striking Not only was early 20th-century Manchester . New Hampshire ethnically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was also a company town . Not a typical one to be sur , Management owned tenements housing only 15 percent of the work force . But its control of police and political life , its endowment of churches and social clubs , On pater- nalism , which so discouraged union organizing ; and its master plan for pre-Card War Manchester made it a company town in ways that Newark never was . Then , too , French Canadian operatives w not like the Irish new- coers Anere ideal labor force , they were docmile , industrious . parochial in habits and outlook . They put the entire family into the mills , much like practices in early 19th-century Rhode Island mills and unlike their coreligionists . Women were not excluded . Indeed they made up more than half the operatives , and there are any testimonials from them to the on-t he-tob interdependence and sociability of mill labor . Amok ' , is not limited to the operatives . The " second hand " or shift foreman , the overseer , the company agent , the Boston-based owners ? all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often humble , beginnings , and give us the management viewpoint ; they also limn a paternalism in which the top administrators sponsorsewing classes , underwrite gardens for work- ers , know their employees by the first name . Amoskeag 's operatives depart from the conventional wisdom about textile workers . Rather than feeling alienated from their work , as Blauner and others characterize textile labor , many had a deep attachment to this work , a sense of pride in It that was thought reserved only for pre-factory craftsmen . One Scottish woman . a gingham weaver . recalled how she spent her " happiest times in the mills ' ; a French Canadian couple found it " a toy to go to work " ; and others remembered their time in the mill as a golden age or at least not a period of great unhappiness ? or happiness . Of course some felt enslaved by the machines , but a surprising number found their work varied enough to be Interesting , or they enjoyed the socializing which mill tubs , not the isolated household , could provide . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capitalism , but it apparently did not prompt a sense of powerlessness , and , however routinized , it was not considered monotonous or degrading to many Amoskeag workers , possibly owing to the national origins of the labor force , which gave it different aspirations and perspectives from native-born , Protestant , male operatives . For the rest . these Amoskeag interviews reconstruct the worker 's life and social existence . They tell us about work in the weaving , and spinning rooms . about management speed-ups ? the - stretchouts "  --  and about the hated efficiency , time-and-motion experts ; about life on the outside ? the movies , plays , so ? - ? ? 1 clubs , and boarding houses with their hot meals and cold rooms ; the antagonisms of Irish and French , or Irish and Greeks ; the big French Canadian families which never escaped their own ignorance in sexual and social matters or their own poverty , the humble Irish messenger boy who rose in life , Horatio Alger fashion ; the French Canadian girl with an extraordinary desire for education . in defiance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " history from the bottom up . " Amoskeag recalls Masters 's Spoon Rom . Anifrologythough its voices are still on this side of the grave . It belongs to the literature of testimony , offering up insights on work experiences , family practices , patterns of sociability , the pleasures and miseries of life and labor in Manchester . Taken together , both books give us history that is not reflective of " clerks in the Swiss Custom House. - Rather they begin to answer Henri Lefebvre 's plea for the study of oonfallifi : they remind us that history can be walked through , seen , tasted , eavesdropped upon as well as studied by scholars , that historians should also visit the tenement backyards , the crowded cafe 's , the market place , the work site itself ; they tell us about the values and aspirations of the sunken two thirds of the great human iceberg . Tamara Hareven , one of the most intelligent and prolific among contemporary historians of the family , has disclosed something of the life and work patterns of men and women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she has also warned us about the insufficiency of simple formulas , the complexity of men and societies , and we are M her debt for It .                     