@@480019

lost through the encumbrance of Eximbank with the time-consuming , tedious , and expensive process of preparing gratuitous assessments of foreign environmental effects , the result would be disastrous . There are two principal reasons for this foretaste of disaster . In the first place , America no longer enjoys a technological or manufacturing advantage over foreign competitors , and therefore the deciding factor in a major foreign sale is often the speed with which Eximbank 's financing can he provided . Eximbank usually reacts to applications for loans within a matter of a few weeks : but a study by the General Accounting Office showed that environmental impact statements , on average , delayed projects by thirty-one months . Clayton Norris , as deputy vice ? president of Eximbank 's Project Development Division , has said that " speed is of the essence in working out successful export transactions . " Bank loan procedures , if subjected to environmental impact statements , " would totally collapse , and bank operations would come to a virtual standstill . " The other difficulty would arise ont of the breach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inquiries in the foreign countries involved , and then promulgating these findings in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act , or NEPA . THE CONGRESS , perhaps unconsciously , delivered a powerful weapon into the hands of the public-interest law movement when , in 1969 , it enacted NEPA , according to which the government is required to assess the " environmental impact " of any " major " federal acmtion ( " major " has never been precisely defined ) . This assessment takes the form of an " environmental impact statement , " to be written by the federal agency contemplating the action in question . From the point of view of the public-interest lawyer , by now comfortably ensconced within the Environmental Defense Fund , or the Natural Resources Defense Council , or the Sierra Club Legal Defense Fund , or the Center for Law and Social Policy , and financed in part by the proceeds from the sale of Ford automobiles , the beauty of the environmental impact statement was that it could always be challenged in court . A show of solicitousness for the environment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the red flag to the bull . Hitherto unsuspected complications within the environment could always be pointed out , thus delaying and delaying a proposed project . It was precisely in anticipation of such legal challenges that preparing environmental impact statements became such a time-consuming business . And it was in the tireless deployment of such legal challenges that the environmentalist eventually became the object of the following suspicion : that it was n't so much the smoke coming out of the factory chimney that he objected to , as the activity going on within the factory itself . Not long after the environmental movement was firmly established at home , the discovery was made that it might also be possible to " export " environmentalism . The legislative history of NEPA is not precise on the subject of how far the " environment " extends , perhaps because Congress did not anticipate the fanaticism that would come to surround the subject . The act had said merely that " major federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human environment " shall be assessed : but Sen. Henry Jackson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during a floor debate on October 8 , 1969 , the following summary of an earlier House-Senate conference : " Although the influence of the U.S. policy will be limited outside its own borders , the global character of ecological relationships must be the guide for domestic activities- " It was not long before lawsuits were filed challenging federal actions overseas . In 1974 , for example , the Sierra Club and the Natural Resources Defense Council jointly sued the Atomic Energy Commission and Eximbank , requiring that they prepare impact statements on the " nuclear power export program . " The issue of the extraterritorial application of NEPA was not decided in court , however , because the Atomic Energy Commission agreed to prepare a " generic " impact statement I.as opposed to a specific one ) . Concern about nuclear reactors seems reasonable enough . As Charles Warren , the current chairman of President Carter 's Council on Environmental Quality , has pointed out , Eximbank authorized a loan of $277 million in December , 1975 , to permit the Philippines to buy a nuclear reactor , and an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have revealed that " the Philippine Islands are located in an earthquake belt . " B UT THE SUIT FILED in early 1977 by NRDC against Eximbank shows that environmentalists are also prepared to go to unreasonable lengths in pursuit of what is now occasionally described as " environmental imperialism . " For several years , the Republic of Gabon has been attempting to build a 440-mile railroad across the heart of Ga . bon . The railroad , passing through swamps and forests , is intended to link the mineral-rich interior of the country to the coast , and so has been described as " the backbone of that country 's future economic development . " Numerous firms from different countries have joined in its construction , including a New York engineering firm , which was engaged to provide " consultative quality control services " for the continuing construction of the railroad . This firm received a $4.6 million loan commitment from Eximbank . ( The entire railroad will cost more than $1 billion . ) " Modest though the American involvement may be , " Charles N. Brower of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has now become the basis of an attempt to extend the procedural provisions of NEPA into the heart of Gabon . " The construction may endanger the " habitats " of gorillas , crocodiles , buffalo , and elephants , the NRDC has warned in its suit against Eximbank , and so environmental impact statements are called for , statements that would no doubt take months if not years to prepare , inevitably resulting in the government of Gabon 's purchasing its quality control services elsewhere . The lawyer in the Justice Department responsible for defending Eximbank against this challenge turned out to be James W. Moorman , who was appointed Assistant Attorney Generalof the Lands and Natural Resources Division in May , 1977 . Other lawyers in Washington who have been following this case have expressed doubts as to Moorman 's enthusiasm for defending Eximbank , because before coming to the Justice Department , Moorman was , from 1971 to 1977 , executive director of and attorney for the Sierra Club Legal Defense Fund . It was , of course , the Sierra Club that had brought the almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Moorman , while executive director , had recommended that the Sierra Club be party to that suit . Moorman 's subsequent involvement in the case raised the thorny matter of " conflict of interest , " but with a difference . Normally the phrase refers to the possibility that someone might give financial assistance to former colleagues by construing the government 's rules in such a way as to help them . In Moorman 's case , the appearance of conflict of interest was ideological , not financial . Although he had worked for the Sierra Club , and was now in the position of defending against a challenge by NRDC , the two organizations shared many of the same goals and had . in fact , jointly sued the government at least ten times while Moorman was with the Sierra Club . Moorman and Thomas B. Stoel , Jr. , counsel for NRDC , had served as co-counsel in the case that delayed construction of the Alaska pipeline for three years . It was certainly arguable that the " extreme " environmentalist ? as Moorman had been characterized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination ? would put loyalty to the environment above all else , and so would be a weak advocate for the government against environmentalist attack . Moorman 's subsequent handling of the case did indeed raise the question of where his loyalty lay . A key issue whenever an environmentalist sues the government is that of " standing . " That is , why should environmentalists in Manhattan be allowed to sue the government on behalf of Gabonese crocodiles , unless the environmentalists are able to show that they are personally going to suffer injury as a result of the death of such crocodiles ? To show such a connection in court is to show one 's legal " standing . " Thomas Stoel , representing NRDC , had candidly written to the Justice Department on the " standing " question : " Our problem is that we have virtually no knowledge of the current activities of the Bank , so we have no way of demonstrating the connection between those activities and the plaintiffs ' members . " In which case . why had NRDC brought suit in the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was representing a cause . Despite the exceedingly weak legal position adopted by his current adversary ( and former partner ) , in September , 1977 , Moorman withdrew an earlier government motion challenging NRDC 's standing -- -a motion that had been filed while the Justice Department was still staffed by Ford Administration appointees . Thus , at one stroke Moorman was able to dismantle what he himself , in his public-interest lawyer days , had described as " the greatest hurdle in a suit with the federal government . " There now would be no challenge to NRDC 's standing . In December , 1977 , Moorman was attacked in a memorandum filed in court that suggested " an appearance of impropriety " in his role . He then temporarily withdrew from representa . Lion of Eximbank , pending a " review " of his status by the Justice Department 's Office of Legal Counsel . Eight months later , this review still has not been completed . Meanwhile , the Eximbank case is being handled by Lois Schiffer , chief of the General Litigation Section under Moorman . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Policy , an organization that " has been steadily plugging the extraterritorial application of NEPA since it was enacted , " according to a Washington lawyer who has taken an interest in this case . Moorman , incidentally , is also an alumnus of the Center for Law and Social Policy , having worked there as a staff attorney from 1969-71 . As Charles N. Brower noted in December , 1977 , " Mr. Moorman is at least bureaucratically the man in charge , " and even if he no longer is , it is clear that Eximbank will continue to be defended by lawyers more interested in the environment than in exports . Eximbank has expressed dissatisfaction with its legal representation , and has tried , unsuccessfully , to be represented by lawyers of its own choosing . A S MATTERS HAVE DEVELOPED in the past few months , all three branches of government are wrangling over the complex matter of exports , the environment , and the law . In January , 1978 , the Council on Environmental Quality issued draft provisions unequivocally stating that the " application of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . " The environmentalists had won this round , but there was much criticism of the draft regulations within some government departments , notably Commerce and State . Rowland Evans and Robert Novak wrote a column in which they claimed that " the proposed regulations were drawn secretly by CEQ planners with apparent help from the Natural Resources Defense Council . " Although this has not been independently confirmed , it is at least suggestive that Gus Speth , one of three CEQ members , was formerly an attorney with NRDC . In response both to the NRDC suit against Eximbank and to CEQ 's draft regulations , the National Legal Center for the Public Interest ( a public-interest law firm that , among other things , keeps an eye on what other such firms are up to ) held a conference in April on " Environmental Restraints on U.S. Exports . " The overall tone of the conference was critical of the overseas application of NEPA . Florencio Acosta , Mexico 's Minister Counselor for Commercial Affairs , citing a recent cancellation of Eximbank financing in his country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the immediate repercussions on U.S. exports was the cancellation of steel pipe orders at a time when relief to the ailing U.S. steel industry would have been welcomed . Fortunately for Mexico , the existence of other money markets permitted the construction of the pipeline to develop a resource that would help better the conditions of our people . " An administrative assistant to Sen. Adlai E. Stevenson III , of Illinois . attended the conference and reported back his findings , and , in the early summer , Stevenson introduced to a bill extend . ing Eximbank 's charter an amendment that would have exempted the bank from any restrictions under NEPA . ( Illinois is one of the principal exporting states . ) But this amendment , which was passed by the Senate Banking Committee , was then " sequentially referred " to the Senate Committee on the Environment ? chaired by Sen. Edmund Muskie of Maine -- -where it was , as expected , unanimously opposed . ( Maine has more scenery than factories . ) There the matter stands in Congress . Senators are undoubtedly hoping that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to being either against exports or against the environment . Although the Carter Administration at the middle levels is riddled with environmentalists , word does seem to have reached the White House , belatedly , that all the world does not necessarily love them . Public-opinion polls on the subject tend to be misleading . If asked " Do you want clean air ? " nearly everyone will say yes . But if the phrase " at the expense of exports " is added to the question , most people will say no . Weeks passed , then months , and still CEQ 's draft regula. tions were not recast into final and unalterable form . An Executive order has been issued that steers circumspectly between the extremes of commercialism and environmentalism , but that does not resolve , once and for all , the disputed legal question of whether Eximbank must conform to the provisions of NEPA . As for the progress of the lawsuit against Eximbank at U.S. District Court , there has been very little action there , either , in recent months . In fact , eighteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not filed a reply ? a most unusual delay , and one that has been condoned by the judge in the expectation , it is thought , that one or another branch of government would alter the statutory rules in such a way as to render the case " moot . " But to date this has not happened . Everyone involved is waiting for someone else to make the first move . Eximbank meanwhile continues to operate without the burden of NEPA on its back . The American government , it has been said , is constructed in such a way as to make it extremely difficult for those newly arrived at the seats of power to do good . For this we may be grateful , however , because as the events surrounding the Eximbank case suggest , the same machinery of government makes it just as difficult for well-intentioned visionaries to do harm .                     