@@490742

A KEPORTER AT LARGE IESSONS of profound interest are to be drawn from the British ex- perience in combatting epidemic heroin addiction , think , but to specialists deep in the debate over the next steps in American narcotics policy those lessons are of a peculiarly frustrating kind . The experience of the British has sprung from the premise they have maintained for fifty years : that heroin ( like morphine , codeine , and other opiates ) has a legitimate place in medicine  --  primarily as a powerful analgesic , which any doctor may lawfully prescribe for his patients as his judgment dictates , hut also as a tool in the management of addiction , which the British view as a medical responsibility even when an addict seems to need maintenance on regular minimum doses of heroin for months or years . When an outbreak of heroin addiction began in England in the early nineteen-sixties , it was soon detected by the Drugs Branch of the Home Office , whose civil servants monitor narcotics addiction and maintain an index of known cases . The outbreak was small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gray market in heroin prescribed to addicts legally but with lunatic generosity by a dozen or so general practitioners ; some of the prescribing doctors were clearly venal and some overwhelmed by-the pressures Of dealing with addicts . The outbreak touched off considerable alarm . The British government and the medical profession reacted not by banning heroin in general medicine  --  the stuff is still routinely used in cough syrup , for instance  --  but by deciding that addicts are a unique sort of patient , who can no longer get heroin prescribed by general practitioners ; instead , addicts must now report to treatment clinics for their heroin prescriptions . The clinics were set up early in 1968 . The British like to view them as no more than a modification of their long-term medical approach to heroin and addiction , but since the THE BRITISH AND HEROIN  --  II clinics opened , the growth of addiction has slowed markedly , so that , although it is not wiped out , it seems by any standards normally applied to public-health problems to he contained . Therefore , the natural urge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settle immediate American policy issues  --  which may explain why that experience has regularly been misunderstood and misrepresented by both sides of the American debate . Some Americans advocate that the United States should experiment with allowing addicts to have heroin legally . Others propose , on the contrary , that the United States should expand existing programs that treat heroin addicts by long terms of compulsory hospitalization , and that this should he done through the legal process known as civil commitment which would amount to treating addicts the way psy - diodes were treated before tranquillizers and related drugs revolutionized psychiatric care . These two extremes define the axis along which the dispute over American policy will move in the next several years . The dispute will grow more strident as the chief present treatments  --  methadone maintenance and abstinent therapeutic communities come closer to enrolling all the addicts who will volunteer for them , whit leaving many addicts , perhaps a majority , untreated . There are already signs that this is happening : in the past year , in several cities , including New York and Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dramatically . But the lessons to he learned from the British approach to heroin cut crazily across the grain of the immediate American debate . Even the success of the British approach raises problems in applying its lessons to America , for the British have incomparably fewer addicts to deal with , and , even today , have only a small and unorganized illicit market . The United States may y et come to heroin maintenance for addicts . The legalizing of abortion suggests how suddenly the weather can change , But if we do turn to lawful heroin for addicts , the reason can not he that we have learned from the British success anything as simple and gratifying as that the British methods would work here . Of the lessons that Americans can legitimately draw from the British experience , the first and most salutary are lessons of doubt . Heroin swirls in meth . Addicts share myths about heroin that enslave their behavior more than the pharmacology of the chemical itself : abrupt withdrawal is an agony carrying the risk of death ; once hooked , always hooked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been one . Doctors , sociologists , policemen , social workers , science writers , and bureaucrats who deal with addicts share powerful myths about heroin , too , some of which they have learned from the addicts , and it is often difficult to break down the amalgam of truth and error that makes these professional misconceptions so durable . The dialogue , insofar as there has been one , between British and Americans working in drugs has been particularly useful in exposing such misconceptions . This dialogue began to be widely audible in the United States in the mid-sixties , when the English recognized their own problem , and has grown in intensity since their clinics began functioning , five years ago . For one thing , the clinics provide a frame , unrivalled elsewhere , for research into heroin addiction . Their clients are not merely a good sample but almost all the addicts there are in Britain -- or so I have become convinced . The numbers are manageable . The records have been kept . The addicts are known personally . There is nowhere in British addiction research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ center of the drug map of any large American city . The greatest disappointment is that only in the last couple of years have the English begun to explore the most interesting areas for research  --  such as what makes the difference between addicts and non-addicts from the same background , and which methods of treatment work best . But the lessons of clinic practice are as valuable as research . For five years now , clinic staffs have been learning how to prescribe to addicts , what psychiatric and social services are necessary , and what progress toward getting addicts off drugs is possible . They have been learning these things not just with a relatively tractable , relatively well-motivated sample , such as the volunteers for methadone or for abstinent communities in the United States , but- - once again  --  with nearly all the addicts there are in Britain . In five years , ideas have evolved , sometimes surprisingly , and diverged . Researchers , clinic staffs , and civil servants are by no means unanimous on such fundamental issues as whether an addict can he stabilized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a better drug for addicts than heroin , whether many heroin addicts are able to hold employment , whether many can successfully quit drugs , whether , despite the clinics , the small black market in heroin is a serious danger , and whether heroin addiction in Britain will reemerge as an explosive social problem . The divergences of English clinical practice also have salutary lessons for Americans . Surely the myth most deeply rooted in the rock of American experience is the one about the extreme pleasure heroin gives , the east of becoming addicted , and the agony of withdrawal . Addicts and the general public the world around , and many doctors in the United States , believe that the truly addicted who are abruptly deprived of drugs will experience severe distress from purely physical causes . The effects of withdrawal have hardly seemed open to question . Much of the original research on withdrawal was done at the United States Public Health Service Hospital in Lexington , Kentucky , in the nineteen-thirties . There various scales were drawn up that , with portentous scientific precision , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as ranging from mild , including yawning , Iacrimation , rhinorrhea ( runny nose ) , and diaphoresis ( sweating ) , through moderate , with tremor , gooseflesh , anorexia ( loss of appetite ) , abdominal cramps , mydriasis ( dilated pupils ) , and marked restlessness , all the way to severe , with vomiting , diarrhea , priapism , and weight loss of five pounds or more in twenty-four hours . In one version or another , the Lexington scales are still quoted , often in the tell-tale original jargon , in medical textbooks . Yet as a practical matter the relation between the signs and symptoms of withdrawal and the degree of addiction is peculiarly hard to determine . Though urine tests can tell the fact of heroin use , no test exists to tell the quantity . The English clinics hear out what anyone who deals with addicts would expect  --  that even in the most familiar , least coercive settings addicts will he about the combinations and amounts of drugs they take and the distress they feel without them . Some addicts can fake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heroin in the United States varies so widely in dilution that not even the addict can really know the severity of his addiction . He reckons it in dollars . The fact remains that many American doctors have seen addicts go through extreme and degrading displays of withdrawal . English heroin addicts reckon their habits in ten-milligram pills , and there is no question that they have averaged far higher daily doses than American addicts can afford . In England , a few addicts , whose habits have been established for more than a decade and who are now attending clinics , are injecting six grains or more a day three hun-dred and sixty milligrams  --  and a grain a day , or six pills , is cited by clinic doctors as typical of addicts getting any heroin at all . Despite these quantities , many English doctors are skeptical about the demon of withdrawal . They ca n't doubt that it terrifies their addicts . They do n't question the need , when taking someone off narcotics , to use a scaled reduction of doses , possibly masked for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the signs of withdrawal and their severity are elaborated From a slender physical basis by a robust mixture of conditioning and self-delusion . English doctors working with addicts say they have never or only very rarely witnessed a bad case of withdrawal . Most telling is the evidence from prisons . The ranking expert on this is Ian Pierce James , a forensic psychiatrist , who in the years of the changeover to the drug clinics was chief medical officer at Brixton Prison , in south London . Brixton holds adult men . Because they include prisoners freshly arrested and arraigned and sent there from all over southeast England to await trial , Dr. Pierce James saw the raw realities of all kinds of drug addiction . He now teaches at the University of Bristol and directs an inpatient drug unit at Bristol 's Glenside Hospital . On a ringingly bright West Country morning a while ago , he picked Inc up at the new railway station outside Bristol . Dark , of middle height , heavyset , and infectiously confident , Pierce James can shatter a preconception about drug @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon as we had settled into his car . There were very few addicts in Bristol , he said  --  until the end of 1971 , only two , to his knowledge . But then , in just six months , there had been at Least ten amateurish thefts of narcotics from pharmacies in Bristol suburbs ; a little later , one or two at a time , eleven new addicts had surfaced , all in their early twenties or their teens , all close kin or friends . " These are unusual in that none had first turned on in London , " Pierce James said . " They stole heroin , tincture of morphine , injectable ampules of morphine , even Nepenthe-/ ? that 's an injectable narcotic for children . They tried them all . But I would think that , of the eleven , perhaps two or three were in any way really addicted . You may say this mini-demic is very alarming , but in fact a fair proportion of the stolen drugs was recovered and no illegally imported heroin has been seized from these addicts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market . " We 're hard-liners about heroin in Bristol . Any addict who presents himself to hospital will be taken in straightaway for gradual withdrawal . Or he may be put on oral methadone , as in the States . But no injectable narcotics for addicts . People tend to stress the differences between heroin and the other drugs , like alcohol , but the similarities are far greater . And nobody would think of prescribing a bottle of gin fortified with Vitamin B1 to an alcoholic every day . I 'm taking you to Bristol Prison  --  that all right ? I 've got an office there ; I 'm a part-time forensic consultant . " We pulled up at a gateway through the thick prison wall . Pierce James bustled into a guardroom and came back in an instant with a ring of big jaahouse keys . We drove into a cobbled parking yard surrounded by steel-mesh fence . Inside the prison , the air was cool , fresh , and silent . " English criminals are a lot different from American , " Pierce James said as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more passive , on the whole . In fact , now that so many English mental hospitals have changed to open , short-stay institutions , we get a certain number of men for whom prison is really an asylum from a world they ca n't handle . " We went around a corner , unlocked a heavy door , and entered a large office furnished with a steel desk , bookcases , old maps . Addicts do n't get he roin in any British prison , Pierce James said . Instead , when they arrive they are withdrawn over a period of ten days with methadone by mouth . " In ' 68 , ' 69 , and ' 70 , at Brixton , I was seeing about two hundred and fifty people with clear signs of physical dependency on heroin every year . This was about a quarter of the known population of male addicts over twenty-one in all England . One thing about the Home Office index if there were a large number of addicts the Home Office had missed , who thus had to he getting their supplies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show up in places like Brixton . And they do n't . In those years at Brixton , I saw very few addicts who were not already on the index  --  fewer than ten per cent . " The junIde culture instills a dread of withdrawal , These were people who had kept themselves euphoric for months on the most powerful analgesic ever in use , until they had lost their tolerance for even the normal discomforts of life  --  a stiff neck , a Monday-morning depression . Abrupt withdrawal is usually no worse than a very had flu . I 've seen one case  --  one  --  with really extreme withdrawal signs , though even that was a withdrawal not from heroin but from methadone . At Brixton , I had far more trouble from barbiturate withdrawal than from heroin . Withdrawing from barbiturates , you can get convulsions , you know . " Pierce James paused , then said , " We look at addiction the wrong way round , I think . We pay so much attention to the addict , and none to the kids from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easy . I suspect you have to work at it . It 's not an escalation ; it 's an escalade , rather  --  a series of walls to he got over . A lot of individuals start with marijuana , but heroin is a citadel few ever get to . Why ? " That afternoon , as we were driving to the train , he came back to the difficulty of becoming addicted . " The real question is , put it this way , why do all the people who have been exposed to alcohol not inevitably become alcoholics ? Wh not compare a group of addicts with a group who have ' failed ' to become addicts ? " ASTUDY to reexaminethe physi-ological signs and symptoms of withdrawal  --  with results that upset received opinion  --  was carried out recently at the in-patient drug-dependence unit at the Bethlem Royal Hospital . Bethlem is historically the direct descendant of the Bedlam , just north of the Roman Wall , that was London 's first insane asylum , as early as the end of the fourteenth century . Relocated three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an affiliate of the Maudsley Hospital , Britain 's foremost psychiatric-research center ; Bethlem sprawls on the border of Kent , south of London , where there are woods and lawns , walks , cricket fields , and tennis courts  --  all told , more than an acre of grounds per patient . The drug-dependence unit at Bethlem is on the top floor of a two-story building , with day facilities and separate bedrooms for twenty-one patients , who can he withdrawn in two groups , isolated from each other not by the drug they take but by how they take it  --  by pill or by needle . The twenty-one patients , who pay nothing , arc attended by three doctors ( who also treat out-patient addicts at the Maudsley ) , two full-time psychiatric social workers , a psychologist , a full-time occupational therapist and another half-time , and twenty-two nurses . On top of all that , the unit is directed by a consultant psychiatrist , Philip Connell , who spends six half days a week there . Since the needle ward is locked , illicit drugs could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ setting in which to study withdrawal . " I have only once seen a patient in acute withdrawal , and that was in an ambulance , " he told me one morning . " There 's evidence that you can control some patients ' withdrawal symptoms with an injection of water  --  a simple saline solution . I am very skeptical about physical factors ' being the most im/.xlitant element in explaining withdrawal . Addicts have this big inventory of symptoms  --  I wonderwhether it 's not a very complicated psychophysiological conditioning . For example , there is such a thing as conditioned withdrawal , where even months after an ex-addict has been completely detoxified he can show the signs of classic opiate withdrawal , triggered just by the sight of a hypodermic syringe . " Connell set up an experiment in which a small number of narcotics addicts were given " medicine . " ? a paper cup of syrup to drink  --  once every day for twenty-eight days , which they understood was the length of their withdrawal treatment . Actually , the patients were divided at random into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decreasing doses of methadone in their syrup in just ten days , the other group taken down in twenty-one days . Connell observed the one essential procedural safeguard for all research on the effects of pharmaceuticals : he worked " double-blind , " which means not only that the patients did n't know what their doses were but also that all the staff members were kept ignorant of what was in the paper cups they were given to hand out , so that the staff 's interpretations of patient behavior would not be influenced unconsciously by knowledge of who was getting what . ( At the Public Health Service Hospital in Lexington , Kentucky , in the nineteen-thirties , the work on withdrawal was not even single-blind ; on the contrary , as a 1938 report boasted , the patients were encouraged to watch each other , " to observe for themselves that the abstinence syndrome is not so severe as they had imagined . " ) At Bethlem , Connell and his co-workers put together for each case the nurses ' daily notes , the patient 's own complaints , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which of the classic withdrawal signs showed up , and when , so that it became possible after the end of the twenty-eight days to relate them to the the physical state of withdrawal . " You 'd expect the ten-day and twenty-one-day groups to cluster differently if physical factors were paramount , " Connell said . " They did n't . The most important factor in the timing and development of their withdrawal symptoms seemed to be the nearness of the twenty-eighth day and complete withdrawal from ' medicine . ' " Withdrawal , however open to question , is a syndrome addicts and research psychiatrists can at least talk about explicitly . But at the back of that cave shimmers the question of the pleasure heroin can give . The myths about the delights of narcotics are compounded of dread and fascination . In the United States , they lie deep in the popular consciousness ; even American doctors who work with addicts will sometimes talk about heroin with a vehemence that strikes the observer as not only exaggerated but salacious . Primary sensations in some ways beggar words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Why is sweetness pleasant : Can we hope to ask the monkey with the micro-electrode in his thalamus to type a sonnet about just why he presses the lever in his cage ? Yet the pleasure of narcotics , for those who get any , must be complex  --  and not absolute , like a primary sensation . In the prevailing incoherence , one of the earliest descriptions still stands as one of the most persuasive . In 1700 , a London physician , John Jones , wrote , in a book titled " The Mysteries of Opium Reveal 'd " : it causes a most agreeable , pleasant , and charming Sensation about the Region of the Stomach , which if one lies , or sits still , diffuses it self in a kind of indefinite manner , seizing one not unlike the gentle , sweet Deliquinm that we find upon our entrance into a most agreeable Slumber , which , upon yielding to it , generally ends in Sleep : But if the Person keeps himself in Action , Discourse , or Business , it seems . like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very good News , or any other great cause of Joy , as the sight of a dearly beloved Person , &; c. thought to have been lost at Sea .... It has been compar 'd ( not without good cause ) to a permanent gentle Degree of that Pleasure , which Modesty forbids the naming of . When the opiate is heroin , taken intravenously , some addicts claim that all those sensations are luridly intense . In the early weeks of addiction , or for some established addicts with a sharply increased dose , there is reportedly a bursting euphoria in the first seconds after injection  --  a rush that is described as though an sexual comparison were inadequate . No English specialists deny the extreme seductiveness of heroin for many people . It really is an addictive drug . What they question is how the fact gets amplified  --  by credulity , loathing , or fear of temptation into myth . Thus , an American doctor of great experience in the New York City addiction programs , visiting the London clinics , once said to me earnestly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so goddam great , it 's the most magnificent feeling in the whole world , it beats orgasm , it just heats anything . " From the perspective of professionals working in the world of London drug addicts , that sounds as though mythmaking were salted with prurience . The fact is that not everybody finds pleasure in heroin , as the English are in a position to know more clearly than most Americans . Addicts on a stabilized dose find nothing more than the preNention of withdrawal symptoms ( of which even the slightest will , of course , trigger a powerful conditioned urge to seek relief with the drug ) and some tranquillizing of anxiety . Non-addicts given heroin for analgesia in England often dislike its dissociating , deadening power . " When they gave it to me when I had a coronary , I asked them to stop it , because I did n't like its effects , " a psychiatrist told me . " I preferred a certain amount of pain . " Not everybody who tries heroin for pleasure enjoys it enough to become an addict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tens of thousands of occasional users of heroin , not addicted , has on occasion been raised , and obviously could make an important difference in attitudes toward addiction and in plans for its control . But under American conditions  --  with heroin , so to speak , widely available except to investigators  --  research into occasional users would he difficult and its meaning debatable , for many American specialists automatically consign all such users to the ranks of what they call pre-addicts . In this way , fear of the omnipotent seductiveness of heroin affects the very definition of the addict ; he is grossly simplified , from somebody who has acquired an overpowering desire fin the drug 's continuance to anybody who has tried it once . n form  --  and in ambiguity of motive as well  --  the error must he classed with the temperance definition of the alcoholic or the hypermasculine definition of the homosexual . ) The result is circular . The way an addict is defined determines how many addicts will be found ; and simplified definitions that inflate the numbers reduce the apparent chance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now that the clinics are in their sixth year , have evidence that is beginning to he suggestive shout sociological questions like why some of those who try heroin do n't persist  --  Dr. Pierce James 's " failed " addicts  --  and they have amassed a great deal of information about the ones who do become addicted . A basic source is still the index of all known addicts which the Home Office has kept for nearly fifty years . Since the clinics were established , the Home Office has shared responsibility for the handling of addiction with the Department of Health and Social Security , that being the ultimate fount of staff and funds for treatment institutions of all kinds ; separately from the Home Office index , the Department of Health has kept its own , more detailed records of addicts . ( Sur-. veying the shelf where stood the black loose-leaf binders containing an up-to-date case history of every addict who has ever been to a British clinic , a Department of Health statistician said recently , " Nobody has a record of this kind anywhere else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added , " Quite a nice size for statistical analysis . " ) Certain facts are established , if not always explained . In England , as in America , heroin addiction is primarily a disorder of young men . In the mid-sixties , it was clear from the Home Office index that almost all the several thousand new addicts who made up the English heroin epidemic of those years were in their late teens or early twenties . Indeed , English addicts tended to be even younger than American ones . The most recent study , carried out by a team of physicians and sociologists at the Addiction Research Unit , at the Maudsley Hospital , considered all the addicts showing up foe the first time at any of the London clinics in the course of twelve months , and found that more than a quarter were in their late teens , that the average age was twenty-one years and eight months , and that only two per cent were thirty or over . Men outnumbered women four to one . There are some instructive contrasts to the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several social classes , and average about the same levels of education as the general populace , while black addicts have always been disproportionately few . It continues to he true that English addicts are likely to use not just one drug but almost anything available , and seemingly almost at random  --  heroin , in e tha do n e , amphetamines and barbiturates , tranquillizers , marijuana , alcohol . This situation , too , is instructive . In the last two years in the United States , such multiple drug use , which was once rare among adolescents who were experimenting with heroin , has been growing rapidly ; doctors from English clinics who have observed American treatment programs in the last several months have warned that multiple drug use may soon he as great a problem in the United States as heroin alone . Moving beyond these elementary descriptions , another English study that has just been tabulated shows that a startling number  --  thirty per cent  --  of the people who turn up once at a clinic ( usually with enough evidence of narcotic addiction to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Several of the most recent studies agree on a related surprise : that a long time elapses , on the average , between an individual 's first injection of a narcotic and his first appearance at a clinic . The lag is two years , by Department of Health statistics , or , according to an independent study , fully three years . Such new findings hardly upset the weight of evidence that the British approach has so far been generally successful in containing addiction . Yet they are puzzling . To solve the puzzle , researchers are beginning to examine more closely the patterns of drug use among the young . Clinic staffs , of course , see these patterns daily , and their impressions , though they are partial and not rigorous , offer some leads . Staffs say , from their dealings with the one-time visitors and with their regulars as well , that many hundreds of people may have experimented with narcotics without progressing to addiction  --  at least , not yet . Some English doctors go further ( as do some Americans ) , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to become an addict . The availability of the clinics and their captive clientele inakes possible research projects designed to penetrate the causes of addiction . Yet the questions re searchers face are genuinely difficult . Addicts make unreliable witnesses , with poor and self-serving memories ; the drugs they take are almost sure to have altered precisely the social behavior and personality traits that arc at issue . Thus , any research , wherever carried out , that looks retrospectively into the biographies of addicts begins with grave problems . An alternative is to work forward in time ; that is , to start with a group of addicts today  --  or , ideally , with a very much larger and younger group in which nobudv is yet using drugs  --  and follow all its members for years , in order to see what happens to them and how their fates might have been predicted . Research like that is easier in England than in America , but it is expensive anywhere , and obviously takes a great deal of time . English studies along such lines have only recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unit , where they are designed with an intellectual elegance that is the mark of the Unit 's director , Dr. Griffith Edwards Some of the most important projects will not be completed for years . But what has emerged provisionally is a social psychology of drug use , a picture of experimentation by adolescents in small , mutually reinforcing groups or subgroups of friends . Several things about the groups ' influence on their members are clear enough : for one , the repeated availability of a drug or the presence of a syringe does have an effect ; for another , an addict is very rarely given his first injection by a stranger . The decision to take drugs will sometimes hinge on almost accidental factors , but , perhaps unexpectedly , it often seems to he a deliberate choice  --  though a choice not just of a drug but of a role or a relationship . If a young man is using many different drugs , getting them through a number of small-scale black-market sources , he may avoid going to the clinics because they offer only methadone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clinics wo n't prescribe enough to satisfy him ; or because he does n't want to admit he 's hooked ; or because he does n't want to be involved with authorities , regular appointments , and so on . It is also clear that within the youth su bg rots ps drug-taking and even outright addiction are seen very differently from the way they are elsewhere in the society . Drug use may be recognized in such a group as , so to speak , an accepted way to be deviant , giving the users a recognized role to play  --  or the users may not feel deviant or " sick " at all , but normal and right . So fat- , such explanations agree with some that have been offered by a number of thoughtful people in the United States ; there has been a lively transatlantic traffic in such ideas during the past five years . English investigators are naturally trying to push them further , though the effort soon runs ahead of research evidence now available . The effort also requires that drug-taking and present-day adolescence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comprehensive sociological vision . Meanwhile , results that should be among the most useful are prothised by several more narrowly conceived studies . Some are trying to uncover the attitudes and prescribing policies of clinic staffs , and what effects these have on addicts . Others aim at getting the first objective evidence , where possible through double-blind studies , about which drugs and which treatment approaches work best for different sorts of addicts . TN the winter of 1967-68 , as the drug-dependence clinics were organized and began to open , research was far from the minds of their staffs . Their entire energies went into curbing chaos and incipient panic  --  their own as well as the addicts ' . And the addicts were wildly excited by the drugs they were taking , the life they were leading , and the public controversy they had aroused ; beneath the excitement , they were apprehensive about what the clin-ics would do to them . The clinic staffs were almost entirely inexperienced in the work ; they had almost no guide-lines , and they , too , had little idea of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Compulsory notification of new cases was to begin February 22nd . After April 16th , to prescribe heroin or cocaine to an addict would require that the doctor have a special license ruin the Home Office . What the govern-ment had arranged with the senior consultant physicians , who largely run the British medical profes-sion , was a plan that shifted responsibility for maintaining addicts from general prac-titioners in their offices to psychiatrists at the clinics . Several of the general prac-titioners who had been work-ing with addicts applied to the Home Office , but not one has ever been issued a license . The rare general practitioner who wants to work with addicts now has few tools , though he can still prescribe methadone . The treatment of addicts had always ranked low in British medicine ; the change to drug-dependence clinics gave the work only slight more prestige . Thus , at the last minute the organization of the clinics was huddled through . Fourteen out-patient heroin clinics were decreed for London . Other treatment centers were subsequently set up in provincial cities , from Belfast and Glasgow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones in London , and not all take nut-patients . Each clinic in London was attached to one of the teaching hospitals there . British teaching hospitals , though nominally responsible to the Department of Health , are powerful princedoms . Being independent of regional hospital hoards , they could he given money directly hi the Department and could then make their own decisions about housing and staffing the clinics , and , as it turned out , about almost every other aspect of policy as well . Though American visitors often find it hard to believe , there is no central direction or administration of the clinics , Several clinic psychiatrists pointed out to me that British psychiatry is different from American in ways that affect one 's understanding of the clinics . It is less highly regarded , and does not have the strong intellectual tradition that supports it in the United States . Its practices , out of which the drug clinics evolved , are those of a cadet branch of physical medicine . Among British psychiatrists in 1968 , perhaps a majority were extremely uncomfortable about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that their profession was being forced into unethical conduct just to solve a Home Office problem , the police problem of preventing the growth of an illicit market . Yet there were ironies . To possess one of the new Home Office licenses to prescribe to addicts became , instantly , a mark of status among psychiatrists ; some six hundred licenses were issued , many to the same men who had said categorically that they could n't conceive of giving an addict heroin . The licenses are only now being weeded out . Most were never exercised . Recruiting the staff for the new clinics , though fewer than two-score doctors were needed , was not easy . With the general practitioners excluded , nobody who had any experience whatever was left except a few consultant psychiatrists who had been working with addicts as in-patients in hospitals . These now spread themselves over several clinics each . Virtually all the full-time members of the clinic staffs , though , were new to addiction . Some of them say even today that they were press-ganged . The low standing of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were given , which were quickly converted from other uses and were usually cramped , even hard to find . " We were started in the old chest clinic , " I was told by Martin Mitcheson , the psychiatrist who runs the drug clinic at University College Hospital , London . " You must understand that addiction has succeeded tuberculosis as a social disease , and you hide addicts at the backs of hospitals . " Yet the shabby clinics certainly did n't seem crisp and institutional ; they almost felt like part of the underground scene , and , if anything , made the addicts feel safer . " Anyway , unlike your American street junkies , our addicts have always been doctor-oriented , " an English social worker told me in 1968 . That winter , the addicts began to find their way to the clinics  --  at first mainly the wiser , middle-class , Piccadilly , addicts but by spring also the half-articulate youths with their Cockney triphthongs . They were strung out on apprehension and excitement . They were used to wheedling and bullying their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to heroin . Their numbers gave them a sense of cohesiveness . The raw clinic staffs immediately faced the problems that had overwhelmed even the most responsible of their predecessors among the general practitioners who had prescribed to addicts . The medical skills required for dealing with a heroin addict are fairly crude , the administrative precautions minimal  --  or they are if maintenance is the first aim and no sizable black market is competing . The new clinics did have a prototype . The city of Birmingham had experienced its own small epidemic of heroin addiction a year or so earlier , and this had been fought to a standstill by John Owens , at All Saints ' Hospital there , and his head nursing officer , Edward David Hill . Dr. Owens , a psychiatrist , had come to Ali Saints ' in 1964 and set up a clinic chiefly to treat alcoholics , though he had expected to get an occasional more exotic case from Birmingham 's large population of Pakistani and Indian immigrants . To this day , his clinic sees a number of Sikhs , older @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they brewed by steeping dried poppy heads in boiling water . Thei are given morphine tablets by mouth , some as much as two grains a day . Without morphine , they ca n't function . With it , they work and support families . Owens withdrew his first young heroin addict , as an in-patient , in the summer of 1965 . By the end of the year , he was getting two or three new cases a week . By March , 1966 , there were about fifty addicts in Birmingham . Owens determined to monopolize heroin in Birmingham . Working with the police , the pharmacists , and the local medical association , he got everyone to agree that nobody else would prescribe to addicts . The practices that Owens ' clinic then evolved were simple . When a new addict presented himself , Hill , the nursing officer , would take a urine sample , complete a brief questionnaire , and then examine the addict 's arms . " It 's not ton hard to read the scars , " Hill told me . " Tattooing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pin  --  some lads would come in , swear they were heroin addicts , and show an arm full of punctures , every one made that same day with a pin . " An hour later , Dr. Owens would interview the new case . Then the addict would wait , under observation , for the results of the urinalysis . Analyses fur drugs have been developed to the point where they are not difficult , just tedious and finicky , Narcotics , barbiturates , and amphetamines can all be identified , but only h ) running three different series of separations , while extra tests for tranquillizers and even for aspirin may be necessary . ( " Poly-drugsF They 'd inject salad dressing ! " Hill told me in Birmingham . A doctor in New York had told me of an addict who once injected peanut butter . ) Heroin itself breaks down to morphine in the body before it is excreted , Some American laboratories are now equipped so that a single technician can screen sixty urine samples that thoroughly in a working day , but when the Birmingham @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the tests indicated that a new addict at All Saints ' had taken heroin that day , and if he was showing withdrawal signs , Hill said , he would he given perhaps half a grain of the drug and a syringe ; the way he injected the drug would indicate how experienced he was , and the effect of the dose could be judged . Owens began by prescribing heroin to addicts weekly , hot found they would use a week 's supply in two days . The clinic was soon writing prescriptions for each day . The clinic was open several afternoons and one evening a week , and addicts were required to come in every week at an appointed time for a talk , however brief , with Owens , and a urine check . To stop forgeries and to keep the addicts from congregating all at one place , Owens began introducing each addict personally to one of several selected pharmacists , to whom the addict 's prescriptions were thereafter mailed in weekly hatches . These sensible procedures devised by Owens and Hill have become standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention and many visitors . The Home Secretary then  --  it was the midpoint of the last Labour Government  --  was Roy Jenkins , who was personally committed to an energetic program of reforms , including , for example , a liberalization of the laws covering abortion and homosexuality . Jenkins visited the Birmingham clinic in the fail of 1967 . " As I recall , I was very encouraged by this visit , " he told me in a conversation at the House of Commons several months ago . " I was encouraged by their evident and apparently well-grounded confidence that a clinic approach to controlled prescribing could work . " That fall , Jenkins also visited the United States , with the object of learning about the drug problem , particularly in New York City . " The American experience certainly never began to move me to consider total prohibition of heroin here , " he said . " I saw a lot of people and a lot of treatment centers . The thing that struck me first and most forcibly in the United States , however , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addiction and crime . Such a link did not exist in this country , and to go out of the way to create such a link seemed self-evidently foolish . Throughout , I was firmly against criminalizing addiction , as I think we all were What was wanted was other kinds of social controls , for the addicts under medical care and also  --  very importantly  --  for the doctors themselves . We thought that a chief objective had to hr to institutionalize the care of addicts through the clinic setting , in which nobody would he acting alone hut , instead , as part of a group with checks and supports for the doctors as well as the more visible controls supporting the addicts . " Owens ' success in Birmingham with what turned out to he the pilot English clinic suggests a lesson in method for the United States . American proposals to try heroin maintenance for addicts , like one made last year by the Vera Institute of Justice , in New York , are put forward as experiments , but they are written as though the English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ storefront . The All Saints ' clinic got clear and instructive results partly because Birmingham is a town of manageable size , relatively isolated from London . Owens and Hill set out intending not to cure a disease but to corner a market Birmingham , indeed , is regarded by businessmen as a test-market town London is not ; neither is New York City . Surely any American test of heroin maintenance should begin in a small and controllable setting . American proposals for such maintenance have also envisioned medically supervised injections at the clinic . Many American doctors are disgusted by this idea ; and the addicts coming to the clinic for every shot , perhaps every five or six hours , would keep the clinic open around the clock , all week . The British never thought that that would be practical , or attractive to addicts . Yet observers fear , perhaps rightly , that the British prescribing method would he ton easily abused in the American setting , with its organized black market and its great numbers of addicts . The dilemma is not easy to resolve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ described to me with remembered disquiet , even five years later , by Margaret Tripp , the ps ) chiatrist who ran the Addiction Unit at St. Clement 's Hospital , in London , for its first three and a half years . In the early months of 1968 , all the new English clinics prescribed heroin with fair abundance . Their staffs believed they had little choice , if they were to prevent the growth of illicit sources of heroin and to keep addicts front turning to other drugs . " As you clearly realize , our purpose at the beginning was to sivItece the buggers , " Dr. Tripp said . " But a lot of my leagues would cheat themselves about this . When the general practitioners were prescribing heroin  --  ah , that was vicious . ' But when I give heroin it 's medical treatment . ' " We talked in the kitchen of her house in Colchester , an hour northeast of London , while she fried sausages for her children 's lunch and then put out cheese and fruit for us ; as she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slangy and almost cryptic , but ; gradually she built up a remarkable impression of the psychological pressures , and even physical dangers , that clinic staffs faced in bringing a large number of addicts under control  --  and an impression , as well , of stubborn and Is omanh integrity that kept her at it . She had trained in pschiatr ) " at the bin down the road , " meaning the mental hospital in Colchester ; in the fall of 1967 she had answered a help-wanted ad for drug-clinic staffs in the Britivh Medical Johrnal . " There was no competition for the job , needless to say . I went to St. Clement 's in January . Started dishing out heroin at the end of Fehruar ) . " The addicts in her area  --  St. Clement 's is just off the Mile End Road , which is the Piccadilly of the Cockney East End  --  were drawn from a distinctive urban working-class commink% with a marked criminal tradition , centuries old . She inherited most of the addicts who had been getting heroin and cocaine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Swan , one of the more notorious of the prescribing doctors of the nineteen-si ties . Their extortionate pressurts on him had grown so great that he turned over a block of signed prescription blanks to one young man , who sat in the office filling them in . ( Swan is now in Broadmoor , the British prison-hospital for the criminally insane . ) For about seven weeks , from the opening of St. Clement 's clinic until the Home Office licensing regulation at List came into farce , nit April 16th , Dr. Swan was still legally prescribing heroin in generous quantity , in competition with Dr. Tripp . " Addicts have this very bent relationship with their doctor , " she told me . " I had the same pressures on me in the out-patient clinic that Swan had in his surgery , and I therefore had a lot of feeling for him . He was an unfortunate and iIl-used man , and when I first met him was by no means mad . He explained to me at great length and in great detail why the clinics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had begun to see himself as the only one who understood the addicts , and as their savior . I was fortunate in being a woman . They were often wildly aggressive and threatening , but they would not actually harm a woman , though there were times I was not so sure of that . Later , some of my favorite patients were the ones who had leaned on Swan , because they were the ones who were most solidly , genuinely East End . At the beginning , the addicts were ostracized by everyone else at the hospital ; even the staff was ostracized . We were n't worried at first about overprescrihing , but wanted to be generous enough to net all the addicts at one go . Quite unawares , we were doing what the government really wanted . We had over a hundred patients by May . They ranged in age from seventeen to thirty-five . Some of my older guys were taking up to fifteen grains of heroin a day . The highest I ever had was a musician , older , working regularly- for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of my guys were around seventeen years old , and for them a high dose would be four or five grains . " I asked her if it was possible to stabilize an addict  --  his dose , and his life  --  on heroin , and she said , " This is one of those things you do n't believe in the States , is n't it ? But a lot has to do with the intentions of the guy himself . Some seem insatiable ; some do stabilize . I had kids in the same dull job for months  --  sometimes we even found ourselves wondering why they were n't more ambitious . When we got all the addicts in , we began to get the doses more nearly right ; knowing the boys and their families  --  they were ninety per cent boys , and most were living with their families  --  we made fewer mistakes . After a year , perhaps half of them had stabilized their dosage . " When Dr. Tripp 's children had finished their lunch and gone out , she said that prescribing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a profound emotional experience . At first , I felt like the archetypal had mother . These were my patients , and they felt like my children . And I was giving them this poison . I got over that later . For the most part . " You Americans are at the stage of calling addicts delinquent . When we started , we were calling them sick . I can see how that would look to you like a big advance . But after a time , when I knew them , I was n't calling them anything . I gave up being a headshrinker with those guys almost immediately . It would be nice if you could profit by our mistakes . It would he nice if you could miss out the ' sick ' stage altogether . The addicts themselves are against being labelled sick , The main reason I finally left was that to perpetuate my job I 'd have had to create work , to go on labelling people sick who had not yet perceived themselves that wat ? . " Dr. Tripp made me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these terms , probably the most important thing they achieved was a restructuring of the relation between doctors and addicts . On the one side , the clinics erected an entirely new protective scaffolding around the doctors , and , on the other , they broke down ninny of the supple but tenacious bonds that had joined the addicts and had lent addiction much of its strength . " This is what that recent lot of drugs legislation is about  --  not drugs at all but getting at my profession , " Dr. Tripp said . " What do the clinics do : They save a physician from isolation : no man in isolation can hope to deal with a hundred drug addicts . " A hundred addicts is about the number actively attending a typical London drug clinic . Each is required to come in once a week ; the hundred appointments are scheduled across two or thre , long afternoons , with one night session for those who ca n't get away from their jobs during the day . To deal with a hundred addicts , a clinic has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full time of at least one other psychiatrist . There are also two or three nurses . Four social workers for ever ) hundred addicts are called for h ) official standards ; clinics usually have two , though sonic have one more , halftime . Organization on a comparable scale to treat New York City 's hundred and fifty thousand true heroin addicts or its quarter ' millionusers ( if that really is bow many there arc ) would require over fifteen h u nd red clinics and , at a doctor and a half each , nearly twenty-three hundred full ) qualified psychiatrists ; the Medical Directory of Neal York State lists fifteen thousand four hundred and forty-six doctors of all sorts in New York City . Some four thousand nurses would he needed , and from four to six thousand social workers . In London , each clinic is at a different hospital . Within the clinic , and enveloping the clinic staff within the hospital as a whole , there is a network of almost constant professional contacts that range upward from canteen tea breaks ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jenkins and Dr. Tripp , and had been explained to me b ) Martin Mitcheson , of University College Hospital . " At the teaching hospitals , we are much more subject to our colleagues ' criticisms and unspoken controls than we would he if we were operating an independent clinic or working anyplace that does n't have a structure of committee meetings and dining clubs and so on , " Dr. Mitcheson told me . " I think this is important . And then , you see , London is a small enough drug scene so that we all meet together . It is a custom that grew up spontaneously . Each of the various suhprofessions concerned with the clinics has a monthly meeting . The nurses meet  --  over wine and cheese , I believe . The social workers meet . The doctors meet . The secretaries do n't  --  hut , you know , perhaps they should , for they have a key role when the addict walks in the door . And then there 's the official quarterly meeting at the Department of Health , which we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somebody else might get an extra ration of jam . Which is another control mechanism . Now , I do n't think this could be done in the States , given the size of the American drug scene . " For addicts , the advent of the clinics meant a social change ; the cohesive youthful subgroups characteristic of addiction are now quietly discouraged and replaced in a variety of ways . " When you get a group of addicts together and talking , they reinforce each other 's addiction " is an English clinic maxim . Whatever the psychiatric orientation of the clinic directors , almost all of them actively resist the therapeutic and encounter groups they see as the most conspicuous , and bizarre , feature of American rehabilitation efforts . " Oh , yes , we 've watched your shouting sessions on television , " Dr. Tripp said . A clinic 's waiting room will not often have as many as half a dozen people in it , counting girl friends and babies . The mailing of prescriptions directly to pharmacies  --  each chosen because it is near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour set , and with no pharmacy asked to handle more than a few such prescriptions , has shut down Piccadilly and the Mile End Road as marts for addicts . Perhaps the most conspicuous change is the transformation of Boots ' all-night pharmacy in Piccadilly Circus , where six years ago addicts used to wait by the dozen , edgy and shrill , as midnight approached and their next day 's prescriptions would be negotiable . These midnights , Boots ' is deserted ; only about twenty addicts fill their prescriptions there now , during the day . The temptation to flaunt junkie behavior publicly has been greatly reduced ; no small part of the British toleration of legal addiction is due to the clinics ' success in getting addicts out of sight . Addicts can no longer swarm from one doctor to a new one ; clinic transfers must he justified , and are infrequent . American doctors working in drugs often seem to think that the size of a prescription at an English clinic is set by outright bargaining between doctor and addict ; Americans I have talked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and say that to haggle over it seems intolerably unprofessional . Haggling undoubtedly used to take place between addicts and prescribing general practitioners ; it is no longer at all characteristic of English addicts ' meetings with their doctors . At the best-run clinics , the prescriptions for the next seven days arc determined and written during a weekly closed-door all-staff conference . The prescription is what brings the addict in every week ; once he is there , what he talks about with the psychiatrist and the social worker , if he is at all stable , will be his job , his housing , his parents , his girl  --  ordinary things  --  and drugs chiefly in relation to these . The concerns of the occasional female addict are often still more poignant , since she is very likely to be living with a man who is an addict , too , and may also be painfully anxious about the effects of drugs on possible children . " Many of my addicts like to pose as deliberate dropouts from the middle class , " Mitcheson said at University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by now to be sure they do n't want to write a William Burroughs book . What they do want is a semidetached council house and a car . " ( " Most of ours , " said John Mack , a psychiatrist at the drug clinic at Hackney Hospital , " have already got a council house and a second-hand car . " ) Thus , the structural transformations brought about by the clinics have enabled the growth of the therapeutic essential  --  a relationship between doctor and addict in which both expect that they will he working together over months and years . If the clinics have accomplished nothing more than this , they must be counted a heart-stirring success . That was not the first and most visible accomplishment , however . The numbers were the marked slowing of the growth ef heroin addiction . It is surely one of Satan 's greater strengths that in social crises the numbers make headlines , while in social victories the numbers make only statistics . But since any judgment of the clinics depends on how the statistics are viewed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them with prejudice . The Home Office in-dex continued to yield several numbers , in parallel , working down from the over-all total of addicts to all kinds of narcotics . For 1967 , the figure on that top line was seventeen hundred and twenty-nine . Three-quarters of those ? twelve hundred and ninety-nine  --  were heroin addicts . Nine people were still counted as having acquired did ' ad-diction to heroin in the course of medi-cal treatment for something else , usual-ly cancer ; these , if not in a hospital , were transferred to the new clinics , too , but , as a Home Office source said , " we did n't insist that a severm - year-old come sit in the waiting room every week with the junkies . " That left twelve hun-dred and ninety heroin addicts in 1967 ? an apparently irre-ducible figure . As the clinics were being set up , the Home Office maintained that the true num-ber of narcotics addicts of all kinds could not be more than three thousand . Through 1968 , as compulsory noti-fication and the clinics brought the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1968 , the rear 's total for addicts of all kinds known to the Home Office reached twenty-seven hundred and eighty-two . The re it stabilized , though the actual peak figure , reached a year later , was ninety-nine higher . Even al-lowing for some the index may have missed , the Home Office estimate for narcotics addicts of all kinds turned out to he essentially right  --  and it is said that nobody was more surprised than the Home Office . Of the fewer than three thousand addicts of all kinds , the ones that counted were the ones taking her-oin  --  twenty-two hundred and forty of them that year . Because death , emigra-tion , prison , and cure had subtracted some heroin addicts since 1967 , the figure of twenty-two hundred and forty included thirteen hundred and six new heroin cases . Thus , it looked at first glance as though the rate of in-crease had itself increased , and that is how the English changeover was often reported in the United States . So an-other sturdy : myth was born , for the truth seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the apparent increase in the rate of increase was due to a change in the war the num-bers were collected  --  combined with the pressure , wherever several addict friends had been dividing up a single private prescription , for them all to come to a clinic . At the end of the nineteen-sixties , no one could seriously charge that the index , newly based on compulsory notification , was missing any vast number of heroin addicts . If it had been , those missed would have he-gun to turn up with withdrawal signs in police stations and jails , in hospital emergency and casualty wards , and in morgues . But Dr. Pierce James ' experience in those years at Brixton Prison , where fewer than ten per cent of the many addicts he saw were not on the index , was duplicated everywhere else . For instance , of the ninety-eight addicts who died in 1969 and 1970 only four were not known to the Drugs Branch . Besides heroin , the clinics had methadone to work with , and when a doctor thought an addict needed a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course . But other strong , injectable drugs were often available to addicts outside the clinics , . ind from time to time , unpredictably , a craze for one of them would sweep English adolescents . The first of these drugs to confront the clinics was injectable methylamphetamine , in 1968 . As the day approached when general practitioners could no longer give addicts heroin , two of the prescribing doctors  --  John Petro and Christopher Swan  --  had begun deliberately switching their customers to methylamphetamine , and this drug helped create the manic emotionalism among young addicts in the clinics ' first year . It was marketed in thirty-milligram ampules , almost entirely by one supplier , Burroughs Wellcome , under the trade name Methedrine . Injected repeatedly  --  and Pierce James warned his colleagues in a letter to the Lancet in April , 1968 , that some users were injecting ten ampules a day  --  meth-lamphetamine produces a psychosis that had been described a decade earlier , at Bethlem , as " identical with paranoid schizophrenia . " Though the London youth newspaper Intcrnarionai Times shouted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , Pierce James saw over four hundred cases of intravenous amphetamine use in Brixton in 1968 . That October , with inspired simplicity , the Drugs Branch and the Department of Health got Burroughs Wellcome to agree to supply Methedrine ampules only to hospitals . When Methedrine dried up on the street , H. B. Spear , the deputy chief inspector of the Drugs Branch , spent part of the weekend in central London searching out addicts and getting them to doctors and clinics for help ; it is an experience be refuses to talk about . The Metbedrine craze was quenched literally in days ; the addict community visibly calmed down . Observers are still surprised that the strategy worked , and baffled that no laboratories in England ever made amphetamines illegally , as laboratories in the United States and Canada do . JUST as the methylamphetamine problem was solved , traces of illicit-h imported heroin began to appear . Its first arrival was due to no organized criminal effort , and , indeed , was fortuitous ; it was not intended for English addicts , and at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pure , safe tablets they were used to , illicit heroin in England is a brownish powder , which in recent seizures has been perhaps thirty per cent narcotic ( and very low-grade narcotic at that , the morphine not fully converted to heroin ) , adulterated with caffeine and sometimes with barbiturates as well as with fillers , ranging from sugar to talc . The real surprise was its source . Though France is so close to England , and has been said until recently to be the proximate source of most heroin in America , not since His Majesty 's Customs seized six grams of French heroin in 1937 has there been the faintest suspicion that any important quantity was coming across the Channel . The illicit brown granules are from Hong Kong . Heroin addiction is widespread among the Chinese in Hong Kong , I was told last winter by Commander Robert Huntley , of Scotland Yard , who had just been there . The rate is at least one in seventy , perhaps one in thirty . The users there rarely inject the mixture , however ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a match , move the flame beneath the metal , and inhale the fumes through a drinking straw in the nostril or through the cover of a matchbox . They call this " chasing the dragon . " Illicit heroin in England is known as " Chinese " to addicts , police , and doctors alike . One afternoon in the fall of 1968 , I was talking with is leader of the London youth underground , a beautiful ex-model named Caroline Coon , who had just organized a twenty-four-hour-a-day legal-aid service for adolescents arrested on marijuana charges , when two of her addict friends stopped in with the news that something called Chinese heroin was on sale in the East End . The caffeine in it , they said , gave it an exotic potency . That was its first appearance among the addicts . The explanation of the arrival and spread of Chinese heroin in England is so unlikely that before offering it my informant at the Home Office cleared his throat and looked away . " We 've had in recent years , as I suppose you are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? , " he said . " With substantial immigration from the Crown Colony to staff them . 1A-hat information we have points to the conclusion that there are now about fifteen Chinese users  --  smokers  --  in the Soho area . Evidently , there are sonic others in the provinces . Chinese restaurants have opened everywhere . How the contact arose between our indigenous junkies and this lot we are not sure . One British addict told us that he had been living over  --  or in -- -a billiard hall in London with some Chinese , who had this powder they said was heroin . They smoked it . He tried injecting it . It is pretty certain that the original customers among our junkies were known addicts who were supplementing their clinic supplies . Then , in August , 1969 , again for unexplained reasons , we just ceased to hear of Chinese heroin . Several explanations were suggested . One was that there had been two or three fatalities pretty clearly linked with Chinese H , and they scared the kids off . Another was that the local Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese community is authoritarian , and possibly did n't like the police attention that was being attracted to IL . But in April , 1970 , Chinese heroin was suddenly back on the streets . Where it has remained ever since . And it is unquestionably true that many addicts have learned to supplement their clinic drugs with Chinese heroin . " The English understand that one of their greatest protections against an invasion of drugs from Marseille is the American market 's limitless appetite for heroin at high prices . In London , the price of heroin held steady for years at one pound a grain , or from a twelfth to a twentieth of the New York retail prices . After the clinics had opened and had begun to cut back overprescribing , the price slowly climbed . A packet of Chinese heroin containing about half a grain now sells for about five pounds . Convictions for possession of illicit heroin have more than doubled over the past three years but are still relatively few . Those convicted for illegal possession of heroin or any other narcotic , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to jail for seven years  --  fourteen if they 've been dealing in the drug or manufacturing it  --  and can be fined any amount the judge determines . There is a shadow zone in the statistics of English addiction . As can be shown in several ways , some narcotics users are not attending clinics . How many ? Because nobody is quite sure , Chinese heroin is worrisome . And yet the shadow zone existed before Chinese heroin appeared . As soon as the clinics were operating , a new statistic became possible  --  the clinics ' muster of addicts actually under treatment , totted up by the Department of Health . That figure leaped to eleven hundred and seventy-one by the end of June , 1968 , then advanced , much more slowly , to twelve hundred and forty-one on the last day of that year . But the Home Office index showed a total of twenty-two hundred and forty heroin addicts that year . I There were the missing nine hundred and ninety-nine ? ( When I asked Martin Mitcheson , he snapped , " Prison , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been used by the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs , among others , as evidence that the British clinics are reaching " less than fifty per cent of the addict population . " But part of the gap is clearly unreal . The Home Office index number , though it contained few duplicate entries , was cumulative through the year , and it included those who showed up once or twice at a clinic and got themselves notified to the Drugs Branch yet were not truly addicted and never returned . just as clearly , part of the gap is real . And evidently it left room for a bureaucratic confrontation . At any rate , since 1969 the Home Office has offered two sets of index figures  --  not without internal grumbles . As always before , there are cumulative totals for the year , but now there are also totals for those known on the last day of the year to be addicted , and these figures are lower . Thus , through 1969 the index accumulated twenty-eight hundred and eighty-one addicts , of whom twenty-four hundred and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the single day December 31 , 1969 , the index showed only fourteen hundred and sixty-six addicts of all kinds , of whom twelve hundred and fifteen were using heroin or methadone or both  --  and this corresponded to the Department of Health 's figure of twelve hundred and thirty-five addicts under treatment . A fringe exists , as eve ' ) clinic director knows , if only because his addicts tell him they have friends who use narcotics but who are not enrolled at a clinic . These are the adolescents who wait two or three years between their first shot of a narcotic and their first trip to a clinic , or who try a clinic once and do n't like it . But these arc also the ones who experiment and do n't get hooked . How one estimates the size and seriousness of the fringe determines how one judges the success of the clinics at containing addiction and bringing addicts into care ; at issue , once again , is the definition of the addict and the possibility of the occasional user . But the fringe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deliberately pessimistic calculation from the Addiction Research Unit this spring reckoned that there were no more than four hundred addicts who were not on the index . The threat of the black market has grown real enough , though , to give a sharp polemical edge to the first fun-damental disagreement about British drug-addiction policy that has arisen in England since the clinics themselves were de-cided on . The great surprise about the British clinics is how very little heroin they now in fact prescribe , and how deeply divided they have become about the drug . " When an Ameri-can doctor visits the English clinics , he is appalled to find that they are all doing something different , " Dr. Edwards , of the Addiction Research Unit , said not long ago . " We have no White House drugs coordinator in this country , no czar telling the clinics what to do . " One thing that has never been changed is that the choice of treatment  --  heroin , methadone , or nothing at all  --  is the doctor 's , not the patient 's ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clinic staff members maintain , as there are con-sultant psychiatrists running clinics . At All Saints ' Hospital in Birmingham , Dr. Owens ' clinic still prefers to pre-scribe heroin except when the addict himself asks to change to methadone . At Glenside Hospital in Bristol , Dr. Pierce James refuses to treat heroin addicts with any kind of injectable nar-cotic . At several provincial drug-treat-ment centers , the refusal to prescribe heroin for out-patients is so sweeping that the Department of Health and even the local police have raised alarmed questions . Similar divergences of prac-tice characterize the clinics in London . James Willis , who is in charge of the . Drug Addiction Unit at St. Giles 's Hospital there , has a reputation among other consultants and among addicts for being relatively liberal with heroin . In a recent conversation , Dr. Willis said , " The thing is , doctors are influ-enced by an idea that 's never been proved ; namely that methadone is somehow ' better ' than heroin . " And Dr. Willis is one of those people who have asked whether a small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the addicts dealing among themselves in any excess from their prescriptions ? ma ) not he preferable to Chinese or French heroin . Addicts who report to the Drug Treatment Centre of St. Mary 's Hospital , which is in an area of some strategic importance  --  the Notting Hill district , where the last of the West End flower children have gone to seed complain that it takes at least six weeks to be taken on , during which their only source of drugs is the black market ; they also complain that they are forced to change to methadone . The conflicts among the clinics are muted as yet . But the issues are the most fundamental of all : the use of heroin itself and the proper role of the clinic in relation to the addict and to the corm-nith ) . Methadone is one focus of the controversy . Some clinic directors say that the drug is the worst thing they could hay , - borrowed from the United States . But the two countries use methadone so very differently that American specialists often think their British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British doctors , in turn , believe that the Americans , desperately searching for a " clean " alternative to the absolute evil of heroin , arc concealing from themselves the dangers of methadone . The I. G. Farhenindustrie laborator ) at Hi ; chst am Main created methadone in the search for a morphine substitute late in the Second World War , when Germany was cut off from opium supplies . Yet it is a narcotic an " opioid " ? for in action it is fundamentally similar to morphine or heroin , and it is fully as addictive . In American practice , methadone is always Oven by mouth , as a substitute for heroin by needle . It is normally taken in Tang or Kool-Aid . Given 1-1. mouth , methadone has two qualities about which there is no dispute : it can prevent heroin-withdrawal symptoms while producing little or no euphoria , and it is so long-Listing that one dose can replace the heroin addict 's five or six daily shots , with their time-devouring swings from restlessness to preparing the injection to euphoria to stupefaction . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The original American technique , publicized by Vincent Dole and Marie Nyswander in New York Cit3 in the early nineteen-sixties , builds the addict up to large doses  --  a hundred milligrams or more a day . The claim was that the addict 's nerves become so saturated with the narcotic that he could not enjoy heroin even if he did inject some . Dr. Dole and Dr. Nyswander called this " methadone blockade . " An alternative American procedure , developed by Jerome Jaffe at the end of the decade , when he was planted heroin as the drug most commonly used by addicts ; in 1971 onbi four hundred and fort ) - nine addicts known to the Home Office were taking heroin alone . Clinics report that they now get new patients who started injecting methadone rather than heroin . Thu total amount of heroin prescribed in August , 1968 , the peak month at the clinics , was thirty-two hundred and nine grains  --  over seven pounds . B1 the summer of 1971 , less than two-fifths that much heroin was being prescribed by the clinics each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around thirteen hundred grams . Methadone use has meanwhile slowly climbed ; the latest figures available show mouth . And though doctors outside clinics may legally prescribe methadone for addicts , few do ; methadone has not been significantly misprescribed , as heroin was by general practitioners in the early nineteen-sixties , nor will it ever he , for new regulations are now coming into force that give the Home Office the power to hale a doctor before an extraordinary professional tribunal , which C:2111 take away his right to prescribe particular substances , like methadone or amphetamines . Nonetheless , to coin-pound the clinics ' problems , a gray market in English methadone ampules has sprung up  --  addicts trading their clinic supplies among themselves for other drugs or selling surpluses outright . Many people who are close to the problem believe that such dealing in methadone ma. ) he as serious a danger as Chinese heroin . Meanwhile , at one clinic in London , a study has begun which will , for the first tune , compare- the fates of addicts maintained on heroin with a matched group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this clinic are assigned at random to get one drug or the other ; their progress or deterioration , medically and socially , is watched . The study , which promises to be extreme ; ) important , will take at least three years to complete , in part because so few new addicts arc appearing these day s . THE addiction clinic of Charing Cross Hospital , in central London , is in a converted shop across the street from the back entrance to the hospital proper . A plastic sign by the door OCTOBER ie 1973 identifies it as the hospital 's " psychiatric Unit Annexe . " A smaller plate by the doorbell advertises that antenatal classes are held there . Within , the clinic is a puzzle box of partitions and tiny offices . Gisela Brigitte Oppenheim , who has directed the clinic since it opened , in February , 1968 , is a handsome , dark-haired , briskly sensible psychiatrist . In the spectrum of English clinic opinion , Dr. Oppenheim is known to he generally opposed to prescribing heroin . She has an excellent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We have Scull between seven hundred and eight hundred addicts , of more , " Dr. Oppenheim told me a while ago . " We have around ninety-five Current attenders , and eight-five or niner ) others who at this moment are oft drugs iltogethrr and are being followed up in the community . If : a new addict walked in the door today , it would he from ten days to a fortnight before he had a prescription . We always tell them , ' If you 're in severe withdrawal , come in , ' but no patient has ever taken us up on that . We insist on three positive- urine tests , several days apart . You certainly ca n't go by the state of their arms . Man ) will come in here to try to get an injectable narcotic with the idea of selling it to get soft drugs . When we arr convinced , we will offer the new patient methadone syrup . If we ca n't get away with that , injectable ampules . F have n't prescribed heroin for a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poly-drug abusers , and settle for methadone . On heroin , it is much more difficult for them to Function in the cummunit ) . Currently , we have trill two patients left who are on heroin only . And they are chaotic : it 's a full-time job for an addict to he on heroin ; injections are necessary every four or six hours , and , in their condition , they can take anywhere from twenty minutes to an hour just to get a fix organized . We have ten other patients who are getting some heroin in addition tO their methadone . " When we started , our brief from the Ministry of Health supposedly was ' You maintain the . addicts until they-arc motivated to go into hospital to get off drugs . ' But when we started we had no its-patient facilities ; we were obliged from the beginning to work in a way that would get the patients into condition to function in the communin . In our experience , many addicts who are detoxified as in-patients go back on drugs when they get back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attendees are gainfully employed  --  some work as laborers , one is a teacher , several have gone back to their university courses . They can he so stable that nobody would guess they were addicts . Once they are working , once they have other interests , personal relationships , they get fed up with the drug life . It is n't a conscious decision ; it just happens . In many cases , we ca n't explain just how and when this point is reached . Certainly it 's nonsense for the doctor to claim the credit . Our psychiatric approach is supportive , and not analytical  --  perhaps , in American terms , nonpsychiatric . We have two full-time social workers . The addicts get a great deal of help with simple practical matters -- even accommodations , food . The important thing is to teach them that there is an alternative to the way they were living when they first came in . We want them to mix with non-addicts . It is very important to have their leisure time organized . We often find that the addict makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been involved with before he is able to kick the drug habit . " A civil servant from New York City remarked recently that he came away from a four-day visit to the British clinics questioning whether they would he conceivable outside the total setting of the National Health Service , with its presumption of universal free medical care , its rational administration , and its controlled costs . The question is a sophisticated one  --  or , at least , it has different answers at different levels . " In policy discussions , I now ask , ' If we are interested in the British approach to drugs , are we willing to build the underpinning that seems to be the key ? ' " he went on . " You know , in a funny way the addiction problem brings into focus a lot of the unfinished business of this country . " When the American visitor first asks what the British clinics cost , he gets the wonderful reply that the figures are n't known . " Administratively , our ' drug program ' does n't really exist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no coiirdinatMg point . And we do n't separate the figures an more than the functions . " But when I found the right bureaucrat , " costing the clinics " seized him as a refreshing and possibly useful American sort of idea ; so after three months I received a letter from the Department of Health and Social Security setting out " the respective annual costs of Clinic A and Clinic B " in terms that agreed well with the reckonings of a couple of clinic directors . The numbers of addicts attending Clinics A and B full time are certainly typical . The staffs quoted for them seem slightly below the levels at most clinics I have observed ; personnel were figured in fractions of a five-and-a-half-day week , priced at the top of each Health Service pay category-17,348 ( $17,635 ) a year for the full time of a consultant psychiatrist , 15,313 ( $12,751 ) for a physician as medical assistant , ? 1,801 ( $4,320 ) for each nurse. , and so on . The cost of dispensing heroin and methadone by pharmacists was excluded . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which had ninety-five patients , was ? 21,248 ( $50,995 ) a year-1224 ( $538 ) a patient . For Clinic B , which had seventy-five patients , the cost was ? 14,276 ( $34,262 ) ? /190 ( $456 ) per patient . Separately figured , the annual cost for drugs prescribed to addicts was about 1129 ( $310 ) for each patient . The over-all total came to between $800 and $850 per English addict per year . There the British calculation stopped . American pay scales and rents would multiply these figures by three or more , bringing the cost to at least twenty-five hundred dollars a year per addict , as long as doctors and nurses did not become scarce . Greater precision is not really possible . HACKNEY HOSPITAL 1. $ ten miles northeast of Charing Cross . It is set down among terrace rows of housing  --  not the cream and white town houses that swell along the great leafy squares of the West End but narrow-shouldered mud-gray brick rows , block after block . The Special Psychiatric Unit at Hackney Hospital is directed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over to the man who , he said , does the vy'ork a psychiatrist named John Mack . Dr. Mack , slight , dark-bearded , and looking nearly as pale and young as some of his clients , holds opinions about heroin which are at the other end of the spectrum from Dr. Oppcnheitn 's . He had with him a buxom girl with massed brilliant-red hair  --  Susan Norvill , one of his social worke rs . " I 'm very angry at you Americans , " Mack began . " For getting us started with methadone . " I pointed out that injectable methadone is not used in the United States . " Unfortunately , that did n't come across clearly in 1968 , " he said . " There is a black market now , and it is flourishing  --  in Chinese heroin , as the clinics stop prescribing heroin and go over to methadone . And in methadone itself . What worries me is that some people , thinking that methadone is somehow preferable , are giving fairly , large prescriptions . And the methadone is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methadone addicts who have never tried heroin , " Miss Norvill said . I mentioned methadone blockade . " I inherited two cases , " Mack said . " By the way , what do you call addicts ? They 're not patients in the classical sense , not ' cases ' ? the best word , I think , is ' clients . ' Two clients , then , who were both taking two hundred and twenty-five milligrams of methadone a day by mouth  --  that is twice the blockade level  --  and also taking twenty milligrams of heroin a day 113 injection , and getting great pleasure out of it . The morality of giving methadone for a very long term by mouth surely there 's an element of self-de/usion ? I use methadone for only two reasons now . Some people come here addicted to methadone , and it does n't quite make sense to insist that they switch to heroin . Or , because methadone has been presented to the world as the drug of therapy , the addict sometimes thinks he is progressing if he switches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following the medical model of treating addiction . But although we are doctors , in National Health Service clinics , the people who conic to us are people using drugs  --  not people coming to a doctor asking for help and advice in the traditional relationship . I do n't think that you can hope to solve a society 's drug problem by pharmacology . You ca n't cure heroin addiction by giving methadone . The concept of the wicked drug with its claws into them  --  to say that if you took that away you would abolish the problem is to miss the point . When we started , in 1968 , we could divide our clients into three groups . Most were working-class youths  --  almost all boy s , seventeen , eighteen , nineteen years old , living with their parents at home . They had jobs , and were in every way ordinary . Then , a smaller number , somewhat older , above average in intelligence , not working  --  floaters , hippies , from broken homes . And the third group , the ( Ad-time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been on heroin a very long time . One felt pretty hopeless about them . Now the ones who are coming to us arc almost all working-class , and almost all adolescents , though recently they have been a little older . " What he said reminded me that had been told elsewhere that the average age of the addicts showing up at the clinic doors since they were first opened had been rising by nearly a year every year . Moreover , published figures show and it is one of the most encouraging signs of all  --  that even though the total number of addicts has held fairly constant , the percentage under twenty has dropped sharply . At the end of 1971 , only two addicts as young as sixteen were known in Britain , and only thirteen aged seventeen . ( These , by the way , arc treated like any others at English clinics , while in America , with depressing illogic , addicts under eighteen are not supposed to he admitted to methadone programs  --  though , of course , some are . ) Asked about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , recently the addicts have been about twenty-one . Often , they had their first heroin about the same time the others did  --  though their really full-scale involvement with heroin , or methadone , is likely to have started only three to six months before they Come to us . But , as I say , they usually knew our regulars , hung around with them . Most of the people we get here first came into contact with narcotics in the late sixties . " " The new thing is that they 're marrying , " Miss Norvill said . " A lot of ours now have young wives and babies . One would have hoped , naively , that forming a relationship with somebody would stabilize them , But many of them have very bad , messy marriages " How many new addicts were they getting ? " Oh , maybe two a week , " Mack said . " A lot of those are reappearing  --  after a. stretch in prison , say . First , we 'll ask where they live  --  with fourteen operating clinics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the clinic nearest to them . It 's important to realize that people are not addicted as isolated individuals . They are addicted in relation to the community or the . imini-Pate small group . So if somebody really new comes to us , we have almost certainly heard of him from our regular clients months , even years , before  --  or , at least , it will turn out that we know his friends . " I mentioned the American stereotype of the clinic bargaining with addicts over prescriptions . " God , that would be awful ! " Mack said . " No . One does n't spend a lot of time with them talking about drugs . The addict knows that it 's expected that eventually he will come off . But that is n't our only aim . Really , attaining social stability , settling back into society , getting a job  --  I 'd put all that ahead of getting off drugs . " Mack added  --  and his statement demonstrates lust how sharply the clinic directors are divided ? " I reject completely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ca n't work and be stable on he rain . " " Last rime we counted , which was last spring , seventy-two per cent of our clients were working , and thirty per cent had regular , long-term jobs , " Miss /Caryl11 said . " And , about that last hg-tire , remember that a lot of our East London working-class youth change jobs often anyway . " " The clinic makes a therapeutic setting possible , " Mack said . " Also , I 'm protected by a certain amount of mutual observation , comment , support , possibly criticism from my colleagues . And I know they 're there . Todd/1g with addicts is a pretty stressful thing to do . One has to he watched . " But is it really possible , just pli3swally , to maintain addicts on heroin ? Do n't they deteriorate ? Do n't they get hepatitis , abscesses , damaged hearts and livers ? " It can he hard to get them to use good injection techniques , " Mack said . " But that 's still looking at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Looking at our stead addicts , the ones who have been with us from the beginning , on heroin , I 'd say very Few arc worse . And many ; i a lot less scruffy . " " As for the wanderers , " Miss Norvill said , " without the clinics they 'd all be dead . " I asked about withdrawal . " We 've honestly not seen anybody in severe withdrawal , " Mack said . " I think there is a physical withdrawal effect , magnified no end by mythology and drifting into an acute anxiety state . " I brought up the recent reports that babies of addicted mothers show great distress within hours of birth . " Mothers and babies the American literature is full of the problem , " Mack said , with evident perplexity . " We Have now had three addicted mothers have their babies , and , apart from putting the babies into a premature unit just so we could keep a close eye on them , we did nothing . And we observed no withdrawal signs . Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went on , " As far as I am aware , apart from the dangers that go with intravenous injections there is no real evidence that the body canma tolerate heroin for years . And you do not need to increase the dose , the way American doctors tell me . Given an unlimited supply , yes , most addicts  --  not all  --  would tend to increase the dose . And if you do increase the dose you tend to spend all y our life preparing the next injection and 3 on do deteriorate . But if you have some supervision you do n't deteriorate . " " We have very few who arc in a socially deteriorated condition , " Miss Norvill said . " We have very many who are much more socially integrated than before , " Mack said . We talked about ways to promote social integration . At Hackney Hospital , group therapy is sometimes used . Miss Norvill runs a group for wives who are not themselves addicts . " I thought that their husbands were getting a lot , actually , here , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " she said . Mack spoke of two groups among the addicts , one a group of eight that had been running for eighteen months . " Measured in terms of getting people off drugs , it has been fairly successful . But the ones who could never be reached for more than grunts still grunt . " After pausing again , Mack said , " If we 're not careful in this country , we are going to miss the big chance  --  because here we still have sufficiently few addicts so that we should be able to attend to everybody . " As I hope I have conveyed , the problem of heroin addiction feels very different in England from the way it feels in the United States . I have talked with many English addicts over the past seven years . They are ridden by numberless petty dreads and hopes , as addicts seem to he everywhere . The old street junkies are indeed very far down ; a compulsion has taken them over . The young ones may be cocky , but more often they seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the clinics and feel safe there . They all claim that they Supplem ent their clinic prescriptions with Chinese heroin . But then it is in their interest  --  and on this they have a tacit but real alliance with the Home Office Drugs Branch  --  to persuade the clinic doctors that suppression of the black market requires that the tap he eased open on legal narcotics . Along Gerrard Street , the new Chinese-restaurant quarter at the southern edge of Soho , there is never the action you will see at ant time on a New York corner like Broadway and Ninety-sixth Street . Indeed , on Gerrard Street at midnight the loudest sound is the click of mah-jongg tiles . In the waiting room of Dr. Mitchesen 's clinic at University College Hospital , I met an addict who has stuck in my mind more than any other . He said that his problem was insomnia , and that his wife had the same trouble , and that the last thing at night they used their methadone syrup so they could get to sleep . He called across the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disposable syringes . " Twenty-one , please  --  seven for my wife , fourteen for me . Do n't worry about the swabs , we got plenty of swabs . " Then he told me he was afraid of losing his job . What did lie do ? " I 'm a fishmonger . " This was addict braggadocio . He was in fact a kitchen helper who killed the lobsters and crabs at one of London 's oyster houses . He had held the job nearly nine months . Now he had begun to nod of at work . And he thought his boss had noticed a needle that had failed to flush down the employee toilet . And Hood on the towel . His despair was terrible . But it was uniquely personal . An American addict would find it unrecognizably innocent . DOES the British approach to heroin addiction work ? In the light of the inherent instability of the drug situation in every Western country , I think it has worked very well for the British . Credit for containing the epidemic , however , can hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again , the medical model , though an improvement on enforcement and punishment , is not enough . Any explanation of what happened with heroin in England needs to begin with the worldwide phenomenon of the nineteen-sixties : the coming of age of the children born  --  in such disproportionate numbers as to strain the social fabric  --  just after the Second World War . Behind all the teen-age phenomena St ) often described and imperfectly explained , there was an evident shift in the adolescents ' relationships : their lives became much less tied to their parents ' generation , and much more strongly controlled by their own age group . We think of the continuity of generations as characterized h ) rebellion  --  not by indifference on such a scale . Now , part of the pleasure of living in England in the nineteen-sixties was the emergent youth . The delight was greater because of the most considerable difference between the English adolescent mood and the American , which was a quality of ease . One was told many times , " The Beatles  --  ah , yes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The mothers did . " The working-class lad may have his mod clothes and hair to his shoulders , but Saturday night you 'll find him drinking in the pub with his dad , shorthack-and-sides , in his Burton suit , " was told , and that was true , too . Across the gap there was an unexpected degree of tolerance . If it was simple minded to place the blame for the English heroin epidemic en the overprescribing general practitioners alone , it must be inadequate to give credit for the remission in the epidemic solely to the introduction of the clinic system . At least as important was the particular continuity that life , the social fabric , was felt to have by the adolescents who drew hack from addiction . So much for conjecture . Does the British approach work ? The clinics are impressive , for their measurable statistics and for the relationship and mood of their staffs and their clients . One meets the occasional American specialist in England who , overwhelmed by the success of the clinics , and recalling the scale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say about heroin maintenance in the United States , " My feeling is you have to try anything . " The words , in fact , arc those of Norman Zinberg , a Harvard psychoanalyst , who , in repeated visits , has spent more than a year in England observing drug clinics . One afternoon last year , as we sat watching peacocks on the lawn of a country house where Dr. Zinberg was staying , he said , " With the number of people in pain in our ghettos , maybe there is a need for something legal . I feel that what we have to do is deliberately to establish reasonable social rituals governing the way we use drugs . " The comparison that Dr. Zinberg suggested was with alcohol . " The development of sustaining , informal social controls , as to what 's seemly or unseemly : what the United States has done is to push these people , the addicts , outside of any such social control , while what the English have done  --  or , at least , begun to do within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rituals for narcotics . " A few Americans go still further . One who completely reverses the all but universal rejection of heroin by the American medical profession is Elmer Gardner  --  who , as head of the Division of Neuropharmacological Drug Products of the Food and Drug Administration , is one of the pivotal people for federal approval of any American experiment with heroin maintenance . Dr. Gardner came to Washington three years ago from community mental-health work  --  what lie calls " psychiatric epidemiology " ? in Philadelphia . " Yes , I think heroin maintenance will be tried in the United States , at least experimentally , " Gardner said a while ago . " The only reason we in this agency would have for stopping it would he lack of safety of the drug . And beyond experiment I can ? give you only my own opinion . First of .111 , I do n't see any harm in people having drugs for pleasure , even if the drugs are addictive , sinless they have degenerative effects as well . About heroin , the things we really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , carcinogenic effects liver damage with long-teem use . There have not even been good chronic-effect animal studies with heroin . Heroin is probably  --  but we do n't know  --  ph ) sically less damaging than alcohol . Given that reservation , oy feeling is that if someone needs heroin enough to become addicted , then he probably ought to he able to get it , It ma sound strange coming from a psychiatrist , but I do n't see this entirely as a matter of treating I guess my answer is es , we do need heroin maintenance  --  in addition to methadone , and for some people , anyway . At least until we come up with something better , and by that I mean something better for pleasure and the relief of anxiety and all the rest of it . " Probably no English doctor  --  or none I 've met  --  would go so far . The English doctors see ever day the real nature of heroin , as no American ph sician can  --  its benefits and drawbacks , whether in general medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who prefer to prescribe heroin for addicts will say , as Dr. Mitcheson did in London last month , " My personal feeling is that heroin is far too powerful a drug ever to leave to normal social controls . Pm perfectly able to accept the idea that to a heroin addict heroin is such a rewarding drug that he is prepared to ruin every aspect of his life to get it . " What everybody knows about the British and heroin is that they supply it on prescription to heroin addicts . The common knowledge obscures the fact that , in the nearly six years since the clinics opened , their aims have changed . The doctors have quietly refused to remain mere agents of social control . Though they acknowledge that there are addicts whose addiction can only he supported , the clinic staffs have gradually come to have a commitment to the eventual integration of the addict into the community , and to the gradual diminution of doses . In this fundamental respect , the English approach to heroin maintenance is the reverse of the surrender that many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a decline the year before , the total number of addicts of all kinds of narcotics who were known to the Home Office rose again , for the entire year cumulatively , to twenty-seven hundred and sixty-nine . Still , this was lower than the figure for the peak year , 1969 . As before , there is a second index figure , for the last day of the year . On December 31 , 1971 , fifteen hundred and fifty-five narcotics addicts were known , also an increase ; at the end of 1972 , this figure stood at sixteen hundred and nineteen . The total number addicted to heroin or methadone or both remained fairly steady for three years  --  twenty-four hundred and eighty throughout 1969 , twenty-two hundred and thirty-three in 1970 , twenty-threc hundred and seventy-six in 1971 ? but on December 31 , 1971 , there were believed to be thirteen hundred and sixteen addicts of those two alternative drugs , which was the highest figure yet . In 1971 , for the first time since the clinics opened , the number addicted to heroin alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to foul hundred and forty-nine  --  less than nine per cent . A breakdown of the figures for 1972 has not yet been released , but they will show further slight increases  --  probably less than five per cent in what is now an essentially stable situation . Does the British approach work ? The British themselves have a wary confidence that it does . " Nonetheless , I think my overriding concern would be to avoid answering that question , " Griffith Edwards said at the end of the lunch we had at the Addiction kesearch Unit . " One would be quite foolish to invest all one 's pride and all one 's cleverness in defense of one particular medicine  --  or system The numbers game . How precise must the data be for intelligent policytnaking ? And what is the size of the problem ' ? simply its numerical dimensions , or the dimensions of the anxiety it generates ? My impression is that the anxiety about narcotics here is surprisingly low . Just about right , in fact . " Just about right In the course of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a doctor said something in passing that seemed so natural that it was an hour later , as I was boarding a train in the London Underground , that I woke to what he had said , and to what an overturning of my American expectations it represented . The doctor had told me , " We have made it possible in this city for the addict to live without fear . " 