@@315973

Richard Nixon 's arrival in the White House was welcomed with particular warmth in Taipei . After all , the former Vice President was well known as a vigorous antiCommunist , and Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek naturally expected him to continue Washington 's longstanding policy of isolating the Red government on China 's mainland . Of late , however , the warmth has turned to deep dismay over the Nixon Administration 's increasingly friendly gestures toward the mainland government . <P> Washington announced last November that it would no longer oppose seating Peking in the United Nations so long as Taiwan retained its seat as well . Nixon , in his " State of the World " message , went out of his way to make a deep verbal bow to the " 750 million talented and energetic " citizens of the " People 's Republic of China . " Last week the State Department ended the restrictions that have effectively prevented travel to China by U.S. citizens for 20 years . ( The gesture is mostly symbolic at present because Peking has shown no willingness to issue visas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected to make a more substantial effort to improve relations . Among the possibilities : an offer to pull down trade embargoes and even to extend full recognition . <P> Damaged Claim . So far , Washington 's overtures have alienated the Republic of China in Taipei without noticeably mollifying the People 's Republic in Peking . By moving toward a two-China policy , Washington offends both governments-since each claims to be the true representative of all Chinese people . The new , more realistic China policy espoused by Nixon is an obvious net gain for Peking . But the Chinese Communists are not about to respond to any attempt to improve relations so long as the war in Indochina continues . The U.S. , in fact , has once again replaced Russia in Peking 's lexicon as " the world 's most vicious imperialist . " <P> For their part , Chiang and his government are deeply disturbed by Nixon 's approach . A two-China policy damages the Chiang regime 's vestigial claim to be the legitimate government of all China . Ever since the Nationalists arrived on Taiwan as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ status as an embattled government in exile has served to justify its tight , autocratic rule of the island . The 2,000,000 mainlanders enjoy a number of political and economic perquisites , but the 12 million native Taiwanese have only token representation in the Taipei government . The change in U.S. policy thus may give a lift to the weak and diffuse Taiwan independence movement . <P> Talking Tough . For the moment , however , it is not the native Taiwanese but pro-Nationalist extremists who most threaten the serenity of Chiang 's island fief . A bomb went off last October in a USIS library , and last month another smashed a Bank of America branch . The incidents remain unexplained , but just in case they presage more anti-U.S . explosions , American businessmen have begun to seal off auxiliary entrances to stores and factories and to hire extra guards .                     