@@253282

Coming from almost any other organization , a call for economic growth to alleviate world poverty would produce only yawns . From the Club of Rome , it is an intellectual bombshell . The Club - really an informal organization of some 100 top International businessmen , scientists and thinkers-has been synonymous with advocacy of a no-growth world ever since it produced its explosive little book , The Limits to Growth , in 1972 . Using a complicated computer model of the world , the book argued that because the earth 's resources were finite , mankind might starve or suffocate in pollution if runaway population and economic growth were not stopped cold . True , the computer model was flawed and the no-growth notion faulty ( TIME , Aug. 14,1972 ) . But the basic message became famous ; 3 million copies of Limits have been sold worldwide . <P> Last week the Club reversed its position . At a three-day meeting in Philadelphia sponsored mainly by the First Pennsylvania Corp. , a leading bank , speaker after speaker came out for more growth . Why ? The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Limits was intended to jolt people from the comfortable idea that present growth trends could continue indefinitely . That done , he says , the Club could then seek ways to close the widening gap between rich and poor nations-inequities that , if they continue , could all too easily lead to famine , pollution and war . The Club 's startling shift , Peccei says , is thus not so much a turnabout as part of an evolving strategy . <P> What the Club of Rome prescribes now is selective growth . This concept , which promises to be every bit as difficult to put into operation as no-growth , requires nations to take voluntary actions aimed at speeding the development of the poorer countries while slowing that of their industrialized brethren . The desired result would be a much more equal division of the world 's riches and productive capacities , which could lead to global peace and prosperity through economic interdependence . <P> To promote this one-worldism , the Club is developing what Peccei calls " a trilogy of efforts , " starting with a report titled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prizewinning Dutch Economist Jan Tinbergen and 20 top government advisers-Club members are nothing if not highly placed-it is mainly concerned with the kinds of action that might influence selective growth . One recommendation will be to create new international monetary reserves to finance development in Third World countries . Other recommendations are to reduce tariffs on industrial products sold by developing nations , to set up new international agencies to subsidize the conservation of resources and , perhaps most startling , new controls on multinational companies so that they heed the needs of the countries in which they do business , as well as their own welfare .                     