@@487951

The President 's men have adjusted well to confinement . Jeb Magruder gives tennis lessons and Egil Krogh provided free legal advice to inmates who gathered around him in the evenings . ( A lawyer in prison-never has any reason to lack cigarettes . ) Unlike most convicted offenders who are lost from view once they enter prison , the spotlight of publicity has continued to fall upon the Watergate inmates . The interviews and articles in newspapers and on TV are virtually unprecedented in the federal penal system where people change almost immediately from names to numbers . Even the simultaneous incarceration at Allenwood a few years ago of such notables as Bobby Baker , Carmine . DeSapio , Gen. Carl Turner , Clifford Irving and Ralph Ginzburg did not arouse the media to such a degree . Such notorious figures as Sirhan Sirhan , Charles Manson and James Earl Ray have disappeared from public view behind prison walls . PrOponents of prison reform are viewing the publicity given the Watergate inmates with mixed emotions . Without exception the Watergate men have gone to the showcase institutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentences are extraordinarily light compared to those given to other offenders , They are all big , shots and , traditionally , big shots have special handling in prison . Yet the penetration of the media into the federal prison system , perhaps the deepest penetration ever accomplished by television and the press , is a hopeful portent . If this can be continued and widened , the opportunities for prison reform will be ad -- vanced . Until now maximum security prisons have received virtually all the press coverage . This created the public image of prison as -a place of high walls , steel bars and armed guards stationed round the clock in gun towers . Now the public is suddenly given a glimpse of a very different sort of environment  --  open and verdant , with ample sports facilities and a minimum of restrictions . To a degree , this is a healthy corrective to the popular stereotype of prison as a barred , walled place , since a sizable number of state and federal prisons are minimum and medium security facilities , more like Allenwood than San Quentin . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity for the media to cover adequately the entire ' prison beat . But the reporters who have visited the Minimum security camp at Lompoc , with , its predominantly white middle-class inmates , have ignored the nearby fe , deral medium security facility with its predominantly black lower-class inmate population . Nor have the reporters covering Magruder , Porter , et al. , at Allenwood seen fit to visit the maximum security Lewisburg penitentiary. some 18 miles away . If they restrict their first-hand view only to Allenwood and Lompoc , the cause of prison reform , may be set back rather than enhanced . Correctional authorities deny reporters and photographers access to maximum security institutions on the grounds of security and the protection of the inmate 's privacy . Both reasons seem specious and self-serving . If reporters volunteered for the front lines in Vietnam and Korea , they could undoubtedly survive in maximum security institutions . And particularly during times of stress , inmates have asked for more rather than less press coverage to protect their rights . Opening up prisons to round-the-clock media coverage may not solve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obvious brutality and help prepare the public for meaningful change . Correctional administrators tend to be oversensitive on the issue of coddling convicts . This charge seems to upset state legislators even more than documented accounts of institutionalized brutality . An article in The Architectural Record cites ' a recently completed state prison in which a large swimming pool was built in the corner of - the exercise , yard . Believing that its existence would subject them to charges of coddling criminals , correctional officials buried the pool under tons of earth . The pool can be excavated when public opinion is ready for it , they maintain , but the time is ' not yet . How many other recreational facilities in other institutions never got built , even though funds were available , because of fear of adverse public reaction ? Rather than calling for the closing of the golf courses and tennis courts at Allenwood , a more rational ' response to these newspaper reports is that every prisoner* should be entitled to adequate exercise facilities , and those - in maximum security institutions should have the higheit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so much consternation in the press , Watergate , has provided an inside look at our segregated penal system . In the Philadelphia county jail , 95 per cent , of the inmates are black . Pennsylvania , which has an overall black population of 9.4 per cent , has a local jail population that is 62.9 per cent black . The Illinois Stateville Penitentiary , a 2,000-man maximum security institution 30 miles from Chicago , is 70 per cent black , 10 per cent Latin , and 20 per cent white . To survive , inmates groin gangs based upon ethnic affiliation which run the prison. , William Nagel , author of The New Red Barn , has doctimented how blacks in the federal prison system receive longer sentences than their white counterparts . Matching for number of previous offenses , blacks average five additional months for assault , nineteen additional mouths for drugs , six for embezzlement , five for robbery , and ' - So on . The federal prison system , Watergate notwithstanding , is becoming blacker and blacker . One would never realize this from newspaper reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When Judge Sirica sentenced John Dean to a 1-to-4-year terni.in prison , he recommended that Dean serve his sentence ' in the ininimum security ' facility at Lompoc . Without this being stated specifically , Dean was sentenced to a white institution . A young black caught out of state stealing a car would be sent to a largely black institution with feWer amenities , more restriction , and rarer opportunities for visits or furloughs . That the nation 's correctional system is run by wii4eg largely for minority inmates is well known in correctional circles but is largely overlooked by the general public . Attica with its 100 per cent white jailers and 70 per cent black and Puerto Rican inmates at the time of the massacre was only a single example of a racial situation that has existed for decades . Any plans for building new prisons , such as the 1972 master plan of the Fed4al Bureau of Prisons calling for half a billion dollars in prison construction over the next decade , must be examined carefully for its racial implications . r - Most people agree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They had to be , held accountable for their misdeeds , as an affirmation of the viability of , a IT government of laws and as examples to others who might contemplate similar misconduct . Furthermore , most Of us accept that rehabilitation is not the issue . There is no mention that Porter , Segretti or Kalmbach is enrolled in vocational training , correspondence courses or group , therapy . They have strayed , but they know the way , , and the function of punishment is to set them back ' on , the correct path . They are housed at Allenwood and Lompoc with other prisoners who have committed offenses not of a violent or sexual nature . Many are middle-class narcotics offenders . According to Allenwood 's Warden Taylor , Magruder is not an ostensible threat to society and lacks " criminal sophistication . " Most prisons are likely to produce these very qualities , but not in Magruder 's case , ! 7. because the segregated prison system keeps him from contact with those who acquired that sophistication as they came up through the ranks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we treat those such as the Watergate inmates for whom the prison sentence is primarily a punishment and a deterrent to others in the public trust , and the treatment meted out to those offenders ostensibly in need of rehabilitation . The degree of confinement , dehumanization and humiliation is directly related to the degree to which they need to be rehabilitated . Violent offenders are likely to be held under conditions of greater security and less amenity . Those , prisoners who are least compliant and most violently object to prison procedures end up in the maximum security institutions . It seems odd that those for whom behavior change is most critical are subjected to a far more punishing environment than those for whom our intention is clearly punishment . ' It is currently popular among prison officials as well as their critics to say that the prison has failed to rehabilitate inmates . Following the literal meaning of rehabilitation as the restoration to a former capacity , prison has done fairly well in rehabilitating inmates , i.e. , restoring them to their former status . All too many prisoners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an added dexterity obtained in prison . Where the prisons are failing abysmally is in reform . Far from being a mere semantic quibbling , reform ( literally : to change into a new and improVed form or condition , to remove faults or abuses ) carries a much stronger implication than does rehabilitation . This makes words like reform and re-education sound anti-American , like brainwashing and our current scapegoat , behavior modification . The current wave of criticism against these techniques is not confined to psychosurgery and aversive conditioning but stems from an underlying fear that systematic means of behavior change necessarily rob the individual of his freedom of choice and dignity . Change as a result of learning is what behavior modifiers have in mind . However , we shy away from admitting the goal of reform  --  consider the archaic quality of the term " reform school " ? as well as the image it recalls . We need to decide more precisely what we want to accomplish in prison and whether these expectations are realistic . Is reform likely or even possible in an atmosphere dominated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the absence of larger goals comes a spate of smaller and lesser purposes  --  e.g. , to do yoiir time , get along in the joint  --  purposes that can be shared by guards and inmates alike . Attend a conference of correctional , officials and you will encounter a myriad of questions and concerns regarding security , staffing , hardware and buildings which bear little relation to the platitudes and statistics offered in the introductory address and after-dinner speeches . Had the President 's men been sent to more oppressive prisons , the pressures for prison reform would be increased . Yet it is difficult for us to suggest that these men , or any people for that matter , should be subjected to the worst aspects of the American penal system . Charles Colson in a strip cell with no furniture except a steel cot and a hole in the floor for a toilet would quickly change the atmosphere at the adjustment center , but the Charles Colsons are not sent to Soledad , or even Leavenworth . Jimmy Hoffa and Mickey Cohen both emerged from prison as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time in medium or maximum security institutions . Yet the wasted months of Magruder , Kalmbach , et al. , raise questions as to the value of confinement even under humane conditions . Apart from those administrators and suppliers whom Jessica Mitford described as being in the prison business , nobody gains when these men are taken from their families and housed and fed at the taxpayers ' expense . There must be some way society can make use of their considerable talents . It would seem far more logical to sentence Charles Colson to two years of putting his legal training in the service of California farm workers or the poor of Appalachia than to send him off to play gcilf and convert his former colleagues to his new-found religion . Sociologist David Ward spent a Fulbright year in Sweden studying the prison system . With a population of 8 million , Sweden had 5,000 prisoners and 4,700 correctional employees . Most of the eighty-two institutions were small , some with twenty to thirty inmates ; the largest had 350 . Sentences were short ; even at the maxi- ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than four months . Ward took the demands of the Attica prisoners to the inmates at the Swedish maximum security prison . They had all , these . rights already , except that they were n't getting full pay , although they did receive $3 a day in wages . In the United States , many of the most innovative experiments have involved the treatment of youthful offenders . Massachusetts ' had by 1972 closed all but one of its youth facilities . These were replaced with local contracts for youth homes , sometimes with the YMCA , a church group , or families taking a youth on a per diem basis . Iowa has pioneered a community corrections program for adult offenders . Convicted felons live at home , but are closely supervised by correctional staff . The recidivism rate for the Iowa community corrections program is 15 per cent compared with the 65 per cent for offenders in prison . Whenever possible , people in the program are expected to make a contribution to the community . The model used is one of restitution rather than retribution . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moines have recently been authorized by the legislature to expand to the remaining eighty-three counties of the state . Small size and adequate staff do not guarantee the success of a rehabilitation program . From the standpoint of physical . specifications , Alcatraz would have been an ideal setting for rehabilitation . There were never more than 303 inmates on the island , and the average population was about 250 , with one guard for every three inmates . However , no ' attempt was made to rehabilitate anyone ; the men were on the rock strictly to keep them apart from society . No newspapers or radios were allowed . ' The prison library was airy and well-lit , but prisoners were not allowed inside . Books were ordered from a staff librarian and delivered by trusties to the inmates ' cells . The critical issue is whether vast amounts of money should be spent on new prison construction or used for alternatives to incarceration such as community corrections , adequate parole supervision and job assistance programs , Virtually everyone who has examined the American prison system , either from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failed . Even the showcase institu-V tions such as Allenwood and Lompoc waste everyone 's time and money . There are better ways to employ the time and talents of convicted- offenders than to sentence them to play tennis and keep books in the prison store . And for the tens of thousands of inmates in the medium and maximum security institutions , the issue is not one of wasted time and talent but of oppression and sometimes extreme privation and brutality . Though we can not in good conscience say we would like to have seen this happen , the prison system would have benefited if the President 's men , had been sent to Leavenworth , Lewisburg or Danbury . However , their presence in Lompoc and Allenwood provides a rare inside look at the showcase institutions . If these institutions provide nothing beneficial to inmates or society , the lesson must be clearly drawn by prison reformers , and legislators that the way to go is not toward more modern institutions with golf courses and tennis courts . Indeed , the money should go to pilot programs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all institutions and leaving coun , ties on their own , as some states shut mental hospitals with dire results , but organically developed change , such as Iowa achieved with county probation programs , adequately funded and supervised , and expanded as they prove themselves . We can be grateful to the President 's men for showing us that the best the federal correctional system can offer is far from good enough . 