@@494725

Our correspondence ( see page 26 ) attests to the intensity of feel ? ing on the subject of busing . What is the nature of the controversy ? Hard-core racist politicians to the side , very few people any longer favor the maintenance of segregated schools , and it is plain that in many places some busing is an indispensable device for dismantling a previously segregated school system . The archetypical case would be one where segregation was itself maintained by busing . But what is meant by segregated schools , and why is it imperative that school segregation be abolished ? The kind of segregation to which the 1954 Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education was ad ? dressed had been ' imposed by law . Such segregation was found mainly in the South , but has existed in less pervasive fashion else ? where , being enforced there not by formal law , but by more or less covert official connivance . It is nonetheless offensive for that . Segre ? gation of this sort must be uprooted , for moral reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to enforce in any fashion the separation of the races , and thus inevitably to proclaim that one race is superior to the other . In addition , evidence gathered since the deci ? sion in Brown suggests that under certain conditions the education of black children is improved when they are moved from a segregated school situation into one with white children . That is the finding of the Coleman Report . Two further questions arise , however , which are frequently begged , though they are distinct and must be faced . One is whether racial concentration in the schools that results from housing patterns and other factors , is no less morally intolerable than segregation enforced by official action . The other is whether racial balarice in schools is a necessary , or necessarily the best , means of giving black children a better education . The condition of racial imbalance that arises out of residential pat ? terns and other such factors is called de facto . Legally enforced segregation is called de jure . A distinction between the two has been assumed to exist ever since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reiterated this assumption in its decision of last spring which sanctioned busing . The Court has declined all oppor ? tunities to reexamine or blur the distinction . Some lower federal courts have done so , but not the Supreme Court . Nor has the Supreme Court ever said that when one or another instance of officially induced segregation is found in northern school districts that are otherwise not segregated by law , the remedy must be the institution of racial bal ? ance , chiefly through busing in the entire school dis ? trict . That is our understanding of the matter . In these northern cases the issue is thus not obedience to the Constitution as defined by the Court , but rather , what ought national policy to be , and ought it to be made by the courts or the legislature ? If it is not equally a moral imperative to abolish de facto racial concentration in the public schools as it is to disestablish legally enforced segregation , then rational policymakers must consider costs and bene ? fits . The most sanguine reading of the Coleman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us to be ? lieve that the attainment of racial balance in the schools is the only , or always the most effective , way to improve the education of black children . The de ? mography of many areas is such that the conditions of balance in which the Coleman Report found edu ? cational improvement , are ' Moreover , racial balance can often be achieved only by sacrificing other social and educational values , chiefly a sense of community . Not universally , but often , busing aimed at assuring racial balance carries very high costs , en ? tails not only the expenditure of funds which are in short supply and could be put to other uses , but of political and administrative resources which are also not in unlimited supply and for which other fruitful employment could be found . Finally , since the coun ? try is not prepared to pay the additional costs of closing private schools or incorporating them into the public system , or of restricting the freedom of residential choice which the upper and ' middle class enjoy , busing not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even after all its other costs have been borne . Opponents of racial imbalance are concerned , no less than we , with the short-changing of black chil ? dren . But they are persuaded that only efforts to achieve racial balance , at whatever cost , will yield the desired educational returns . For our part , we would not cut off efforts in that direction : racial balance is an achievable , and for the moment , sufficient objec tive in many places . In many others , however , we are not so confident that it can be achieved . Nor are we sure what an " ideal " balance is in each instance . De ? spite the conclusions of the Coleman Report , we sus ? pect that when a court or legislative body assumes it knows the precise , ideal , black-white ratio , experi ? ence will often upset that judgment . There are a great many diptricts where " balance " can be imposed only by somehow breaking up established communities or breaking up established neighborhood schools . We have seen both these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better education for black and white is an open question . Because it is , we would like to see far more resources and energy allocated to alternative approaches . That , we take it , is what Charles Hamilton , the , black political scientist at Harvard , has in mind when he says , " . we should be concerned essentially with quality education , and not with the superficial bringing together of black and white students .... The bringing together of black and white students has been primary in our thinking as a result of the pre-1954 mentality . I think that those who do not focus on something else are failing to adapt to the times . " This position is no sort of retreat from the fight against segregation in the South or North . It does rest on the proposition that conditions of racial , ethnic and class residential separation exist and are reflected in the schools , and they are not morally objectionable to the same degree as legally enforced segregation and possibly not morally objectionable at all . This posi ? tion does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the notion that the only way black children can be better educated is to place them next to white children . Finally the position rests on what we consider to be the realistic conclusion that unless quite radical measures are taken to restrict middle-class mobility , there are many places in the country ? and they are the places where better than half the blacks live ? in which for the foreseeable future the model of racial balance subsumed by the Coleman Report is beyond our reach . Something more productive than banging one 's head against the stone wall of this reality should , we believe , be attempted . Neither Congress nor anyone else knows exactly how to improve the education of black children . But we ought to try to find ways . The busing issue has been exploited cynically by people who do n't give a hang whether black kids get a good education or not , and who camouflage their racism or indifference in high-blown rhetoric about neighborhood schools or " freedom of choice " or what have you . But that does not excuse others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ busing does or does not contribute to improving and equalizing educational opportunities . In some places it is a convenience , in some a necessity , in others an incubus . DECEMBER 18 , 1971 George Gallup 's pollsters asked 616 Democrats in November whom they wanted to see nominated for President next year . Because of the " scientific " way in which Gallup selects his sample , the results are con ? sidered , by Gallup , to represent the opinions of Dem ? ocrats who are 18 years old or older . Seventy-two per ? cent of the respondents chose either Kennedy , Muskie or Humphrey . Kennedy leads , with 29 percent ; Muskie is second with 24 and Humphrey runs a strong third with 19 percent . No other mentioned po ? tential candidate drew more than 6 percent . As part of an occasional , unscientific survey of its readers ' opinions The New Republic in November asked selected subscribers by mail which of nine Demo ? crats they would like to see win the nomination . We have tabulated the 1000 responses received . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with 19 , and John Gardner of Common Cause is third with 12 per ? cent . Kennedy was the first choice of 8 percent of our sample , followed by Lindsay , McCarthy , Hughes , Bayh and Humphrey , in that order . Humphrey was preferred by 1.6 percent of our sample . India and Pakistan are at war for the fourth time . There is , an understandable tendency to ideitify the causus ' belli with the situation in East Pakistan . There is truth in this . The abrogation of elections of East Pakistan 's chosen leaders ; the denial of the peoples ' expressed desire for regional autonomy ; the bloody suppression of this desire ; the enormous flight of millions upon millions of Bengalis ? largely Hindus ? to India , a country with its own mouths to feed and citizens to house ; the desire of Pakistan to preserve its national unity both for political and economic rea ? sons ; India 's military and diplomatic support for an independent Bangla-Desh ; the failure of the world community , including our own country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ment ; Kashmir ; the partition itself ; all are contributing factors . Since leaving my post as United States Ambassador to the United Nations three years ago , I have tried to avoid second-guessing our government in matters such as this . Too many facts are unknown to one who no longer has access to the diplomatic exchanges which preceded the conflict . Yet , as the official pri ? marily responsible for handling our government's7 efforts to settle the 1965 war between India and Pakis ? tan , I can not forebear raising some issues , as a con ? cerned citizen ; friendly both to India and Pakistan . Before doing so , I should like to recall briefly what occurred in the fall of 1965 , when war broke out be ? tween India and Pakistan over the unresolved question of Kashmir . It would be disingenuous to say that I did not have views about the attitudes underlying the 1965 war , or do not have about this war . Nevertheless , in 1965 , on my advice and that of others , our govern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ington from publicly or privately passing judgment on who was responsible . We single-mindedly pursued the objective of bringing about a cease fire and restoration of the status quo ante . We did not wait until full-scale war erupted . As President of the Security Council at the time , by accident of rotation , I convened the Secu ? rity Council as soon as troop movements and sporadic fighting were reported , without awaiting the full-fledged conflagration which ' occurred later and which has occurred now . It is true that we invoked a Security Council rule permitting the President of the Council to convene a meeting where peace is threatened , but this fooled no one . I was the American Ambassador , and , obviously , the United States was taking the initiative to try to cool the situation before a general eruption . At the Security Council , we made every effort to avoid any vote before we were able by intensive private negotiations , particularly with the Big Powers , to arrive at a consensus of how the United Nations effec ? tively could act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today 's events and those in 1965 , there are also similarities . Then , as now , the Soviet Union strongly espoused the cause of India , while China , though not in the UN , both diplomatically and by a limited movement of troops made clear its support of Pakistan . Neither India nor Pakistan , as is the case now , was anxious for the Security Council to assume jurisdiction . Indeed , at one point as a result of a particularly bitter attack by Pakistan 's foreign minister against India , the Indian representative walked out on the Council meeting . But we and other like-minded nations persevered and after prolonged and difficult negotiations at the UN succeeded in having the Security Council adopt three successive and unanimous cease-fire resolutions . The first two , were not immediately honored but the third , in a strengthened form demanding a.cease-fire , was honored and the fighting came to a halt on Sep ? tember 22 , 1965 . In this connection , it should be noted that the war was brought to an end at the United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mediation by the Soviet Union at Tashkent in January of the following year . It is true that the Soviet Union made a considerable effort after the cease-fire and the termination of hostile .                     