@@493682

The Color line Johannesburg More clearly than ever before , the battle line between white and black has been drawn in South Africa . The overwhelming white vote in the November 30 election for Prime Minister John Vorster 's National Party ensures this . A color line always has been there , of course . Since the coming of whites in 1652 , racial division and conflict have existed . That is what South Africa is all about . But until very recently , hope remained that the estrangement could be ended , that the color line would not become a battle line but could be crossed so that an interracial future for all South Africans could be brought about . For many years the black-white issue was obscured by what became known as the Boer-Brit conflict ? the struggle for supremacy among the whites between the Afrikaners , of Dutch descent , and those of English-speaking stock , chiefly of British descent . This began atthe start of the 19th century when England took occupation of the cape at the southern edge of South Africa . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Afrikaners in the Anglo-Boer war at the start of the 20th century . The Afrikaners doggedly went on , and finally came to political power in 1948 . Since then , Afrikaners also have breached the economic hold of the English speakers . November 30 saw a major step toward blurring the traditional line between the Boers and the Brits . Vorster 's election triumph-134 out of 164 parliamentary seats ? was only possible because many English speakers supported him . They did so in the first place because the Nationalists wanted it so . For much of their 29 years in office , the Nationalists went their own Afrikaner way , consolidating the 1948 election victory and indeed deliberately seeking to perpetuate their group " purity " by insisting on greater separation between Afrikaans- and English-speaking children at schools , stressing the use of the Afrikaans language and applying exclusivist policies wherever possible . Only in recent years has this begun to change and the Nationalists ceased keeping English-speakers at arm 's length . At first , the change in attitude was seen in tokens such as one English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this election , there was an all-out campaign to woo the English . The Nationalists have done this because they feel strong enough to do it : they are totally in command of the government , the civil service , the police , the army , the educational system and the radio and television network ; and they exercise considerable control over the economy . They no longer fear losing their identity to the English-speaking population . But , paradoxically , they have also been forced into pitching their appeal to the English because of the smallness of their numbers : they form 00 percent of the four-and-a-half million whites . Even before the election they were being pushed toward this by South Africa 's internal stresses and the developing threat , to whites , of black demands . Now they can not help themselves ? not with the greater-than-ever pressures from the world and with worse obviously to come . " National unity " is therefore now the cry . Stand together . The world is asking us to commit racial suicide . They want our destruction . Resist . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have gone along with this . They have never felt more insecure than they do now , more worried , about being able to maintain their privileged position as whites . Together with Afrikaners , the English are responding to the internal and external pressures with a mixture of bravado , fear , smugness , anxiety and snarling truculence . Not all the English , however , have succumbed . Among some , dislike and distrust of Afrikanerdom remain . Many , many thousands of others , particularly among the professional and business people , reject the entire Nationalist creed and want to see progress towards a multiracial , shared South Africa . The support of these people , and of some Afrikaners also , went to the Progressive Federal Party , ( the " Progfeds " ) , best known for its member of parliament , Mrs. Helen Suzman . For 13 years , Suzman was the party 's only lonely representative in Parliament . Then , at the previous general election in 1974 , the party gained another six seats . Still more came in the succeeding years as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Last week , the Progfeds held 17 seats , thus becoming the official opposition in parliament . The election picture was completed by the elimination of the extreme right wing among Afrikaners ( those who accuse the Nationalists of doing too much for blacks ) , and the effective destruction of the center , with two separate rumps of the United Party holding onto a total of 13 seats . Both these latter groups are likely to merge into the Nationalists and the Progfeds . Thus the realignment in white politics , with a polarization between the Nationalists and those who oppose them . Those few whites who are determinedly nonracial and integrationist in their outlook do not even figure except as Progfed supporters . With the sort of majority that he has racked up , Vorster can safely do virtually as he pleases . The Nationalists will forge ahead with apartheid , or " separate development " as it is officially called : partition , with a white South Africa occupying 86 percent of the country and nine black tribal states , the Bantustans , in the remaining less than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independence , in October last year . On December 0 , Bophuthatswana became the second . Those who might have believed that a stronger-than-ever Nationalist government would feel itself able to lead whites into basic changes will be disappointed . Government spokesmen have been quick to make clear that adjustments are possible but no radical changes are even being considered . It was well put by Dr. Connie Mulder , the powerful Transvaal leader of the National Party who is also Minister of the Interior and Information : " The National Party has received a mandate to carry out its policy , " he said . " It must not be expected of us to carry out the policies of the other parties . " Some diminution in the cruder aspects of apartheid can be expected . After years-long exposure and attack , Afrikaner leaders have become touchy about the grosser and more visible effects of their ideology . There is fervent talk about doing away with racial discrimination and certainly much of it is well meant . A certain amount actually is being done to remove some of the racial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past quarter century . But with all this , the constant emphasis is that everything must happen within the framework of separate development . As the essence of the ideology is racist , that immediately puts a low ceiling on the extent to which discrimination can be removed . The Nationalists also can draw comfort from the fact that white support for them was unaffected by the two and a half weeks of evidence heard during the Steve Biko inquest , with the horrific stories about the behavior of the security police and doctors . Whites endorse the government 's authoritarian action in October of banning newspapers and 18 organizations as part of its clampdown on black consciousness . Within two days of the election , Vorster was warning that urban terrorism had come to stay , adding ominously : " We will have to take certain drastic measures to contain and to curb it . " Even harder times can be expected by those who oppose the government too much . And the English-language press in particular is likely to feel the whip . Internationally , the Nationalists are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by way of censure or sanctions . Whatever constraints they might have felt in the past about the effects of their actions on world opinion will be substantially reduced . Nationalist emotions , and those of most whites , are so high that they are almost past caring what the world thinks of them , so convinced are they of the rightness of their policies and the sheer unfairness of the way in which they are viewed abroad . But however significant last week 's election in confirming the pattern of white thinking , it was monumentally irrelevant for the simple reason that the majority of South Africans were not involved in it . That of course is nothing new in South Africa . But on this occasion , more so than at any time in the past , the total exclusion of blacks , who are 80 percent of the population , made it a thoroughly bizarre event , unrelated to reality . The election was about blacks and about white and black relations , but no blacks were allowed to vote ! And it was held in the aftermath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dissatisfaction a continuing and daily fact of life . Vast forces are building up as the black majority stirs and begins to flex its muscles . Black schooling has been in chaos with tens of thousands of children boycotting their classes . On the eve of the election , the security police said that the toll of violent political incidents in black townships had been reduced to one or two a day from the previous 20 to 30 a day . But this can hardly be said to be the end of black resistance . Nearly 700 blacks are estimated to be in jail . They are being held incommunicado , indefinitely , without trial . Court prosecutions under terrorism , sabotage and other " security " laws continue incessantly . Hundreds of whites and blacks live under arbitrary restriction orders which severely curtail their personal liberty . Little of this was apparent in the election , apart from the warnings of " change or else " repeatedly sounded by the opposition press and the Progfeds during the campaigning . In a sense , whites voted as they did in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protection of the strong government which the Nationalists promise them . In another sense , they behaved and voted as though there were no black ferment and no peril . A consequence of the white vote is that it must inevitably be taken by blacks as final proof , if any were still needed , that whites are determined to follow their own path without heeding black protest and demands . What it means is that white power is firmly set on a road that leads to confrontation with black power . South Africa now enters its real struggle : black versus white . It is not something that will be resolved overnight : white power is colossal . Spurred by the election result , the government will not hesitate to apply this power to protect its own . But whenever the battle happens , the line is now drawn . It is very sad . South Africa need not have come to this                     