@@285667

One of the Soviet Union 's greatest natural assets is the Caspian Sea , the world 's largest inland body of salt water . Much of Russia 's annual fish catch and most of its black caviar come from the Caspian ; tankers ply its waters , carrying oil from Baku to ports in the north . But the Caspian is in trouble . Since 1930 its water level has dropped more than eight feet , leaving fishing villages and port facilities high and dry ; the fish catch has been cut more than half . To compensate for the continuing water loss , the Soviets are planning a bold and imaginative project that calls for use of nuclear explosives to blast out more than half of a 70-mile canal across northern Russia . <P> The huge canal would connect the Pechora River-which flows north into the Barents Sea region of the Arctic Ocean-with the southward-flowing Kama River , a tributary of the mighty Volga ( see map page 82 ) . Once the link is made and the necessary dams constructed , part of the Pechora 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the Volga , which is the Caspian 's major source of new water . The increased flow should stabilize the level of the inland sea . At a recent meeting of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna , the Soviets tried to assure fellow members that the explosions would not only cost considerably less than conventional explosives but produce no dangerous fallout either in the U.S.S.R. or abroad . As proof , they revealed hitherto secret details of a 1971 test along the canal route . It involved the simultaneous detonation of a row of three 15-kiloton nuclear charges ( compared with 20 kilotons for the Hiroshima bomb ) , spaced about 500 ft. apart . The blasts produced so little radiation and such stable walls that technicians were able to walk along the rim of the 2,600-ft. - long crater only two days later . The only damages were some cracks in the brick ovens and wall plaster of nearby log cabins . Although the Russians have not done any further blasting , they say that the job could be done with some 250 nuclear devices , mostly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a time . <P> American reaction to the project is mixed . Physicist Glenn Werth , of the University of California 's Lawrence Livermore Laboratory , praises it as both safe and economical . He notes that the Russians have already set off nuclear blasts to stimulate further output from old gas and oil fields , control runaway gas well fires and remove earth for strip mining without any major hitches . <P> Other American scientists , however , warn that reducing the northward flow of the Pechora 's relatively warm fresh-river water could reduce the temperature of the Arctic Ocean and cause the ice to expand . Or the Arctic Ocean could become saltier , resulting in a lower freezing point and causing the ice to melt . In either case , the river-reversal scheme has the potential to cause major climatological repercussions .                     