@@494903

On Stage Contradictions : Notes on Twenty-Six Years in the Theatre by Hal Prince ( Dodd-Mead &; Company : $8.95 ) There 's no doubt that Hal Prince is an extraordinarily talented man . Only 46 , he 's produced an almost unbroken series of successful musicals stretching back more than two decades ; recently he 's branched into directing them as well , and his credits in that department include Cabaret , Zorba , Company , Follies , A Little Night Music and Candide . About the only thing he ca n't do well , in fact , is write . That 's a pity , too , because he 's seen it all . According to William Goldman ( whose book The Season is a superb piece of theatrical history that makes the shortcomings of Contradictions very 25 evident by comparison ) , " Prince is probably the producer with the broadest view of the problems of the theatre as a whole . " But Prince tries to do too much . Attempting to explain what those problems are , who he is , how one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Then , too , a man who can write that his life " has n't been too heavy in the reality factor " is under a severe stylistic handicap when it comes to dealing with issues of any complexity . Prince touches on everything ? auditioning practices , ticket prices , Actor 's Equity , theater size , electronic amplification , audience involvement , the contributions of George Abbott , Jerome Robbins , Bob Fosse and dozens of others ? but the treatments are sketchy . " I have a predilection for oversimplifying , " he tells us , and so he does . About reviewing he says : " Without critics , people would n't know what to see . Good reviews sell tickets . Enough said . " But what about bad reviews ? Must we consult David Merrick to discover how producers feel about them ? The " contradictions " of the title may , in Prince 's view , consist of the paradoxes inevitable in the life of a businessman-artist , but for the reader , too often they seem to refer to the incoherence that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of instances of Prince simply having been unwilling , or unable , to put his - thoughts in order ? to work out for himself , and us , how he feels about something , or what he wants to say about it . For example Cecil Beaton 's costuming of Tenderloin was too " tasteful , " not " vul- 1 gar " enough , he tells us , two sentences before he takes Beaton to task for smearing " grotesque " makeup on the actresses ; Joan Littlewood 's production of They Might be Giants failed because she I tinkered with " a tight , carefully polished ; play " instead of simply mounting it , while his own production of it never- ' got off the ground because " there was something wrong with the play " ? he never tells us what . As an autobiography , Contradictions I might have succeeded . From all other sources its subject sounds like an interesting enough man . But Prince seems to hold back . There 's little said about his life outside the theater , and in recounting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often wears a mask . Producers have to be clever with money , and Goldman tells us that Prince is the smartest of them all , but , though the book is full of financial details and endless negotiations , the shrewdie Prince must be seldom comes through . Instead we get Mr. Integrity : " Success is not measured at the box-office " intones the man who , according to Goldman , genially admitted to Variety that he had falsified reports of grosses from the road company of Fiddler on the Roof in order to make it seem more successful than Hello , Dolly ! Instead of giving us a self-portrait , warts and all , he pontificates , and we get a lot of strangled bombast : " My predilection for theatricality is not exclusive . Occasionally , I like the static verbosity of French theatre . " In fairness to the book there are occasional nuggets , particularly in the second half , which is better than the first ( either because Prince 's memory of his recent plays is clearer , or because they 're the ones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chapter , on Candide , is an indication of what the whole book could have been ; it 's a richly detailed account of how Prince and his collaborators solved monumental problems of staging in one of the most original productions of the past few seasons . But overall the essential genius of the man is missing . Whatever unerring instinct he has for what is commerical DECEMBER 28 , 1974 and entertaining , whatever it is that makes him the most consistently suc ; cessful producer of musical plays in our history , he does n't really convey it here . Most of us talk a better game than we play , but for Hal Prince it 's just the reverse ? fortunately for theatergoers , perhaps unfortunately for his publish/ ers . He tells us in his introduction that he 's always wanted to be a writer . One ca n't help hoping that with Contradictions he 's fulfilled that dream or abandoned it , and can go back to being a producer and director of vastly entertaining plays . 