@@493753

Miniconvention Memphis , Tennessee Advance notices for the Democrats ' midterm con-ference promised a shoot-out between the Carter administration and the liberals . Well , if you can imagine a shoot-out where both parties are concerned about behaving responsibly and not embarrassing one another unduly , the event lived up to its billing . It 's certainly true that each side showed up in Memphis thinking it had something to prove . What the liberals wanted to prove was that they are still a force to be reckoned with in the Democratic party . Seen by most of the country 's political press as factionalized and leaderless , many of those who found their way into politics through the antiwar campaigns of 1968 and 1972 are in a mood to believe the reviews . They watched their coalition crumble in 1976 to the benefit of a candidate without ties to the Democratic party , let alone to their own new politics constituencies . Then , in 1978 , they watched as incumbent Democratic congressmen campaigned and won as tax cutters and inflation fighters . And now that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to emerge , they can see that the White House campaign to eliminate government waste and cut spending will be directed primarily at the domestic social programs they hold most dear . So many liberals arrived in Memphis spoiling to have their say , but worried that when the moment came , they might again be proved impotent ; they worried that the conference would be turned into a nationally televised gripe session dominated by the president 's harshest critics in his own party ? " a self-inflicted wound , " as one observer put it . Back when President Carter was in his pre-Camp David slump , the worst fear of his operatives was that Memphis might even as a launching pad for a dump Carter movemserveent . So the objective at the White House was to return from here with a demonstration of broad support for the president 's policies , along with a clear signal that Carterites have established some control over the party apparatus . To assure that control , the conference rules were juggled a bit , to require that all resolutions sent to the floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or have the support of 25 percent of the convention delegates ? before the convention opened . In addition , most of the conference schedule was given over to workships , seminars and ceremony , with only a few hours on the final day devoted to a plenary session for debate on policy . In fact , both sides did reasonably well . In preparing for Memphis , the liberals avoided " hot button " issues like abortion and homosexual rights , concentrating instead on tax reform , full employment , energy , national health insurance and so forth . Most of the support for these resolutions was organized by an ad hoc group calling itself The Democratic Agenda , which is headed by socialist author Michael Harrington and backed by a group of congressmen , union presidents , Democratic party officials and activists . The resolutions expressed specific , programmatic differences with the course staked out by the Carter administration in each instance , but they also avoided inflammatory rhetoric or propositions that could be dismissed simply as attempts to embarrass President Carter . On efforts to loosen up convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behind Representative Donald Fraser of Minnesota . Because they got themselves organized early and demonstrated an uncharacteristic willingness to submit to some leadership , liberals made some important gains in Memphis . On arrangements for the 1980 convention , for example , they persuaded the Democratic National Committee to divide delegate spots equally between men and women , and to eliminate all vestiges of winner-take-all systems from the nation 's presidential primaries , thereby settling two fights that have raged in the party for more than a decade . The Carter people found themselves up against a larger and better organized liberal faction than they expected ? but not strong enough to really endanger their control . Forced to decide whether to bargain and accommodate or to smother the opposition , DNC Chairman John White and the White House aides on hand wisely chose a negotiated settlement wherever possible . White agreed to assure adequate time for debate on resolutions by the full convention , somewhat allaying complaints that delegates had traveled great distances for nothing more than a round of parties and pats on the head . Some competing resolutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on tax reform was combined with one offered by Chicago Mayor Michael Bilandic and passed unanimously . On a few other issues , compromises were negotiated by adding language acceptable to both sides . But both sides needed at least one confrontation forthe record , and they figured out a way to get it . It came on a budget resolution offered by United Auto Workers President Douglas Fraser criticizing the Carter ad. ministration 's plan to increase defense spending and promising " an adequate budget to meet human needs , in no case less than the current budget for human and social services . " For all its flexibility , the administration was not prepared to lose a major battle , and John White surrendered the convention gavel in order to issue an emotional plea to the delegates to " trust the president . ' ' On the floor , 150 members of the White House-DNC whip system ? consisting of governors , governors-elect , White House aides , mayors , administration appointees , party chairmen and political hired guns ? passed the word that a defeat would be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were called twice , and each time the outcome seemed obvious . But from the podium , Mayor Coleman Young of Detroit , who was temporarily replacing White as chairman , called first for a standing vote , then for a delegation roll call . The Carter people wanted a number , a fixed percentage victory , for the press to analyze and report . For the record , the vote was 822-521 against the Erasee resolution , a 61 percent margin of victory for Mr. Carter . That number closely resembled the results of a CBS poll of the delegates which showed that 58 perceni wanted him as the party 's 1980 nominee . DNC Chairman White said that the vote showed that " Jimmy Carter and his political party are in tune with each other . " Richard Samuels , a liberal delegate from New Jersey who registered his vote on the other side , took a different view . " Forty percent in a fixed fight is a great victory , " said Samuels . The Democratic Agenda has been passed off by some press reports and party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this group include four heads of major unions ? Douglas Fraser of the UAW , William Win pisinger of the Machinists , Murray Finley of the Garment Workers and Jerry Wurf of the State , County and Municipal Employees ( AFSCME ) . Liberal disaf fec Lion from this administration sometimes is dismissed with the observation that Jimmy Carter was not their first choice anyway . That 's not entirely accurate . Early support from a coalition of nine liberal labor unions , including three now active in the group , was very important in getting Carter under way in Iowa and in fueling his drive to become the respectable southern alternative to George Wallace in Florida . His earliest backing M the union movement came from Fraser 's predecessor at the UAW , Leonard Woodcock , and from Wurf at AFSCME . Another source of important and early Carter support was black Democrats whose leaders are now openly critical of the administration decisions to cut federal spending on programs to help the poor . From the dialogue at this midterm conference , it seems clear that Democrats will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the one hand , the Carter administration sees in the results of the past election an emerging popular consensus for controlling inflation , cutting waste , trimming the federal budget and scaling down domestic social spending . On the other , the liberal wing of the party is not inclined to try to solve the problem of inflation by cutting funds for job training , welfare , housing , school lunches and community development , while setting aside comprehensive national health insurance and at the same time increasing the defense budget . That discord may explain why Carter 's opening speech to this conference ? tough on inflation now , with hope for the future ? received such a tepid response from the delegates . It may also partially explain the response generated by Ted Kennedy 's stemwinder the following day . Even White House aides admitted Kennedy 's performance was the theatrical high point of the convention . He appeared opposite HEW Secretary Joe Califano and White House domestic affairs adviser Stuart Eisenstadt in what was designed to be a panel discussion on national health insurance . Kennedy , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage , arms waving , voice booming in a grander oratorical style than either of his brothers ever applied , the Massachusetts senator gave the audience what it came to hear ? some full-blown Democratic oratory . Touching all his bases , he declared a new battleline in the party with a single sentence : " There could be few more divisive issues for America and for our party than a Democratic policy of drastic slashes in the federal budget at the expense of the elderly , the poor , the black , the sick , the cities and the unemployed . " Applause . Kennedy 's audience for this single workshop was estimated at half the total number of delegates , alternates , press and assorted hangers-on who traveled to Memphis for the weekend . Returning to the subject and enjoying himself to the fullest , Kennedy reminded them that two categories of Americans already have comprehensive health care : the wealthy , who can afford to pay for it , and members of the House and Senate , who get the best the government can provide at Walter Reed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " That is n't fair ! " Kennedy shouted . " If national health insurance is good enough for the wealthy and good enough for Congress , then it is good enough for every American citizen in every city , town and village and on every farm throughout this land ! " Standing ovation . " Electrifying " was the adjective seized upon by the press . Kennedy played with his audience like a yo-yo master , but he also engaged in some elaborate behindthe-scenes negotiations with the Carter administration to get agreement on a national health insurance resolution that would avoid a floor fight . It does not serve Kennedy 's purposes right now to become the wedge for a split between the liberals and Carter . For its part , the White House could not agree to any resolution that committed it to a major , costly new program just at a time when it needs all the anti-inflation credibility it can muster in its budget cutting battles throughout the government . Kennedy and his major ally in the health insurance fight , Doug Fraser of the UAW , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away from the 1976 Democratic platform , nor any that failed to include a timetable . " That platform , " Fraser reminded the delegates , " was entitled ' A Contract with the American People . ' " The compromise finally negotiated on timing was two years , the duration of the 96th Congress . Kennedy 's performance set the place astir with speculation about his intentions for 1980 . Pols around the bars and hospitality rooms in Memphis also noticed a small change in his Senate staff : the addition of Carl Wagner , who lately has been helping out with the legislative program at AFSCME . Before that , Wagner built a reputation as one of the country 's best political organizers , and , as a member of the Winograd Commission which just finished rewriting the Democratic party rules for 1980 , he has a current and convenient familiarity with how Democratic presidential candidates get nominated . Tom Southwick , Kennedy 's press secretary , says Wagner will be in charge of liaison with unions and public officials , helping out with certain legislative initiatives , helping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But if you were even just thinking about running for president sometime in the future , it would n't hurt you to put a fellow like Wagner in charge of your whereabouts in the meantime . Ken Bode                     