@@488056

. At the request of American friends of Nick Kaloudis , ' once a resident of the United States , I attended a military trial at Athens , beginning on July 6 , at which Kaloudis and ten other defendants were charged with conspiracy to overthrow by force the social order of Greece . I was one of eight lawyers attending the trial as observers , the others being from France , West Germany , Belgium , Sweden and England . What follows is my report . I arrived at 8 A.M. at the 6-story officer building in downtown Athens where the trial was to be held . There were a number of army vehicles at the entrance to the building , and armed soldiers as well as plainclothes men surrounded the area . I was unable to enter until Mr. Theotokatos , attorney for Mr. Kaloudis , appeared . After considerable discussion and negotiation , and after I had deposited my passport with a security agent and submitted to , being frisked , he finally got permission for me to proceed to the 6th-floor courtroom . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feet wide . The military court , consisting of five members and one alternate , was seated on a. raised platform at one end of the room . The president of the court was a military judge and the others were army officers ; all were in uniform . The courtroom was divided by an aisle . To the left and also on a raised platform was seated the prosecutor in an officer 's uniform . To the right , the eleven defendants were seated in an'area enclosed by rail ; they were guarded by armed soldiers whose number varied from ten to twenty during the trial . Also on the left- and closest to the bench , sat seventeen , defense lawyers ; behind them were several rows of jour- naiists , then the foreign legal , observers , including myself , and several plainclothes members of the security department . ' At the rear were four or five benches for the friends and relatives of the accused . The courtroom was poorly ventilated and during the trial it became either very hot or , if the windows were open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The trial opened with a reading of the indictment and other formalities . The principal defendants admitted that they were seeking to overthrow  --  in the sense of completely change  --  the present government which three yeag earlier , following democratic elections , had illegally seized power . However , the defendants denied that they intended to use force to gain this objeCtive . Most of them were Communists and , because of the military dictatorship , had gone underground . The prosecutor introduced no evidence to prove that the defendants actually used force or that they possessed weapons for that purpose . Defense attorneys moved to dismiss the proceedings on the ground that the case should be referred to the civil courts for trial . The lawyers pointed out that the government had recently issued a public statement promising to lift the three-year-old state of siege under which the trial had been referred to a military court instead of the civil courts . Further , the attorneys requested an adjournment on the ground that they had not been given adequate time to prepare the case . In support of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had ended only a week earlier , the prosecutor had obtained statements from numerous witnesses , including the defendants , and had compiled a large investigative file . During the investigative period , under the law , the defense lawyers had had no right to see their clients or to participate in the investigation . The prosecution 's file had been made available to the defense attorneys only six days before the trial . The lawyers also pointed out that during these six days they had been permitted to interview their clients on only three occasions of two hours each  --  through the prison , screen and in the presence of other defendants and prison guards . These motions were vigorously pressed by most of the defense counsel in turn , frequently with dramatic gestures . The arguments went on for several hours , and the motions were then denied . All the proceedings were , of course , conducted in Greek , which created a problem for the foreign observers . However , many of the defense attorneys could speak English ' or French , and they filtered the essence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that we kept up with developments , although with some delay . The first session lasted until about 1:30 P.M. Court recessed until about 6 P.M. and then continued until one o'clock the following morning . The second day of the trial began about 8:30 and continued until about 1 P.M. The court then recessed until 8 A.M. on the third day-and the verdict was announced at 12:30 P.M. The prosecutor 's two principal witnesses were ranking officers of the security division , who testified while standing directly in front of the bench . As criminal trials are customarily held on the Continent , the principal aspect of the process consists of the voluminous documents obtained during the investigation , which are considered part of the record . Trials are thus greatly accelerated . - The testimony of the first government witness , Police Superintendent Mallias , appeared to be a long lecture to the court , in which he outlined the history of the Greek Communist party , Russian communism and communism in general . Much of his testimony was read from notes . During this presentation , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the president of the court refused permission . The president and prosecutor , in turn , then asked a number of questions . There followed a lengthy and vigorous examination of the witness by defense attorneys . However , the character of this exchange in no way resembled the cross-examination of a witness in our tradition . Rather , it was a continuous debate between the attorney and the witness in which the president and sometimes the prosecutor participated , frequently talking or shouting at each other at the same time . No one appeared particularly surprised or annoyed by this procedure . I came to realize , however , that this kind of free-for-all debate was not inappropriate , if political ideas are to be tried in a courtroom . It was a more honest approach- than are the procedures of political trials in our courts , particularly under the Smith Act , where almost identical charges are involved . ' We are required to treat the proceedings as though they were trials of ordinary crimes , designed to ascertain the facts to which the law is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' is to be the subject of judicial determination in a criminal proceeding , the Socratic method of debate I saw in Athens seemed more suitable than the hypocritical assumptions which today underlie the . trials of political ideas in the United States . The only exhibits offered in evidence by the prosecutor were several issues of a newspaper published by the Greek underground . These papers were used frequently by the witness in his attempt to establish a relationship between the Greek underground movement and Communist ideology and objectives . - After the two police witnesses had testified and some lengthy documents listing numerous items found on the occasion of the defendants ' arrest had been read in evi. 364 dence , the prosecutor rested his case . At this point each of the defendants was permitted to state his or her defense . In doing so , they were not subject to cross-examination because it is felt that a defendant charged with a crime is thus more likely to feel uninhibited in stating his defense . Mr. Kaloudis presented a reasoned , calmly stated posi ' lionconcerning his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party . Other defendants followed . At this point the prosecutor made his final summation , asking that all the defendants be found guilty and recommending heavy sentences for each of them , beginning with life imprisonment for the three leaders and lesser penalties ranging from twenty years to two years for the others . Counsel for each defendant then spoke . Defense arguments were neither perfunctory nor objective . They were presented with emotion and drama , punctuated by vivid bodily movements and sharp pointing of finger and arm . They sought to expose the undemocratic and illegal character of the prosecution and affirm their belief in the innocence of their clients . Nor was the vigor of the defense a mere courtroom tactic . Four of the defense counsel had alreadY been imprisoned by the military government for periods of up to three years . Some of them were among the best-known attorneys in Greece : They knew that their representation might well land them in prison . On the final day of the trial , attorney Kizeridis , in presenting his case , pointed out how difficult it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Members of the court were required to be impartial as between the government and a group of defendants charged with conspiring to forcefully overthrow it . But at the same time the court was composed entirely elf army officers , sworn to obey the government . While he was in the process of making this initial point , Kizeridis was interrupted by the prosecutor who condemned the statement as an attack on the integrity of the court and asked that the lawyer be found in contempt , and punished . Thereupon , all but a few of the defense counsel rose to their feet , and each in turn supported their colleague with strong and bitter attacks upon the prosecutor 's contention . Again the argument was interlarded by emotional and often hostile shouting by the defense counsel , the prosecutor and the president . Finally , the president abruptly adjourned the court to take the matter under advisement. 1 While the court was adjourned , my colleagues and I asked defense counsel what they proposed to do about this dramatic development . We were told that they had conferred among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for contempt they would ask permission of their clients to withdraw from the case on the ground that justice would thereafter be unobtainable . Their clients , we were told , had agreed to this pro- , cedure . We asked whether they desired , that we walk out with them , which we were all willing to do , to support our Greek colleagues against an attack which we all felt to be unwarranted and repressive . The lawyers preferred that we remain in the court as observers until the end of the trial . Court reconvened and the president announced the decision . Kizeridis was found guilty of contempt and sentenced to two years in prison . There was no appeal . Immediately , an army officer took his position near Mr. Kizeridis and placed him under technical arrest . Mr. Kizeridis would be taken from the courtroom to the prison to serve his two years . At this point Mr. Kaloudis advised the court that in view of these developments the defendants , with two exceptions , had decided to dismiss their attorneys . Thereupon fourteen defense lawyers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under guard and the two defense counsel who decided to remain and make their final arguments . When these two arguments had been presented , the president declared the trial ended , and the court retired to consider its verdict . At 12:30 P.M. the court reconvened and , as is the custom , its members and the entire audience stood while the verdict was announced . One defendant , a woman whose only connection with the case was the renting of a room to one of the defendants , was found innocent . Another defendant was sentenced to two years ' imprisonment . These two were represented 4 : ) ; , , r:e two attorneys who had remained to submit theirii4tio.i. ments after the others had left the courtroom . Ka16u510 and the other two principal defendants . were sentenced to life imprisonment . The remaining defendants were sentenced to terms of four years to twenty years , the average being about fifteen years . I noted that in the case of one defendant , a beautiful young woman with classic Greek features , the court increased the prosecutor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted the verdict calmly and with fortitude , firm in the belief that the government and their imprisonment would soon be terminated . ' - Following the verdict I met with the other foreign legal observers and we agreed upon a written statement , to be released after we had left Greece , condemning the contempt sentence of Mr , Kizeridis . That completed my encounter with the administration of justice in present day Greece . - - C                     