@@487991

An eleven-member Chinese medical group , consisting of medical and public health workers , is now in this country on a three-weeks ' tour of medical centers . It is the first such group to visit the United States in twenty-three years . The article which follows on the present state of public health services in China , provides background for the visit . Mr. Plato , a medical reporter and editor , recently visited the People 's Republic of China to gather data on medical developments there . Before its 1949 revolution , China had , and probably had had for centuries , one of the highest overall death rates in the world , as well as an astronomical infant mortality rate . Life expectancy , although not known exactly because human life was cheap , is estimated to have been between 28 and 30 years . It is not difficult to understand why . There were frequent famines , and malnutrition for the mass of the people was an everyday fact of life . Housing , for those lucky enough to have any , was rudimentary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mountainous piles , breeding grounds for rats and all manner of insect disease carriers . The medical system , if it can be called that , was class medicine in its crudest form . There was virtually no medical care for the masses . The few qualified doctors available practiced in the coastal cities , tending well-to-do Chinese and the inhabitants of the foreign concessions . The few hospitals that there were turned away the poor , whose only medical attention came from the practitioners of traditional medicine , some of them reasonably competent but the bulk either sorcerers or patent medicine pitchmen . Today , a little more than two decades after the Communist government came to power , the change is striking . Tremendous gains have been made in improving the health of China 's 800 million inhabitants , both those living in the cities but also the great majority who still live on the land . The improvement did not come overnight , nor without a number of false starts . In light of the magnitude of China 's medical problems  --  which were not medical alone , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China 's prerevolutionary past  --  no single solution could be sufficient . The first step was obvious  --  the only therapy for starvation is food . Consequently , one of the immediate concerns of the new government was , and continues to be , to guarantee sufficient food for everyone . Production has been raised to a remarkable degree , especially inthe last few years , and , there are now adequate supplies , at stable low prices , of cereals , vegetables , fruit , fish , meat and poultry . Housing , although still insufficient in the large cities , has been greatly improved . Old buildings have been rehabilitated in central areas and vast New Towns have been built . People in the communes have rehoused themselves , using local building materials and their skills . The environmental hazards to health have been brought under control . Spurred by a national program in public health education , waste disposal is thorough and efficient . Under the supervision of " health activists " in every community , usable waste is recycled ; that includes human waste , which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mosquitoes and other insect vectors have for all practical purposes disappeared . Everyone is now adequately , although simply , clothed . In terms of health , this is very important in the central , northern and mountainous areas , where the winters are long and severe . Colds and respiratory diseases , once endemic , are now far less common . Beyond the obvious general measures , the medical services had to be rebuilt . When the Communists took power they inherited a health-care system , never adequate , that was almost totally inoperative . Years of Japanese occupation , civil war and Kuomintang indifference had pulled the last props from under a rickety structure . To make matters worse , many physicians had quit the mainland before the Communists took over . After surveying their health needs , the Communists ' convened a National Health Congress early in 1950 . It mapped out a comprehensive program to correct chronic shortages of health workers , hospitals , clinics and Schools of medicine and nursing . Medical manpower was the most serious problem , but one that could not be solved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time for a medical education . In addition , there was an acute shortage of teachers of medicine . The Soviet Union , then providing substantial aid to China , sent doctors , nurses and other health workers , as well as critically needed drugs . Teachers of medicine and the biomedical sciences were also dispatched . The Russians helped to build new hospitals and rehabilitate old ones . As a result , the influence of Soviet . medicine was pervasive , shaping not only China 's health-care system but medical education and conventions of practice as well . The transplantation of Soviet-style medicine to Chinese soil ultimately failed , partly because of general ideological disenchantment but , in : the case of medicine , because the Soviet medical model did not meet Chinese health-care needs and objectives . Nevertheless , the basic guidelines laid down by the 1950 Congress , modified over the years , still dominate the organization of China 's medical care , its educational system , and the day-to-day practice of medicine . These are : the provision of health services , at low cost or wholly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the medical manpower pool ; the eradication or control of those communicable diseases that in the past were responsible for a high toll in death and disability , and the mounting of massive campaigns in public health education , carried out by millions of ordinary citizens . , In the time when the Russians were still cooperating , some of these objectives were met . Medical school enrollment rose manyfold , and a great number of paramedical personnel , including " assistant doctors " on the Soviet model , were trained . But one goal , and a key one , was not reached  --  the provision of health services to the majority of the people . Agricultural workers , about 80 per cent of China 's total population , received little medical care and that inadequate . This comparative neglect was a consequence of basic government policy . The decision of those years was to give first priority to the development of heavy industry . Since medical resources were limited , and a choice had to be made , medical services were given urban workers at the expense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the influence of both the Russians and Western-oriented native doctors , many of them trained either abroad or in Western-sponsored medical schools in China , most planners of medical programs believed that quality care  --  involving a long period of training , a high degree of specialization and great emphasis on basic research  --  must take precedence over curative medicine . It was , in short , the same choice that now faces American medicine ? " excellence " in medicine for the few or adequate medicine for the neglected many . Much of the thinking in Chinese medicine was either reversed or drastically modified during the Cultural Revolution in the mid-1960s . Mao Tse-tung , in response to widespread student agitation , led off a campaign to work basic changes in both medical education and practice . He characterized his own health ministry officials as " urban overlords , " followed that with a demand couched as a slogan : " In medical and health work put the stress on the rural areas . " He fully supported student demands for a shorter training ' period , the elimination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their teachers , and the growth of what they called " elitism . " The swing of emphasis from city to rural medical care , as well as to the restructuring of medical education , was far from smooth . Higher education , including medical education , came under heavy attack . The Central Committee of the Communist Party demanded that educators " must apply thoroughly the policy advanced by Comrade Mao Tse-tung of education serving proletarian politics . " The result was the closing of all medicalschools and the dismissal or suspension of hundreds . of faculty members . Most of these professors were sent into the countryside for " re-education , " which usually took the form of working in the fields for a year or two , later to return to their teaching posts or to enter the practice of medicine in the countryside . The Cultural Revolution brought another far-reaching change to medical education . When the medical schools reopened a year or two later , they were no longer run exclusively by health professionals . Instead , their governing bodies ' were revolutionary committees , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and political " cadres , " as well as faculty members . In almost all instances the " leading members " of the committees were not teachers but laymen . Deans of medical schools were forced to work under their direction , with the revolutionary committees determining policy for the schools , including their curricula , faculty appointments and promotions , admission policies , and all day-to-day administrative decisions . Following the Cultural Revolution medical education was reformed in a number of other ways . The emphasis ' on " theoretical " medical teaching was abandoned in favor . of " practical " medicine . Students were exposed to clinical medicine early in their training , seeing patients under faculty supervision after their first year of schooling . The enclaves of pure research were broken into . Researchers were required to practice medicine , as well as to conduct their investigations . They were also urged to direct their major efforts to the solution of clinical problems . ' Extensive revisions were also made in the period of training and in the content of the curriculum . The years of training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six to three . Today , incidentally , the adequacy of the three-year course is under very active discussion . However , even if the training period is extended , there is little likelihood that any drastic changes will be made in the content or direction of curricula . It is almost certain that the emphasis will continue to be on training " primary " physicians  --  roughly , in American terms , general practitioners  --  rather than specialists . Like many other things in China , and in contrast to most other Communist countries , medicine is now highly decentralized . The Health Ministry in Peking is no longer paramount , the health departments of municipalities and provinces functioning independently to a remarkable degree  --  within , of course , the framework of national health goals . The system is complex , with many local variations . In summary , it operates as follows : The provincial and . municipal health departments  --  all of them run by - revolutiOnary committees of professional and lay people  --  are responsible for sanitation and other public health measures , hospital administration and financing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to neighborhood and factory health centers and to the ' communes within their jurisdictions . The communes , still largely agricultural but becoming semi-industrialized , are made up of a number of production brigades and work teams . ( The number fluctuates greatly from region to region ; communes range in population from 20,000 to 60,000 , with some even larger . The average number of persons in production brigades ranges from 2,000 to 6,000 with work teams of 300 to 800 members . ) Each commune has its own , for the most part , locally directed health services . Each production brigade and work team has its own health station . Commune facilities include one or more general hospitals , as well as necessary specialized clinics and inpatient units . Patients from surrounding areas are treated in them if their medical needs can not be met at the brigade facilities . Work teams , as well as factory health stations are manned by " barefoot " and worker doctors . Production brigades have small hospitals , ' staffed by fully qualified doctors and barefoot doctors . They can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physicians at such hospitals  --  as well as doctors from the larger commune and big city hospitals  --  visit the health stations on a rotating basis , both to treat patients and to develop the skills of the Medical personnel . In the cities , neighborhood health centers  --  called Lane or Street stations  --  provide basic medical care . Depending on the size of their patient populations , they are staffed by two or more barefoot doctors , nurses and other auxiliary staff . They also serve  --  as do the work team stations  --  as centers for public health education and for carrying out various health-related programs , such as family planning , insect and pest control , and sanitation measures . The M.D.s from the large city hospitals , which are responsible for the quality of care in the neighborhood centers , visit them on a regular basis , to consult on patient problems and to teach . A unique feature of the Chinese medical care system is its " regional " organization  --  one that really works , in contrast to the regional medical programs in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sophisticated equipment are transported , rapidly and efficiently , to facilities with superior ' capacities . 1 ) 0 ' Since returning from China ; ' I have , Lbeen- , asked frequently how good Chinese medicine really , is . ' Doctors here , the majority of them skeptical of medical standards outside the United States  --  let alone China=dmibt that it can be very good . The answer cannott be given on the basis of a brief visit . Moreover , measuring the overall quality of care is difficult . Quality in Westchester County , New ' York , for example , is quite different from what prevails in Harlem , and the same obtains in China . But , on the whole , most Western physicians ' who have been there agree , Chinese medicine is of relatively high quality ; even more important , it is available to thqse who need it most . In addition , as they point out , flin China , the emphasis is on preventive rather than curative medicine . Patients do not , from lack of money , motivation or , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ill before seeing a doctor . In China illnesses are treated at their earliest stages , as a result of frequent checkups and because doctors are close at hand . They even make house calls , a custom almost forgotten in America . Lest this account of the medical care situation , in China sound too rosy red , it should be pointed out that there are deficiencies in the system , and the Chinese say so candidly . The shortcomings are particularly evident in the treatment of conditions rarely met when life expectancy was short  --  as cardiovascular disease , cancer , etc . But the progress in other areas is impressive . To cite a few examples : Almost all communicable diseases have either been eliminated or are under control ; infant mortality is down to levels comparable to such medically advanced countries as Sweden and Great Britain ; VD , once a scourge in China , has for all practical purposes been eradicated . TB is largely a thing of the past . And all in an extremely short time , at least as , one measures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   