@@250483

FROM the early days of the Republic , when Thomas Jefferson backed Inventor Eli Whitney 's design for mass-produced muskets with interchangeable parts , public support for technological progress has been an American tradition . Out of this tradition has grown an obsession with speed , a consequence of the nation 's great distances and the rush to cover them quickly , producing what Historian Daniel J. Boorstin calls " a technology of haste " that dates back to the pioneering steamboats of nearly two centuries ago . Add to those themes the national desire to win , to be first . A natural consequence was the historic landing of men on the moon , an event that meant to Eric Hoffer the triumph of the squares , to Norman Mailer the consummation of WASP values . But now , not even two years after Apollo 11 , the nation seems to find that kind of victory somewhat hollow . <P> Such , at least , may be the reason the U.S. Congress has voted to kill the billion-dollar supersonic transport . Rarely before have the lawmakers denied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the world . President Nixon observed last week , after the Senate had joined the House in ending further federal subsidy for the SST , that the congressional action " could be taken as a reversal of America 's tradition of staying in the vanguard of scientific and technological advance . " Says Paul Seabury , a Berkeley political scientist : " It is the first time in American history that a major technological innovation has been shot down . " <P> Third-Rate . The SST went down despite just such warnings from its backers . " If you 're talking about no SST , " said Washington 's Warren Magnuson just before the Senate voted , " you 're talking about no American SST . You will be leading America down the road toward becoming a third-rate nation in aviation . We 'll be running into a technological Appalachia around here if we 're not careful . " The vote was another blow to the nation 's beleaguered aerospace industry ( see BUSINESS ) . Afterward Magnuson put a brave face on what had happened- " this is n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that it was the question of national priorities that did him in . " A lot of people talked about mass transit , the need for housing , " he grumbled . " Hell , I 'm for that , too . " <P> The men who defeated the SST , however , felt that mass transit and the need for housing-and many other urgent domestic issues-far outranked the SST . Several of the House freshmen who unexpectedly tipped the balance against the aircraft said as much . Democrat George Danielson of California : " The need to solve other greater social and economic problems was the most compelling factor . The biggest issues are pollution , better housing , more educational opportunities and mass transit . " Democrat Nick Begich of Alaska : " The people do not want this airplane . There are other human resources and public works projects that have a higher priority . "                     