@@487975

Greece today can be interpreted most meaningfully as a Third World country rather than as a land trailing clouds of classical glory and Byzantine grandeur . Greece is underdeveloped for the same reason as Latin America . Both emerged from moribund empires which were underdeveloped in their day  --  the Spanish and Portuguese Empires in the case of Latin America , the Ottoman Empire ( the " Sick Man of Europe " ) in the case of Greece . Not only were both born underdeveloped but they have remained so to the present day . That condition is reflected in the , history of Greece since the nominal winning of independence in 1829 , and also in current institutions and developments under the junta . It is worth recalling that when the Latin American states broke away from Spain in the early 19th century , the British foreign minister , George Canning , observed , " Spanish America is free and if we do not mismanage our affairs sadly she is English . " Likewise when Greece , about the same time cast off Turkish rule , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " A Greece truly independent is an absurdity . Greece is Russian or she is English ; and since she must not be Russian , it is necessary that she be English . " Ever since that dictum was enunciated in 1841 , Greece , like other Third World countries , has been manipu , - L.S. Stavrianos teaches history at Northwestern University . He is the ? author of studies in Balkan and world history , , and of Man 's Race to Utopia , now in prepara- , tion . lated on the international chess board by the great powers . During World War II the British and the Russians resolved the dilemma of whom Greece should belong to by making it part of a Balkan-wide deal  --  the Churchill-Stalin bargain of October 1944 in which they agreed that Greece should be 90 per cent British in return for a 90 per cent Russian Romania , a 75 per cent Russian Bulgaria , and a 50-50 per cent Yugoslavia and Hungary . The revealing and poignant details of how the British cashed in Stalin 's IOU on Greece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a French author is basefi on Greek , British and German sources as well as on interviews with Greek partisans in exile . It provides the best , though far from definitive , account in English of the evolution of the Greek resistance movement , its internal conflicts , and the activities of British agents , culminating in open military intervention and the Battle of Athens of December 1944 . Particularly striking is the similarity between British policy in Greece and later American policy in Vietnam . Just as American policy makers began with Emperor , Bao Dai and then installed Diem and later Generals Ky and Thieu , so the British began with George Papandreou , exploiting his visceral anticommunism and hii prima donna vanity , to use him as a cover to get British troops into Greece to smash the resistance forces . With the outbreak of the Battle of Athens , Papandreou 's role was over and the British dug out of obscure exile the aged General Plastiras . When he in turn had outlived his usefulness the British dumped him by publishing a comprodusing letter from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans who took over the reins continued this policy , first hand-picking Karamanlis as premier , and when the constitutional fa  --  ade began to wear thin , clearing the way for the junta coup . The Eudes book is indispensable for understanding why a country with a record of heroic resistance against . the Axis ended up with the first postwar European dictatorship headed by George Papadopoulos , a collaborator with the Nazis who , enjoying such impeccable credentials , was invited to the United States for secret service training after the war . The ' correspondent of The Observer of London reports ( July 1 , 1973 ) that at the Athens headquarters of the Joint U.S. Military Aid Assistance Group , Papadopoulos is known as " the first CIA agent to become premier of a European country . . . . George gives good value because there are documents in Washington he would n't like let out . " Equally revealing is this realistic summary of current U.S.-Greek relations by a JUSMAAG officer : " He controls the most useful piece . of real estate around here , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for our planes before Pakistan . George may be short on charm , but we trust him . Well , we have to . " A two-star general in JUSMAAG is more positive about George and his regime : " It 's the best damn Government since Pericles . " The other , four books in their individual ways also reflect Greece 's underdeveloped state . Its meaning for human lives is devastatingly depicted by Vassilis Vassilikos , the author of Z. In a succession of essays , impressionistic sketches and documentary reports , this gifted stylist describes the Greece that exists beyond the Parthenon , the Hilton and the Truman statue . Tourists who are familiar only with that golden ghetto should read this book to see what lies " outside the walls . " ) At least they should read the first essay on the " Rag-pickers " at the Athens Municipal Garbage Dump for a whiff of the stench of the " democracy " , spawned by the Truman Doctrine . On the institutional manifestations of Greek underdevelopment the CloggYannopoulos book provides much useful data , though the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quality . The analyses of the Greek economy by Pesmazoglu and by Yannopoulos reveal the typical symptoms of growth without development . This is not a new characteristic but it has been accentuated by the junta 's complete servility to foreign corporations and , . to the local oligarchy . The resulting " colonization " of the Greek economy is , reflected in the burgeoning business interests of the Greek-American tycoon , Tom Pappas , the self-confessed CIA conduit who was the first to , praise the junta publicly in the United States and who served as co-chairman of CREEP . His plums in Greece include the prized Coca-Cola franchise , a monopoly of the right to buy the tomato crop of Western Greece , andy e , thultimillion-dollar complex of chemical and steel plants , oil refineries and tanker fleets . Yannopoulos , whose two contributions are the most revealing , concluded that as a result of the junta 's muzzling of trade unions and of agricultural co-ops , , " industrial relations have been turned into an employer 's paiadise . . . and the Greek countryside has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflected also in the institutionalized culture of modern Greece  --  in the ' gymnasia or secondary schools which have more teachers of theology than of natural science , in the gutting of the epochal educational reforms of Andreas Papandreou that strove to introduce the 20th century into Greek schools , and in the restoration of the Katharevousa ( purist language ) which divides symbolically and practically the rulers from the ruled . One manifestation of Greek cultural underdevelopment is what the novelist George Theotakis once diagnosed as progonoplexia , or " ancestoritis . " This affliction , as Clogg shows in his analysis of junta ideology , infects the writings of Papadopoulos and his idealogues : " The April Revolution of the junta is the catholic effort of Hellenism to solve the problem of its rebirth . " " If the Revolution succeeds , we Greeks once again will lead the world . " " The star of Greece will shine during these difficult moments of mankind , to the benefit of all the inhabitants of the world . . . . " The same pattern prevails in politics . Virtually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by leaders who have operated as patrons for , their constituents , and who in turn have looked to a foreign patron ? Britain , France or Russia prior to the Truman Doctrine , and the United States today . This clientalism explains why opposition collapsed when the junta rounded up the key political chieftains . Thus , for the second time in one generation  --  in 1944-45 and in 1967 ? the masses had been aroused and mobilized by leaders promising a new order and threatening " popular revolution " against those who dared defy the people 's will . Yet in each case this proved to be the empty rhetoric of men who were unprepared , psychologically and militarily , to face up to the ultimate naked power realities . The resulting White Terror and wholesale decapitation of popular movements have produced a profound national trauma , an ideological crisis in which all leaders and programs are being challenged and reappraised . This has left the opposition ? Right , Center and Left  --  deeply divided , while the junta continues to enjoy unfaltering American backing , with all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pessimiim of most observers concerning the prospects for liberation from junta rule . But the student uprising of last spring suggests that this pessimism is not altogether warranted . The ' underground journal , Xasteria ( Clear Skies ) published by the Cretan students at Athens University , , analyzed the spring events as follows : These are the causes of the student uprising : ( 1 ) The savage competition fostered in the schools . ( 2 ) The subservience of the schools to the official bureaucracy . ( 3 ) The divorce of research and leaining fr  --  m their social and political milieu . The impact of the student movement on the people is immense . It is already apparent in the solidarity of the intellectuals who comprise the most independent segment of the population : But soon the solidarity of the whole nation will shine forth in all its grandeur . . . As long as there are contradictions there will be agitation , regardless of the repression and regardless of the will , of the government . . . . This analysis can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " contradictions " referred to are very real in Greek society and are sharpening rapidly . Obviously the students are the most politically active element in Greece , and they have not been joined thus far by other groups . Yet it should be recalled that the urban workers traditionally have adhered to the Left , and although they are more vulnerable to repression than the students who are free from family responsibilities , nevertheless the ' contradictions " are forcing the workers toward resistance . An " employer 's paradise " means wages falling behind prices , a high rate of industrial accidents because of government unconcern , and appointed union officials who lack , worker support . Likewise a " middleman 's paradise in the countryside " means muzzled co-ops which are either unable or unwilling to protect peasant interests against the middleman . Consumerism certainly is spreading in Greece , and some segments of the population are discovering and relishing the wonders of technology . This does not mean that they are transferring their allegiance to the junta ; rather they simply ignore it . But for how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skyrocketed during the past year and the government at this moment is vainly trying to stem panic buying , and hoarding of goods and foodstuffs . The financial position of the regime is deteriorating , so it is seeking to prevent wage and salary increases . Workers are demanding pay rises of 30 to 35 per cent and are threatening to strike . Students are not daydreaming when they talk ' about " contradictions , " and next time they take to the streets they may not be alone . The accounts of Lady Amalia Fleming and Mikis Theodorakis provide a picture of the anti-junta movement in its early , disorganized and frustrating phase . Yet both accounts , in very different ways , are far ' from depressing . Lady , Fleming , arrested while , trying to help a poet escape from prison , rejected a junta offer to leave the country , endured incarceration under ' barbarous conditions despite her delicate health , successfully avoided incriminating her friends , and even was able to philosophize about her tormentors as fellow Greeks . A heart-warming testament by an extraordinarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more revealing of the Greek resistance , is the journal of the legendary poet and composer , Theodorakis . For five months following the junta coup he operated underground , organizing an opposition network . When finally apprehended he rejected repeated offers to join the regime , even as minister . The ensuing torture and stretches of solitary confinement did not stifle his creativity ; he wrote poems , composed songs , issued manifestoes and participated in endless political disputations with his fellow prisoners . Perhaps the most revealing passages in the journal are those relating how TheoANTOINE BLOYE . By Paul Nizan . Translated from the French by Edmund Stevens . Introduction by Richard Elman . Monthly Review Press . 250 pp. $6.95 . JAMES ATLAS The long debates over Socialist Realism that have been a characteristic feature of literary history in the Communist countries since the 1930s have produced little in the way of literature . There is no longer much question about the negative effects this doctrine had and continues to have . Instituted at the 1934 Soviet Writers ' Congress , when Andrei Zhdanov put forward the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " it provided the rationale for a program that was to dissipate the creative impulses of Russian writers until there was nothing left of the energy that had been marshaled during the initial stages of the Revolution . Zamyatin , Mayakovsky , Aleksandr Blok and Anatol Lunacharsky , to name only those who come most readily to mind , had all participated in the cultural enterprise of Bolshevism , and their resourcefulness in establishing a rational transition between two epochs owed James Atlas is a free-lance writer who has recently returned from Oxford . He has written , on Marxistn , Slavic studies and poetry . dorakis , the loyal Communist Party member , gradually perceived that the problem facing the resistance was not only the junta and its American backers but also its own " Big Brothers " in the Politburo  --  the same hidebound party functionaries responsible for the ' disasters of the ' 1940s and the 1960s. . . . we will not take orders from a distance . . . . Tell those comrades that our people here are now mature . That they are demanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanding the final and radical liquidation of the past . . . . We intend to use our brains in a sensible and balanced way and to take upon ourselves the responsibility of deciding on everything that happens here . .. . This is the spirit now impelling the resistance in Greece . Responding to a question by an Italian reporter , Theodorakis warned , " On one point , nobody in Europe must be in any doubt : the volcano which is called Greece will erupt and its lava will destroy a lot of your illusions. " ? a good deal to their having belonged to the old intelligentsia . Like Trotsky , who believed in leaving writers to their own devices , these were men willing to honor what could be salvaged of the past . But once Stalin had assumed control of every aspect of Soviet life , including literary themes and purposes , the entrenched party line began to wreak the kind of damage that is documented in Nadezhda Mandelstam 's Hope Against Hope  --  and has been doing so ever since . Of course , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Writers ' Congress were felt . Just as the Communist Parties of Europe looked to Moscow to determine their political line , so Communist writers felt obligated  --  and were obliged  --  to uphold ' the doctrine of Socialist Realism . In France , Gide and Malraux attended the 1934 Congress ( though Gide 's address , urging a policy of " Communist individualism , " was enough to discredit him ) and , if neither ever joined the party , still their fascination with Russia reflected the temper of French literature during that epoch . Many other French writers , including at one time or another virtually all the Surrealists , became card-carrying members . But what texts exist that we can accept as being examples of Socialist . Realism and genuine works of literature at the same time ? Surely - not Aragon 's novels , or Eluard 's few poems to Stalin . 