@@488051

Mr. Widmer , a frequent contributor to The Natiun , is a literary scholar ' and social critic who leaches at San Diego State College . At present , he is lecturing on American cidture at the University of Nice , France , The radical and cultural American underground of recent years can be understood , I think , only as part of a desperate search for a semblance of community . The efforts at humanization , as in " participatory " and " movement " and ethnic-confrontation politics , or in visceral-ecstatic group arts such as rock , or in Synthetic and corrupt " communications " aggravate it . In their own communications media , the radical " movement " and " alternate society " and " counter-culture " find common ground not only in news of protest activity , leftist collectives and mystical communes but in language and feeling as well Less stoic about their condition than ' much of the rest of society , those identifying themselves with the underground poignantly seek communion . Only with some such perspective can we understand the amazing spread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to this generation . Robert J. Glessing 's pleasantly written and enthusiastic survey is useful and suggestive . In trying to cover so much of the underground , he understandably runs into problems of definition . His " Underground Press Directory , " inevitably somewhat out of date as soon as compiled ( 1969 ) , lists 463 underground papers , though his discussion draws mostly on thirty examples . Besides the half hundred or so urban underground papers of some size and continuity  --  perhaps most notably such broad weekly papers as the New York Village Voice ( circulation 130,000 ) and the Los Angeles Free Press ( 95,000 ) ? there are about sixty military ( really anti-military ) underground papers , at least several dozen black and Chicano papers ( the Black Panther at 85,000 is the largest and most important ) , and many campus-centered underground papers ( Glessing 's figure of fifty seems very low ) . He also briefly discusses , without listing them , the 500 to 1,000 high school underground papers . There are also many related publications , ranging , from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exploitation , and even religion . ( I 've recently seen two underground-style papers put out by Christian sects as youth counter-propaganda , offering " highs " on Jesus . ) And no hard lines can be drawn between the radical-culture papers and some " little magazines " whose emphasis is literary . Nor , indeed , can we readily separate the newspapers from some sex , health and mystical cult journals , or even from the newsletters of certain fringe groups . As I extrapolate Glessing 's figures , the under , ground press , narrowly defined , would have around 2 million readers , while a broad definition might involve three or four times that number . Indeed , accurate categorizing of the content , format , ' editors , audiences and attitudes df the marginal or underground media hardly seems possible . Future accounts , no doubt , will have to take a case approach , exploring in rather more depth a few underground papers as representatives of the larger field . But , to Glessing 's credit , we are better able to deal with the problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ description of what has been happening . Of course , one 's idea of just what has been happening partly depends on the examples one chooses . For instance , is I. , The Village Voice , the weekly newspaper with the largest circulation in America , and the oldest ( 1955 ) subculture organ Ilk of its kind , really " underground " ? It has a wealth of advertising , a conservative format , more or less professional writers , a large staff , regular business methods , considerable intellectual sophistication and a trend-maker role . Most Of the underground papers could not be so described . I would argue , against Glessing , that the personal and participatory and open style of Voice journalism , as well as its subjects ( frequently marginal to the mainstream society ) , and its general radicalism and sense of identity should provide the definition . Yet certainly the underground skeptics have a point ; with the papers , as with most things American , large success indicates considerable failure . Much of ' what is underground might be defined by its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " underground ' newspapers are written by the alienated for the alienated . " Fair enough , if we add that they thus seek to establish some semblance of community for those who define themselves by their opposition to mainstream America  --  as many must , ' including the self-consciously dropout etc. ) , underground calendars ( of appropriate art happenings , political events , social facilities ) , and underground classifieds ( devoted to sexual needs and marginal accommodations and activities ) are central , not incidental , to the papers . They are as pertinent to their readers as real estate listings , stock market reports , social announcements and sports results in the conventional press . Not just revolutionary reportage , hip lore and satiric blasts but particular communal services distinguish the underground papers . Contemporary conditions  --  affluence , war , technology , protest , social disintegration , drtigs , displaced youth , dissident sensibility and much else  --  have created a distinctive , if unstable , political-cultural audience of some millions that is inadequately served by the standard media . Put aside doctrinaire social views , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of America , regardless of its social origins , because it identifies itself as the dissident community . In a decent society , the regular communications media and other institutions would recognize the reality and provide the appropriate services . But that is not likely . The author sketches in some of the background of youthful unrest and , rather vaguely , revived radicalism . He describes the dissident papers as important creators of awareness of militarism , racism , bureaucratized education , police repression and social injustice . But he also makes it plain that the papers reflect rather than create such responses . Their major work of expos ? , of the new-style muckraking , arises from the experiences of many among their audience in the streets and institutions of our society . The conditions that grudgingly allow the papers to exist  --  such as the availability of cheap offset printing , judicial limitations on censorship in the fifties , and the breakdown of many traditional controls in the sixties  --  may be less important than their responsiveness to what has been happening . As Glessing fails to observe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imperatives , particularly those produced by collectives and ? communes . I am told that much of the direct impetus toward Women 's Liberation , very insistent in the underground papers for some time now , arose from the discontents of women in publication groups in " the movement " More generally , we find response to the needs of the " new class " of the discontented semi-educated ( college students and dropouts ) who are simply not provided for in a social order that is generally arbitrary and often corrupt . It is their tastes , exposed to education but not cultivated , that encourage the , curious styles of rage and humor in the underground press , the mixture of obscenity , sophisticated abstraction , cultish jargon and free-form expressiveness . ( Incidentally , the author 's Glossary is not very adequate ; " cop-out , " for example , still retains some of its prison-argot meaning ; " head " means more than an LSD-user , and long antedates the LSD era . ) My impression is that some of the negative aspects of the underground style @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their way toward more permanent roles and manners . The papers often bore with their dulling repetition of shock effects and unartful obscenity . The political heavies of the Left load us with super-revolutionary slogans and neo-Leninist rhetoric , On the other side , the psychedelic has become pure clich ? . Glessing , as it happens , quite overvalues the psychedelic formats , which . were mostly derivative and artistically retardataire . But the better papers now skirt both Leninist gospel and Learyist ritual , and have not been much taken in by McLuhan 's silly inversions of sense and style . The underground papers , Glessing suggests , have had considerable influence , beyond their direct audiences , on sex- ) uality , costume , language , humor  --  manners in general  --  and in reviving the muckraking function of journalism . Moreover , the pernicious pseudo-objectivity of customary journalism , like the " neutrality " of our schools , scientists and professional experts , and the rest of our rationalized system of indoctrination and domination , now meets with sustained subversion on the part of their victims , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the whole , that is good news . In spite of their obvious weaknesses  --  transitoriness , cultism , the drug mystique , anti-intellectualism , violence , 44 etc. ? and in spite of official harassment , economic squeezing and communal repression , such real freedom of the press should continue to survive . However crude , participatory journalism ( and similarly conceived education , politics and work ) points to the real needs and possibilities of cultural revolution . Barring a drastic increase in repression or a revolutionary transformation of the mainstream institutions , something that carries the voices from under , that speaks to personal responsiveness and the need for community , will probably be with us in various forms for some time . We are not one nation . The real news from underground is that there exist other nations , other communities , than those presented in the false gospels of official America . ?                     