@@479686

The fraud of Vietnamization HAT DOOMED the American venture in Vietnam was an addiction to lies and deception , an insidious affliction that poi-soned a generation of American soldiers and made it impossible to inspire the incompetent colonial army that the United States had inherited from the French . Building an effective military force in this atmosphere was hopeless . The lies began with the Presidents and the generals , and soon infected the entire official American community . Running scared as the most visible leaders in the war , Presidents Johnson and Nixon demanded confirmation of their preconceptions , rather than information from the Americans in Vietnam . The classic deception was Vietnamization , the Presidential sleight of hand by which American troops were to be pulled out of the unpopular , unwinnable war without giving the appearance of bugging out on the South Vietnamese . Johnson invented the concept . Nixon embraced it and defied any American in Vietnam to tell him that it was n't working . Lies were the inevitable response . As the situation became more desperate , the lies became more blatant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winning the war as the Vietcong battled on the lawn of the American Embassy in the Tet Offensive . And then , as the end came . General Weyand telling us net to believe our eyes , insisting that the ARVN " were not demoralized in any sense of the word . " American advisers knew their ARVN units had to show progress , or their own careers would suffer . So they accentuated the positive : the ARVN always looked better on paper than it actually was . One of the early measures of success , the body count , became such a ludicrous exercise in exaggeration by the Americans and the South Vietnamese that we shall probably never know how many North Vietnamese and Vietcong were really killed ( or how many Vietnamese civilians lost their lives as the Americans sought more " kills " ) . As early as 1964 thedishonesty in the advisory system was documented in a study paid for by the Defense Department , but the condition persisted to the end . Some of the best American officers resigned in disgust over the hypocrisy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Throughout the final North Vietnamese offensive , officers in the Pentagon kept saying they expected the ARVN to use this or that tactic : strike now with the air and pound with the artillery , thrust with the infantry . Did n't they remember ? It never worked like that in Vietnam . When the ARVN bumped into some North Vietnamese they would back off and call for American jets to unload a few tons of bombs ; or they would ask for an hour or so of shelling from American howitzers . After the North Vietnamese were pounded to death , the South Vietnamese would edge forward and count the bodies , if they could find any pieces . The ARVN was a one-trick army and it could n't perform without American thunder . B EING AN ADVISER was a tough assignment that very few American soldiers handled well . During my nearly five years in Vietnam ( in three tours beginning in early 1965 , early 1968 , and early 19721 , most of the adviseis I met spent the military business day with their Vietnamese counterparts , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boys could make them . There were air-conditioned bedrooms filled with Playboy pin-ups and stereo equipment , mess halls serving the same fare the sergeants had dished out at Fort Bragg , and dimly lit suburban-style bars redolent of Columbus , Georgia , and Fayetteville , North Carolina . The American compounds were off limits to the Vietnamese unless they were especially invited , and they seldom were . At first , advisers were sent to Vietnam for tours of six months , later for a year ; it was too short a time for two Americans to get In know each other , let alone strangers from alien cultures without a common language . So the strangers remained strangers . The Vietnamese thought of the Americans as crudely aggressive , loud giants who often took liberties with their women ; the Americans found them passive , enigmatic , and often totally unresponsive . Vacillating between hostility and indifference , the Americans frequently perceived the Vietnamese as hopeless little men from a backward little country , and they never made them hew toexacting standards . The Vietnamese quickly learned that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans would do it for them , and chances were good they 'd end up being credited with having done it themselves . Instead of becoming an independent fighting force , the ARVN became increasingly dependent on the Americans . Every day in 1972 and early 1973 , ships and planes were leaving with American troops and equipment . Every day the time was drawing nearer when the ARVN would have to stand alone . But they never stopped believing that , in the crunch , the Americans would bail them out . It was a pathetic delusion . A diplomatic problem S S BILLIONS OF American dollars gushed into Vietnam , the military became the most corrupt as well as the most influential institution in the country . At the top , graft-taking generals set the tone for a moral rot that ate into every corner of the society . It was a malignancy that crushed any instincts for national unity and produced peasant women who could sell drinking water by the glass to dying refugees . The Americans viewed the corruption as a very delicate diplomatic problem , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whisper about it . Thieu might be " encouraged " to do something about the thievery , but there was never any muscle in the representations . There was great fear of rocking the boat in such a way as to harm the " allied " military effort ; meanwhile , the corruption itself was having a monumentally corrosive effect . President Thieu managed to keep his fingerprints off the graft until just before the collapse , when Time magazine reported that he had unsuccessfully attempted to airfreight out of Saigon $73 million worth of gold bullion labeled as " personal belongings . " The disclosure merely confirmed what other Vietnamese had long suspected . But the real movers and shakers in the champagne-filled cesspool were the wives of the powerful men : Mrs. Cao Van Vien , wife of the chief of the joint general staff ; Mrs. Nguyen Cao Ky. wife of the former Air Force commander ; and the wives of the corps commanders and province chiefs . The wives were the bagmen . If you wanted to become chief of a rich province , the price , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transaction , the wife of the lieutenant colonel who wanted the job would simply visit the seller 's wife and play MaliJongg until she lost the required amount . Like many of the wives , Mrs. Cao Van Vien had a number of business interests that prospered because of her husband 's position . When she decided to construct vacation homes on the coast , she turned to the ARVN Corps of Engineers for carpenters , bricklayers , and materials . The men were rewarded with their usual army paychecks . The wives of Vien , Ky , and two former Ky aides combined their talents in an import-export company and diverted soldiers 0 and army trucks from other duties to pick up and deliver merchandise . Most of these stories could n't be proved conclusively . But the soldiers and their families and their friends believed them , and they pervaded the moral fabric of the country . If the general 's wife was taking payoffs , why should n't the major or the colonel pocket $500 to see that a certain your ' , man was shifted from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saigon ? Why should n't the sergeant charge $5 or $10 for a weekend pass ? For the right price , why should n't he look the other way when the troops who were supposed to be on the rifle range wanted to sleep in ? I Y LATE 1972 , after the last U.S. combat troops had gone home , I discovered that the Americans had set up half a dozen training camps across the country for a last-ditch effort to whip the ARVN into shape . The Vietnamese still could n't shoot straight ? years after the Americans had arrived . The goal now was to put the entire army through a fourteen-day " refresher " course that began with instructions in how to aim and shoot the M-16 rifle ? a light , stubby weapon that is as easy to handle as a BB gun ? and worked up to elementary tactics . Until I stumbled onto a training center near the Cambodian border , where some former Green Berets were in charge , no articles had been written about the program . Over a period of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dozen of the American instructors , each contributing another detail to the picture of an untrained , undisciplined army with a bleak future . The ARVN needed the most work in basic marksmanship . Often the soldiers fired in a general direction without squinting through their sights , and they wasted ammunition by spraying off whole magazines of bullets in a few seconds of automatic fire . In combat , the Americans said , all the soldiers would frequently run out of ammunition at the same time and find themselves reloading as the other side charged . You could n't really expect too much from the ARVN as riflemen , one captain told me , explaining earnestly that " a lot of the Vietnamese have weak eyes due to their diet . " Squatting in a circle with a dozen Vietnamese soldiers , an American sergeant pointed out the parts of the recoilless rifle and showed how to dismantle and fire it . Many of his students had been assigned as recoilless riflemen for years , yet they were obviously unfamiliar with the weapon . " Most of them are afraid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " They pull the weapon off target when they fire it . " The colonel in charge told me that the ARVN were familiar with the 60-mm mortar because it had been part of their weaponry since the 1950s . " But they do n't have a working knowledge of it , " he said . In most ARVN units , a captain added , " they 're very apt to leave the mortar home because it weighs a lot . Same problem with the recoilless rifle . " The captain reported that " a lot of junior leaders , especially the sergeants , do n't really know what their job is . " He led me out to a field , where one of his sergeants was jogging around with a platoon of about thirty Vietnamese . They were practicing a simple forward advance with the platoon arrayed shoulder to shoulder facing an imaginary objective . " Advance , fire , advance , fire , " the sergeant yelled , trying to teach part of the platoon to lay down protective fire as the others moved forward . Everyone wanted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was going slowly . " Normally , " the sergeant said , " what they do is get down in their holes and call in an air strike . They do n't like to move at all if there 's any enemy fire up front . " He had found the troops unfamiliar with all the basic formations except single file . They preferred walking behind each other , even though that meant losing point men in ambushes , the sergeant said , because " they 're deathly afraid of booby traps . " Despite all this , an American colonel I met seemed to be living in 1962 . He was the quintessential adviser . With a beaming , Westmoreland-like smile , he declared , " Their middle-management leaders , their company and battalion leaders , are coining along real fine . Yes , sir , real fine . " Political sollition A MERICAN ADVISERS first went to work in Vietnam in 1955 with the remnants of the French colonial army . Without a second thought , they set about organizing the Vietnamese into carbon copies of their own divisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was an expensive , mechanized concept that found its strength in mass : large units maneuvering with heavy artillery and air support . It took years to recognize the mistake , and then no one would admit it . At first the cumbersome ARVN units were shredded by swift-striking bands of Vietcong guerrillas . On the verge of collapse in 1964 , the ARVN was relegated to little more than guarding bridges and roads as the Americans began arriving in early 1965 to save the day . After the Tet Offensive in 1968 , Washington turned to the ARVN to take up the slack . But Vietnamization was no solution . It consisted mainly of piling on the ARVN all the advanced weaponry it had previously been denied : M-16 rifles , modern machine guns , heavy artillery , tanks , and vastly more aircraft ? all in the vain hope that the ARVN could somehow cope with the dazzling North Vietnamese light infantry that the Americans themselves had been unable to defeat . It was a hasty , slipshod effort that the last remaining Americans looked upon with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ietnamization . " It 's a politician 's word , " one major snapped . The Americans never managed to get across to the ARVN the value of training and the need for constant repetition . Out-of-favor generals usually commanded the military academies and training centers , and , once the troops were in combat units , drilling was rare . The Vietnamese were weakest in producing maintenance and logistics specialists , and as the number of Americans dwindled , the ARVN planes , tanks , radios , and even trucks and Jeeps began to falter . The American soldiers in charge of technical training were impatient with their students and found it easier to do the work themselves . " Then nen we 'd lie and tell our major they fixed it , " one sergeant recalled . As the ARVN went down to defeat , it had three times as many men as the North Vietnamese and Vietcong and twice the armor and artillery . In addition , it was flying a few air attacks and moving troops by helicopter against an army that had no planes supporting it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collapse had been precipitated by a reduction in American military aid , the ARVNwas still firing twelve times as much rifle and machine-gun ammunition as the North Vietnamese and nine times as much artillery . But fire power is almost meaningless without spirit ? in its flight the . ARVN abandoned hundreds of millions of dollars ' worth of combat gear . F OR YEARS THE COMMUNISTS suffered even worse hardships than the ARVN ? if that is possible to imagine ? yet they never seemed to lack fighting spirit . For one thing , corruption was rare among the Communists . As a result , they apparently felt that while they might be low on food and their jungle hospitals might be primitive , they were getting the best of what was available , and everyone was suffering about equally . Coercion may have been a factor in motivating some Communist troops . Americans often attributed the enemy 's shocking determination to drugs or fear of their political commissars . But I spent two days with a Vietcong squad of fourteen men in the Mekong Delta shortly after the cease.fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I was sure they were working together because they wanted it that way . The squad had only a fraction of the food government troops usually had . Half the young men wore scraps of government uniforms and were armed with captured American-made weapons . Yet they worked cheerfully together , and direct commands were seldom necessary . They displayed a sense of dedication , purpose , and confidence that I had never seen in government troops . When artillery crashed nearby or a government helicopter clattered overhead , they scarcely looked up . The reason they had joined the " liberation forces , " the squad members told me , was to fight " the American invaders . " The North Vietnamese and Vietcong leaned heavily on the antiforeigner sentiment in the former French colony , and I think it was one of their most effective rallying cries . With the Americans gone , the guerrillas told me , they were continuing to fight against " the dictator Nguyen Van Thieu. " a puppet who was no less evil than the Americans themselves . By contrast , the ARVN soldier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and luxuriating in elegant villas , dining on imported patiss and fine wines while he scrimped to get enough rice to feed his family . He was paid a pittance , stood little chance of being promoted without bribing someone , and , if he were wounded , he could only pray for a clean shot to kill him swiftly . The stench in the military hospital for amputees in Danang nearly gagged me . No ARVN generals had been there for years , and then only for a quick visit . The Americans suspected 1 : : at the doctor in charge , a major . was selling his medicines and equipment on the black market . He was busy with a private practice and spent as little time in the hospital as he could . Meanwhile , young men with oozing stumps lay in the filthy beds where they had been languishing for months , waiting for artificial limbs . Fat flies crawled over them in the sticky heat . Still , some of the cripples told of scheming to stay in the hospital for as long as two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army pay would stop . And it might take a year or more before disability payments started . The payments themselves were so minuscule that soldiers with arms and legs blown off were the most aggressive beggars in the cities . The usual rewards and recognition for men-at-arms were turned upside down in South Vietnam , and often the worst officers and soldiers were sent to the most critical combat assignments . When the Third Division was formed to defend South Vietnam 's crucial border with North Vietnam at the DMZ , men were levied from other units , and all of them sent their troublemakers and derelicts . One regiment broke and fled under the first pressure from the North Vietnamese in the 1972 Easter offensive , and eventually the whole division fell apart , permitting the Communists to capture their first provincial capital in the South , Quang Tri . Morale and ' discipline were certainly not helped by the special treatment the swaggering generals enjoyed during the years of military government . One of the most glaring examples was Gen. Nguyen Van Than , who was known as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Division , he was reputed to have made a fortune using ARVN troops and trucks to haul cinnamon out of a dangerous section in the northern provinces and to have added to his wealth by looting the big Marine base at Chu Lai after the Americans left . As his notoriety grew , he was also accused of having raped a fifteen-year-old girl , and President Thieu finally felt compelled to sack him . But a short time later he was reinstated and given command of an entire military region with several division commanders under him . lie was fired again after another uproar of protest against his corruption , only to surface earlier this year as the commander of the vital military region that encompassed Saigon , a post he held until the North Vietnamese took over . A grounded air force HE UNITED STATES gave the South Viet-namese the world 's third- or fourth-largest air force : 65,000 men with more than 1,200 attack and transport planes and more than 500 helicopters . Unfortunately , it lacked enough pilots and skilled technicians to keep the planes flying . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value as a juju , giving strength and encouragement to the people and the army , but I doubt it . The air force never came close to being an effective support for the army . It was little more than a fancy hardware store . A confidential report I saw in early 1973 showed that in 50 percent of the air force 's squadrons only about half of the aircraft were ready for combat , and the state of most of the rest of the units was even worse . In one transport unit with fifteen planes only two were fit to fly . Out of thirty-two aircraft in a helicopter squadron , four were operational . Another helicopter unit of the same size had two flyable aircraft . In a fighter squadron of twenty planes , four were available for missions . Meanwhile , hundreds of tons of spare parts had come tumbling into South Vietnam , but the inventories and the warehousing had been bungled , and no one could find anything . At the air bases at Binh Thuy in the Mekong Delta and at Danang to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a gasket or a set of bearings buried in a mountain of crates at Bien Hoa , the main supply depot . It was precisely that failing , coupled with widespread inability of ground crews to keep up with routine repairs , that left the air force crippled during the last offensive and not , as the Pentagon kept saying , a shortage of spare parts . The men working in the aircraft shops had been through the standard training , but for many of them the leap from the water buffalo to the jet had been too dramatic . One of the most baffling technical aspects for the Vietnamese was the concept of preventive maintenance ? making inspections , adjustments , and changes of parts and lubricants according to a fixed schedule regardless of whether there were signs of wear . It just made no sense to them to replace perfectly good-looking oil or spark plugs or to start fiddling with wrenches when the aircraft seemed to be doing just fine . Consequently , invisible stresses set in , parts broke , and some Vietnamese aircraft stopped flying in mid-air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more spunk , I always thought , than the army . But when it was needed most it could not respond . Having been created , helter-skelter , so late in the war , it had no hope of working . Thus the army and the air force suffered from years of neglect by the Americans , followed by a few years of frantic injections of machinery and superficial training . Inevitably , they came apart because they had never been put together properly . In the end , they were a million men , hundreds of artillery pieces and tanks and airplanes , a great conglomeration of individual military items that never became a fighting team . It was an armed mob , and a pitiful one at that .                     