@@493945

First Time Farce by Bruce Hardcastle On November 27 , 1935 , FDR was in the White House , Reza Shah , father of the recently deposed Iranian monarch , was on the Peacock Throne of Iran , and the sleepy Maryland town of Elkton , best known as a destination for eloping couples , sat astride the main motor route from Washington to New York . At about 10:45 that morning , Jacob T. Biddle , Elkton 's 51-yearold chief of police , was standing on Main Street talking with his friend , George Potts , 69 , the town 's retired police chief . Down Route 40 , moving fast , came a big , shiny Packard . Roaring at about 50 miles an hour past a 25 mph speed limit sign , the car swerved around a truck crossing the intersection of Main Street and Landing Lane . Biddle raised his police whistle . In the rear of the Packard , together with his British-born wife and the family dog , sat the elderly , distinguished-looking Ghaffar Khan Djalal . The envoy extraordinary and minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on his way to New York carrying Iranian currency plates for printing by the American Bank Note Company . Djalal was running late for his afternoon appointment , and had given his American driver , William Collier , the order to open up the car 's powerful engine . He hoped to make the Washington to New York trip in under seven hours . When Officer Biddle blew his whistle , Collier brought the minister 's car to a screeching halt and climbed out . Talking with the chauffeur outside the car , Biddle found the man to be a decent enough sort . He was inclined to let the party go on its way with a warnBruce Hardcastle is a Middle East specialist working in the diplomatic branch of the National Archives . This article is based on declassified State Department documents . ing . There are differing versions of what happened next , but most of the subsequent testimony had it that Djalal jumped from the rear of the car , grabbed his driver by the arm , and told him to pay no attention to Biddle . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When Biddle told the chauffeur he was under arrest , the minister seemed to go wild . Accustomed to the deference of underlings , Djalal took Officer Biddle by the tie , shook him , and threatened him . Potts and Biddle tried to get the Iranian back into the Packard , but Mrs. Djalal struck out at them with her husband 's cane and the couple 's dog seemed anything but pleased about the whole affair . Mrs. Clayton Ellison saw the whole thing from her porch on Main Street , while her husband , constable for the third election district of Cecil County , napped inside their home . She roused the constable in time for him to dash out and clamp handcuffs on the minister plenipotentiary from Iran . The town magistrate was out to lunch , so the minister was taken to the county sheriff 's office . He showed his card to a young man there who , reading the words " Minister of Iran " on it , declared , " Why , he 's only a damn preacher ! " Later , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another drunk . " Almost everyone involved testified that the minister smelled of drink . The minster and his party finally were taken to the nearby town of North East . The justice of the peace there knew something about diplomatic immunity , so he dismissed the charge of disorderly conduct against Djalal , suspended a five-dollar speeding fine levied on Collier , and had the driver pay 75 cents in court costs . Iran 's highest ranking diplomat in this country had been detained for about an hour and 45 minutes . Two days later , in what proved to be an understatement , the head of the State Department 's division of Near Eastern affairs wrote in a memo to the secretary of state , " We shall undoubtedly hear more of this case . " Djalal already had made an outraged protest from Elkton by telephone . " I protest on behalf of my Government and myself , " the minister wrote in the official note to the secretary which soon followed , " such a violation of international law and courtesy . " Djalal demanded " ample @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ status guaranteed by international law and usage . " The State Department 's response to the Iranian minister 's protests was swift and comprehensive . In a flurry of telephone calls and correspondence which had begun even before the official note of protest was received , the secretary of state secured an apology to the minister and his government from the governor of Maryland , and released his own apology to the press . Within a week after the incident , again on State Department insistence , Police Chief Biddle and Constable Ellison were tried for assault , fined , and dismissed from public service . The department 's immediate actions to make amends should have brought an end to the Djalal affair , and the Iranian Foreign Ministry 's response that the matter was closed did make it appear so . But those who thought the incident was over did not reckon with the character of the Iranian minister in Washington , the gameness of the American press , or the supersensitivity of the Iranians to real or imagined slights . Months before the drama in Elkton , Djalal already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going over his head to the Senate concerning the ratification of an international convention containing clauses he felt injurious to Iranian sensitivities and " Persian national rights . " Djalal objected to language equating the Persian Gulf with the Red Sea , " both coasts of which , " he protested , " are inhabited by semi-savage people " ( such as the Egyptians and the Saudis ) . Diplomacy simply was not conducted this way when Cordell Hull was secretary of state . The apparent reluctance of the Iranian legation to pay its American creditors and employees , as well as the pecadilloes of certain of its officers , also did nothing to endear Djalal to Hull 's department . Djalal probably was aware that Hull had sent instructions to the chief American diplomat in Tehran requesting discreet representations to Iranian authorities that Djalal was overdue for a transfer out of Washington . The account the Iranian minister sent to his government of the Elkton incident left him the entirely blameless victim of unspeakable cruelty and insult , and implied that there may have been some connection between this and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported that whatever American press accounts Tehran might receive would befabrications . In a private meeting with Hull , Djalal betrayed his special fear that the shah might learn the fuller details of his experience in Elkton , and especially that he had had his hands bound , an ultimate degradation in Iran . Might not the secretary of state show him some special , personal consideration , the minister wondered , such as a public invitation to tea ? Hull was cool to the idea , which he interpreted as part of Djalal 's attempt to prove to Tehran his continued usefulness in Washington . The minister and his wife were frantic . In a tearful call to the State Department , Mrs. Djalal tried to reach Mrs. Hull for help . But the decision had already been made in Iran that Djalal was to be recalled . When word of the impending recall reached the Iranian legation in Washington from Tehran , exactly a month after the Elkton incident , Djalal put it about that the move was part of an Iranian protest over his arrest and ill-treatment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of December . All this was before the first American newspaper accounts of the Elkton incident began arriving in Persian Gulf ports in the beginning of January 1936 . The Amercian press , it might be said , treated the affair rather lightly . To Iranians reading these five-week-old accounts , not treating the minister plenipotentiary of His Imperial Majesty with the proper respect seemed tantamount to finding Reza Shah himself humorous . Besides , Djalal over the years had enjoyed the support and friendship of the Iranian foreign minister , Bagher Kazemi , and so if Djalal was made to appear ludicrous , Kazemi felt , Kazemi was too . The foreign minister immediately began to choreograph a vitriolic anti-American campaign in Iran 's controlled press . There was a US conspiracy to insult Djalal and , through him , the Iranian people , the editors wrote . The Iranians saw the whole episode as a plot . Had not the New York Times reported that Elkton was a " speed trap " ? Was this not ample proof of a well-laid plan to discredit the Iranian nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force , one Iranian editor maintained that " the Government of Washington is to blame for employing such individuals for police service " as Biddle and Ellison . Other editors thought the arresting policemen were part of the New York Police Department . The Iranian newspapers compared the lawlessness of the United States with Iran 's own impeccable standards of behavior . " The Iranian Government , " wrote one Iranian newspaperman , " is famous for respecting and supporting international rules and regulations . " All the Iranian editors decried the apparent violation of " all the existing codes on international law , custom , usage , comity , and courtesy . " But not one mentioned the handcuffing of Djalal . Several portrayed an America without honor , a country dedicated only to material pursuits , possessing only a false veneer of " true civilization , " a land of gangsters and murderers . The most frequently recurring theme in the antiAmerican campaign during January 1936 was that the Elkton incident and the American newspapers ' treatment of it were deeply insulting to Iranian national dignity . The arrest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the political pride and prestige of Iran , " a country whose people " are heart and soul devoted to their dignities . " America had no right , the Iranian papers wrote , to " assail the dignity and honor of another country , " and must learn that " other people of the world are also respectable . " The Iranian press campaign temporarily abated when the American legation in Tehran told Iranian officials that it would pass on to Washington their demand that American newspapers publish editorial expressions of regret . Lower-level Iranian officials were casting about for a face-saving gesture from the United States and the State Department was having trouble discerning who really spoke for Iran 's head of state . After eyewitness depositions on the Elkton incident were given to the Iranian Foreign Ministry , the Djalals returned to Tehran under a cloud . Rumors there had it that the elderly former minister was summoned for an audience and horsewhipped by the shah for having made a fool of himself ( and , by extension , of Reza Shah ) in Elkton . The anti-American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lingered among the urban masses , but the matter was again considered officially closed . The storm broke anew when an article from a February edition of the New York Mirror , a Hearst paper , reached the shah early in March 1936 . The paper quoted a British source to the effect that Reza Shah had once been a stableboy in the British legation in Tehran . Reza Shah , founder of the short-lived Pahlavi dynasty and sensitive about his humble origins , was outraged . The Iranians threatened to break off diplomatic relations unless the Mirror 's story was retracted . Iranian authorities had a hard time understanding American press freedom , then as now . They simply could not accept the State Department 's assertion that the US government could not have unfavorable press comments retracted at will . Iranian foreign minister Kazemi wondered what would be so difficult about the State Department having Congress pass an amendment to the Constitution forbidding press criticism of foreign dignitaries . Secretary Hull found this comment especially dismaying . Kazemi had lived for years in the United States . If this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign ministry and press understood America , how could less traveled and less educated Iranians be made to understand ? But Hearst did consent to a retraction , which appeared in the March 26 , 1936 , Mirror . Nevertheless , two days later , the Iranians recalled all their representatives in the United States . In making its correction , they complained , the Mirror had repeated the substance of the original . The United States continued to maintain diplomats in Tehran , but there was no Iranian representation in Washington for three years . Iran wanted a high-level American envoy to come to Tehran especially to beg for a restoration of full relations , figuratively to prostrate the United States before the shah for insults to the dignity of the Iranian nation . Secretary of State Hull simply waited them out ; Iran was not yet important enough for any urgency .                     