@@488013

Miss Leary has been a West C6ast political writer for more than twenty years , most of them on the Scripps-Howard San Francisco News . She is now a free-lance writer . If it is true that politics must be fired with passion to pull people to the polls , then California has some emotional well-springs on its November ballot which ought to provoke a strong voter response in spite of , or at least apart from , the early apathy over the Presidential contest . The question , though , is whether a little spillover from these peripheral issues might spark up the McGovern candidacy . It is a very real possibility . Though the names McGovern or Nixon , for all they symbolize , scarcely stir the public pulse now in California , the name Cesar Chavez has an electric effect on the emotional circuits . Chavez , with all the messianic aura he hasearned in a ten-year fight- for the migrant farm worker , is now suddenly a force in the state 's political spectrum . Agri-business ' move to enact an agricultural labor relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them in with limitations that would scuttle the United Farm Workers ( UFW ) , abolish the effective buyer boycotts and snuff out Chavez 's strength , has abruptly boomeranged . This move to kill the UFW ( it is much the same law that Arizona enacted this spring while Chavez fasted in protest ) , was rejected by the California legislature but brought to the November ballot by initiative petition , circulated through the spring by major grower Organizations and qualified this summer . While Democrats at their convention were giving the UFW lettuce boycott such an enormous boost  --  twenty-five state delegations pledging support over national television in the tumult of choosing a Presidential nominee  --  at home the ground was being carefully cut away from the union 's base . The initiative was on the ballot ; a campaign to woo favorable votes was being prepared with the vast and costly propaganda apparatus California political campaigners are so adept at using . By every sign , the union was in a fight for its life . That fight is still on , but the odds have evened a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gathering signatures for the initiative has startled the state , triggered investigations and law suits , provoked countless press conferences of denunciation , shaken confidence in the initiative process and  --  most telling political effect of all  --  so enraged black communities that they are determined to turn out Election Day to defeat the measure . The Spanish-speaking were already against it , but the publicity over fraud aroused them just when the voter-registration drive needed impetus . The Democratic goal of adding 300,000 to 400,000 new voters has a good chance of including many thousands more Mexican-Americans who are determined to support Chavez . What particularly outraged blacks was the realization that the bulk of the qualifying signatures had been obtained deliberately in their neighborhoods . They had been " used , " as several black legislators put it at their press conferences . Petition circulators , taking advantage of political innocence among the blacks , concentrated their efforts in these neighborhoods and deftly hid the official statement describing the initiative under large pink cards . Their pitch alleged , instead , that the measure would help settle labor disputes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been hired as petition circulators , and paid per name , discovered too late that they had worked for a measure that would destroy Chavez and the UFW , which they recognize as the strongest voice for the poor in California . Their indignation , their sense of having been victimized , burst upon Secretary of State Edmund G. Brown , Jr . who polices election machinery . District attorneys began surveying the evidence . " By the time we had received 3,000 protests over individual experience with fraud Ave knew we had something unprecedented in the way of a problem , " said one official in Brown 's office . The complicated struggle now going on over how to prove the fraud , as counties painstakingly review their petitions ; how to remove the initiative ( no legal steps exist for such an eventuality ) ; how to prevent its being counted ; how to separate legitimate signatures from those clearly forged ( many signers Were urged to write down names of others in their family ) ; and how to take action against the campaign organizers who masterminded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in California . The net effect is a groundswell of concern for the farm workers among people otherwise indifferent to this year 's election . The poor of California are committed to vote " no " on Proposition 22 . Said Leroy Chatfield , director of the UFW voter-registration drive in Los Angeles , " I can honestly say the word ' McGovern ' does n't catch fire in the black or brown areas . But down at the street level , you talk about farm workers and you talk against Nixon , and you get a red-hot response . There is absolutely no community we 've gone into that does n't know about the farm workers and Chavez and wants to vote to protect them , and that includes all the black neighborhoods , Watts and every other minority district . We will get a tremendous vote from them . " At position 22 , this anti-farm-worker measure is the last on a long ballot heavy with issues appealing strongly to the self-interests of one or another segment of Californians . Teachers , university professors , highway patrolmen , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures Californians will vote upon . They have a personal interest in getting people to the polls . The young are responding to an initiative that would make possession of marijuana no crime . The aged are alerted to tax measures . There are , it must be recognized , , right-wing thrusts : a move to ban school bussing and halt other provisions intended to obtain classroom racial balance ; a move to let local communities fix their own obscenity standards . These are so extreme or of such questionable legality that they get scant attention . The most serious ultraconservative issue is a proposal to restore the death penalty ; it is sponsored by state law-enforcement officials and police , and is likely to win in California and stir other states to follow suit . Perhaps the most piquant measure would write into California 's constitution the " right of privacy . " It simply adds " and privacy , " in the first section of the first article , to the list of " inalienable rights . " At the same time , the constitution 's initial reference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free and independent " is altered to read " all persons . " It can hardly be claimed that this issue is stirring voter excitement ; it comes so quietly onto the ballot that hardly a word about it has appeared in the press . However , Assemblyman Kenneth Cory ( D. ) introduced it , and the legislature overwhelmingly approved it , as a substantial counter to pervasive government intrusions and computerized data accumulation . Once enacted  --  and public outrage over the abuse of private information is so great that its passage is thought sure  --  it can be relied upon to generate new protective acts against government snooping and government compilation of private dossiers . But will all these exotic perennials , such as bloom regularly in California 's political garden , have any effect on how California votes for President ? The general view is that their influence will be indirect but real . It is assumed in political circles that these issues , livening interest in the election as a whole , will generate more - votes than ' the Presidential contest alone could draw . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of injustice and so increase the vote for a change via McGovern . That this increase can be enough to overcome President Nixon 's advantage no one claims . As of now , Democrats are standing by , stamping their feet in the cold and waiting for the fires to be lit . The drastic drop in their campaign temperature between June and October is not merely the seasonal decline from summer to fall . If Senator McGovern is going to take California away froth President Nixon he must get on with the job himself . The McGovern headquarters staff , shuffled and shaken up since their successful June , claims to sense at last a supportive resurgence for the candidate . It is being said that they " bottomed out " through the first week of September . Fund raising , both with small gifts and large donations , is going surprisingly well . What the serious disputes over ballot issues can achieve is an intensification of political awareness and interest during what seems otherwise a slack time . Instead of sinking into a glum despair over national prospects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fight over property taxes , the fight , over the death penalty , the fight over preserving the precious coast from rampant private development and nuclear power siting ) and most of all , the fight to save the United Farm Workers . Of course , igniting such interest quickens the Republicans as well . No one is working harder than the Republican Party to get voters registered by October 8 . No one is cultivating Mexican-American circles more industriously ; no one is more ostentatious in its display of young supporters . This does not mean that the ballot issues are necessarily partisan . Some of them , particularly coast preservation , break across lines and have harnessed together curiously mismatched partners . The Coastal Alliance , for instance , finds that a large number of ultraconservative elderly are working hand in hand with far-out urban planners for regional coastal zoning agencies ; this is because so many small homes in the sleepy coastal towns are being wiped out by large-scale developers . But , in general , the steam being built up has a better potential for being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with labor . Its lip zipped by the Meany prohibition against any Presidential endorsement , how can labor give its political muscles even a workout in 1972 ? In California , it became clear at the mid-August AFL-CIO convention that the total energies , passions and persuasions of all labor , Teamsters included , would be directed to defeat Proposition 22 , the farm labor control initiative . Not since 1958 , when California labor staged a fantastically successful drive to defeat a right-to-work initiative ( and to squelch the gubernatorial ambitions of then U.S. Sen. William F. Knowland ) , has there been such a single purpose to union concern over California politics . The 1972 campaign is by no means as important as that of 1958 , but it has given labor a place to go , an issue where personal interest is visibly at stake , an effective cover behind which it can organize political strategies for a broader change . Some critics , state AFL-CIO Executive Sec'y-Treas . John F. Henning said at the convention , assume that the labor movement belongs " with the great industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . They think we want to be with the superior order , as they regard it . But I say , we belong with the liberal movement , black , brown , young , women and with all who believe this country belongs to the great masses of the people . " At no point did the convention endorse McGovern , but it called forcefully and openly for the defeat of President Nixon , as strong a position as it could manage within the technical ban of Rule 4 of the national AFL-CIO , which requires state bodies to conform to national policy . America , said the California AFL-CIO by formal resolution , " can not afford another four years of the Nixon Presidency . " Henning admonished that another four yearswith assaults , on the Bill of Rights such as the Administration has countenanced in the past would take this country " well down the road toward constitutional fascism . " Senator McGovern has identified himself with the Chavez cause . In a statement on September 11 , he declared Proposition 22 " so repugnant in both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ballot , I feel it requires comment . . . . Today , the Farm Workers may be the target of union-busting legislation and high-powered pressure campaigns . Tomorrow it may be the Aerospace Workers , the building trades , the Municipal Workers or the Teamsters . We must stop this before it spreads . " The unions are committed to helping Chavez far beyond the initial $10,000 handed over ' for this political fight at the convention . Though it claims to recognize labor organization in the fields , the measure is considered peculiarly a threat because of the limitations it would impose on the right to strike and because " right to work " groups have been involved in obtaining similar measures in Arizona and other states . Labor deems it a threat to all unions . Outside the ranks of labor , it is difficult to convince Californians that a measure permitting union organization among farm workers , and requiring a secret ballot is a threat to these workers . Yet for many , Chavez 's opposition is convincing enough . Jerry Cohen , UFW legal counsel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have been sixty days or more at a single farm effectively eliminates more than two-thirds of the migrant farm hands , who usually work less than a month for one employer . Besides , it is the employer who controls whether his farm hands work long enough to meet the standard ; in effect , he controls their eligibility to vote on union matters . Other language in the proposal would permit almOst continuous injunctions against a strike , should workers threaten one , and it makes illegal even the mention of a boycott at the consumer level . " I do think the lettuce boycott , Proposition 22 and the whole election are tied together , " said Cohen . " The level of concern for our cause and of awareness of our need is so advanced beyond what it was when we had the grape boycott . We have great strength now among consumers and among young people . They care , and they will vote . " And he added : " I am convinced there is dissatisfaction in the state to a degree the polls do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is any area in which dissatisfaction is obvious , it is among the various California conservation groups and politically sensitive organizatiOns drawn to- , gether in what is called the Coastal Alliance . That in-cludes League of Women Voters , Parent-Teachers , 60,000 California members of the Sierra Club , the Associated Sportsmen and many home-owners ' associations . Some four years ago a legislative resources study cited California 's coastline as one of the most seriously threatened natural resources and proposed a pattern for protecting it from overdevelopment . The plan was to establish six regional bodies manned in part from local governments , whose " permit " must be obtained for any development within 1,000 yards of waterline and whose major task would be to develop long-range plans for each section of coast  --  to a distance of 5 miles inland  --  from Mexico to Oregon . For three successive years an effort was made to get this idea embodied in legislation , but it was defeated each time by real estate interests , developers , the utilities ( which want shoreline nuclear power sites ) and labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ initiative . There is a strong sense among conservationists that this is a critical issue which , if lost , will seriously deter the whole cause of ecological preservation in California and weaken ancillary efforts on behalf of environmental controls . Janet Adams , who leads the Alliance , was one of those who " saved the bay " by campaigning for a control agency over San Francisco Bay . Whether her brand of tenacious volunteerism is enough to offset an estimated $1.5 million kitty which industry is said to have available to fight this measure remains to be seen . But proof of public interest was the amassing of most of 400,000 signatures by a wholly volunteer effort in one month 's time , mid-May to mid-June ; it was an unparalleled amateur record . The political power which big business has exhibited previously in killing environmental measures at , the legislature and at the ballot rankles with the liberal voters . If the , opposition continues to distort the issue ( one ad says , " The beach belongs to you . Do n't lock it up . Vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within the next few weeks against such corporate protectionism . Some Mc- Governites seriously look for this to happen . " The aura of excessive corporate manipulation of the political mechanism in behalf of business profits has fed the national distrust of the Nixon Administration , " remarked Henry Weinstein , McGovern press spokesman in San Francisco . " Obviously lavish spending to kill this California shoreline zoning plan will reinforce the repugnance a lot of people feel . It will drive votes to McGovern in disgust . " Of course , there is an opposition position . As one assemblyman put it , the " ecO-freaks are destroying the basic economy of California . " The tax shake-up measure known as the Watson initiative started out by claiming to save the home owner a chunk of local property tax , but it too has been catalogued as a big-business scheme . An objective study by the legislature 's highly regarded fiscal analyst , Alan Post , makes evident that commercial property owners and large landholders , ' not the private home owner , would be the principal beneficiaries . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per $100 assessed valuation , with the result that the state government would be $372 million short for present revenues , and support for schools would be $771 million short , even with a great increase in state taxes . That is what panics schoolteachers throughout the state . This is a crippling structure which inserts a complex tax plan into the constitution , forbids local taxes from supplementing state school assistance , prohibits a state property tax , and boosts the sales tax from 3.75 to 6 per cent . Opposition to it is growing , but annoyance over high property taxes and legislative failure to enact tax reform have built some fear that this tax scheiner might gain public favor . The Watson measure is included in the spreading inquiries into fraud in the collection of signatures . It is too late to remove this initiative , Proposition 22 , or three ' other suspect matters from the ballot . Voting sheets are already printed ; absentee voting begins October 9 . What persons aroused over the obvious forgeries or admitted misrepresentations are seeking is a court ruling that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ordinarily , county clerks and election officers would be embarrassed by the discovery of such abuse in their systems , but California was caught last June in an extraordinary pinch . So many initiative measures flooded into county offices , each with roughly 400,000 signatures to be verified , that every county clerk had to throw hastily hired , untrained tally clerks into the breach . Los Angeles County alone took on more than 500 such novices . A Northern ' county official who hired 100 girls " right off the street " confessed " we could n't possibly guarantee their work . " The death-penalty issue has also come under the " fraud " cloud . This proposal was initiated in quick retaliation when the California Supreme Court last February , ahead of the U.S. Supreme Coiirt , found by a 6-to-1 majority that the death penalty is " cruel or unusual " punishment and hence unconstitutional under state law  --  language far more positive than the U.S. Court 's multi-opinion . In seeking to restore the death penalty now , the , , initiative would apply immediately to four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declaration that no further appeals of the penalty may be entertained by the courts , once death has been ordered , a curiously unequal approach to the law . Opinion polls , however , indicate that the public will probably heed the advice of law enforcement and bring back the gas chamber . The marijuana initiative will probably rally the youth vote . It is a simple proposal making possession of marijuana legal for those over 18 , and follows in many respects recommendations by President Nixon 's special commission . No political figures are taking the soap box to support this sensitive issue and a great many publicly oppose it . As McGovern forces size up their chances , their strategy is to win so overwhelmingly in Northern California that the vote can offset an expected pro-Nixon majority in Southern California . That is the usual Democratic approach . Humphrey carried the North overwhelmingly but lost the state ; President Kennedy in 1960 carried Northern counties by 100,000 but lost the state to Nixon by 35,000 . The McGovern hope is to build a 300,000 margin in the North ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ periled by so irrelevant a happenstance as the fact that the University of California has switched to the quarter system . Usually its classes are well under way by mid-September ; this year the University opened on October 2 . The late date slowed the assembling of the young people so indispensable to the McGovern cause . It has even delayed discovery of just how interested they still are . ?                     