@@315167

The fatal shooting of four Kent State University students by Ohio National Guardsmen in May 1970 is a tragedy that has never been satisfactorily explained , and until recently there was little hope that it ever would be . The state grand jury that investigated the killings indicted 25 students and others for acts of rioting and other violations , some of which presumably provoked the Guardsmen 's rifle fire ; 23 of them were eventually cleared . None of the Guardsmen or their officers were ever legally charged with violations , though their conduct was sharply criticized by FBI investigations and a presidential commission headed by former Pennsylvania Governor William Scranton . Former Attorney General John Mitchell supported the commission 's conclusion that the rifle fire was " unnecessary , unwarranted and inexcusable . " But he shelved the matter-unresolved questions , unanswered accusations and all-by refusing to convene a federal grand jury that might have got to the bottom of it . Mitchell claimed that any prosecutions of Guardsmen were unlikely . Yet Kent State , says a high Justice Department official , " is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Personal Quarrel . This week a federal grand jury will be empaneled in Cleveland to look into the killings . The Justice Department took that step because of " information " that it " developed " in a recent informal inquiry . Justice officials decline to elaborate and stress that they are not seeking indictments at this stage . Yet in the grand jury hearings they will surely ask who fired the first shot and why-and whether there was a conspiracy among the Guardsmen to shoot the students . U.S. attorneys will also introduce to the jury important evidence that was never seen by the original Ohio panel . <P> The grand jury will hear a claim by several witnesses that a suspected FBI student informer named Terry Norman , who claimed to be a freelance photographer , fired a pistol at a group of students in a personal quarrel during the confrontation with the Guard , possibly touching off its firing-squad response . Norman , now an employee of the Washington , D.C. , police department , has denied that he used a gun on the day of the shooting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but Norman has never explained under oath why he was acting as a photographer . <P> Further , the grand jury will hear that the Justice Department , after analyzing some 8,000 pages of FBI reports , concluded that the Guard units called to Kent State were not surrounded by hostile students and that they were responsible for unwarranted killings ; that they fired at students when they were in no real danger themselves . Justice officials said that the Guardsmen 's defense that they opened fire to protect themselves seemed to be " fabricated . "                     