@@491391

71Mo : C YEE EN o3PNETCIENT COLLEGE The chairman of the board of a long-established , small , church-related college , somewhere in the heartland of America , recently telephoned the president of slightly older , larger Timberland College . " How would you like , " he began in jocular vein , " to take on the most difficult job in American higher education ? " " You mean you know of a harder job than the one I 'm already struggling with ? " came back the president 's amused reply . " Yes , " said the board chairman , " Cornland ( and that of course is not the real name ) is having a pretty grim battle . Deficits have been eating up our endowment at the rate of a quarter-million a year , the president has resigned , the student enrollment has sagged , we 've been pruning the faculty  --  things are really tough . However , we 've got great poten-tial " I was hoping , " he added flatteringly , " that with the fine job you 've done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's not the real name either ) , you 'd be ready for a new and exciting challenge . " " Well , " the president startled himself by reply-Mg , " you 've caught me in just the right mood to take you seriously . Chiefly , I suppose , because of a faculty meeting here at Timberland yesterday . We were trying to get through a relatively modest educational program reform but the faculty wrangled endlessly . They could n't agree on the plan proposed or any modification of it . So they voted , in their weariness and self-satisfaction , for academic business as usual . " As I was saying to my wife this morning , people rarely change until they have to  --  educational institutions never until they have to . As 1 see it , American higher education has got to change if it is to serve our national needs , and the non-tax-supported colleges and universities must change radically even to survive at all . At times l daydream of a college so hungry , so nearly bankrupt , so scared that its faculty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes to be carried out . Frankly , I doubt if Cornland is bankrupt enough and frightened enough to change . But letme come have a look . " What has happened at Cornland since then I do n't know , but just such a conversation , I am told , actually took place . Soon after I learned of that phone call , the weekly Chronicle of Higher Education carried the following display ad : WANTED : A COLLEGE WITH FINANCIAL PROBLEMS Long-time observer and critic of all aspects of higher education seeks college of 500 to 1000 students with financial problems in which trustees , administrators and faculty will commit institution to basic changes in curriculum , teaching methods , admissions standards , marketing procedures , academic calendar , recruitment and fund raising . Purpose is to demonstrate that with sound policies and practices most colleges can remain economically and educationally sound . Compensation not a factor , but college in which constituent groups , especially faculty , oppose reform should not reply . Write Box 3011 , The Chronicle of Higher Education , 1717 Mass . Ave. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any gathering of independent college administrators these days and you 'll hear sobering reflections on the grim problems facing our private colleges as they discuss the weaknesses and failures of contemporary academia , and as the bolder ones among them call for drastic reform . That such thoughts are now increasingly expressed about higher education is one of the most encouraging signs on the academic horizon . But cries of alarm are not a program for significant educational advancement  --  or even for institutional survival . It is high time the nation , and each state , took a sustained hard look at its whole higher educational complex  --  its more than 2,800 public and private institutions of all sizes , conditions and branch campuses  --  came to some conclusions about the options , and developed some coherent policies and programs to reform , improve , and undergird financially the shaky structure of higher education . And , it is long past the time when the 1,400-plus independent colleges , universities and junior colleges should have started their own individual programs of comprehensive renovation and improvement . Fortunately , some have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the traditional dual , public-and-private , system of American higher education will be preserved . More importantly , the whole of American education could be significantly improved if the private institutions would use boldly and creatively their relative freedom to innovate and experiment . The independent colleges and universities , some educators believe , can and must work as the cutting edge of educational advancement or they will , for the most part , sicken and die . If they die , the nation and higher education will thereby be made much poorer . As the president of a small , coeducational , liberal arts college , I am of course prejudiced in favor of their survival . But 1 do n't think many of them , my own included , will survive unless they can demonstrate their capacity to serve society as significantly now as they did in earlier times and as they should in the future  --  and better than they do now . They can not survive on sentiment  --  nor should they . What is far too generally overlooked , however , is what they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are for the present and the future . The in dependent and church-related colleges and universities of America have been here for a long time : Harvard since 1636 , William and Mary since 1693 , and old Siwash ( Knox ) , for example , since 1837 . Of the more than a thousand such institutions , a substantial portion are more than a hundred years old . But  --  can they last ? And should they ? On past performance . the record is impressive . Of the 114 American Nobel Prize winners , more than half ( sixty-seven ) attended or graduated from private institutions . Almost a quarter of that group , as might be expected , were the products of the Big Three Harvard , Chicago , and Columbia . But an amazingly distinguished list of Nobel laureates got their start in the small , independent and church-related colleges : Robert Millikan ( physics ) Oberlin ; Arthur H. Compton ( physics ) Wooster ; Ernest 0 . Lawrence ( physics ) St. Olaf ; Wendell Stanley the thirty-six men who have held that exalted post @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from John Adams to John Kennedy , went to Harvard ; three ( Jefferson , Monroe and Tyler ) attended William and Mary . Private colleges from coast to coast account for the others  --  from Bowdoin in Maine ( Franklin Pierce ) to Whittier in California ( Richard Nixon ) . Only three of the presidents thus far have attended state universities : James K. Polk , University of North Caro- Nevertheless , of those who aspired to the presidency in the 1972 campaign , Edmund Muskie graduated from Bates ; George McGovern from Dakota Wesleyan ; Vance Hartke from Evansville ; John Lindsay from Yale ; John Ashbrook from Harvard ; Paul McCloskey from Stanford ; Eugene McCarthy from St. John 's  --  and Richard Nixon from Whittier . It is also striking to note how many of the lead-ers in other aspects of political life today are still being drawn from the private colleges : Gov-ernor Ronald Reagan of California ( Eureka College ) ; Governor Nelson Rockefeller ( Dartmouth ) ; Secre-tary of Defense Melvin Laird ( Carleton ) ; Sec-retary of the Treasury George Schultz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yale ) . Of the last five Secretaries of State , all came from independent undergrad-uate institutions : Wil-liam Rogers ( Colgate ) ; Dean Rusk ( David-son ) ; Christian Herter ( Harvard ) ; John Foster Dulles ( Princeton ) ; Dean Acheson ( Yale ) . Of the nine current members of the United States Supreme Court , seven did their undergraduate work at private colleges : Powell , Washington and Lee ; Rehnquist , Stanford ; Blackmun and Brennan , Harvard ; Marshall , Lincoln ; Stewart , Yale ; Douglas , Whitman . In the field of writing the graduates and former students of independent colleges have done well , as indicated by this small sampling : MacKinlay Kantor . Grinnell and Drake ; Thornton Wilder , Oberlin and Yale ; James Michener , Swarthmore ; William Sty ron , Duke ; Carl S a ndbu rg , Lombard ; Conrad Richter , Susquehanna ; Julia Peter(chemistry) Earlham ; Pearl Buck ( literature ) Randolph-Macon ; Martin Luther King ( peace ) Morehouse ; Emily Balch ( peace ) Bryn Mawr ; Elihu Root ( peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charles Townes ( physics ) Furman ; Charles G. Dawes ( peace ) Marietta . Woodrow Wilson , another Nobel Peace Prize winner , is claimed by two private institutions , Davidson and Princeton . Yet these colleges enroll only a quarter of the nation 's students . Speaking of Presidents of the United States , of lina ; Benjamin Harrison , Miami ( of Ohio ) ; and Lyndon Johnson , Southwest Texas State . ( It should be mentioned that some of the more noted presidents , including Washington , Lincoln , Cleveland and Truman , did not go to college at all , and that Grant and Eisenhower were graduates of West Point . ) With the growing percentage of young people attending tax-supported institutions , the previous dominance of private college alumni at the White House will no doubt fade . kin , Converse ; Robert Penn Warren , Vanderbilt ; Sinclair Lewis . Yale ; Philip Roth , Bucknell ; Robert Frost , Dartmouth , Harvard and Amherst ; Norman Mailer , Harvard ; Jesse Stuart , Lincoln Memorial University ; Jessamyn West , Whittier ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In several studies of the undergraduate origins of the nation 's distinguished scientists , it has been shown that the record of the small independent liberal arts colleges has put them fantastically out in front of the big state universities in terms of the relative percentage of students who go on to win graduate degrees and achieve professional recognition in their fields . Reed , Kalamazoo , Antioch , Oberlin , Eariham , Haverford , Swarthmore , Hope , Colorado College , Iowa Wesleyan , Cornell College ( Iowa ) , DePauw , Amherst , Whitman , St. Olaf , Wabash , and Central College ( Missouri ) are among the institutions that have been singled out as having a " productivity index " that places them among the top institutions of the country in terms of the percentages of their graduates who have achieved scientific distinction . Some of these institutions with enrollments of fewer than two thousand turn out in actual numbers more future Ph.D 's in biology and chemistry than do many of the universities with student bodies ten times as large . In terms of quantity the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ college students out of the nation 's eight million . The grand total of American four-year colleges and universities , including the branch campuses of the state universities , now stands at approximately 1,800 . Of these about 60 percent are church-related or independent , while the others are under state or local government control . Among the 159 major universities in the land , ninety-four are tax-supported , sixty-five under private boards of control . However , of the four-year degree-granting colleges not in the university class , private institutions outnumber the public ones by almost four to one . The most rapid expansion of higher education campuses is in the junior college field . Here , of the more than 900 two-year junior , or community colleges , the tax-supported ones outnumber the private ones by about three to one . In the expansion and restructuring of American higher education , no development is more striking than the spread of these two-year community colleges across the country . Most numerous and highly developed in California , they are springing up in all parts of the nation  --  in New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities of Michigan , and on the Navajo Indian reservation . Designed to provide a wide variety of vocational and technical training in addition to the basic liberal arts subjects , these colleges are accessible  --  through low costs , open admissions standards and geographic convenience  --  to a large percentage of the young people of America . By 1980 , according to some projections , three out of every four entering college students will be attending some kind of junior college . Their impact upon all four-year colleges will be consider- able . For the private colleges they may be the competitive last straw . Constantly rising operating costs for all institutions , declining enrollments at many , and general uncertainties about the gifts , grants , and endowment income needed to balance budgets  --  such are the troubling issues that cast a dark shadow of doubt over almost all the degree-granting schools that are neither controlled nor supported by governments . Those uncertainties , of course , make ever more hazardous the sharpening competition from the public institutions . One state after another , during the past twenty-five years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They have also taken many modest teachers ' colleges and expanded them into large universities , often with branch campuses , as well . And now the community college systems are exploding , fueled by fresh financial support from Washington . Whereas before World War 11 the majority of college students attended the so-called private institutions , today something like three-fourths of all college students are in state-controlled , tax-supported institutions . That trend in enrollments continues , as well as the trend to expand the state tax-supported systems  --  even as the empty places on already established private campuses rose , in 1972 , to more than 100,000 . The reasons for the education boom and for campus expansion are pretty obvious : The flood of babies born in the 1940 's and 1950 's , the unparalleled prosperity of the postwar era , the shrinkage of job opportunities for those with no more than a high school education  --  plus a growing equalitarian view that something akin to college isrightfully due every warm-bodied eighteen-yearold . Only institutions with ready access to the tax dollars of the nation could have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take on such a tidal wave of students as to make possible the doubling of college enrollments in ten years . Many private colleges and universities did expand , but they could n't begin to cope with their " fair share " of the enrollment increase . They did n't have the money  --  nor could they get it.Just to keep going , they have had to increase their charges to students annually , sometimes in jumps of several hundred dollars per year , and to redouble their fund-raising efforts . With state institutions determined to keep their charges low , and able to get ever-larger subsidies from the state governments , the gap between tuition at state institutions and the independent colleges has grown wider and wider . Even with the great increases in their tuition income and a substantial growth in gifts and endowment income , the independent and church-related colleges have incurred deficits never believed possible before  --  and which can not be borne for long . In New York City , the two major private universities , Columbia and N.Y.U. , have each had recent operating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many of the prestigious and well-endowed smaller colleges have experienced annual operating deficits of more than $200,000 ? some even higher than that . About one-third of all private institutions have incurred deficits* once or several times , in the past five years . A recent study sponsored by the Association of American Colleges estimates that " the total deficit experienced by all of private higher education over .. four years .. would be near $370 million . " Despite the grim financial problems they have been facing , relatively few private colleges have actually gone out of business : among them Monticello in Illinois , Upland in California , Mackinac in Michigan , Canterbury in Indiana . Some have transferred themselves from the hands of church bodies and private boards to tax-supported state systems . The University of Kansas City , once a Methodist institution , became the Kansas City branch of the University of Missouri . The University of Buffalo , in similar manner , became a part of SUN ? , the sprawling complex of thirty-odd campuses now known as the State University of New York . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advertised its willingness to rename itself for any donor who would contribute $5 million . Colorado Women 's College in Denver did rechristen itself Temple Buell College in honor of a land developer who made a gift of properties estimated to be worth more than twenty millions . Rose Polytechnic Institute in Indiana hyphenated its name to become Rose-Hulman , after gifts totalling approximately $16 million from Terre Haute industrialist Anton Hulman , who owns the Indianapolis Speedway . Many another college would no doubt gladly rename itself in gratitude for major gifts , but this route to financial stability is not open to many , and may provide no long-term security for any . As the crunch on the private institutions has become more severe , their friends in state legislatures and in the Congress have turned to a variety of devices for funneling some public funds to the independent and church-related colleges . Despite the alarms that these moves have set off  --  particularly with respect to fears of violating the separation of church and state doctrine  --  the federal government , through the National Science Foundation , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Office of Education , has released many hundreds of millions of dollars to the private institutions  --  within those same guidelines that apply to grants to the state universities . Much of this federal aid to higher education in recent years has been earmarked for research  --  often for research in which some government agency has a vital and immediate interest . This , of course , has been particularly true of weapons and communications projects for the Defense Department and the space exploration projects for NASA . Such highly specialized research grants naturally underwrite salaries and equipment for some professors and some departments , primarily at fewer than 100 institutions , however . These huge research grants , it must be emphasized , have done little to give support to the basic educational programs of even the few major grant-receiving institutions . Most of the private colleges have had none of this money anyway . ( Incidentally , it is these projects which have been the target of activist student protesters at such campuses as Stanford , M.I.T. , Chicago , and Harvard , as well as at Wisconsin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The kind of federal aid made available to the largest number of colleges has been in the form of assistance for low-income students : Economic Opportunity grants , Work-Study grants , federally guaranteed loans . These programs have undoubtedly made college possible for a considerable number of impoverished young people . They have also helped to diversify student bodies everyTHE // where , to increase substantially the number of blacks and Chicanos attending post-high-school institutions , but they have not , up to now , solved any of the colleges ' financial problems . On the contrary , many a private college has found itself , through accepting the federal assistance programs , in a situation not unlike that of a family on relief that adopts orphans . Most , if not all , of the new federally aided , low-income students private colleges have admitted up to now , have had to be provided with still more financial aid from private sources , thus increasing the burdens on the already overextended private-college budgets . New federal legislation proposes to correct the ironically unfair formula for allocating this assistance , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever be able to break even on their disadvantaged students whom the government , as a matter of national policy , has pledged to help and urged the colleges to accept . Another major form of federal assistance to colleges has been for the purpose of financing building programs particularly through self-amortizing , low-interest loans for the construction of dormitories and food-service buildings . There have also been loans and some partial-cost grants for libraries , classroom and laboratory buildings . This has given important help to the private colleges as they have undertaken to enlarge their student bodies , and has cost the federal government vast sums of money . But , here again , this kind of help has simply added to the operating costs of the colleges thus " assisted . " During the past five years various states have also passed laws intended to assist their private colleges . The most common form of this assistance is a state scholarship program , a plan under which students with both good grades and financial need could receive , through competitive screening , grants of up to approximately $1,500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specify that the grant must be used to attend a non-tax-supported institution within the state , on the grounds that taxpayers have already provided a large subsidy for every student who attends a state university or college . However , a few plans enable the student to use his grant to attend either public or private institutions . This approach can result in giving substantially more assistance to the already heavily subsidized state university students than to those who attend private college , whom it was intended to help . This is the case in Indiana . To the scholarship programs , some states  --  notably Illinois and New York  --  have added " tuition equalization grants . " These are designed to enable any student with financial need to receive assistance , regardless of academic standing , so long as some college grants admission . This plan appears to have the possibility for good long-term benefits for the independent and church-related institutions , if generally adopted and adequately funded , but so far it has n't been widely accepted . Most such scholarship and tuition-equalization schemes provide assistance only for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York and New Jersey , however , have allowed their residents to spend tuition grants at any accredited institution in any state . Sooner or later , pressures will probably develop for some sort of reciprocal arrangement among the states on the handling of these grants , but so far it has not happened . In summary , it must be reported that , up to now , neither federal nor state government efforts to " save " the private colleges have made much difference in their critical budgetary situations . Despite some impassioned rhetoric , the survival of the independent and church-related colleges has not been taken very seriously . And time is fast running out . At the heart of the issue is the vast spread , confusing and illogical , in the pricing of a college education and the total lack of any consistency as to what students and what institutions receive tax support . Even a millionaire 's child may receive a first-rate university education virtually without cost at some state and city universities , particularly in New York and California  --  and many do . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typical state university indicates that each student in effect receives a tuition grant of at least $1,500 per year -- even if he pays the full amount of the tuition and fees charged . In contrast with this situation , a typical student at a private college today may have to pay as much as $3,000 in tuition and fees . This has meant that increasingly the private colleges have lost much of their middle- and lower-middle-income student prospects to the state institutions . Their student bodies tend to be made up of young people from the economic extremes : the sons and daughters of the rich who can pay whatever they arc charged and the very poor whose education is subsidized by state and federal assistance programs , low-interest loans and private contributions often including a portion of the tuilion payments of the more affluent students . Thanks to these assorted forms of aid , many private colleges will have students whose average family income will be lower than the income average at some of the state universities . In their efforts to avoid becoming schools of rich men 's children , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor that they are now giving financial aid to more than half of their students , thus gravely compounding their budgetary difficulties . If full funding could be provided to the lowest-income students congressmen and state legislators say they most want to help , much of the burden on private-college budgets could be lifted . At the heart of the whole problem is this simple unresolved question : Who should pay for higher education  --  the student and his parents or the taxpayers ? Both nationally and in the various states Americans give very unclear answers . In practice , the answer is " both , " but the formula for dividing the burden is argued over endlessly . Many countries have no such dilemma . After stiffly competitive examinations , those who qualify for admission pay virtually no fees ; in the Soviet bloc countries university students get full tuition , room and board , in addition to a small living allowance . The old and distinguished City College of New York , now part of City University of New York , for years provided virtually free higher education to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ California , prior to the administration of Governor Reagan , prided itself on its policy of free tuition ( though there were appreciable fees ) for California residents . Most of the other public institutions of higher learning around the nation have long assessed tuition and fees , and their room and board charges have often been higher than those paid at the private colleges . However , the tuition scale at state institutions is set so low as to cover , typically , only about one-fourth of actual educational costs . Those who attend private colleges now pay , typically , about three-fourths of the educational costs . Is there a rational justification for the discrepancy in what a student pays for his education at say Beloit , Grinnell , or Pomona and what he would pay if he went to Wisconsin , Iowa or California ? Yes , answer the spokesmen for the state systems : first , family ability to pay ? the state institutions must take care of all students regardless of economic status , whereas the private colleges cater to the rich who can pay whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the private colleges . The average incomes of the families of undergraduate students at the University of California in Berkeley and the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor have long been higher than the average family income at most private colleges . Far from being institutions for the poor , state universities , particularly those that have academically selective admissions standards , inevitably draw largely from the middle-income group and above , just as do the more elitist private colleges . Moreover , a state university  --  if not located in a metropolitan area and hence not possessing a large number of students who save money by living at home ? poses a cost problem for the very poor student , even if the tuition is low . Furthermore , argue the private-college spokesmen , most of the independent and church-related colleges have had a sense of social mission that has compelled them to assume all kinds of burdens to provide educational opportunities for the disadvantaged . In the recruiting of seriously impoverished students , there are several private colleges that have enrolled a higher percentage of disadvantaged black students than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respective states . State university officials sometimes suggest unsympathetically that the private colleges have financial problems because of their " inefficiency " ? because most of them have remained too small and have too high a ratio of teachers to students . This overlooks the fact that the biggest private institutions have the largest deficits . This is demonstrably a case of the pot calling the kettle black , for the truth is that most colleges and universities , public and pri ? vate , large and small , are remarkably inefficient . Few of them , perhaps , as catastrophically inefficient as the Penn-Central Railroad , or the city government of New York , but pretty inefficient . The most glaring inefficiencies in higher education today are at the graduate-school level . Not only is graduate education expensive at best , but state pride , institutional competitiveness , outmoded traditionalism in both teaching and research , and naive planning have produced a financial nightmare . So long as state legislatures and such federal agencies as the Defense Department , NASA , the Institutes of Health , the National Science Foundation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on increasing the flow of funds , the graduate programs boomed . Every state teacher-training normal school wanted to become a state college of arts and sciences  --  and did . Then most of them wanted to become state universities  --  and did . Becoming state universities , they felt they had to develop more and more Ph.D . programs and did , The already well-established universities wanted to enlarge and improve their graduate schools  --  and did . For a few glorious years it seemed as if there would never be an end to this boom , with high-paying jobs for all the Ph.D . ' s turned out , particularly for those in the natural sciences . Now all that has changed . Officials of HEW warn that there are too many students in graduate school and too many graduate programs . A top university administrator-economist calculates that the graduate-study establishment is already " overbuilt " by between 30 and 50 percent in terms of our foreseeable national needs , yet in many state institutions the expansion is continuing . In terms of job placement , as recently as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the natural sciences could readily find a college teaching position . Moreover , there were a few heady years when the newly trained physicists were in such short supply with NASA trying to hire as many physicists as all the Ph.D . ' s in physics turned out by all the graduate schools in the country ) that these particular scientists had an ample choice of jobs at high starting salaries . Now , physics Ph.D . ' s are a drug on the market ? and so are chemists , biologists , historians , and English teachers . By 1980 it is estimated that only one new Ph.D . in ten will be able to find a college or university teaching position  --  the goal of most of them . This sad story of the continuing overexpansion of graduate education is not only a story of inefficiency in the use of scarce financialresources , it is also the sad story of mistaken , misdirected and outmoded goals for higher education . However , the big graduate universities do not deserve all the blame . The small , undergraduate private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ph.D . as the goal for their students . " Prep-schools for graduate school , " they sometimes called themselves . The traditional departmental structure of practically all educational institutions encourages this . Moreover , the excessive concern with pecking-order status on some imaginary ladder of " academic excellence " tended to reinforce and perpetuate the obsession with graduate education . Most teachers , most departments , most colleges tended to judge their own success by the percentage of their students who went through graduate school , by the number of Ph.D . ' s they helped to produce . Let it he quickly said that graduate study and research and scholarly publications are essential for the health and progress of our whole society . The new knowledge that constantly , if laboriously , emerges from the **27;3320;TOOLONG enterprise will continue to be vital for man 's future , Such an enterprise is expensive and must be adequately funded  --  and nobody can predict very long in advance if or when or how much an investment in these endeavors will pay off . It is short-sighted and foolish to indulge in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes launch against professors , researchers , and writers . Moreover , it is a gross oversimplification to say , as some only half-informed critics of higher education do say , that the problem is a choice between support of real teaching or " publish-or-perish " pressures against teaching . Research , properly used , can be a great stimulus to the best teaching . And some of the so-called " dedicated , pure " teachers have long since gone to seed . Good research and good teaching are both essential  --  and , unfortunately , there is not enough of either . What we have to come back to is the question of priorities and the question of a comprehensively adequate set of goals for higher education . In the answering of those questions the independent colleges and universities have important roles to play . Their greatest strengths may well be connected to their relative freedom from the pressures of politics and educational traditionalism and to their desperate financial situation , It just might he that there will never be enough government funds made available to " save " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to save themselves . Many of the independent colleges and universities , I believe , will save themselves , will emerge from this period of financial crisis stronger and more effective institutions . This will almost surely have to be brought about through the development and application of new educational and managerial ideas . Above all , each institution should define its purposes , its program , its mission in terms of its own deliberate choices and not on the basis of past tradition or present fashion , or some theoretical norm of " academic excellence . " For my own college and others I offer the following agenda of ideas , old and new , that need to be ex-plored : I. Work-study programs Building upon the experience of the so-called co-op programs of many engineering schools and other institutions such as Antioch and Northeastern , and the experience of " practice teaching " for education students , programs of **25;3349;TOOLONG should be developed for all academic fields . Learning by doing is an old clich ? ; it happens to work . Also , as a means toward motivation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proven to be of solid worth . 2 . Year-round operations There is no reason why colleges should , for the most part , continue to follow the seasonal pattern laid down in a bygone agriculture era when young people were needed in the fields in summer . Many institutions have summer sessions , but often they are operated half-heartedly , with meager programs and limited enrollments. and many colleges have no summer session at all . If work projects are really to he integrated into the college curriculum , the full year 's calendar should be utilized . Three-year to six-year degrees There is nothing sacred about a four-year baccalaureate degree . Many of the brighter students now enter college with so many " advanced placement " college-level courses completed in high school that they can , with no great difficulty , start out with sophomore standing . Moreover , by using the entire calendar year for the college program , even with some work project , an average student should be able to earn his undergraduate degree in three years . While three years , I believe , should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a great variety of personal reasons related to temperament . motivation and other circumstances- should have the freedom to stretch out their undergraduate work over four , five or six years . 4 . Departmental reform Everybody knows that knowledge and learning experiences can not be contained in neat departmental boxes , yet the mythic power of the individual academic disciplines is one of the strongest forces in academia . New patterns for " packaging " fields of concentration need to be developed  --  and in some colleges are being developed . Environmental studies , peace and conflict studies , human relations-these are just as legitimate as organizing themes for a course or for a major as those to be found in the traditional disciplines of geology , history , and sociology . Much of the most exciting research and teaching being done today involves two or more specialists from two or more departments who work together in the overlap areas where their fields meet . That reality ought to govern much more widely than is the case the way students at both the graduate and undergraduate levels organize their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too important to be left entirely to the generals , as a military historian once said , education is too important to be left entirely to the professors . Every college ought to have on its staff each year a substantial group of " adjunct professors , " on assignments of from a week to a whole year , drawn from government , now and I 'm certainly not going to argue with it . The fact of Landry calling the plays could be called security , in a sense . But it is not something I am seeking . Landry is a brilliant coach and the thing is if you want someone to call plays for you you 'd prefer him . By instinct , I like to do some things against the grain , gambling type of things , that he probably would n't ordinarily call from the bench . I have a tendency to act more on my own and not rely on someone else in any given situation . I think it is an important function of a quarterback to call plays and I have the intelligence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own against-t he-grain characteristics . But we have a winning combination right now , and we should let things go as they are . If 1 were to call all of the plays , it might not be as balanced an attack as we have now . Landry 's strategy stabilizes us . In our attack we may sometimes have more actual plays than the other team . Now a lot of teams may have the same number of actual plays that we have  --  but we can run those plays from a wide variety of formations . This requires that you have the knowledge and a complete feel for the play to put a certain formation together . We try not to overdo the offensive variety . We limit the different formations on a given play from game to game , That way we can change around from week to week with the same basic plays and give the team a different look each week . Back there in the pocket , a quarterback is just thankful that he has a lot of guys up in front blocking . With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a very good football team . I think there are a lot of quarterbacks that could be successful with the Cowboys . The only way we quarterbacks could be really compared would be to put us on a team that is the least successful and see who could win the most games . 1would like to compete that way . That is just part of the game , those guys coming at you . When you 're in the open field and those linebackers are after you , then it gets a little bit hairy , because those guys are fast  --  so those are the ones I really keep my eye out for when I 'm running . As far as staying in the pocket , and maybe getting hit , those are just the hazards of the trade . Passing , of course , is the big weapon , and I could just sit back and throw the ball 70 yards for fun , but in a game you do n't have time to throw the ball that far for one thing . I like the medium-type passes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will be in the air about 30 yards , but only about 15 to 20 yards beyond the line of scrimmage . Of course , I like to throw the deep pass too . It is the type of pass you have to work on a lot and with all the zone defenses you do n't get a chance to throw it that much . But in practice I do like to just lay the ball up front . You can always see the guys you are passing to . You may lose sight on the deep passes , momentarily , but you can always find your receiver if you look . In terms of general management , say , as compared to baseball , I think the league is well run overall . It is a give-and-take affair . The decisions that are made in the next few years between professional football teams and owners are going to be critical . Anytime there is big money involved in the game , greed gets the best of people . I think everyone has to understand the situation . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Every time publicity comes out in the paper it is not always going to come out right . Things I have read anyway , as opposed to the facts . What is in the paper the public sees . They do n't know if it is right or not ; it 's just what they read . Pro football is just getting so big , but you know it still has to be a game . Greed will kill you . In my case , Ithink I have signed a fair contract . It is tough to judge the relationships between owners and players . You reach a point of where fair is fair and then you have to live with it . Looking at it from a quarterback 's eyes  --  if we do n't move the football this season I 'm going to be responsible , but when we are successful and win a Super Bowl , the quarterback gets the glory . And the money . Chuck Howley , Mel Renfro  --  I 'll bet these guys have n't had a chance , in the off season , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these guys are old pros . So here I am hitting every source in the world to make extra money . So I look at quarterback as a more rewarding position . These other guys have been tremendous athletes for years and yet when they get in to talk about contracts it just is extra critical for them . This off season I have had speaking engagements all over . I could be speaking every day , twice a day , as far as requests have come in . The toughest thing for me this off season has been to program my time and energies . I have made some very good money , but I have also given over a tot of my time for free to causes I believe in , youth groups and things . My biggest thing is Fellowship for Christian Athletics . I 'm very active in that . I have been involved only sparingly in the FCA until now . 1 started in the Naval Academy , and then continued in the service . Since I have been with the Cowboys , I have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my time not just for myself or trying to make money . I have basic beliefs and thoughts and it is very important to me that my time should be used not just for myself and not just for my family . This is one of the areas that I have tried to give some money and time to . FCA is an organization that is involved with young people . It also has adult chapters but it is mainly high school huddle groups . It has seventeen national conferences and I am going to head up one at the Naval Academy for six days . It is going to be recreational , plus physical and spiritual and learning how to be a young man with a belief in God and his son Jesus Christ . The FCA feels that they can communicate this concept through professional college and high school athletics . The FCA has been criticized for using only athletes , but we feel that it is just the way that you can really get to the kids . You ca n't just be all-encompassing . It is only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young high school kids . Their lives have been changed through FCA . There are thousands and thousands of kids that are the heart of the FCA . They will be freshmen through seniors in high school mainly .                     