@@494895

The Civilized Countries v. a UN Majority Barbarous Parliament by Paul Johnson The recent votes at the United Nations ? first in the UN Social , Humanitarian and Cultural Committee , more recently in the General Assembly ? that sought to stigmatize Zionism as a racist ideology , and Israel as a racist and imperialist state ? have at least served one useful purpose . The voting lists enable us to draw a clear and decisive line between the civilized and the noncivilized states that compose the world organization . It is true that some civilized states , for a variety of political , military and economic reasons , lacked the courage to vote " no " and took refuge in abstention ? just as , for instance , in the Second World War , Sweden and Switzerland were too terrified of Hitler to declare themselves against him . In general , however , the head-count of nations was wholly accurate and casts a penetrating beam of light across the world political landscape . On Israel 's side Paul Johnson is the former editor ( 19b5-1970 ) of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repositories of civilized culture : states ? including it should be clear Third World states ? that uphold and support the rule of law ; where there is freedom of the press , speech and public assembly ; where representative parliaments are freely elected by secret ballot , in a multi-party system ; where governments are dismissed by votes , not force ; where the armed forces are the servants of the civil power , not its masters ; and where the citizen feels that he can play some part in running his country . Voting against Israel , using all the resources of the massive doublespeak and non-think vernacular , was the entire alliance of the barbarous states , what can accurately be called a raltlie11100111 of powers . Here were to be found Soviet Russia , the world 's most efficient tyranny , and its dutiful cohort of East European colonies : nations , once civilized , held in abject subservience by political police and their concentration camps , backed by the threat of Soviet tanks and missiles . And here , too , was the Arab-Moslem bloc : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or feudal monarchies of unspeakable degradation ? the one exception , Lebanon , torn to bloody pieces by uncontrollable civil war . Joining these two foci of barbarism were a multitude of new recruits from Africa and Asia : former colonies ruthlessly turned into Soviet-or China-style one-party regimes , with a full panoply of secret police , torture-dungeons , camps , execution-centers and mass , unmarked burial-grounds ; or , alternatively , those which had quickly degenerated into pre-colonial tribal kingdoms , ruled by savages , jovial or brutal according to their mood , exercising arbitrary justice over a terrified populace . Consider some of the outstanding figures in this motley coalition of antidemocratic regimes , who took it upon themselves to condemn Israel as racist and imperialist . Leonid Brezhnev , for instance , the party machine-boss who personally directed the occupation of civilized Czechoslovakia by Soviet tanks , and who had its legal premier , Dublek , dragged before him like a recaptured slave in an oriental despotism , to listen to his jeers and insults . Or Gaddafi , the military dictator of Libya , whose delight in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both Protestant and Catholic factions in Ulster . Or , perhaps most notable of all , " Field Marshal " Amin of Uganda , the ferocious ? . perhaps demented ? former sergeant , whose tribal warriors have slaughtered many thousands of his compatriots , and who himself is said to have supervised the beating to death of the Uganda Lord Chief Justice for daring to defy his edicts in court . Amin , though feared by some African leaders , indeed disdained by the best of them , is not without honor in his own continent , since he was recently elected chairman of the Organization of African Unity , and presided uproariously over their weird festivities in Kampala . What made the condemnation of Israel by this confederation so uniquely gruesome was that , with few exceptions , all practice blatant forms of racist or collective inhumanity . Soviet anti-Semitism , masquerading as anti-Zionism , is notorious ; but the central Soviet state systematically persecutes more than a score of minority groups in its vast empire , solely on grounds of race . Iraq , often the raucous leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the utmost callousness and brutality , more than 300,000 Kurds , whose only crime against the dominant Arab race was their ethnic origins and ancient culture . Nor must we forget ? it is too often forgotten ? that the Arab states collectively , from Morocco to Iraq ? have dispossessed , over the past 20 years , more than 500,000 Jews , from enclaves in which they have lived often for nearly two millenia , since before the Arabs came . These half-million victims of Arab racist persecution , perhaps more numerous , if the truth could be finally established , than the Palestinian Arabs allegedly " forced out " during the struggles of 1947-8 , have all been quietly and successfully absorbed in the Israeli state , without the need for appeals to international money and sympathy . As for the African states that so glibly lined themselves against Israeli " racism , " it is hard to think of one that does not practice forms of mass discrimination . Some have expelled or persecuted white and Indian minorities , stealing their property , as Hitler once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the rank of second-class citizens . In other states , such as the Sudan ? once , under the Anglo-Egyptian condominium , a multiracial society where all were equal before the law ? the dominant Arab element has persecuted the blacks of the Upper Nile , has murdered them in their thousands using modern jet aircraft supplied by the Soviet Union , and still subjects them to a variety of legal and administrative disabilities . This is a common pattern in African states where Arabs have the upper hand ? as , indeed , they had in the 19th century , until Britain and then France destroyed African slavery . More common , more insidious and usually still more cruel and reprehensible , is the intertribal persecution that is the hallmark of many African states , especially in central Africa . The existence of tribal paramountcies , with the consequent racist bullying of weaker or less well armed tribes , is known to UN officials ; but such facts are not allowed to rob the strutting representatives of these states at the UN of the right to cast their votes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way the UN works . Nor are these varieties of racism confined to Africa . In Indonesia , for instance , and to some extent in other Asian states , there has been , for many years , systematic racist persecution of the Chinese trading communities . Even in imperial times the Chinese sometimes faced trouble in these parts ; in Dutch territories , they were discriminated against by law . But their position today is in all respects infinitely worse ; for they are subject to sudden and unpredictable pogroms , in which their lives are taken and property confiscated ? without the possibility of recourse to the courts ? just as , in Tsarist times , the Russian Jews were at the mercy of marauding Cossack bands . Such Chinese minorities are tolerated , if at all , solely because the internal economies of these ill-administered countries simply can not function without a measure of Chinese skill and industry . Finally let us not forget that the worst form of racism is slavery itself , invariably practiced against the most defenseless and primitive African communities . The one remaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the Arab Middle East ; and the chief offender in this area is Saudi Arabia , richest of all the oil states , paymaster of Arab aggression and terrorism against Israel , ringleader of the movement to brand Israel as racist , and whose UN representative , the unctuous Mr. Baroodi , sets the record , even by United Nations standards , for humbugging hypocrisy . So much for the UN votes against Israel . They can carry no weight whatsoever . They have no effectiveness . As I say , they even have the merit of demonstrating that the civilized world has aligned itself with Israel 's right to independence and freedom . Yet they can not be ignored either , for in some respects they demonstrate a marked and perhaps irreversible declension in the moral authority and practical effectivenessof the United Nations . History may come to see them , as for instance it now sees the Nazi reoccupation and militarization of the Rhineland , as a watershed in the political landscape , a point from which there could be no return to the past . For Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was UN recognition , almost as much as the struggles of the Palestine Jews themselves , that brought the Israeli state into being . Indeed , without UN endorsement and moral and political support , it is at least arguable that the Zionist state might not have survived . Israel could be termed the first born of the United Nations , the first former colonial state brought into fully independent existence within the context of the UN concept of international law . Or , to vary the metaphor , if the UN can not claim to be the father of Israel , it has a case for claiming to be the midwife . Moreover , and even more important , the creation of Israel , and its recognition by the UN , set the pattern for post-colonial development . Israel was the prototype for many scores of new states , brought into being with UN encouragement and moral support , and rapidly granted the membership and privileges of the organization . Israel 's part in this continuing process has been by no means passive . No other state , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has tried to do more to assist the new countries of the Third World , both in the preparatory period before independence , and in the difficult years of autonomous existence . Israel has always been conscious of its anti-colonial and post-colonial origins , and has felt a special sympathy ? demonstrated in practical terms ? for those undergoing the same process of self-creation . Israel has also tried to help the new states in what ought to be the most effective manner : by example . There are a great many things wrong with Israel , as the Israelis ? surely the most self-critical people on earth ? are the first to point out . But on all the things that really matter , it is a model to any neophyte country . Despite all Israel 's troubles , it has remained a social democracy , perhaps the nearest approach to a free Socialist state in the world ; its people and government have a profound respect for human life , so passionate indeed that , despite every conceivable provocation , they have refused for a quarter of a century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ takes greater pains to avoid the civilian populace in warfare . They also have an ancient but vigorous culture , and a flourishing modern technology . The combination of national qualities they have assembled in their brief existence as a state ought to point the way for many other new members of the UN . There is a third manner in which Israel and the UN have , or ought to have , a special relationship , which arises not only from Israel 's origins , but from the UN 's own . For the organization came into being not as a world assembly but as an alliance of free states against the Hitlerian tyranny . As such , it was flawed from the start , since the sheer necessity of survival forced the Western democracies into a military pact with the Soviet Union based on nothing more morally substantial than Refilpolitik . All the same , the fact remains that the UN , initially a British concept , came into existence as an instrument for fighting the racist terror of Hitler . It was , within its limitations , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Hitlerism were to be seen as entitled to its special regard and protection . Hitler was a racist aggressor of unparalleled ferocity . He killed five percent of the population of Poland ; more than 10 percent of the varied peoples of Yugoslavia . But in the case of the Jews , he killed more than one in three of their total global population . For this reason , if for this reason alone , the Jews have a historical and moral right , above that of any other people , to enlist the support and sustenance of the UN both as an institution and a collection of nations . And it was this historical and moral right , I think , that undoubtedly played a part in giving the new state of Israel the rapid recognition that helped it to survive . In view of all these reasons , we can now grasp the full moral enormity of the votes against Israel . They amount not merely to a blatant defiance of truth and reality ? for all know that Israel , far from being " a threat to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by its neighbors ? but to a complete and total repudiation of the UN past . Everything for which the UN was originally created , everything for which , at its best , it has stood in the years of its existence , was denied by these barbarous majorities . The UN building still glitters above the East River . Its officials and delegates still scurry about in varying postures of self-importance . But the truth is , at the moment when the General Assembly branded Israel as a racist state , the organization lost its ethical heart , and its moral justification for existing at all . Flow Hitler would have laughed ! How Stalin , permitting himself one of his rare and Arctic smiles , would have rubbed his hands ! These two monsters would have joined in self-congratulation that the instrument of international probity should prove so vulnerable to assault , and so easy to capture by men like themselves . The UN fell to a fatal combination of two forces : Soviet diplomacy and Arab oil money . Neither , in itself , was powerful enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet empire the last , now that the Portuguese has gone , of the great 19thcentury style empires ? are considerable , taken in conjunction with the fact that it can control the votes of certain client states it arms or those it effectively occupies . Yet Russia alone has never been able to swing more than a third of the General Assembly behind itself . The alliance with the Arabs did the trick . For since the Yom Kippur war , and the revolution in oil prices , the Arab states can , in effect , purchase the votes of a score of countries , and the silence ( or abstention ) of a dozen more . Oil has proved the great corrupter of the human race . There is a passage in Golda Meir 's recent autobiography that struck me as symptomatic of our age . She attended the meeting of the Socialist International following the Yom Kippur war , during which several states with Socialist governments had taken deliberate steps that might have led to the total defeat of the Israeli forces , and the consequent destruction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? some of them prime ministers ? whether such behavior toward a fellow-Socialist state was justifiable . No one answered . Then , she relates , someone behind her said : " Of course they ca n't talk . Their throats are choked with oil . " The UN itself is choked with oil . Though it does not even pay its share of costs for Palestine refugees ? the US bears the burden here as in everything else at the UN ? Arab oil money has turned the organization into one of the most corrupt and corrupting creations in the whole history of human institutions . The decisive moment came , 1 believe , when it agreed to provide a form of recognition to Yasir Arafat and his terrorist organization . At this point the UN , by its own action , repudiated its primal principle that disputes should be settled by negotiations and not by force . The PLO gets the point , too : every indication of international sanction has been followed by some death-happening at terrorist hands . For the Arafat organization , and its backers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe in negotiations ; they put their entire trust in force . Arafat 's gang has no mode of operation other than the exercise of violence , usually against the innocent and defenseless . Recently Arafat 's so-called " foreign minister " made the objects , intentions and methods of his organization brutally clear in an interview with Newsweek . Much of what he said , of course , was merely the violent rodomontade of a racist street-corner orator : " Any Arab state is more democratic than Israel by definition . . . Even Saudi Arabia . " But much of what he said has to be taken as a serious statement of intentions that will actually be carried out if he and his colleagues and backers ever get the chance . He flatly denied the right of the Israeli people to have a state of their own , irrespective of any frontier concessions : " In time they will have to accept it . " " We have , " he said , " no alternative but to fight and you can expect we will escalate our activities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fond of it . " He offered the Israelis the alternative of total political surrender , or a war to destruction : " If they choose the latter , they will surely die and we will surely win . " And he concluded with a boast : " We grow stronger every day . My Arabs are getting billions of petroleum dollars . The future is mine , so why should I worry ? " " The future is ours " was a favorite expression of Hitler 's when he spoke to the German people . His future ended in a burning bunker below the burning streets of his capital . Where will Mr. Arafat 's future end ? Or , a much more important question , what future is there for the United Nations itself ? There are already a growing number of people in the West , especially in the United States , who wish to withdraw from the UN entirely . The whole squalid circus would then be sent packing from New York and , with the withdrawal of US financial support , the organization would rapidly become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Soviet-Arab rump , devoid even of the pretense of world authority . This is one possible solution , and we may well come to it . On the other hand , there are those who argue that the UN still has useful services to perform , and that its moral imperfections are by no means so incurable as is often supposed . They claim , with circumstantial detail , that the two votes against Israel were lost , at least in part , through the ineptitude of Western diplomacy within the building , and in particular by the unskillfulness of the US delegation . We have , of course , heard this argument before . More to the point is that Ambassador Moynihan insists on speaking truth , which is a rare occurrence ? and it does not please his superiors , who are themselves tilting toward the terrorists , now casually relabeled " moderates . " But there is one factor in the situation that is itself an indictment of the UN : the unwillingness of first-rate Western diplomats to serve , at any rate for long , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambiance of cynical horsetrading and actual financial corruption . My own instinct , at this stage , is to advise a middle course . Certain UN agencies , especially the World Health Organization and the Food and Agricultural Organization , should be strongly supported ; they do work that is always useful , and often indispensable ( it is characteristic of the Soviet government , which regularly comes with its grain begging-bowl to the United States , Canada and Australia , that it refuses to have anything to do with the FAO ? one reason the body functions so effectively ) . On the other hand support should be immediately withdrawn from UNESCO , an agency whose value has always been dubious ( I write as a former member of the British Commission for UNESCO ) and which has now , in effect , been captured by a combination of Arab oil cash and Communist-Marxist diplomacy . At the UN itself , the Western democracies should retain a watching brief . They must continue to block further Communist-Arab attempts to debauch the organization , but they must be prepared , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will ? to leave altogether . In the meantime there is a case for preparing an alternative organization of civilized nations , which will impose clear and compulsory qualifications for membership : respect for the rule of law , both national and international ; democratic institutions that function effectively ; freedom of speech , religion and the press ; and equality of all races and creeds before the law . I do not think problems of definition will prove too obdurate . We all know a free and civilized country when we see and visit it . Such an organization would be a beacon of light to oppressed and fearful people all over the world . It would be , in the first place , a defensive organization , designed to protect its peoples from the scourge of international terrorism , now , in my opinion , a greater threat to the peace and future of the world than the risk of thermonuclear war , or the supposed depletion of our natural resources . For terrorism has become the reflex outlet of just about every grievance , great or small , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But I do not think such a league of civilized powers should be content with a role of passive defense . I recall a noble passage spoken by W.E . Gladstone in 1881 , when the gunmen were first getting their deathly grip on Ireland : " If it shall appear that there is still to be fought a final conflict in Ireland between law on the one side and sheer lawlessness on the other . . . then I say , gentlemen , without hesitation , the resources of civilization against its enemies are not yet exhausted . " Nor are they exhausted today . It is time for us to remind ourselves that we still have the power , even if we sometimes appear to lack the will , to seize the enemies of civilization by the throat . For too long ? for a quarter of a century , in fact ? Western civilization , even accounting for its considerable cruelties , has behaved toward the rest of the world with an imbecile combination of unnecessary guilt and misplaced generosity . We have given aid and comfort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and violence . We have not won the friendship of the world beyond ; we have simply forfeited its respect . Is n't it odd that the United States , which in Vietnam and Chile could be so brazen in its criminal indecency , should now be so cowardly in hesitating to retrieve the more humane aspects of its tradition ? or for that matter to assert its own deepest interests ? Has not the time come to change our strategy ? I think that there are many millions of people all over the world , men and women of all races and colors and creeds , living under corrupt tyrannies or ferocious police states , who feel somehow that the West has let them down ; that the civilized powers have failed to uphold the standards of international behavior set by their forebears . What these millions are waiting for , and what , needless to say , millions in the West are waiting for , is some positive sign that the Western countries are determined to revert to the principles of law and international decency ; that they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and comprehensive manner . We must show that the resources of civilization are not , indeed , exhausted , and that the Brezhnevs and the Maos , the Amins , the Gaddafis and the Arafats will not be allowed to inherit the earth .                     