@@491389

Population control is a loaded concept . It seems to conjure up different images in the minds of different people . To some the images are of horrors : fetuses killed by abortionists , sterilants put in water supplies by mad scientists , poor families taxed into oblivion for having too many children , minorities threatened with genocide . To others , the images are of salvation . The world in which we live is vastly overpopu  --  lated and we are faced by a wide array of hideous problems-war , racism , food short  --  age . pollution , and so on . People are de  --  structive in many ways , and the more people there are the worse things get . Therefore , the solution is to limit the size of the population . If only there were fewerpeople , our problems would be solved . Obviously , neither of these sets of images is realistic . While it is quite true that there is a major population component in many human problems , and that rapid population growth can prevent us from solving any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trolling the size of the population will auto  --  matically bring on a golden era . For in  --  stance , if the population of the United States were stabilized at its present size while current trends in American behavior continued , a little over 200 million Amer  --  icans would soon exhaust most of Earth 's rich deposits of resources and in the process greatly degrade the life-support capacity of our planet 's ecosystems . In addition , suchproblems as racism , poverty , and inter  --  national aggressiveness would persist , al  --  though they would be somewhat more amenable to solution . On the other hand . the picture of population control as some sort of fiendish plot is hardly accurate either . Draconian measures are not really called for . In theory one might " control " population growth by killing people , just as one might " control " crime by shooting everybody suspected of being a criminal . But there are more humane and socially desirable ways of controlling population growth , just as there are other ways of con  --  trolling criminal behavior . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is wise to ask whether or not it is necessary . If there were no crime , there would be no reason to de  --  vise programs to control criminal behavior . If there are no problems associated with population growth , there is no reason to discuss possible programs of population control . Today , however , no informed person considers population growth in  --  nocuous . It is true that some people and even some " scientists " can be found who will derogate the population problem . But one can still find people and even " scien  --  tists " who think the world is flat or who attempt to guide their lives by astrology . In the last several years , science has moved from the stage of generalized concern over population growth to efforts to influence public policy on the matter . Individual spokesmen have been joined recently by various groups . In 1970 , the Governing Board of the American Institute of Bio  --  logical Sciences released the following statement : WHEREAS , scientific studies have clearly identified as a threat to human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popu  --  lation increase and consequent overpopu  --  lation both in the United States and else  --  where , and WHEREAS , immediate measures must be taken to correct the population growth in the United States ; therefore be it RESOLVED , that it is essential that the Government accelerate its efforts toward implementing all methods of humane birth control at the earliest feasible time . In 1970 also , the report of the Study of Critical Environmental Problems ( SCEP ) . sponsored by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , was published and it called attention to the global nature of various ecological problems and to the population component in them . In 1972 , a group of scientists under the leadership of Dennis and Donella Meadows at MIT published a popular report of their work entitled The Limits of Growth-a document clearly de  --  signed to influence public policy - which emphasized the ways in which population growth is mortgaging the human future . Al  --  most simultaneously , the British journal The Ecologist produced a " Blueprint for Survival , " endorsed by a very distinguished group of thirty-five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward population control . Perhaps most impor  --  tant , in the spring of 1972 the Report of the President 's Commission on Population Growth and the American Future was pub  --  lished . A diverse group of distinguished Americans , including many laymen , had examined the impact of population growth on our lives and its potential impact on the lives of our children and had come to the conclusion that there were no benefits to be gained , and many costs to be incurred , from further increasing the number of Americans . Why is there such unanimity about the need for limiting the numbers of people in the United States and in the world ? The reasons are many and complex , but can be briefly summarized : 1 . The rapid growth of the world popula  --  tion threatens to worsen an already margin  --  al food situation . Although we are not cer  --  tain what factors will limit the amount of food that can be produced , we know that at any given time the supply is finite . At the moment if all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ billion people living on the planet Earth , everyone would have just enough calories and not quite enough high-quality protein . Sincefood is not equitably distributed , many people are overfed while large numbers go hungry . It is estimated that ten to twenty million people die prematurely every year because their diets are inadequate in some respect . For the past twenty years or so , food production has barely kept pace with population growth . This means that the proportion of hungry people has remained more or less constant , but their number has steadily increased . Specialists in food pro  --  duction have expressed grave doubts that even the most strenuous efforts can keep per capita food production at the present inadequate level for more than another twenty to thirty years . Moreover , these estimates take no account of the possibility of a collapse of world fisheries or large-scale crop failures , events which would result in massive famines . 2 . The most serious environmental prob  --  lem facing humanity is the simplification of ecological systems . Complex natural eco  --  logical systems supply many indispensable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintain the quality of the atmosphere , they provide control of most pests , and they constitute a " library " of genetic infor  --  mation which people can draw on to de  --  velop new kinds of crops , antibiotics , vac  --  cines , and so on . The stability of these all-important ecological systems is related to their complexity . Unfortunately , manyhuman activities , particularly agriculture , constitute a serious assault on that com  --  plexity and thus on the life-support sys  --  tems . Thus one result of attempts to pro  --  duce more food for a rapidly growing popu  --  lation could be an inadvertent , large reduc  --  tion in the carrying capacity of the planet for human life . By attempting to feed five billion people in 1984 , we may make it impossible to feed even two billion in the year 2000 ! Many other activities that sup  --  port human populations also reduce eco  --  logical complexity : the clearing of land for dwellings , highways , and factories ; the building of dams ; overfishing ; strip mining ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on ecosystems tend to increase as population grows , and some increase disproportionately ; two million people may do much more than twice as much damage as one million . It must be emphasized that , as long as human activities are seriously damaging the ecological systems of the Earth , the planet is by definition overpopulated . There is some confusion about this among some non-ecologists , who are prone to deny that we are overpopulated on the grounds that damage could be avoided if there were " less affluence " or " better technology . " Unfor  --  tunately for their argument , overpopula  --  tion must be measured in terms of the animals ( or people ) as they exist , not 01 hypothetical animals behaving differently . If a population of rat-eating cats begins to exhaust the supply of rats so that the cats start dying of hunger , then there is an over  --  population of cats . The possibility that the cats might all be able to survive if some learned to eat squirrels does not alter the fact of overpopulation . Neither would the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had once actually fed on squirrels . Overpopulation exists when the numbers of an animal increase until its population begins to deplete its resources , degrade its environment , or ( in the case of humans ) press on its values . Thus overpopulation can , in theory , be caused or cured without changes in population size . Of course , people are not cats ; pre  --  sumably they can much more readily change their behavior . And it is quite true that appropriate changes in behavior could dramatically reduce the impact of today 's 3.8 billion people on the environment and thus reduce the degree of overpopulation . Indeed it might be possible  --  with redis  --  tribution of wealth and food , less meat-eating , intensive recycling of resources , replacement of automobiles with mass transit , less manufacturing of all kinds , less frivolous use of power and resources  --  to design a world in which 3.8 billion people can live without overpopulation . But we do not at present know enoughabout the system to be sure . The situation is , however , rendered much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , is growing so rapidly that it will double in about thirty-five years , unless some extraordinary event in  --  tervenes . Moreover , stopping population growth can not be accomplished overnight . As Bernard Berelson , President of the Population Council , wrote in 1970 , " . . . if the replacement-sized family is realized for the world as a whole by the end of this cen  --  tury  --  itself an unlikely event  --  the world 's population will then be 60 percent larger or about 5.8 billion , and due to the results of age structure the proportion of people of different ages it will not stop growing un  --  til near the end of the next century , at which time it will be about 8.2 billion , or about 225 percent the present size . If re  --  placement is achieved in the developed world by 2040 , then the world 's popula  --  tion will stabilize at near 15.5 billion about a century hence , or well over four times the present size . " In other words , there is a long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growth by slowing the flow of people into the population  --  that is , by limiting the number of births . Of course there is always that grim alternative , the end of population growth through an acceleration in removal of people from the population  --  an increasein the death rate . Population growth could be stopped in its tracks by worldwide famine , or plague , or thermonuclear war . Worldwide today there are , annually , about thirty-four births per thousand people in the population and only some fourteen deaths . The balance can be restored by lowering the former or by raising the latter ( or some combination of the two ) . Then the size of the population would be stable  --  we would have achieved zero population growth ( ZPG ) . Since no population can grow forever , it is inevitable that the balance will be re  --  stored . We will have ZPG . The only ques  --  tions are when and how . For reasons al  --  ready indicated , I think the time is soon . The question of how remains to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there would be no choice  --  overpopulation ordinarily results in increased death rates , sometimes accompanied by " compulsory " reductions in birthrates . Homo sapiens alone has the option of choosing to limit its population size by voluntarily controlling the birth  --  rate . If it is not exercised soon , however , the option may expire . Assuming this peculiarly human option is to be exercised , how can the population be controlled ? For a long time , the answer of establishment sociologists and demog  --  raphers was : through family planning . The basic idea here was that if people were given the chance to plan their families , to have only the number of children they want , then population growth would be slowed or halted . Family planning has received wide support among intelligent and hu  --  mane people simply because it involves an obvious social good  --  preventing the births of unwanted children . It is mainly the ques  --  tion of the efficacy of family planning as a route to population control that has led to controversy . As Justin Blackwelder suc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' means , among other things , that if we are going to multiply like rabbits , we should do it on purpose . One couple may plan to have three children ; another couple may plan seven . In both cases they are a cause of the population problem- not a solution to it . " What are the sources of faith in family planning as an effective device for limiting population growth ? One is the relatively low birthrates in the developed countries ( DCs ) in contrast to those in underde  --  veloped countries ( UDCs ) . It was in the DCs that the family planning movement originated ; it is in those countries that peo  --  ple today have the widest access to the means of birth control ; ergo , family plan  --  ning leads to low birthrates and , eventually , ZPG . Another source of faith is the belief that people , given the opportunity to choose the size of their families , will make socially responsible decisions , considering not just their own needs , but those of their children and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems with the first view . The fundamental " cause " of the population explosion is a decline in death rates in the human popula  --  tion , a decline which began at the time that agriculture was invented some 10,000 years ago . As living conditions improved with advances in agriculture , industrialization , and the conquest of epidemic disease , the decline in death rates accelerated dramati  --  cally . But there were no significant changes in birthrates , which remained close to their primitively high levels . Then , around 1850 , birthrates in Europe and North America be  --  gan to drop , and continued to drop until the second quarter of the twentieth cen  --  tury , when they levelled off . The family planning movement was in part a result of the changing attitudes toward family size that caused the decline in birthrates . The organizations that grew from it probably directly affected only a minority of people , but their influence in changing restrictive laws and public attitudes toward the prac  --  tice of birth control certainly accelerated the birthrate decline . However , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been sufficient to halt population growth in the DCs . Indeed , demographic data seem to indicate that DC populations will continue to grow at rates which will double them about once per cen  --  tury , on the average , if no steps beyondfamily planning are initiated . There are those , however , who are not worried by this . Some demographers seem to have a mystical belief that birthrates and death rates automatically move from a primitive state of balance where both rates are high to a new state of balance where both are low . This change is called the demographic transition . These individuals believe that birthrates in DCs must fall further  --  that the demographic transition will be " com  --  pleted . " Still other demographers and many family planners see no need for ZPG in the near future , and approve of slow growth . On a much more sophisticated level , demographer Charles Westoff has recently contended that simply eliminating un  --  wanted births might substantially reduce the population growth rate in the United States . This conclusion has been challenged by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her position that the proportion of unwanted births has been greatly reduced since I965 , allowing little room for further decrease in the num  --  ber of unwanted births . Changes in the average age of mothers , widespread use of oral contraceptives , and loosening of abor  --  tion laws in some states are some of the fac  --  tors that have operated to reduce unwanted births . The entire matter is further confused by the recent decline in United States birth  --  rates at a time when more and more women are entering what are normally their " peak " reproductive years . No one can say with certainty why this is occurring . It might be because of improvements in the availability of contraceptives and easier access to abortion . It could be a result of the intensive propaganda efforts of organi  --  zations like ZPG and " population nuts " like me  --  indeed some recent data indicate this could be one factor . But much as I would like to give the credit to the family planners ( or take it myself ! ) I suspect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gested by population biologist K.E.F. Watt of the University of California at Davis . Dr. Watt believes that this dramatic drop is due to the economic difficulties recently en  --  countered by young people attempting to enter the job market . There is intense com  --  petition for positions in the labor force among those just joining it - at the ages just prior to normal peak reproduction . Another possible factor is the rising tide of women 's liberation with its emphasis on nonchildbearing routes to fulfillment . But , in fact , it is not now possible to assign cause to this birthrate drop with certainty  --  all we can do is be pleased and hope it continues . The second assumption of the family planning promoters , that individuals given the opportunity to choose the size of their families will automatically respond to the needs of society , has also been strongly attacked . Recent surveys done in connec  --  tion with the work of the President 's Com  --  mission indicate an increase in social re  --  sponsibility as a factor in childbearing in the United States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propaganda pro  --  gram . In contrast , in other DCs and in UDCs there are few data indeed to indicate that considerations of the problems of overpopulation have any influence on the childbearing decisions of couples . The fac  --  tors which enter into decisions on the num  --  ber of children a couple " wants " are at best only partially understood . It is clear , for instance , that desired family size dropped in Western nations following industrializa  --  tion . A major cause of this trend seems to have been a change in the perceived role of children . In an agricultural society , chil  --  dren tend to be greatly valued for their potential as farm labor  --  they can become economically active at a very early age . They also serve as a form of old-age insur  --  ance in societies which lack social security . Large families provide the best insurance for a surviving son to inherit the farm and support the parents in their old age . In urban industrial societies the pattern tends to be changed . The traditional asso  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unchanging pattern of existence generation after generation . People see both opportunities to better themselves and opportunities for the betterment of their children . Increasing restrictions on child labor make children less and less of an economic asset , while decreased mortality rates reduce the need for large numbers of children to insure a surviving son . More  --  over , savings , pension plans , and govern  --  mental social security programs have re  --  duced the need for sons to support elderly parents . Under such circumstances , people in the late nineteenth and early twentieth cen  --  turies wanted to have fewer children , and indeed had fewer children . They managed to have fewer children long before orga  --  nized family planning became a reality . This , in fact , is not very surprising , since vir  --  tually all people have exercised some con  --  trol over their reproductive activities . In many " primitive " societies , various com  --  binations of contracep tion , abortion , infanti  --  cide , and taboos affect  --  ing sexual relations normally regulate the size of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " baby farming . " It is fair to say , then , that the major element in the world population problem today is not the birth of too many unwanted children , but the birth of too many wanted children . Peo  --  ple are choosing to have more children than is good for the health of human society  --  more children than is good even for the health of those children . There  --  fore one could hardly expect a program em  --  phasizing " freedom of choice " in childbearing to achieve population control . To reach that end society must find ways to influence the family size chosen . Many family plan  --  ning groups now do just that . Within the United States , Planned Parent  --  hood chapters often go far beyond simply mak  --  ing contraceptives available to those who desire them ; they ac  --  tively try to influence desired family size . Es  --  pecially in the western United States , Planned Parenthood groups col  --  laborate with more rad  --  ical organizations such as Zero Population Growth ( ZPG ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reproduction . Outside t he United States , some governmental family planning programs have begun to extend into the area of population control . For instance , the family planning program in India now emphasizes the desirability of the two-child family . The idea of population control is thus acceptable to some individuals , organiza  --  tions , and governments . They accept the necessity for society to influence the re  --  productive activities of its members in order to produce a population size which will permit the continuing health of society . That is the essence of population Continued on page 107 continued from page 104 " Well , why did n't you bring me some ? " " Lordy , Ma Ella , give me a break . " I did n't tell her about them com  --  ing back at night . l figured there was n't any need to . She 'd know bet  --  ter than 1 could tell her . I went back to the store and went to bed . About one a.m . I heard the bulldozers , and about one-thirty r heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remarks as they passed my window . It went on for about a week , and far as I know she never came down out of that tree . They tried injunc  --  tions and conjunctions , and lawyers came out there and doctors  --  head doctors and anything else they could dig up  --  but she stuck on . I did n't go out to the tree because I had to mind the store or Harriett would be pretty sore when she got back , but I sent a little Negro boy out there with food three times a day , and he said that somehow she 'd got a shotgun up in the tree with her . And of course she did n't mind pulling the trigger a couple of times . Ma Ella was more than show . Wilbur and Polly tried to get her down . Wilbur even climbed up the tree , but all he got was the butt of Ma Ella 's shotgun , and the rest of it when he was running away back to the house . Soon they just gave up and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gold pocket watch and chain . Ma Ella never told me ; a pawn broker I know did , " She must be part monkey , " an engineer said who came in to get a Pepsi . " You know her ? " " She 's my great-aunt . " " Well , I do n't mean anything against your kin , but she 's the wild  --  est thing I ever saw , Some of them hold out a day , some two days , a week at most . She 's been up there a month . I caught a little boy today out there , trying to bring her some food . I fixed him though . He thinks she 's a witch . 1 told him she flies around at night then roosts up in that tree by day . " That night I carried the food out , and she said , " Damn boy . " That meant she missed him , wanted him to come hack , but 1 could n't ever find him again . 1 guess the highway people have their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure they were n't coming back . Said she figured they 'd decided to go through Judge Holbrook 's place . I did n't believe that was likely , but Ma Ella seemed satisfied . There was n't anybody up at the house now , but she said it did n't bother her any . She did n't want to say anything against her own flesh and blood , but if it was all right , she 'd just as soon have the tree and herself for company . They 've been back  --  the highway people  --  off and on , but everytime she knows it and gets up in the tree . Of course they 'll get her one day . You ca n't fight progress . n POPULATIO control . Two major problems re  --  main . The first is to convince more individuals , organizations , and gov  --  ernments that action is required . The second is to determine the most humane and least socially disruptive means of achieving population con  --  trol , so that convictions can be con  --  verted to actions . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the population explosion is continu  --  ally growing , and the report of the President 's Commission almost cer  --  tainly foreshadows governmental action within the next few years , Some people will undoubtedly re  --  main adamantly opposed to popula  --  tion control for philosophical , reli  --  gious , or pecuniary reasons , but broad acceptance seems assured . We are fortunate in the United States that only rather minor measures seem required to depress average family size well below the replace  --  ment rate . It is possible that we will be able to halt our growth before the end of the century and perhaps ini hate a gradual decline which , over a period of perhaps a century or two , could greatly alleviate our popula  --  tion-related problems . What sorts of measures would be effective ? It is only guesswork , but I suspect that giving all citizens access to contraceptives and abortions on request , coupled with strong govern  --  mental support of equal rights for women and a small-family ideal will be effective . Accessibility to the means of birth control has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tury , so all that is required is the cul  --  mination of a long trend . The trend to liberalize abortion laws has also been in the right direction , although recently pow erful conservative forces have attempted to force a re  --  turn to the situation where only rich women can have safe abortions . Women 's liberation should , of course , be supported for its own sake ; but as more and more women find fulfillment outside of childbear  --  ing , there probably will be a " bonus " in the form of lower birthrates . The biggest job will be persuading the government to revise its present pro-population growth stance and to initiate a campaign to convince American couples that it is selfish , irresponsible , and unpatriotic to have more than two children . The government should already be doing that , because overbreeding is selfish . irresponsible , and unpatriotic . Suppose for a moment that Americans take the appropriate steps to bring our population size under the rational control of society . What can be done about population growth in the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now occurring in the UDCs ? All too often population con  --  trol is viewed as a plot by rich white people to suppress the poverty-stricken and colored people of the world . And unhappily , in the minds of some members of our society , that is precisely what population control means . It is , therefore , criti  --  cal that population control be achieved in the United States with great care to avoid any overtones of racism or bias against the poor . If the United States can set an example for the world by controlling her population with equity and hu manity , then a major barrier to world population control will be overcome . Once we have started in that direction the stage will be set for an all-out effort to control the popula  --  tion of the Earth before it is too late . The most satisfactory and effective ways of achieving this goal ( beyond ensuring that knowledge and the means of birth control are every  --  where available ) will undoubtedly be different from country to country . But several themes should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old people , finding cre  --  ative roles for women other than childbearing , placing the emphasis on the quality of one 's children rather than their quantity , and di  --  recting societal effort toward im  --  proving the chances for all our chil  --  dren to grow up in a world relatively free of fear and want . What is required is no less than a transformation of the social , political  --  cal and economic systems of the world , for population control alone will not solve our problems . But it is necessary . Whatever your cause , it is lost without population control . IS                     