@@479696

The fact of the matter is that most regulated industries have become federal protectorates living in the cozy uorld of cost-plus , safely protected from the ugly specters of competition , efficiency , and innovation . ? Lewis A. Engman Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission MR . ENGMAN 'S CRITIQUE of gov- ernment regulation bids fair to become the conventional wisdom of the late 1970s . Caustic social critics , such as Ralph Nader , and fierce defenders of existing institutions , such as Gerald Ford and Barry Goldwater , have come together to render a joint indictment against the government 's regulation of American business . To a surprising extent they agree upon the central elements of the regulatory crimes : inflation of costs to consumers ; encouragement of inefficiency in critical sectors of 16 the eCOTIonly ; the stifling of innovation ; the corruption of the political and administrative processes by the regulated interests ; the enervating of competitive forces in the economy . Elsewhere in the country , other voices raise the same cry . Academies fill professional journals with studies documenting regulatory misadvenlures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulatory regimes . The President of the United States urges Congress to establish a National Commission on Regulatory Reform . Government regulation has so steadily and noiselessly insinuated itself into the corpus of American life that one must step back and ponder its significance . Like a marriage or a friendship that one usually takes for granted , the routine , stable quality of regulation has assured its stirPeter Schack , an attorney , is the director of the Washington office of Consumers Union and the author of The Judiciary Committees ( Viking ) . vival ; only when the system is widely perceived to be in crisis does it begin to intrude upon the public consciousness . The double-digit inflation of 1974 and 1975 has managed to create this sense of urgency about regulatory reform . Federal regulation of business is typically implemented by an agency or commission appointed by the President , usually with the approval of the Senate . Buttressed by the law , the agency 's rules seek to obtain conformity by creating both positive incentives to subsidy , the right to operate in a particular market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( monetary penalties , the threat of loss of operating rights , criminal sanctions ) for the regulated businesses . Congress prescribes the regulatory objectives of the agency by statute , usually in very general terms . The Natural Gas Act of 1938 , for example , directs the Federal Power Commission to establish rates for natural gas which are " just and reasonable " ; other statutory standards do little more than exhort the agency to regulate " in the public interest . " The agency and its bureaucracy , however , ultimately determine what the " public interest " requires . Congress will occasionally discipline an agency , or even reverse one of its decisions , and the courts may restrain an agency that ventures beyond its statutory boundaries . There are other checks as well : limited resources , the professional norms of agency bureau . crats , the limits imposed by politically powerful groups interested in the regulatory scheme , and public opinion ( in extreme cases ) . But to an astonishing degree the agencies regulate as they see fit . The regulation of business activity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Old Testament regulated aspects of economic life , and the Code of Hammurabi established uniform weights and measures and limited interest rates . Regulation was often intended to separate the sacred and the secular spheres of life : religious as well as civil sanctions were imposed upon violators . During the late Middle Ages , Thomistic notions of " just price " and usury were reflected in regulation of commerce by Catholic sovereigns . England under the " heretic " Tudors practiced mercantilism ? government regulation so extensive and detailed as to arouse the envy of the most zealous ICC functionary . In the same year that the Declaration of Independence was signed , Adam Smith , a Scottish economist , published his Wealth of Nations , a fundamental attack on the centralized direction of economic endeavor . Smith urged that the mercantilist system be dismantled , to be replaced by a regime of " laissez-faire . " In Smith 's system the state would limit its regulatory activity to those areas in which an unregulated market might work against the interest of the consumer . The debate over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the antipodes of the mercantilist system of extensive state regulation and The free market system with which Adam Smith hoped to replace it . In America the debate has evolved within somewhat narrower limits . The issue has never been controlled economy versus laissez-faire , but the more limited and pragmatic issue of how much government regulation was justified in a given instance or industry . The result has been a distinctively " mixed " economy , in which an estimated 10 percent of the gross national product is subject to federal regulation . The regulated sectors , however , include much of the most critical activity in a modern economy ? transportation , communications , energy , banking . utilities , and , increasingly , health care . Until the latter part of the nineteenth century , federal intervention in the economy was primarily confined to subsidization of canals , turnpikes , and railroads , enactment of tariff legislation , promotion of Western land development , and creation of a national banking system designed to maintain an inflationary money supply . Regulation by the states was quite limited , due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right of the states to regulate economic activity within their borders . The first federal regulatory agen-cy , the Interstate Commerce Com-mission , was created in 1887 under circumstances which continue to be controversial . In the traditional view , the ICC was established as a result of political agitation by Western farmers and other shippers who com-plained bitterly of abuses by rail-18 roads ? monopolistic practices , free passes and rebates to the largest shippers , discriminatory rates between locations shipping to the same markets . Several revisionist historians , however , argue that the ICC ? along with many subsequent regulatory agencies ? was created at the behest of the railroads themselves , the larger ones being eager to fashion a regulatory umbrella under which they could stabilize and dominate the industry . Whatever its origin , the ICC was , according to Thomas Gale Moore , a leading student of the ICC , " designed to encourage cartel activities . " In subsequent years , the act was amended to augment the ICC 's authority to suppress competitive behavior and to protect the railroads from unfavorable state regulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the total cartelization of the railroad industry " had been accomplished . Already , the ICC displayed the tendencies which have come to characterize almost all regulatory agencies ? a hostility to competition within , and a solicitude for the stability and profits of , the regulated industry . During the depression , however , not even the ICC could sustain the profits of the railroad industry . The highly competitive trucking industry , in which low capital requirements made entry into and exit from the industry quite easy , had begun to attract much business from the railroads . The 1CC and the railroads pressed vigorously for protection from this competition , and in 1935 Congress extended the ICC 's regulatory power to include motor carriers . In 1940 the railroads and truckers persuaded Congress to permit the ICC to regulate certain water carriers as well , since they , too , were competing successfully for freight business . In succeeding years the ICC has regulated these three transportation modes rail , truck , and water ? in a manner calculated to prevent the competition between them that could benefit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variety of methods . It allocates traffic among these modes , often preventing the low-cost mode from carrying the freight . By granting or withholding certificates of public convenience and necessity ? the authority that every carrier must possess in order to do business ? the ICC controls entry into the industry . It does its job well ? new entry into interstate trucking or rails is almost nonexistent . Besides limiting entry into the industry , the 1CC prohibits competition between certificated carriers by prescribing the routes that each may travel and the commodities that each may carry . Consider the ICC ' , infamous " gateway " rule , which prohibits many trucks from traveling the shortest and most direct route between two points in order to reduce competition on those routes . Instead , it requires them to reach their destinations by traveling through an often distant " gateway " city . Only slightly liberalized in 1974 , the gateway rule has wasted as much as 460 million gallons of fuel a year and creates as much as 150,000 tons of pollutants , according to one estimate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these restrictions for trucks carrying hazardous materials , the ICC refused , citing only the dangers of increased competition . But if the ICC 's route restrictions seem perverse , consider the Alice in Wonderland quality of some of its commodity restrictions , as described by the commission itself : It has been held that carburetors , distributors , generators , electric motors , and similar commodities are not embraced in the description " machinery " ; that electric regulators are not " machinery " ; that the term " building materials " relates to materials intended to be used for the erection and repair of buildings and not for building operations generally , and that , as a consequence , materials for the erection of a bridge are not included since a bridge is not a building ; that the commodity description " food products " embraces only such products as are fit for human consumption and does not include canned animal food ; that the word " canned " in the description " canned goods " refers to the process of canning and not to the receptacle in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glass ; that " groceries " are defined as articles for human consumption which are custom . arily served as food , or which are used in the preparation of food , except " fresh meats " ... that only rough or un finished articles are embraced by the commodity description " iron and steel articles " ; that engines and machinery are not included in the term " iron and steel articles " ; that the commodity description " paper and paper products " does not include newspapers , magazines , circulars , and other publications ; that the commodity description " fruit and vegetable juices " does not include frozen juices ; that gasoline is not a " liquid chemical " ; and that the commodity description " glassware " does not include sheet glass or rough rolled glass or glass rods . This definitional creativity is not simply lawyers ' fun and games . Each of these restrictions means less competition , trucks running backhauls without cargo , and higher costs to consumers . the creation of a plethora of new federal agencies to regulate , among other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gas and electric utilities , communications , agricultural production , and housing . During the last few years , economic regulation per se ? the regulation of rates , entry , and standards of service ? has been extended to the petroleum and petroleum products industry . Indeed , during the period of economic controls from 1971 to 1974 , virtually the entire economy was subject to price regulation . Even more significant , however , was the dramatic expansion during the 1960s and 1970s of health and safety regulation in the fields of environmental protection , occupational conditions , intrastate meat and poultry inspection , food and drugs , radiation , and product safety , particularly auto safety . The economic distress of 1974 and 1975 has generated desperate calls for regulation of credit allocation and a restoration of wage and price controls . A system of national health insurance will require extensive regulation of health-care providers . Yet , just as the nation is preparing for a new spasm of regulation of enterprises previously governed largely by market forces , government is being urged ? often by former advocates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systems . Because the outcome of these efforts will have profound implical ions for our politics and our economic life , it is important to understand what is at stake and what arc the likely consequences of both approaches . M UCH GOVERNMENT regulation of business is widely accepted as necessary . Some businesses permitting dramatic economies of scale ? generation of electricity is an example ? supposedly require regulation because competition is not feasible . Yet when economist George Stigler tested this hypothesis by comparing rates and profits for regulated and unregulated electric utilities , he concluded that regulation made little difference . Stigler 's explanation was twofold : even a monopoly utility faces competition from other energy sources , and what entrepreneurs do is simply beyond the control of even the most assid uous regulator . Another reason for regulation is " externality " the effect of a transaction upon " innocent bystanders " or society as a whole ( air pollution , for example ) . Many externalities , however , could be limited or eliminated with minimal regulation if effective compensation or cost-shifting mechanisms could be implemented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Ruhr River . Regulation may also be justified if serious market imperfections exist , such as monopolistic conditions , intractable consumer ignorance , or ineffective compensation mechanisms . Much health and safety regulation falls into this category . Even here , however , nonregulatory innovations , such as no-fault liability insurance , class actions , and cooperative purchasing by consumer aggregations , could reduce the need for much regulation . And some market imperfections , even when they persist , may be less inefficient or inequitable in their effects than the distortions inherent in the political-regulatory system . The burden of justification lies heavy on the regulator . For government regulation is fundamentally at variance with the philosophical assumptions underlying the . American political system . We are a liberal society , rooted in utilitarian ideas about the relation between citizen and state . The primary notion holds that the individual is the sole judge of his own interest and welfare and that individual satisfactions , be they " altruistic " or " selfish , " are society 's raison d ' ? tre . In this view , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market transaction , are socially beneficial ; by definition , such exchanges increase the welfare of both contracting individuals ( else they would not engage in them ) , and , unless third parties are adversely affected , the welfare of society is thereby increased . In addition to vindicating the liberal notion of equity , such voluntary exchanges between individuals promote economic efficiency . For all of these voluntary exchanges , when taken together , will tend to allocate the society 's resources in ways that will maximize the satisfactions of the individuals in the society and thus put the resources to their best use . Given these assumptions , government regulation will ? except in the case of natural monopoly , externalities , or other market failure ? always yield an inferior social result to free , voluntary exchanges between individuals . By specifying and limiting the terms under which transactions between individuals may take place , a regulation supplants their evaluations of their own interests and substitutes for these the judgment of the regulator . Individual and social welfare will be diminished thereby , particularly in the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . First . Certain transactions which both parties deem to be in their interests can not be consummated because the regulation prohibits them . When an agency sets a rate , it prohibits all sales at a lower rate , even if both parties would gain by such a sate . Second . Certain transactions which one or both parties deem to be contrary to their interests will nevertheless have to be consummated at the behest of the regulator , thus requiring either government coercion or a subsidy ( whose cost will have to be borne by someone else ) . Companies are compelled by the Jones Act to engage high-cost American ships to carry cargo between American ports ; consumers and shippers pay the compulsory surcharge . Third . Regulation , by prescribing minimum standards which all must meet , will tend to limit entry and reduce diversity and consumer choice while increasing the costs of some , and perhaps all , sellers . Requiring that all television repair shops be licensed , for example , seems to have the effect of increasing repair costs and limiting competition , without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have little use for the part-time electronics whiz who repairs TV sets in his garage during his spare time at low prices . If he does not obtain a license ? either because obtaining one would be too costly or because he can not meet the licensing requirements ? he will either be driven out of husiness or will have to operate illegally ; his customers will either he denied low-cost service or will have to pay some premium to compensate him for running the risk of detection . Similarly , regulation of taxicabs may assure consumers that no drug addict or alcoholic will drive a licensed cab and that such cabs are inspected three times a year . It will assure them of little else , however , other than fewer cabs on the streets and inflated fares . Even those who are fortunate enough to be picked up by gypsy cabs will be paying more than the free market price would be . Fourth . Where it does not eliminate competition , regulation will tend to distort it , often in grotesque ways . The Federal Aviation Act frowns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CAB quickly pounces on any sign of rate-cutting . This results in competition being trivialized into " booze wars , " " lounge wars , " and fuselage decoration , with the passengers compelled to pay the bill . Fifth . Where regulation appears to benefit one economic group , it usually does so by exacting a subsidy ? often a hidden one from other groups . Product safety regulation subsidizes those people who would have been injured by negligent manufacturers and would not have received compensation for their injuries . This subsidy occurs at the expense of the far larger number who would have been compensated for injury or escaped it entirely . Regulation of auto emissions primarily benefits residents of congested cities , whether or not they own cars , and the pollution-control industry ; the costs are borne by all car owners , rich and poor , in Durango , Colorado , as well as in Los Angeles . Such regulatory cross-subsidies may or may not be justified on other noneconomic grounds , and they often reflect the will of Congress . Since regulation is necessarily a political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the subsidies are often those with the most political clout and that efficiency and equity considerations are usually ignored . Politically well-connected maritime interests , for example , extract vast sums annually from consumers because of federally authorized price fixing and other subsidies . Sixth . Regulatory standards will lend to be either too high or too low to maximize social welfare ; rarely will an agency strike the right balance or maintain it amid changing conditions . With regard to regulated rates , " too high " means that some or all producers will enjoy excessive profits , particularly if the regulated 24 rates are floors or the agency prevents new competition from entering the industry . " Too low " means that incentives to producers will be insufficient to sustain adequate production . The Phase H price freeze in 1973 , for example , caught the cattle industry in a squeeze between feed costs that were at a record high and moderate wholesale prices . Consumers paid dearly for the shortages that the freeze induced . Seventh . The regulatory agency will rarely command the resources necessary to scrutinize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it regulates . Several years ago , the FCC , with an annual budget of $31 million , publicly acknowledged its inability to evaluate a proposed rate increase by ATT , with more than $31 billion in assets . Because of this chronic disparity and the costly " regulatory lag " that accompanies delay in agency decisions ( the ICC took twelve years to approve the Chicago , Rock Island , and Pacific merger and before the decision could be made final , the line went bankrupt ) , regulators must take shortcuts which , while making their tasks manageable , also suppress the enormous variety and differentials between firms . When the Federal Power Commission in 1954 undertook regulation of producer rates for natural gas , it began by determining " just and reasonable " rates for each of the more than 3,000 individual producers . By 1960 the sheer number of backed-up rate proceedings had swamped the commission , and it was compelled to simplify the process drastically by lumping all producers together into fewer than a dozen " areas . " Each producer in a given area was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area rate , " no matter what the cost-and-profit profile of the particular producer . Because even area data were difficult and expensive to compile , " area rates " were themselves determined by the commission on the basis of area or nationwide averages . The relationship between an area rate and the economic profile of any particular firm became further attenuated . Even area-rate regulation , however , proved too complex for the commission ; the Southern Louisiana area rate was not affirmed by the Supreme Court until 1971 . In June 1974 , the commission took the inevitable final step in this unhappy history , issuing a single " national rate " applicable to all but the smaller producers . Within six months , this " single " rate had been increased by almost 20 percent , had been repeatedly encumbered with exceptions , exclusions , and amendments , and had begun its long journey to the never-never land of judicial review . To an even greater extent than its predecessors , the national rate was an artificial construct , bearing about as much resemblance to the economic profiles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does to the diverse society that he is said to exemplify . The Federal Power Commission suggests another dilemma of regulation . In order to rationally regulate a market , one must regulate the entire market ; if part of the market is unregulated , exchanges not permitted by the regulator will tend to flow into the unregulated sector , eluding control . Because only interstate sales are price-regulated by the FPC , an increasing quantity of natural gas has been sold and consumed in the states where the gas was produced , often for " inferior " uses and at prices four and five times the regulated prices . Similarly the Federal Reserve System has seen its control over the nation 's money supply ? and thus its regulatory influence ? dwindle as more banks relinquish their membership for the more permissive environment of state regulation . The obvious remedy for this regulatory impotence ? expansion of the agency 's authority to embrace the unregulated sector ? only thrusts more intractable difficulties upon the regulator . As the number and diversity of transactions to be regulated grow arithmetically , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ geometrically . The difference between the resources ( staff , information , political influence ) required by the /CC when it regulated only railroads and those that it requires today , when it must regulate motor carriers , water carriers , and freight forwarders as well , is a qualitative difference , a quantum leap in regulatory inadequacy . The ineluctable tendency of agencies to expand their activities spawns an equally immutable regulatory failure . The more it may regulate , the less it can regulate , relative to its responsibilities . R EGULATION TENDS to reduce the incentives for technological or marketing innovation ; often , it snuffs them out altogether . In 1974 the CAB flatly rejected a proposal by London-based Laker Airways to fly regular " no-frills " flights between New York and London for $125 each way . Professional licensing authorities have long used state regulatory power to maintain the status quo . Just as some medical societies , led by the AMA , stifled the development of innovative group health organizations , state bar associations have followed the lead of the American Bar Association , using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legal service plans . But for regulatory antediluvianism , the ICC leads the pack ? backward . When the Southern Railway , a particularly well-managed and dynamic company , developed a larger and far more efficient freight car ? the " Big John " ? and sought to use it for the carriage of grain at vastly reduced rates , the ICC quickly stepped in to protect those carriers and shippers who would lose business to Southern . Only after four years and a successful appeal to the Supreme Court did Southern manage to introduce the innovation . In 1974 a major motor carrier , Pacific Intermountain Express Company , announced a stunning innovation . In an industry with adamantine resistance to change and an aversion to punctuality , PIE proposed to guarantee on-time delivery in exchange for a 10 percent premium ; if PIE was late , all freight charges would be refunded . Over the vigorous protest of the Department of Transportation , the ICC ruled that this plan amounted to an offer of " free " transportation and was illegal . Other agencies share the ICC 's hostility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the development of cable TV . The CAB labored long and mightily to arrest the growth of charter carriers offering low-cost transportation . The Forest Service has resisted multiple-use management and wilderness protection . The Federal Reserve Board has moved to squelch banking innovations which threatened to upset the existing competitive equilibrium . While there is considerable agreement on the pernicious effects of gov28 ernment regulation , critics disagree about the root causes of regulatory failure and thus about appropriate remedies . One group , led by Ralph Nader , stresses the " capture " of rec'sr- ulatory agencies by the regulated industry , arguing that this process hopelessly compromises the integrity and independence of regulatory decisions . The " capture " hypothesis is particularly compelling at the state level , where the law often requires regulatory agencies , such as pollution-control authorities or pharmacy licensing boards , to be controlled by representatives of the regulated industry . Numerous federal agencies , from the Food and Drug Administration to the Federal Power Commission , have also been staffed at the highest levels with former and future industry members . Overt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learned that Robert C. Bowen , a former Phillips Petroleum executive , had helped write an obscure Federal Energy Office regulation that allowed crude oil producers , including Phillips , to count certain crude oil costs twice and to pass these extra costs ? amounting to more than $300 million ? on to consumers . At Congressional hearings called to investigate this " double dipping , " it was revealed that then EEO head William Simon had repeatedly but unsuccessfully been urged to remove Bowen , but that Simon had demurred , feeling that Bowen was acting only in a technical " advisory " role . Even as these events were unfolding , the Ford Administration was attempting ? unsuccessfully . as it turned out ? to confirm Andrew Gibson as the new head of the same agency . Yet Gibson was then the president of a company deriving its revenues entirely from the oil and utilities industries , which was itself controlled by a major oil company and would he paying Gibson almost S1 million after his departure from the firm . The " capture " of regulatory agencies often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committees , such as the National Petroleum Council . channel ideas , data . priorities , and political support to regulators desperate for these resources , often behind closed doors . Typically . the agency can not perform its regulatory duties without obtaining much economic and technical information , almost all of which must come from the regulated industry . Perhaps the most extreme case of agency dependence upon industry information is the Federal Power Commission 's use of American Gas Association estimates of natural gas reserves to support its entire regulatory program . Although the AGA statistics had been demonstrated to he unreliable , self-serving. and compiled in possible violation of the antitrust laws , the FPC consistently failed to conduct an effective audit of natural gas reserves . When the Federal Trade Commission investigated the matter , the AGA estimates often turned out to be wildly inaccurate ? understated by as much as 1,000 percent ? and AGA reporting procedures were " tantamount to collusive price-rigging , " accord . ing to the FTC staff study . C ERTAIN REFORMS have commended themselves to those who see " capture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rigorous conflict-of-interest laws ; recruitment of consumer-oriented regulatory officials from sectors other than private industry ; freedom-of-information reforms and " sunshine " laws ; laws protecting whistle-blowers inside government agencies ; financial assistance to consumer and environmental groups seeking to participate in the regulatory process ; and the creation of a nonregulatory , federal-level Agency for Consumer Advocacy , empowered to represent consumer interests before regulatory agencies . These are essentially procedural reforms ( although likely to have important policy consequences ) , and their efficacy presupposes that the problem with regulations is its proindustry bias . To the Ash Council on Executive Organization , however , the difficulty of regulation lay elsewhere ? in its lack of accountability , its glacial pace , and its rigid approach to problem solving . Those deficiencies , it believed , inhered in the formal " independence " of many regulatory agencies , their insulation from conventional political forces , particularly those emanating from the White House . To remedy this structural problem , the council proposed structural solutions . Most regulatory agencies would come under the direct control of the President I much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an administrative court would be established to review agency decisions , and the organizational structure of the agencies would be streamlined . Yet a third group of critics , led by economist Milton Friedman , regards these procedural and organizational reforms as essentially innocuous and of only marginal significance . To this group , the fundamental problem is the vast complexity and inter-relationship of the economic system and the inability of even the most well-intentioned , well-informed regulator to make even minimally " rational " decisions in the face of this complexity . This view holds that the regulatory actions of even a benign government will invariably produce unintended and unforeseen consequences which will dwarf the problem that regulation was designed to solve . Such critics concede , as they must , that market imperfections often exist . They stress , however , that government intervention inevitably carries with it far more serious distortions of a political and bureaucratic nature . The political system is based upon majority rule and will tend to ignore the wishes of small minorities with special tastes ; the economic market , however , usually enables @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wish to read pornographic literature or those who want to smoke low-nicotine cigarettes ? to satisfy their desires if they are willing to pay for them . People tend to be far better informed about the products and services available in the economic market than about the issues and politicians available to them as voters in the political market ; the selling of political candidates is at least as deceptive and banal as the selling of antiperspirants , and consumers know even less about the bureaucrats who will actually do the regulating . Moreover , the degree of concentration in economic markets is far less than the concentration of political power in the Democratic and Republican parties , and there is no Antitrust Division to police the political sphere . No seller of goods or services , except perhaps the rare monopolist , can long ignore the desires of its customers arid still remain in business . The bureaucrat , however , in his own regulatory sphere has no competitor . Having no profit motive to guide his decisions , and no competitors to threaten him , he will respond to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have nothing to do with consumer needs . He usually can not be sued , can not be fired , can not even be identified . Finally , regulation of private decisions by government inevitably increases the power of the state and reduces the autonomy of individual citizens . The centralization of power ? the power to decide what products will or will not be produced and consumed , the power to prosecute for violations of innumerable regulations , the power to prescribe bow people must treat one another in the most delicate human relationships ? carries with it serious dangers to a democratic society : abuse of power , the sapping of private initiative and energy , the creation of a dependent and insecure citizenry . To critics across the ideological spectrum from Milton Friedman to Ralph Nader , the remedy for these evils is to deregulate large sectors of the American economy . Abolition of rate regulation by the ICC , the CAB , and the Federal Maritime Commission are at the top of many reform agendas , while a substantial number would extend deregulation to the Federal Communications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production as well . A few critics of regulation would even abolish the Food and Drug Administration , on the theory that it has retarded the introduction of drugs which would benefit consumers . No Congress would go so far . But more limited regulatory reforms probably have far more public support than ever before . Certain political realities , however , remain inescapable ? chiefly , the superior organization and political influence of those economic and bureaucratic interests served by regulation , compared to the diffuse and unorganized consumer interests with a stake in its reform . Which rural Congressman will be so suicidal as to advocate abandonment of subsidized rail , air , or trucking service to his district ? Which Senator will be willing to say no to the politically hyperactive maritime unions and carriers seeking ever more generous subsidies in order to maintain jobs and profits ? On the evidence so far , precious few .                     