@@487935

We had been academically prepared . We had participated in a course together on desegregation ? The Development of Law : Concepts of Judicial Review  --  at Harvard College in 1973-74 . We had read Brown v. Board of Educalion and Justice William Brennan 's opinion in Green v. County School Board of New Kent County , Virginia , in which , impatient with delay in the South , he called for immediate desegregation " root and branch , " and expressed the hope that America would soon be a country where the public schools were " neither white schools nor black schools , but just schools . " We had examined the social science evidence pertaining to " equal educational opportunity , " particularly the oleman Report , , which emphasized the importance of social class , as well as racial integration . This gave us warning that school integration between poverty-stricken Roxbury and lower- to working-class South Boston might prove to be close to the worst of all possible educational Maurice Ford , a tutor in Dunster House at Harvard College , is at work on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Idea of Equal Educational Opportunity . See editorial , p. 388. , worlds  --  at least if a dramatic increase in scholastic achievement was hoped for . We had tried to be sensitive to the importance of community . Five of the members of our seminar had been black and had given us some sense  --  in Harvard surroundings , to be sure  --  of the black experience . Most of the rest of us had read Black Power , Soul on ice and John Howard Griffin 's moving Black Like Me . We discussed " community control " and the struggles between the residents of Ocean Hill-Brownsville and Albert Shanker 's United Federation of Teachers over decentralization in New York City and , the clash between black and Jewish standards , interests and values . We read Nathan Glazer and Daniel Patrick Moynihan 's Beyond the Melting Pot , which emphasized the stubborn survival and hardy persistence of ethnic communities in America , and the close identification people felt with them . We had followed all the debates in Commentary about the meaning of " liberalism . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contemplate ideas in the comfortable security of the Dunster House Senior Common Room . We had gone to Washing , ton in the fall of 1973 and met individually with Justices William 0 . Douglas , Potter Stewart and Lewis A. Powell . Black and white together , we had gone to the Court again the following March to hear our friends , J. Harold ( " Nick " ) Flannery , now executive director of the Lawyers ' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law , and Nathaniel Jones , general counsel of the National ASsociation for the Advancement of Colored People , argue the historic Detroit metropolitan desegregation case . Almost weekly during the summer I had mailed the ' class copies of judicial decisions and newspaper articles relating to integration and other topics we had covered in the course . Some members of the class discussed these developments with law teachers and lawyers in their home communities . We were disheartened in late July when the Supreme Court , by a 5-to-4 vote , overturned Judge Stephen Roth 's decision to metropolitanize the Detroit schools . This put the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judge Robert Mehrige , who had previously ordered merger of the Richmond , Va . public schOols with those in surrounding Henrico and Chesterfield Counties . It meant that , until a change in the composition of the Court , deteriorating , largely black city school systems  --  the Newarks , Philadelphias and Oaklands of this world  --  would continue to be ringed by comparatively affluent white suburban school systems , which could serve as " escape hatches , " free from judicial intervention . But there was hope , much of it emanating from Judge W. Arthur Garrity 's courtroom on the 12th floor of the John W. McCormack Federal Building in Boston . At the end of June he had issued a sweeping opinion in the case of Tallulah Morgan v. Boston School Committee , which described how long and how systematically , through almost every possible subtle device , the schools of Boston had been segregated , and a firm order that they be desegregated at once in the fall . The Boston case , too , had been tried by Nick Flannery . Throughout the summer the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , followed closely as counsel for the plaintiffs , the Boston School Committee , the State Board of Education ( which was trying to enforce the Massachusetts Racial Imbalance Law ) , the teachers ' union and Mayor White 's Office assembled in Judge Garrity 's courtroom and attempted to hammer out the flinty , sometimes intractable , problems which would attend the opening of classes in September . There were reassuring signs . Judge Garrity , after having issued a stern desegregation order , seemed to bend over backward to be gracious to all parties .. He realized that when a federal judge ; not popularly elected , tackles the solution to a major social issue , over which there is much opposition , he must be unusually careful to avoid dogmatic approaches . Judge Garrity was open to , even eager for , suggestions , and did not pretend to have arrived at many answers beforehand . The Church did its part . Cardinal Humberto Medeiros , an outspoken supporter ' of the Massachusetts Racial Imbalance Law , had made it clear that he would not allow the parochial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might subvert desegregation . Cardinal Medeiros ' only problem was that he was n't Irish ; a Cushing , with his gravelly voice , would have had South Boston eating out of his hand . Black ministers in Roxbury actively counseled against violent reaction to the hostility which would inevitably accompany bussing . The news media also banded together to try to insure that Judge Garrity 's order was carried out as smoothly as possible . Beginning late in July , a concerted effort was made to devote an enormous amount of press coverage and television time to promote the positive aspects of integration . Areas of the country where integration ha been successful ? Charlotte , N.C. , San Francisco an Riverside , Calif. ? were featured . Incidents of violence were underplayed . This was a delicate decision , which would later lead to charges of managing the news . South Boston residents set up their own information center , to counter what they believed to be biased coverage ( although a lot of the violence which was underplayed was their own ) . There was often a discrepancy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I believe , however , that , on balance , the decision to underplay disrupting incidents and to give credit to the forces of moderation helped reduce the level of antagonism . We knew that it would not be easy . Political careers  --  notably that of Louise Day Hicks , Boston 's head mother  --  had been made for a decade , on the issue of - bussing . The new chairman of the Boston School Committee was campaigning for district attorney under the banner " Kerrigan the Fighter , " and we all knew what he was fighting . A Gallup poll indicated that 72 per cent of Americans favored a constitutional amendment to prevent bussing and , for several yeati , legislation to that effect had passed the House of Representatives , only to be watered down ( on a close vote ) in the Senate . When Sen. Edward Kennedy , from a family closer to God than the Cabots and the Lowells in Massachusetts , attempted to speak in Government Center in favor of compliance with Judge Garrity 's decision , he was splattered with refuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his deceased brothers , and he was shouted off the stage by members  --  mainly mothers  --  of ROAR ( " Restore Our Alienated Rights " ) . Graffiti appearing on the walls of Dorgan 's Restaurant , at the foot of the hill on which South Boston High School stood , and on the school itself , proclaimed " This is Klan Country , " " Kill Niggers , " and " Garrity Sucks . " The neatly trimmed row houses leading up to the school had banners saying , " Love Is Going to Your Neighborhood School , " showing two white toddlers , a boy and a girl , holding hands and carrying ' American flags . Outsiders saw their opportunity . David Duke , national director of the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan , arrived on the scene and addressed an enthusiastic rally , which was somewhat ironic in South Boston , considering the Klan 's record with Catholics . " We are going to win a great victory in South Boston for the white race , " he said . " The tide is beginning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty , as white people , to be proud of our heritage to help return civilization to this continent . There is a tremendous change taking place here , in Boston , in the cradle of liberty . . . The tyranny of the federal government is much worse than the tyranny of the British . Our struggle is much harder . The federal government is taking little white children out of their homes and sending them into black jungles . " A delegation of the American Nazi Party , in uniform , had arrived in its own bus . But all this was comical , we thought . The Klan were as much outsiders in Southie as blacks , and , as Peter Schrag has described in his wonderful book about the Boston public school system , Village School Downtown , in that closed society no outsiders were welcome . The members of the American Nazi Party seemed an out-of-place anachronism ; in any event their bus was promptly escorted iiby the police to the state line . Yet there was an affinity , the elements of which I can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hair , conservatism ( the Grand Dragon was a neatly dressed young man from Louisiana who would , not have been out of place on the Lawrence Welk Show ) , religious fervor , a tendency to think in terms of absolutes , a very real need for security . These elements were also present at an antibuss:ng rally of 5,000 people which took place in Southie during the third week of school . Those gathered together sang God Bless America and recited in unison their own version of the Pledge of Allegiance : " I will not pledge allegiance to the court order of the United States District Court , or to the dictatorship for which it stands , one law , incontestable , with liberty and justice for none . " During my years at Harvard I had had a very stimulating seminar in American literature with Prof. Kenneth Lynn in which we had surveyed the stereotypes which both whites and blacks seemed to have of each other , and during the first few weeks of school I had chanced to see a revival of D.W. Griffith 's 1916 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glorification of the Ku Klux Klan during Reconstruction . These , together with shreds of overheard conversations in Southie , helped me grasp one common , but seldom expressed , fear which united whites against blacks  --  a very deep sexual fear , of rape and assault upon their daughters by wild men from the jungle . For a court order to get at that was a formidable task . Upon the opening of school on September ' 12 , there was massive boycotting , particularly in the newly created " South Boston-Roxbury High " district , which involved cross-bussing . Many of the busses bearing black students were stoned . One night a number of bullets from speeding cars were fired into the virtually all-black Columbia Point housing project , on the border between South Boston and Dorchester , and police feared that self-formed vigilante " community patrols " might retaliate ( the occupation of the Columbia Point project by a largely white police brigade to prevent this led to further tensions ) : Still , the message was not quite brought home to us ' who sat weekly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters like the creation of biracial councils to deal with incidents relating to desegregation were being debated . Upon their return ' to school in September , ' my under ' . graduate students were quite naturally eager to see at 7 first hand " how things really were " in Southie . I had been there several times , monitoring the bus runs . The route was lined with police to prevent incidents of stoning and other violence . The cops were in a curious , often difficult position . On the one hand , while school was in session and before blacks attending South Boston High emerged to get on the busses for the trip back ' to Roxbury , there was a chummy cameraderie between the police , relaxing on the stoops of houses near the school , and local " Moms Against Bussing . " Many of them , after all , came from the same social class and shared many of the same basic. assumptions . Many had been born in Southie itself . Yet when the busses started to run , there was a parting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young children , would stand on the corner as the busses passed , making gestures and hurling epithets at their occupants . The police , on the other hand , on foot , on horseback and in patrol cars , made certain that the crowds were held back and no violence occurred . The scene was ugly  --  in many ways reminiscent of the 1957 occupation of Central High School in Little Rock by the National Guard  --  but it seemed under control . It was significant , both on a symbolic and practical level , that when the trouble came , the police were there , steadfastly upholding the black students ' right to attend desegregated schools , pursuant to Judge Garrity 's order . Ms. Frankie Freeman , a member of the United ' States Commission on Civil Rights , had come to Boston to look over the scene and expressed the belief that the racism she witnessed in Southie was much more virulent than she had seen in the South . Yet there was , it seemed to tL me , an important difference . No Bull Connors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prods . No official sanction , either by looking the other way when a nasty incident occurred or otherwise , was given to the protests of the residents . Mayor Kevin White had come out strongly in support of the court order , and Police Commissioner Robert di Grazia had personally ridden the busses to escort black children into school . Perhaps this change represented a natural evolution from 1964 to 1974 . Perhaps , except for memories of what had happened on the streets of Selma , it would not have been as orderly . But it was critical that the official stance taken by local officials was that the Constitution must be obeyed and that the police would brook no interference with black children 's entitlement under it . It was this that my students wanted to witness . They wanted to get a . feel , as well , of South Boston as a community , to get a sense of the magnitude of the disruption which bussing might bring . On Wednesday of the second week of desegregation four of us , all white , journeyed over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to contain more Irish pubs per capita than any place this side of County Cork . But they are comfortable pubs ? pubs like Amrhein 's Restaurant , to which whole families went to dinner , which local politicians frequented , and where issues of concern to the community are discussed . On an earlier visit to Amrhein 's , I had talked ' with several of the waitresses , themselves mothers of young children in the public school system . They seemed unusually nice , caring people . There was little overt racism ; their chief concern  --  and it was a realistic one , given conditions in RoxbUry  --  was for the safety of their children if bussed into a high-crime area . South Boston is an economically depressed area , and much of what we saw seemed pretty dreary . But most of the row houses appeared well kept up and the lawns neatly manicured , with that prim trimness which is often ingrained through Catholic parochial education . Southie was a community which still cared about itself and which would not easily give up its traditions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another trip , this time with one white , Richard Alfred , and two black students , Charles Williams and Terry Barber , all seniors at Harvard College . We realized that there were some risks , but there had been plenty of police protection when I went earlier with my white students , and I thought that , as mere spectators , we might , at the worst , receive a few derogatory insults . This would be an instructive part of the experience . We strolled down William J. Day Boulevard , named after Louise Day Hicks 's late father , Judge Day . It was a pleasant walk , with light sea breezes blowing in from Boston Harbor . In the distance we , could see the L-Street Bathhouse , where the L-Street Brownies ( many of them septuagenerians ) take their celebrated midwinter ocean baths . On top of nearby Dorchester Heights was South Boston High , a dull-yellow brick building overlooking the whole South Boston community , and , symbolically , at its center . Southie High , as one writer has described it , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pride and defiance . Only 4 per cent of its graduates have gone to college , and only one-quarter of those who , went finished all four years . A Southie High education was one thing everyone had in common , except for those who went to church schools . " Our visit brought home to us a new and important dimension of the situation , We had read Judge Garrity 's opinion and opinions in innumerable other school de-Ilk segregation cases with their language about deferring to the " expertise " of the local federal district judge familiar with local conditions . But the meaning of this was not fully evident to us until we were actually on the scene . Only then did we realize what Southie High represented in terms of South Boston residents ' sense of their community . When we were about 1,200 yards from the school , we noticed , or more accurately were noticed by , a gathering of about fifty kids , aged 8 to about 20 , who were waiting for the busses bearing blacks to roll by . On previous occasions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the police . Earlier in the week , however , disorders had broken out in other parts of the city ? Hyde Park , Charlestown and East Boston ( the latter two areas not even yet subject to Judge Garrity 's order , but fearing the future ) . So the usual contingent of police was missing . Suddenly a spontaneous murmur arose , although we were just walking along , trying to mind our own business . " Niggers , " " Nigger Lovers " and " boneheads " came in increasingly louder shouts from the crowd . But nothing happened . Until one rock was thrown . Then came a shower of rocks  --  one hitting me , although I did manage to escape a quite sizable boulder . Then , with a lurch , the mob of kids charged across the boulevard . Most of them , it became evident , had boycotted school that day and were waiting , with rocks , for the busses . But since the busses were likely to have heavy police protection and since they might be arrested , they found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had greeted the members of the civil rights movement of the early 1960s and had seen Atticus Finch in To Kill a Mockingbird , but it all somehow seemed rather romantic . The experience of being mobbed was not romantic . We did not see a policeman and were in terror for our lives . I will never forget the hatred on the faces of that surly , snarling mob  --  particularly on the faces of grammar school children . But the experience which Richard Alfred and I had was nothing compared to the experience of our friends , Charles and Terry . We , after all , were white . The mob charged past us , after their real quarry . Terry was jumped and Charles was hit with a baseball bat , Fortunately police had been stationed , as lookouts for trouble , on the roof of a nearby , all-white housing project . With sirens wailing , about seven police carsT quickly inundated the area . The mob dispersed and we were left relatively uninjured . We were hustled into a police car and taken to a subway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The police were splendid to us . One of them , apparently an Irish Catholic native , apologized to Charles and Terry on behalf of his race . Richard and I did the same . I who , as a youth , had gone to Our Lady of Lourdes School in the Jamaica Plain section of the city , was taken aback by the ugliness which had so quickly surfaced . I am certain that I do not grasp the feelings of my black student friends . Charles Williams , graduate of Andover Academy and one of my prize students at Harvard , was thought of in terms only of " Nigger . " As . we wiped the sweat off one another in the police car , he tried to share his experience . Fear . We were all certain that had the police arrived but two minutes later , we would have been hospitalized with severe injuries . Sorrow . It was pitiable that our attackers had no more than us to occupy their lives and so little hope for themselves , much of it attributable to an impoverished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not experienced toward whites before . For Terry Barber  --  as for the rest of us  --  it was an experience more telling than a year of seminar discussions . It was still early afternoon when the police drove us out of Southie , and we decided to go to Judge Garrity 's courtroom , where the desegregation hearings were continuing . The very lack of drama in the courtroom  --  in contrast to what we had just been through  --  brought into focus both the virtues and limitations of the legal process . The reasonableness of the arguments , the courteous references to counsel on the opposing , side as " my brother , " and the benevolence , sometimes breaking into humor , showed to all parties by Judge W. Arthur Garrity were reassurance that justice would , in the end , prevail . The proceedings on the 12th floor of the federal building seemed , on the other hand , so isolated from the hatred which had been internalized , at a very young age , in the students who had attacked us on Day Boulevard . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penetrate and to overcome those emotions ? Some studies , notably those of Judith Ann Porter in her book , Black Child , White Child , have quite convincingly demonstrated that racial attitudes start to be formed at a very young age . Acting on this evidence , a federal judge should probably order cross-bussing for kindergarten or preschool children . That would be the logical , reasonable solution . What we experienced in Southie showed us , simultaneously , how important , but how politidally impossible , that solution woul be at the present time . Judge Garrity , at least , was determined to try to d what he could . Although he was not aware of what w had been through , he seemed to speak directly to us " rambling on , " as he put it , aborit the Constitution : A great deal is being said about the possibility of bussing being eliminated somehow by Congress , that somehow all this will fade away , - that some action will be taken . Changes can be made within the law . Can bussing be eliminated ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution is the supreme law . Bussing means an amendment to the Constitution . Can it be done ? Of course it can , within the law . Congress has no power to make legislation that would nullify the constitutional rights of students . It should be understood that the legislation being talked about in Congress must be in terms of an amendment to the Constitution . The law provides for appealing to the U.S. Court of Appeals . The District Court is not the last word . I am subject to review . There is an appeal pending there now . Depending on the orders of the Court of Appeals , there 's no constitutional way for this court to backtrack or back-pedal . It 's so easy to forget that white , children benefit under desegregation . They have a right to desegregation so they can grow up in a desegregated world . r there was any hope for generations yet unborn , this teemed to be it . My students talked of their experience later in the , day with former city councilor Thomas Atkins , currently the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , too , was in the courtroom . We also met with a young law clerk to Judge Robert Mehrige , who had decided the Richmond metropolitan desegregation case . Both of them happened to be in Boston at the time . This enabled us to compare current conditions in the North and in the South . But the dominating presence  --  and hope for the rule of law  --  was Jridge Garrity.                     