@@479269

THE UNITED STATES BOARD OF PAROLE is One of the great enigmas of our judicial process . Its mandate in doubt , its methods unpublished , its immense discretionary power totally unstructured , its decisions absolute and unreviewed , its effectiveness unevaluated ? it is clearly an anachronism . Yet it survives . Like certain passive but potent animal forms , it pursues its ends eschewing attack or defense , protected by the Yap. mess and lack of definition that permit it to rest safely concealed in a shadowy recess of the federal bureaucracy . Official boredom , public ignorance , and judicial apathy form its protective coloration . That isolation was breached this summer when the board denied parole to James R. Hoffa , the former Teamsters Union president in prison for jury tampering and pension fund fraud , as well as to Philip and Daniel Berrigan , the Catholic priests in jail for destroying draft board records . The manner in which the board dealt with these cases provoked an editorial protest from the New York Times questioning " the mysteries and inadequacies of the federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did little to illuminate the board 's workings and policies , which remain shrouded in confusion and secrecy . On the basis of my experience with the parole board over the past five years , I can readily understand why it retreats from the light of public scrutiny and especially from the suggestion of strong political bias in its judgments . I N 1930 A CENTRAL PAROLE BOARD located in Washington was created by Congress . At that time it was part of the Bureau of Prisons . In 1945 the parole board was ordered to report directly to the Attorney General , thus making it an independent agency in the Department of Justice . The board is both a policy-making and administrative body with jurisdiction over all federal prisoners . It consists of only eight full-time members appointed by the President for six-year overlapping terms . This group of men , with the assistance of a small group of examiners , is called upon to make some twenty thousand separate decisions on applications for parole in a year . Since decisions require a concurrence of two , three , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " member judgments . " These few men travel across the entire United States to examine the individual records , read the petitions , inter view the parole applicants , presumably deliberate , set the dates , and decide the terms of the parole . All of which represents only one function of the parole board . In addition to considering applications for parole , the board administers parole for deportation ; issues warrants for parole violators ; conducts revocation hearings ; promulgates rules and regulations for the supervision , discharge from supervision , or recommitment of parole prisoners . Further , only five members can devote themselves full-time to adult matters because three members of the parole board are assigned to juvenile crimes under the Federal Youth Corrections Act . The Youth Correction division has its own long list of similar obligations and responsibilities . A prisoner generally becomes eligible for parole when he has served one-third of his sentence , a condition controlled by law and the sentencing judge . The remaining two-thirds of his time falls within the jurisdiction of the parole board . In terms of length @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the entire federal judiciary . In a recent Federal Circuit Court case , Judge Wilfred Feinberg expressed his concern about this effective delegation of sentencing power to the parole board , since all the procedural due process that protects an individual in a court of law is denied him by the parole board . " Obviously then , " he stated . " the responsibility for sentence is increasingly being shared with parole boards playing a greater and greater part . " Judge Feinberg pointed out that the Constitution requires counsel at all sentencing proceedings and , with blessed common sense , indicated that " sentencing " is not confined to what a judge first prescribes after trial . Then , referring to the " broad discretion wielded by the parole board , the virtually unfettered procedure , the gravity of all the consequences to the prisoner , his inability to present his case as well as a lawyer could , the sentencing function of the board , " he concluded that a prisoner at a parole release hearing should be entitled to the services of retained counsel . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been looked to as a source of some comfort and hope . But it is not a very warming hope when one realizes that Judge Feinberg was writing in dissent from a majority position that held " a prisoner has no greater rights than an alien in a foreign land . " Both carrot and stick HE PAROLE BOARD WILL usually respect the I intentions of the sentencing judge . The judge , being aware of this and of other standard parole procedures , will set sentence accordingly . The board , however , is not legally bound to attend the judge 's wishes . When the political interests of the Attorney General 's office demand it , the board will ignore both judge and precedent . The uniform denial of parole to war resisters in 1966-67 is one flagrant example . The most extreme case could be seen in the treatment of the young conscientious objectors sentenced under the Youth Corrections Act . Under this act youthful offenders are given a long indeterminate sentence from sixty days to six years ( referred to by prisoners as " zip-six " ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very young man for a minimal time , while imposing a long parole period . He thus quickly returns to society but remains under strict supervision . At the end of the parole he is rewarded by having his record expunged . Traditionally this procedure is routinely observed with cooperative prisoners . In all the cases of the imprisoned COs , however , a punitive parole board extracted a higher price under the Youth Corrections Act than if straight sentences had been given . In at least one case a young CO was given this " zip-six " sentence by a judge who was sentencing older offenders to two-year terms . The CO was told that if he were " a good boy " he would be out in less than six months . He ended up serving double the time of his older colleagues since he served at the discretion of the board . In an interview with George J. Reed , chairman of the federal parole board , I asked why , with these " political " prisoners , the intention of the judge was ignored . I was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over a case . Indeed , that is technically true , but normally his intention is not so readily disregarded . The parole board , while part of our judicial procedure , is nonetheless an arm of a political executive branch , and , as such , can use the scales of justice to balance political debts . When this occurs one becomes aware of the board 's real power and serious potential for damaging the system of " justice " it presumes to serve . Some of the inconsistencies in the board 's behavior seem most paradoxical when compared with the presumed purposes of parole . Why have a parole procedure at all ? The punitive aspect of our current judicial procedure is a tripartite phenomenon . The range of punishment is set by statute ; when a law is passed , it defines what will be considered a violation of that law and indicates the range of permissible punishments . Thus , from the beginning . the implication is that the determining of punishment requires an understanding not only of the statute violated but of the nature of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sentencing , then , gives the judge a latitude in the second phase of the punishment procedure . The judge has discretion to decide each individual case and to allow for special considerations . He may suspend sentence , he may fine , he may send to prison minimally , or he may send to prison maximally . Again it is an attempt to humanize the law , to acknowledge that behavior is but an end point in a complex set of preceding determinants ; that men are not machines ; that conditions modify facts ; and that while " law and order " may not require compassion or individual consideration , " justice " does . r-rIHE PAROLE PROCEDURE obviously is an at- 1 tempt to extend justice beyond the point of trial . Its sole purpose would seem to be not law enforcement ? which could be handled by altering either the statutory penalty of the law or the sentence assigned ? but rehabilitation . It gives the government an opportunity to evaluate the changed attitudes of a prisoner during the course of his incarceration . It allows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evil . " Presumably , while it serves justice in the individual case , it also facilitates management of the imprisoned man by being a potent force of discipline . It is both carrot and stick . To accomplish this purpose , however , the parole board must define what is " evil " and what is " good . " One would expect the board clearly and explicitly to state what is expected of all prisoners , and its basis for granting or denying parole in every individual case . Without rules it becomes difficult , arbitrary , and capricious to punish men for their violations . But , on questioning , members of the parole board deny even the existence of a general policy . They insist that each case is handled and adjudicated on an individual basis . Yet they refuse to indicate what it is they " individually " seek . The only published guidelines state that the decisions are made in such a way that they , " one , protect the public ; two , conform to the law ; and , three , provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absence of standards violates fair treatment . Professor Kenneth Culp Davis , a leading authority on administrative justice in this country , is particularly critical of this failure of the board to " attempt to evolve principles through case-to-case adjudication . " He shrewdly speculates that " of course , for all I know , the board may have a highly developed system it keeps entirely secret ... it could have policies that would not stand the light of day . " That this might be the case became evident to me during the course of research I conducted between 1967 and 1970 on imprisoned war resisters . I early became aware of the fact that all Jehovah 's Witnesses in prison for violation of the Selective Service Act were routinely granted parole at fifteen to seventeen months . This was certainly reasonable , since they adequately satisfied the stated conditions for parole . But what was not understandable was that at the same period other Selective Service violators were routinely denied parole . In an interview with an employee of the parole board . who demanded anonymity , this was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the policy of the board " to grant parole only to Jehovah 's Witnesses because they alone were considered to be " true COs . " I was disturbed by this distinction between " true " COs and war resisters because , while Jehovah 's Witnesses clearly share certain motivation , it has been in my experience almost impossible to generalize about the war resisters . By lumping them together , they are denied their right to he considered as individuals . I was also disturbed by the readiness of the board to classify people by religious sect and , worse , to establish priorities according to sect . In a hypothetical decision between two men , the facts would appear to be identical : both first offenders , both violators of the same law , both justifying their violation of that law , both having the same sentence , both behaving themselves in prison . And yet , by policy and practice , one of them receives the privilege of parole because he is a member of the Jehovah 's Witnesses , and the other does not . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he informed me that there was no such thing as " board policy " on any matter , that members function as individuals . This was astonishing . I pointed out that the statistics showed that Jehovah 's Witnesses were granted parole while others were not , independent of which individual member of the parole board heard the case . He readily agreed to the factsbut insisted that it was not " a matter of policy " ? there was no such thing . I then pointed out the constant reference in records and conversation to the " policy of the board " and referred him to direct quotations : " X is making a good community adjustment . However , whether he is paroled should be in keeping with the board 's current policy governing this type of offence . " I referred him , indeed , to his own publication , Rules of the United States Board of Parole , which discusses methods of settling " general questions of policy . " And , finally , I referred him to a letter from a federal judge asking for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Service violators . He steadfastly denied the existence of any policy , reiterating that members of the board exercised individual discretion . Of course there is such a thing as policy . Shortly after his appointment as chairman , Mr. Reed announced , in a dispatch reported in the New York Times , a new toughening-up policy . He proudly stated that since he had taken office , he had reduced the paroles granted from 45.2 per cent to 39 per cent . The article , which also quoted J. Edgar Hoover as denouncing " leniency in the granting of parole and probation , - further stated that Mr. Reed 's purposes in making the changes were to combat " urban crime " by making paroles more difficult to obtain . But the connection between the parole board 's actions and its purpose is somewhat tenuous . If its purpose is to combat urban crime , it is ironic that those who are paroled earliest are those who are guilty of " crimes of force " ( including assault , kidnapping , and robbery ) . According to the last published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 33.8 per cent of his sentence ? less than any other federal offender . Certainly less than the COs , who serve the highest percentage of their sentences . The only conceivable reason for the board 's failure to publish guidelines , for insisting , contrary to known facts , that it has no general policies , must be self-protection . As long as there are no rules , the board can not be accused of violating them . If there are no precedents , there are no violations of precedent . The absence of rules provides an effective defense against accusations of bias or malice . Each man is sui generis , and the multiplicity of factors involved in the psychological judgments about the rehabilitation of any one man can not be compared with any other . FrHIS COULD OFFER A BASE for an equitable , I if complex , system . It would demand the most detailed exploration of each individual case with some analytic finesse . But the board 's procedure is no more equitable than its policy ? or lack of it . Each man must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the adult parole board , or by someone from the group of examiners shared with the youth division . ( In the five years that I have been studying the parole board , the number of examiners has varied from two to the maximum allowable of eight . ) No brief is presented , either by the institution or by the prisoner . The prisoner 's file is simply looked at as presented . This is in itself disturbing . because prison files are not consistent or accurate records . I have seen black men listed as white , and Harvard graduates listed with borderline IQs . Knowing how difficult and time-consuming it is to evaluate a man even from an accurate record , I was particularly dismayed when I was advised by an examiner that each man 's record could be adequately appraised in five minutes . I required more than an hour for each individual record ; on the other hand , I had to allow for their greater experience . When I came to the interview it was another matter . I had already heard from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two to five minutes and a board member stated the interview generally required less than ten minutes ) . But here certainly , in interviewing , I have more experience than any member of the parole board , for that is a psychiatrist 's work . When a person applies to the Columbia Psychoanalytic School , he is exposed to four hours of interviews with various men whose professional lives are devoted to the refinement of the art of interviewing . It is readily granted by all in this admission procedure that mistakes are constantly made . We critically reevaluate each interview in two separate group sessions because we realize that an injustice may have been committed due to flaws in our technique , and because the collective experience produces an understanding often significantly different from the mere sum of individual impressions . The parole board has no such group evaluation . Yet their responsibility is immeasurably greater . They are deciding how much of a man 's youth they will take , how much of his hope they will destroy , how much of his spirit they will dissipate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to as the " hearing . " the interviewing board member will then call Washington , where a colleague has presumably reviewed the record . If the colleague concurs , parole is granted or denied , and the matter ends there . Only if there is a disagreement will a third member be consulted . This is what is referred to as a majority decision . When the decision is reached , no justification or rationale is made , no argument presented . In rare cases , particularly where publicity seems certain , the board meets as a group . But all the allusions and references in the official publications that imply group process are so much puff . Until this year , the published rules stated that a majority of five members made each decision . Yet for the past six years the board has been operating on the " emergency procedure " described above . Now the emergency procedure is official ? and in typical fashion , it was not announced regretfully as a necessary expedient , but was extolled as evidence of new efficiency . The documents produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with erasures and misspellings . Opinions and justifications are rarely offered in any detail . What is presented is often capricious or even unconstitutional , such as listing under " liabilities " that a man has " not regularly attended Sunday church services . " These are official , potentially legal , documents , and the worst I have ever seen in Washington ? which , more than the shibboleth of confidentiality , may explain why they are so zealously guarded . There is , of course , no research division to review the board 's methods . The board , unlike the Bureau of Prisons , sees no need for it . With such awesome responsibility , peace of mind alone would seem to demand it but here self-confidence reigns supreme . One staff director , James C. Neagles , is responsible for all data-gathering , statistical studies , and publications , which may explain why , as of this writing , the last available " annual " report covered July 1966 to June 1968 . Mr. Neagles assured me that a new report was imminent . The old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would seem crucial , even if not for publication , to know the percentage of concurrence in decisions . When asked Mr. Neagles if this information was available , he replied that it was not and , further , that it would not be of particular interest . Yet , obviously , it would be one test to indicate the degree of rubber-stamping . Nor is the composition of the board any assurance of diversity or independence . While it talks " multidiscipline , " it appoints " penologists , " and over the years the majority of board members have come up from the penal systems . ' This is not necessarily the only , or best , training ground in behavior evaluation . Appointments in recent years have shown a particular lack of imagination or sensitivity . When Mr. Reed took office as chairman , he found the traditional one black member on the board . Mr. Reed did not recommend his reappointment , nor did he appoint a black man to replace him . In this vast land of ours , not one " qualified " black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Company-Nigger Principle under which most official agencies operate would demand such an appointment . But through two appointments in 1969 and two in 1970 , the board remained innocent of blacks . This year a black man was finally appointed . Prisoners without voices ROFESSOR DAVIS HAS DESCRIBED the performance eof the parole board as " on the whole about as low in quality as anything I have seen in the federal government . " How do they get away with it ? Why has it been tolerated for so many years ? For one thing , the parole board injustices are visited upon a group of people that have no representation . It is the problem with the prison system in general . Usually someone who goes to jail does not know anybody who " counts . " We are now beginning to see more concern about the prison system because , with the marijuana violations , the middle class is being introduced to the prison structure . But still , preponderantly , the prisoner is an impotent man with no access to the Establishment , the media @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ status as a prisoner works against his using the pitifully small resources available to him . It is possible for a prisoner to sue the parole board if he is denied parole unfairly . But given the fact that the same board will be reevaluating him later at another hearing , it is unlikely that he will bring suit . If he does , the possibilities of success are remote ; even with major resources and talent it is a frustrating and difficult test . If sufficient cases were to be taken to the courts , there is good legal opinion that the courts might act . Professor Davis , in his book , Discretionary Justice , offers one of the possible grounds for such action : Because no one ever knows the reason for any decision of the hoard , no prisoner is ever told why the board has denied parole . . . I f he asks why , he is told that the board never gives reasons . I f he presses far enough he may learn that the board itself does not know the reason .. . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most flagrant abuse of discretion is likely to go uncorrected if a board member is in such a hurry to get to his golf game that he votes in sixteen cases without looking inside the files ; no one under the board system can ever know the digerence , even though the personal liberty of sixteen men may be at stake . How could a board member have less incentive to avoid prejudice or undue haste than by a system in which his decision can never he reviewed and in which no one , not even his colleagues , can ever know why he voted as he did 2 Even complete irrationality of a vote can never be discovered . Should any men , even good men , be unnecessarily trusted with such uncontrolled discretionary power ? He concludes with the opinion that the board 's failure to state reasons for its decisions constitutes a clear violation of the Administrative Procedure Act . Mr. Reed disagrees . He denies that his parole board comes under the purview of the act , or that it is eligible for review by any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says , it is a " gift of the government . " by the " grace of the government . " But anyone cognizant of the law knows that it demands of government at least the same equity in the distribution of gifts as of rights . It is not the right of any individual to demand that his village supply him with a swimming pool . On the other hand , if the swimming pool is built , it can not be presented solely to the white members ( nor the Jehovah 's Witnesses ) of the communityas a gift of the government . But this is the traditional defense of the Board of Parole . Perhaps the most encouraging recent development is a decision handed down last May by the United States District Court in Manhattan . Sitting in the case was Judge Marvin E. Frankel , who has earned enormous respect in the federal judiciary in a very short time . His decisions invariably show intelligence , care , open-mindedness , and , above all , a refined rationality . In the case of Sobell v. Reed ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to travel to Los Angeles to give a speech to a Communist party group ) , the judge held that the parole board is , indeed , subject to review under the Administrative Procedure Act . As Judge Frankel saw it , the hoard 's position was so weak as to appear " silly . " Patiently and gently the judge tried to encourage Mr. Reed to give direct testimony that might make a stronger case . He was ignored repeatedly until it became apparent that Mr. Reed would not cooperate . Judge Frankel then decided that this readiness to " avoid at all cost being available in person to impress and enlighten the court reflected no discernible reason of principle or policy and the court indicated it would not be satisfactory . " Without issuing a formal order , the court set a date for a hearing . Nonetheless , Mr. Reed , at the risk of losing his case , refused to appear . Presumably he was unwilling to establish a precedent for the right to judicial review . Judge Frankel found that the Board of Parole had violated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board 's statement that it is outside any court 's power of review , Judge Frankel replied : It would be surprising , and gravely questionable , if Congress had meant to confer such final authority upon any administrative agency , particularly one that makes no pretense to learning in constitutional law . It would he bizarre to hold , as the government 's position ultimately entails , that assertions of constitutional rights like those made here may he overridden without ever being faced and decided by any tribunal of any kind . It will take more than one man 's opinion ? even a federal judge 's to change the parole hoard . It will require a public awareness that crime and violence are not controlled by putting more and more people into prison for longer and longer periods of time ; that you do not serve due process by mocking it ; that men are not trained to value justice by being treated unjustly ; that arrogance does not breed respect , nor humiliation pride : and that hope betrayed leads through despair to desperation . The parole board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board is its servant , the prisoner its trust , and that justice is every man 's comfort .                     