@@494937

Between TRB 's report from Rome on hunger and Colman Mc ? Carthy 's surrealist account in this issue of what the chemists are offering our insides , the reader may conclude that enough has been said for one week about what humans are or are not being fed . Alas there 's more to be told , and it concerns what long ago , in Greece of the fifth century BC , was thought by Pindar to be " the best of all things " ? water . Like so much else , it is n't what it used to be . We are learning painfully that the most promising innovations carry penalties , and some of these penalties lie undiscovered until years after the new machinery has been approved , sold and bolted into place . For instance anti-pollution devices are intended to reduce the amount of SO2 gas expelled into the atmosphere , but now the experts must study the filters to find out whether the sulfuric acid they emit is more dangerous than what they were meant to remove . The latest hazard discovered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drinking city water may be bad for us . Preliminary stud ? ies made by several scientists at different locations this year seem to indicate that the process of chlorination increases the number of cancer-causing elements in the water and exposes city dwellers to a risk not present in the countryside . The discovery has come as some ? thing of a shock , and the EPA plans to make an immediate survey of major water systems to find out whether early suspicions are justified . Recent publicity about drinking water has centered on the findings of Dr. Robert Harris of the Environmental Defense Fund and Dr. Tal ? bot Page of Resources for the Future . Using data mostly collected by others , Dr. Harris put together a report for a New Orleans council ? man demonstrating that the city 's water contains chemicals that have been shown to cause cancer in animals , and that people who are served by city water have a statistically greater chance of dying of cancer than Louisianans who drink well water . This report was not a venture into unexplored territory . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaction to the indifference of local officials to an earlier study of Mississippi River water . Because residents complained about the bad appearance and taste of New Orleans water and the strange flavor of fish caught in the lower Mississippi , the EPA began taking samples from the public water supply in 1967 and analyzing them . Two years ago the EPA published its final report , identifying numerous carcinogenic chemicals it had found . It con ? cluded that these were the source of the " oily-petro ? chemical odor " and warned that " the trace organics in the Mississippi River drinking water supplies are a potential threat to the health of the 1.5 million people who consume this water , " particularly the elderly , the ill and children . The EPA said that filtration with carbon particles might be necessary to clean the water . City officials ignored the 1972 report , as apparently did the EPA , for nothing much happened until this summer when Harris and Edward Brecher wrote a se ? ries of articles on drinking water . In the furor that en ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Louisiana case . Both concluded this month ; both confirmed that carcinogens are present in abundance . So much has been said about health hazards found in the air , food and water ? and in the case of tobacco , with so little effect ? that people greet the discovery of a new source of danger with a yawn . As an example consider the unfortunate lobbyist who chose the wrong analogy in his press release last month . Ralph Harding , president of the Society of the Plastics In ? industry , said that makers of polyvinyl chloride were singled out undeservedly as producers of carcinogens : " Many , many articles in common usage involve haz ? ardous materials in the early fabrication stage . We do n't stop drinking water because it is purified with chlorine . " Warnings about carcinogens may not be taken seriously because we voluntarily consume so many in tobacco smoke that we do n't want to think about what may be happening . In addition carcino ? gens come in such minute doses and take so long to do their damage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between cause and effect . But cancer is on the rise in the US , and Dr. Harris writes that " the rate of increase appears more rapid than either the rate of in ? crease of population or the rate of increase in the total death rate . " More Americans die of cancer each year than the number who died in all the battles of World War II . Harris believes that we minimize the risk of the carcinogens around us because we consider the amounts present " too small to be of significance to the general population . " He argues that most testing to day errs on the side of optimism ? detecting only the gross dangers and deemphasizing chemicals that ac ? cumulate slowly in small quantities , but with deadly effect . Like the World Health Organization , Harris feels that no level of carcinogen pollution , however small , should be tolerated . The case against some city water systems looks strong . In addition to the studies mentioned already , several other reports published this year came to the same conclusion . J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , reported that heavy chlorina ? tion of dirty water produced chemicals in his lab like those being found in American water systems . An EPA researcher working in Cincinnati came upon a similar discovery . T. A. Bellar was trying to develop a process for isolating volatile chemicals in water when he realized that his tap water was loaded with the stuff he wanted to identify . He went out and took samples of water at six points in a Cincinnati treatment plant and found that the concentration of these chemicals increased in stages as the water underwent successive doses of chlorine . ( It is n't chlorine itself that 's danger- ? ous , but the chemicals that chlorine produces when it interacts with other compounds in the water . No one is suggesting that chlorination be stopped . ) The fin ? ished product , tap water , has roughly 10 times as much chloroform ( a carcinogen ) , for example , as the raw water being fed into the plant . And this month Dr. John Laseter , chairman of the University of Louisi ? ana @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same carcinogenic compounds in the blood plasma of New Orleans residents that had been identified in the water system . He says he has " eliminated air as the principal source and tied it down to the municipal water supply . " As Dr. Harris sees it , the difficulty stems from the fact that our 20th-century water plants are designed to fight the 19th-century problem of waterborne bacterial disease , which they do fairly well . One does n't hear about typhoid any more . But there 's little testing to check for 20th-century pollution by metals ( lead , mer ? cury , chromium ) , and there are no standards limiting pollution by such organic chemicals as chloroform and carbon tetrachloride ? both of which can be found in - city water systems today . People have complained for years about the bad smell and taste of tap water , and health officials have reassured them that nothing was wrong . That may change . The Congress appears ready to give the EPA authority to set standards for drinking water throughout the country and to run tests on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have passed legislation , and now the differences must be worked out . EPA now has had power to regulate only " interstate " drinking water ? the kind carried on buses and airplanes . It may be years before we know the extent of domestic spying and undercover skirmishing that went on dur ? ing the Vietnam era , but the government has at last begun to expose the truth . After months of quibbling over details , two agencies last week conceded that what had long ago been reported in the press was so ? ' special teams were organized in the last decade to scrutinize and confound critics of the government . In a report to the Attorney General , a Justice Department * committee describes a top-secret " cointelpro " system ( a contraction of the bureaucratese " counter Intel- . hgence program " ) aimed at home-grown radicals . - Created on the order of late FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover , the scheme called for FBI agents to apply a - little preventive medicine as they watched over suspect * political groups and foreigners . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and certain anti-Vietnam war organizers . Agents - ? , furnished derogatory information about members of target groups to " friendly " journalists for publication , mailed letters on forged stationery to disrupt relation ? ships within the groups , posed as group leaders , issued false instructions and helped employers and credit bureaus identify people who had engaged in ? " illegal , immoral , radical and Communist Party activi ? ties . " In 15 years of meddling , the cointelpro system acted on 2337 proposals and produced " known re ? sults " in 516 instances . The Justice Department review team concludes that while the " great bulk " of these d , interventions was " legitimate and proper , " there were - about 20 actions that " can only be considered abhor ? rent in a free society . " - w While the FBI was cleaning out its dusty closets , the Internal Revenue Service made public 41 memos describing what it had been up to with its Special Services Staff , set up to check the tax returns of political activists . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ralph Nader 's satellite foundations , the Tax Reform and Research Group , which filed suit against the IRS under the Freedom of Information Act this summer , having failed to obtain the memos after formally re ? questing them beginning in October 1973 . The memos * show that shortly after receiving instructions from the White House in 1969 to " move against leftist organizations , " the IRS ordered a staff of clerks to gather up tax returns of those considered to be " ideo ? logical , militant , subversive and radical . . . . " ( The IRS maintains that it acted on its own , without prodding from the White House . ) Among the 99 - " radical " organizations whose names have been re ? leased ( thousands are still secret ) , there are several surprises . Can the IRS have thought the foundations of the republic were threatened by the National Urban League or Americans for Democratic Action ? And what lunatic could have imagined there was some . F , thing potentially subversive about the National Council of Churches of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These names were thrown casually into a pot that included the American Nazi party , the Black Panthers and the Communist party . Under the pressure of bad publicity , the IRS de ? cided to abolish its Special Services Staff in August 1973 . In its brief existence , however , the SSS office had amassed files on 3000 groups and 8000 individuals . The files are still intact upon request of the Senate Watergate committee . A Nader associate says that the purpose of the SSS was " patently not tax-related , but political . " The evidence of that is in the tax liability data it produced . Ordinarily auditors find additional tax liabilities in 60 to 70 percent of the returns they set aside for close examination . ( In 1974 it was 70 percent . ) But the special agents examining the " radical " returns between 1969 and June of 1972 found new liabilities in only 49 cases out of 9800 set aside , or a discovery rate of one half of one percent . Nader 's tax group concludes that the IRS special staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the IRS say they 've stopped doing what they were doing . But the FBI director , Clarence Kelley , has not said it wo n't happen again . Even as his superior , the Attorney General , released the report on Hoover 's cointelpro scheme and called it " not something which we in a free society should condone , " Kelley handed newsmen a somewhat different story . Hoover 's program , he said , " helped bring about a favorable change , " and he envisioned a time when it might be used again . The Watergate trial has slipped off many front pages , but it 's still going on . John Dean has pleaded guilty to his participation in the cover-up , been sentenced and is serving time . Haldeman , Ehrlichman and former Attorney General John Mitchell , along with Mitchell aide Robert Mardian and Nixon committee lawyer Kenneth Parkinson , face possible jail sentences if con ? victed . The former President and 19 others are unin ? dicted co-conspirators . White House tapes played by government prosecu ? tors at the trial show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1973 . The initial cover-up aimed to conceal the involvement of ? and thus protect from criminal prosecution ? White House aides and Nixon campaign officials such as Mitchell and his deputy Jeb Stuart Magruder who planned , directed and funded the Watergate bugging and burglary . Now we know that a second cover-up was designed to hide Mr. Nix ? on 's knowledge and participation in the first cover-up . On January 8 , 1973 White House aide Charles Colson met with Mr. Nixon in the latter 's Executive Office Building office . In their conversation Mr. Nixon showed extensive knowledge of Howard Hunt 's situa ? tion , the injury suffered by Hunt 's daughter and Hunt 's close friendship with columnist William Buckley . The former President suggests that public sympathy could be generated through a Buckley column about Hunt which in turn would make executive clemency for Hunt " a simple case , " in Mr. Nixon 's words . The pur ? pose of clemency ? to keep Hunt quiet on Watergate and other matters ? is clearly understood by Mr. Nixon and Colson . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? gate defendants are n't going to get the same . . . The vulnerabilities are different . " Why ? Because Hunt and G. Gordon Liddy , who Nixon and Colson agree will remain silent , had direct information on meetings , discussions " very incriminating to us , " says Colson . In December 1973 and January 1974 , Special Prose ? cutor Leon Jaworski went to the White House and lis ? tened to tapes of January 1973 conversations between the former President and Colson , none of which con ? tained the passages quoted above . Even after the pros ? ecutor 's office subpoenaed this tape , White House officials , particularly J. Fred Buzhardt , maintained no such conversation had taken place . After Mr. Nixon re ? signed , the January 8 tape still remained a mystery until it was finally delivered ? well after all the others . It is more incriminating of Mr. Nixon than the highly publicized June 23 , 1972 tape , release of which sup ? posedly triggered the former President 's resignation . While there may be some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tape , there can be no such question about incriminating matters deleted from tapes made public last April 30 . On that date , in response to pressure from the House Judiciary Com ? mittee , Mr. Nixon released the transcripts of 46 con ? versations . By doing so , Mr. Nixon wanted to make it appear he was exceeding the committee 's requests . He said that the transcripts " represent the best efforts ac ? curately to transcribe the material contained on the recording tapes . " It was added that " material not relat ? ing to the President 's conduct has been omitted , except where inclusion is relevant and material as bearing on the President 's conduct . " Reporters remembered those criteria as they lis ? tened in Judge Sirica 's court the other day to the April 14 , 1973 conversation among Mr. Nixon and his then aides Haldeman and Ehrlichman . They heard the former President declare in calm , clear tones in refer ? ence to Hunt , Liddy and the Cubans , " . . and before I leave office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ par ? dons . That 's what they have to have John . " And Ehrlichman answers " Right . " That did not satisfy Mr. Nixon . He goes on to ask , " Do you agree ? " To which Ehrlichman replies , " Yep , I sure do . " That exchange was not in the transcript released last April by the White House . In its place was the nota ? tion : " material unrelated to presidential actions . " At a later point in the same conversation as heard in court , the former President asks , " Who was it , Tom Pappas they had to see me ? " They were discussing raising money for the Watergate defendants and Mr. Nixon says to Haldeman : " You told me to see him Pappas , a rich Republican donor . In fact you said he was helping . . . . " The April White House version of that conversation does not include the Pappas refer ? ence . It is replaced by : " material unrelated to Presi ? dential action . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there ? Mr. Nixon 's chief defense counsel James St. Clair said at the time of the April 1974 release that the former President personally supervised the deletions . Buzhardt , St. Clair and former White House chief of staff Alexander Haig directed this latter cover-up at Mr. Nixon 's behest , much as Ehrlichman , Haldeman , Mitchell and Dean acted at an earlier time . While the latter men have been called before the bar of justice , the former have yet to be asked to account for their actions . When Secretary of State Kissinger revisits China this week he is likely to raise among other subjects the possibility of a future encounter between President Ford and Mao Tse-tung , similar to the dramatic meet ? ing that brought former President Nixon and the Chi ? nese Communist party chairman together nearly three years ago . Such a voyage would familiarize Mr. Ford with the Chinese leaders , whom he has never met , and , in the game of triangular diplomacy currently being played by the major powers , it would counterbalance his recent excursion to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agree that a journey by the Presi ? dent to Peking only makes sense if it serves to advance Sino-American relations beyond the present uncon ? ventional liaison ? and herein lies a complicated prob ? lem that has remained unresolved since the historic Nixon trip . The US and China are equally anxious to move rap ? A - idly toward establishing formal diplomatic relations . Mao and Premier Chou En-lai , who are both old and ill , appear to want a firmer link to the US in order to strengthen China 's leverage against the Russians , and , in the process , strengthen its international stand ? ing . Kissinger is also seeking to tighten the Chinese tie as a way of gaining more maneuverability with the Kremlin . His concern for speed also reflects a fear that the struggle for succession that may follow the deaths of Mao and Chou could thwart his efforts to put the US relationship with China on a steady footing . But progress along these lines continues to be blocked by NOVEMBER 3o , 1974 the same obstacle that has stood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Taiwan . The Chinese refuse to concede to a full-fledged dip ? lomatic bond until the US breaks with the Chiang Kai-shek regime , and , by acknowledging their right * to Taiwan , recognizes their sovereignty over all China . Underlying this attitude is their understandable in * sistence that no nation with which they have official links should be permitted to entertain diplomatic relations with their Chinese rival . Implicit in their position is the demand that the US must nullify its defense treaty with Taiwan , since a province can not legitimately maintain a pact with a foreign country . Kissinger is prepared to satisfy the Chinese on this score , but only on condition that they pledge to settle the Taiwan question peacefully , since the Ford admin ? istration would face political opposition at home and the US would lose credibility abroad if the defense treaty with Chiang Kai-shek were scrapped without a guarantee by Peking to renounce the use of force against the island . The Chinese reject this request on the grounds that their handling of Taiwan is an in- temal matter and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a formula of sorts during the Nixon visit to China in February 1972 , but it was a temporary compromise designed to produce the Shanghai Com - . muniqu ? , which rescued the trip from partial failure . Work on the first draft of the communiqu ? actually began during Kissinger 's voyage to Peking in October 1971 , when he and his Chinese counterparts sketched benign generalities into a document but were unable to reach a meeting of minds . on the thorny Taiwan question . It was still a bone of contention by the time Mr. Nixon arrived in China . During that week the Chinese were strenuously trying to persuade Kissin ger to confirm in the final version of the communiqu ? that the US recognized Taiwan to be a province of one China . Only lately have we learned that Dr. Kissinger came close to conceding the point and was restrained at the last minute by Mr. Nixon , who declined unless , the Chinese in turn promised not to attempt a recovery of Taiwan by force . The two delegations haggled over that point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressure on Mr. Nixon to find acceptable language " was heightened by the fact that his trip had been pubIicized as a television spectacular , and he was reluctant to return home empty-handed . Ultimately a unique ? formula was devised . The two sides agreed to disagree . The Chinese stated their position in the communique , affirming that Taiwan " is a province of China " and that its " liberation .. is China 's internal affair in - V which no other country has the right to interfere . " The US , with deliberate vagueness , declared that it " does not challenge . . . that all Chinese on either side of the Taiwan Strait maintain there is but one China and that Taiwan is part of China , " and it called for a " peaceful settlement " of the question by " the Chinese - ' themselves . " 11 The US statement superficially seemed to recognize the Chinese position , and Chinese spokesmen in Peking went to some lengths to emphasize that they had won a major concession . But eventually they would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? represented no capitulation to their view ? point , and in subsequent conversations with visitors Chou En-lai stressed the need to " cut off the tail " of the Shanghai Communiqu ? meaning that its fuzzi ? ness would have to be clarified . The present Chinese stand is that the US ought to emulate the Japanese , who cemented their ties with Peking by rupturing their relationship with the Chiang Kai-shek regime and reducing their presence on Taiwan to a trade of ? fice . Until the US follows that model , the Chinese submit , Sino-American relations will not rise above their current level . One indication that little progress is being made is that negotiations aimed at settling private American claims against China and unlocking Chinese assets frozen in the US and elsewhere have been moving at a snail 's pace for the past couple of years , and there is no visible sign of an agreement in sight . The scien ? tific , technological , cultural , athletic and journalistic exchange program that was supposed to have been broadened under the terms of the Shanghai @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate , and some of the loudest complaints against the Chi ? nese for hobbling it ironically come from Ameri ? can specialists who , before the Nixon breakthrough to Peking , were grumbling that US efforts to achieve a reconciliation with China were inadequate . Many of these specialists contend that the Chinese virtually control the whole operation , since they select the Chi ? nese who visit the US and carefully screen the Ameri ? cans who do get to visit China . The Chinese provoked a certain amount of disappointment in the academic community last year , for example , when they can ? celled a tour by a group of Harvard scholars in retali ? ation against an article by Prof. John Fairbank that they considered to be " unfriendly , " and soon after they inexplicably denied a visa to a member of a Yale delegation . Not long ago , when they vetoed a member of a delegation of linguists because he had served with the Office of Strategic Services in China during World War II , the entire delegation withdrew . The Chinese finally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taste . Similar complaints are heard from business ? men , disenchanted that China trade has not turned out to be as lucrative as they had hoped , and miffed by Chinese bureaucratic methods . Some experts suggest that the recent Chinese appeal to the Russians for a limited rapprochement was , in part at least , calculated to scare the US into modifying its position on the Taiwan issue . It is also said that Kissinger advised President Ford to meet the Soviet Communist party leader Leonid Brezhnev in Vladi vostok , which is located in territory claimed by China , as a way of scaring Peking into a less intransigent line . The real problem on both sides is largely internal . The Peking leadership can not compromise on Taiwan without arousing the hostility of Chinese factions that have consistently looked for a pretext to attack the new US relationship . And the Ford administration can not unilaterally abrogate the US commitment to Taiwan without incurring the wrath of right-wing Republicans , who would accuse it of abandoning the island to the Communists , and liberal Democrats , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taiwanese to determine their own status . A critical element in the current equation that wor ? ries both Washington and Peking is the prospect that the government on Taiwan may give up its illusory notion that it represents all of China and declare the independence of the island . Such a step would damage Sino-American relations for years to come . It can only be averted if the US and China elevate their present arrangement to a formal diplomatic link ? and that is why Kissinger and the Chinese ought to be mobiliz ? ing their best lawyers to invent a durable compro ? mise that overcomes their differences . The glop oozed in the cooking pan in a lava-spread of fakery . Mingled with the sauce , like rocks in creek-bottom muck , were artificial meatballs , a concoction of imitation beef with textured vegetable protein , all of it flavored by a mystery chemical called D515 . Next to the pan were toothpicks and napkins , and a slap-happy cook urged you to nibble . The fake meatballs were free , sample munchies from the Bush Boake Allen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ com ? pany had rented space on the vast floor of the River-gate Convention Center a few blocks from the French Quarter . Its exhibit booth was one of 290 at the 34th annual meeting in New Orleans this year of the Insti ? tute of Food Technologists . These are the fake food artists ? the chemists , engineers , researchers , additive mixers and other rabids , offering a vision of a world in which we will be led by the tongue to the brimming lid of an all-chemical blender , when food will come to us not from home kitchens but from Laboratory Central owned by Feed-o-Matic , Inc. , from one super vat of test tube potions in which tastes and flavors are measured by stomach-tingle machines . If a stranger comes to the land he will say : I 'm hungry , take me to your chemist . The Institute of Food Technologists will be happy to oblige such a stranger . It presents itself as the saver of the race : " Our members are concerned with the ad ? vancement and application of new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food supply for the benefit of mankind . " But there 's a hearty appetite for profits as well . Stein-Hall tells buyers : " To pile up more sales , look into food modified tapioca for flavor encapsulations . " Neotec Instruments calls out : " New technology for food industry profits . " Virginia Dare Extract Co. says : " To boost your sales and profits , Vintage Vanilla is the vanilla you need . " Even as they scratch at the scabs carried by consum ? ers from the wounds of high food prices , the fake food artists wage war games against nature . Durkee offers " technology that tops nature . " Givaudan , makers of 4 imitation beef , chicken and lobster flavors , has " flavors that nature envies . " Glidden Organics ? producers of a bloody mary mix using a new tomato oil ? comes on saying " our nature is to improve on nature . " Norda " takes nature further . " It is as though these companies were announcing that the Second Creation has come and in the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chemists hang a fake apple . Indeed , in the tradition of proud devils , one firm goes beyond Mother Nature to take on God the Father : Seacor , in ocean kelp , states that " All algins come from the same original manufacturer . Then we go Him one better . " All this would be of little public concern , except that the cries of " Bon Chemical Appetit ! " come when increased warnings are being sounded about the health dangers of many American foods . It is no longer just the carrot juice and yogurt groupies who worry ,                     