@@488058

Mr. Gummere , a member of the Columbia University placement office and former director of admissions at Bard College , is working on a book , How To Survive Education , to be published by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich . " I 'm taking a course in sculpture , " Bill volunteers when we meet on College Walk . By the end of sophomore year , he 's become an adept student and a varsity football wheel-horse . You 'd think he 'd consolidate those gains for a while . But now he has a new look  --  a bit insurgent , if not subversive . On his head he sports a tam-o ' - shanter , at his throat a loud silk scarf . Why sculpture ? " Because it helps me cope . It gets me away from all those abstractions . " Bill gestures impatiently toward a classroom building . In an academic climate polluted with too many words , he now works with things ; from lecture halls quarantined against deep feeling he escapes into a studio pervaded with it . Whereas another student pores over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present satisfaction . Whereas others learn for their own benefit , he learns in order to share his insights , perhaps even with a crowded gallery . The number of such revolutionaries is growing , and they are a greater threat to the academic establishment than are those who seize buildings and rough up administrators . Quietly turning from the traditional subjects to take courses in sculpture , painting , dance , film , drama ; music and writing , they are changing our colleges and universities at their core  --  the curriculum . " Man must learn to live aesthetically ' or cease to be man  --  cease to be , that is , an animal who responds meaningfully to challenge . Everyone must some day ' become an artist  --  or a saint . " This pronouncement came last year from Eric Larrabee , provost of the State University of Buffalo . Art , he predicted , will soon replace science at the center of higher education . Past experience supports him : - grand academic reforms occur after crises like today 's , when events are heady , students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curriculum has undergone three revolutions since the universities were created 1,000 years ago . The first was from the simple grammatical studies of the Dark Ages to the theology and argument of Mediaeval Scholasticism ( " Can angels converse with men ? " ) ; the second , in the Renaissance , to that revival of ancient authors and worship of words called Classicism ( " How did Cicero say it ? " ) ; and the third , to late 19th-century scientism and the reign of analysis ( " Do the data fit the hypothesis ? " ) . At each overthrow , a radical new academic subject transformed the others . In the Middle Ages , it was logic ; in the Renaissance , ancient literature ; in the 19th century , science . By now not only has- that latest intruder overrun the colleges but the social studies and humanities have even copied it . Their scholars try ' to be objective and cool ; they try to explain things by counting them , if possible , or at least by analyzing them . But too much emphasis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the system of higher education . To revive it , another revolution is now brewing . Faculty and students will turn from the analysis of culture to the making of it . Scientism will give way to creativity . The new radicalizing subject will be art . In America how is academic . revolution accomplished ? We have had only one example  --  the replacement , a century ago , of the classics by the sciences . A few progressive faculty started it . Next , many students joined in . Finally , half a dozen college presidents took command . In the Renaissance , men like Petrarch had shown that the ancient pagan authors could help rejuvenate a tired Europe , but the first American educators imported the classical studies not so much for the wit of Horace , the romance of Virgil , the passion of Sophocles as for the tough discipline of learning Latin and Greek . A few educators , like Ezra Stiles , president of Yale in the late 18th century , triggered the scientific reaction against this misdirected classicism . Though a conservative theologian ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ astronomy and meteorology . He even instructed his young men about electricity , using a spark generated in a contraption sent him by Benjamin Franklin . Then students stepped up the revolt , often violently . For some reason , the Princetonians were the most violent . During the first half of the 19th century , they several times occupied Nassau Hall , barricading the building and defending it against all corners , including the town constables , with a missile arsenal of Latin dictionaries and chamber pots . Once , the students paraded in front of Nassau armed with dirks and firearms . But the academic revolution was at its most formidable in the students ' ? own scientific and literary societies . On many campuses , the young men were as creative as they were violent . A visitor to Haverford College during the 1860s might expect an invitation to an evening session of the Loganian Society by members sporting elegant club badges . He would hear the , chairman askl the committees on botany , mineralogy , zoology and entomology for their , monthly reports on field work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ring the college bell at 4 A.M. to rouse all Haverfordians to watch a meteor shower the astronomy committee was mapping . Most faculty fearfully guarded the curriculum against such impiety . Nature should be approached , to glorify God 's handiwork , not to discover upsetting new facts . In the 1870s , an Amherst biologist could still be banned by his colleagues from further science teaching because for several weeks he kept his students eagerly dissecting the clam . As today , a few creative presidents were needed , strong enough to be champions of drastic change , . The Harvard trustees found one first in a 35-year-old chemistry professor , Charles W. Eliot , who was a match for any faculty Goliath . Several other major universities were soon headed by irresistible progressives . By the end of the century , laboratory science was being taught in all but the most pious colleges . Under the influence of science , the entire curriculum has been , broken up into narrow specialties . Though yoting people are eager to learn how to relate the liberal arts one to another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anthropology , , nstronomy , economics . They require students to take each chunk in almost complete isolation from ' any other chunk . A young man told me of a dream in which he lay on an operating table where his professors , the better to teach him their subjects , were carving him into sections . Furthermore , science has reached into all Other fields and tempted scholars to overindulge in analysis . For example , during ' the last two or three decades , English faculties have lionized Henry James . The complicated life and work of this fastidious expatriate can be elegantly analyzed  --  on how many levels do James 's symbols operate ? Does psychology or melodrama predominate in his novels ? Was his rejection , of his country really a rejection of his father ? Can the stylistic complexity of his later work be attributed to his dictating it ? By such unromantic inquiry humanists would emulate chemists . Also , the objectivity of the scientist has been all too contagious . When imitated by scholars in other fields it degenerates into timidity . Society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Why does money inflate ? Why has alcoholism spread ? Academic scholars are expected to suggest answers , but they ca n't ? because too much of what they know is , as David Riesman says , " on a plateau of low-level abstraction , neither concrete enough for reality-testing nor conceptual and detached enough for philosophical reorientation . " Finally , pseudo-science has aggravated the old American academic vice of continually testing and marking of students . It destroys their zest . " Why withdraw from English 3306 ? " I asked another student . " I see Bernard Shaw 's plays on the reading list , " he replied , " and want to enjoy them . " " But why withdraw ? " " Oh , come on , " he reproached me , " with mid-terms , finals and a term paper ? And a mark ? " Like him , too many students turn off . They will turn on again when another subject liberates higher education . The only one now ready to do so is-att . Art has been on the campitses " for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days , as when President Witherspoon brought his bride baCk to Princeton and an instrumental ensemble serenaded the pair from the belfry of Nassau Hall . For a few decades before the Civil War , college histories record a growth of . student art , probably influenced by John Ruskin and the Pre-Raphaelites . According to historian Frederick ' Rudolph , students in the 1850s founded , organized , and financed the museum that still flourishes at Nilliams College : In addition to providing a collection of masters , they displayed their own work , including the design of a gymnasium for- the college . At length , the arts were allowed into the curriculum  --  reluctantly . In 1874 , the Harvard catalogue announced two new courses for undergraduates , one a studio course in drawing and painting , the other art history " as related to literature . " The- studio did not flourish . Until today , at Harvard and elsewhere , candidates for the liberal arts bachelor 's degree have been allowed only a few credits for studio work . If they want more , they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art school . But art history has prospered . It is bookish ; it can be analyzed and talked about by scholars . Students can beset to reading , and writing about it . It has been made into a specialty , and few artists teach it . One sculptor who does said to me of his art history colleagues , " They hate art . " They admit it to their departmental curriculum only if it is emasculated . A - liberal arts student can study , even major in , musicology or dramatic literattire , but he can get little or no academic credit for taking music or drama . He can , indeed , use the new art facilities , contain- , ing studios , practice rooms , and theatres if he- attends ' Marietta , Harvard , St. Lawrence , Birmingham Southern , and hundreds of other colleges . He can even study under real artists . But he soon perceives that the , general faculty , as well as , the art historians , musicologists and professors of dramatic literature , Jim Crow these intruders and refuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I once heard an eminent musicologist snort with contempt over the-growing enrollment of string players at his university 's conservatory . - - This pride will have its fall as more students , their eyes opened by the campus revolution to the artificiality - of traditional studies , rediscover creative art . Some al-ready see it not as an academic option but as a revolu-tionary act . After Columbia 's first " bust , " a student changed his program from doctoral work in history to master 's work in painting . " I began to resent all those learned , witty men condescending to me . " At the same time , an undergraduate majoring in - political science rescheduled his senior year to include ' all the work he could get credit for in sculpture . Another chose to study ? welding , a technique that has becoMe very popular among college art students . One of his - pieces was displayed in a show sponsored by the , School of Art . It is a crucifixion ? its material , automobile springs . ? When denied art as academic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ = found societies , not only to show but to make films . At some large universities they present three or four dozen plays each year . They publish scores of magazines of poetry and fiction . College newspapers run series by student photographers who try to catch the moods of people and the grace of things around college . Seniors replace the Edwardian material of the usual yearbook with Aquarian art and writing . Even campus confrontation can be theatre , if not dance . ' A crowd of protesters in their buckskin jackets , obsolete military uniforms , beads , head bands , striped bell bottoms , battered top hats , and boots does look like the cast of an ' opera . One journalist called such demonstrations " The Choreography of Confrontation . " Campus protest is a challenge to our society to improve . It is a demand by young people for power . Even more , it is an expression of their need for new roles , new forms , new style . On or off campus , this generation is resourceful in finding outlets for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culture . They retreat : into drugs or Canada , into the science fiction and fantasy literature which fills 50 feet of shelves of a well-stocked college bookstore , or onto a motorcycle  --  today 's counterpart for Pegasus . They retaliate : with the boom-boom of rock music , with expert draft counseling , or with the ritualistic sacking of poky communities like Zap , N.D. , the village overwhelmed in last year 's " Zap-In . " They reconstruct : through communes which make a simple product or provide a simple neighborhood service ( Columbia 's Career Information librarian says these enterprises are multiplying fast ) ; through groups formed to speak ; write , and work for ecology ( stimulated at Co " . lumbia by the news that as a polluter of New York City air the university ranks second only to Consolidated Edison ) ; or through efforts to - make their employers give up antiquated ways , like the young insurgents in the State Department who caucused last year to protest its stagna-tion , But whatever else they do , increasing numbers broad ' cast their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more beautiful personal style , ? So why would n't those who stay " on campus press for more art ? Press , that is , for the real thing , not the , pedantry of art history or the professionalism and commercialism of the concert hallS and symphonies , the ' galleries and museums , or Broadway. - Students demand creative art because it is the most social of the academic disciplines ; It counteracts the privacy of their other academic work , A , student who writes up her analysis of the surface tension of a soap bubble , or another who reconstructs the geography of Finnegans Wake , works only for the attention of an in- ' structor , who then responds with a few scribbles in the margin . It is scarcely plausible that students would read their course papers to friends for the pleasure of sharing ' the , ideas . But they paint , act , compose , or dance for a number of others in the college community . They must display their work , or perform it for an audience ; many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artistic creation , a personality converses freely with the world . , Students also want art as mind expansion , for that deeper knowledge which some think they can get only through drugs . Call it meaning . Most academic study now excludes meaning at any effective Level . Says a sophomore studying philosophy : " mg instructors consider it a scholar 's game . " A senior in engineering sums up : " Through all my four years only one of the faculty tried to relate his course to other subjects . " Graduate study is no better . A student seeking an advanced degree in sociology notes : " We get methodology and theory galore , but the department despises social workers . " College students want creative art because its value is immediate . Most of them come from the middle class or are being groomed for it . They have been trained to the Puritan ethic : work not for joy today , but for salvation tomorrow . So they study their way through high school and college to amass credentials , always preparing themselves to survive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vocation . Getting in line for Judgment Day ! But in their art courses they do the work for the doing of it . Its value lies in the execution ; judgment and reward are immediate ; salvation comes not tomorrow but today when someone sees or hears what they 've done and says , " Good . " Finally , students want art because it helps them find out who they are . One of the main functions of schools and colleges has always been to prevent that discovery . Fortunately , ever since the Babylonians , many of the younger generation have nevertheless sought it . Today , in reaction against the most massive academic and social system in history , the young are striving more vehemently than ever to identify themselves . No wonder they turn . to art . " You 've got to think a lot ' about what 's inside you before you dare show it to other people , " warned a Columbia , College sophomore . He was prowling around campus , movie camera in hand , starting on his term assignment in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him shooting - an argument between some touch football players and a gardener Who was supposed to seed a patch of lawn they were churning into March mild . What is the ? danger that the arts , like the other seminal disciplines before them , will be corrupted by the academicians ? Instead of helping man grow greater ; will they also be used to socialize an elite or drill a meritocracy ? I believe not . I believe art will become academically domesticated without suffering the damage that befell the classics and the sciences . In all three disciplines , excellent work requires study , order and no little pain . But art must also be approached as play . In the classics and science , at the level where Erasmus or Einstein fulfilled himself , play ' is essential . But it is essential in art ' at the level where you and I come in . Art is too lively to be sanctified . Instead , it can ' restore the balance in education between mind and spirit . It can enliven science with more wonder at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humanities with more passion ; it can Wake the social and behavioral scientists from their nightmare in which society appears as a crushing juggernaut and let them see it as an absorbing tragicomedy . Art can draw the faculty away from their wizardry . It can give the students that gift for which King SOlomon prayed=an understanding heart .                     