@@479267

ALL great nations play the game . There are only two principal rules . The first is that no rival nation or combination of rivals can be allowed to become powerful enough to threaten your own power ? not merely your physical safety but your capacity to impose your will on such others as you choose . That is the time-honored principle of Balance of Power . The second rule is that all the world is the playing field . There are no spectators . Every nation , no matter how small , insular , or neutralist in outlook , is a potential member of somebody 's team . If it has not yet been chosen , or , more accurately , dominated , then there is a " power vacuum " that you must exploit before the other team does . Taken together , the two rules guarantee an unending competition for high stakes on a vast and absorbing scale . To keep the game going , you must be prepared to be flexible about your enemies , ready to change them when the game so requires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into allies , as frequently happens in international relations , new enemies must be found , new threats must be discovered . The failure to replenish the supply of enemies is the supreme threat facing any national security bureaucracy . But the U.S. national security establishment has been remark . ably adept at keeping up with history . It may , as in the case of defeated Germany and Japan , pay the losers substantial amounts of money for the privilege of winning . Indeed , they have to do it to keep the playing field in repair . And now , as relations with China begin to easeand the United States prepares to adjust to the departure of Chiang Kai-shek from the scene and the final collapse of the dream of restoring the ancien regime on the mainland , a new rationale will develop for retaining American bases on Taiwan and deploying an armada in the far Pacific . Presumably it will be the threat of new Japanese militarism . " In the Game of Nations , " an Egyptian politician once pointed out , " there are no winners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not so much to win as to avoid loss . " Problems do not get solved . They are managed . Success is achieved if disaster is averted or even postponed until the next administration . When his term of office came to an end in the ignominious stalemate of Vietnam , Dean Rusk looked back on his eight years with satisfaction , he said , because nuclear weapons had not been used . security manager , the game is what makes the job exciting . Assistant Secretary of De-fense John T. McNaugh-ton , who had been work-ing fourteen hours a day , weeks on end , at the height of the preescalation planning on the Viet-nam war , once exclaimed to his assistant , " I could n't stand this job if I did n't love it . " A man is attracted to the work because he is intrigued by power , more than by money or fame . Dean Rusk , Robert McNamara , and McGeorge Bundy did not expect to enrich themselves serving the state . Indeed , Robert McNamara , whose desire for financial success had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have lost a considerable sum when he was obliged to sell his stocks to gain his office , just like Charles Wilson and other Secretaries of Defense before him . Dean Rusk , who , on one occasion at least , let it slip in the gossip columns that he had exhausted his savings and did need money , hardly expected that his job would make his fortune , and it did n't . He told a visiting professor a few weeks before leaving office that he was " broke and unemployed . " What , then , makes the game worth unending hours of dreary meetings and sleepless nights ? One national security manager to whom I put the question answered immediately : " The sense of playing for high stakes . " Once exhilarated by proximity to Promethean power , it is hard to go back to dealing with corporate bonds , advising clients on mergers , making raincoats , lecturing students , or anything else in the comfortable world of commuter trains . In the Kennedy era the national security managers called themselves " crisis managers " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their " finest hour , " as many of them have written , was the Cuban missile crisis , when , for perhaps the first time in human history , the fate of world civilization hung in the balance . Like Henry V on the eve of the Battle of Agincourt , the modern militarized civilian believes that he will be remembered and measured by the great contests in which he participates . It is here that he can put his mark on the future . The challenges come as portentous decisions in an atmosphere electric with risk . THE confrontation model pervades every area of in-ternational politics . One State Department official greeted the preliminary skirmish over a site for the " contacts " that were sup-posed to lead to " discus-sions " for ending the Vietnam war as if it were Armageddon . When the Vietnamese agreed to meet in Paris instead of Warsaw , the official ex-claimed proudly to a New York Times reporter : " There we were right off the bat ? eyeball to eye-ball on a question of prestige as well as pro-cedure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 're one up . " When the Soviet Union canceled the tour of the Broadway company of Hello , Dolly ! in Moscow ? presumably in furtherance of its aid commitments to Hanoi ? Lyndon Johnson , " mad as hell , " summoned Dean Acheson to think up an appropriate response to so ignominious a defeat . When the former Secretary of State , to his credit , told the President to forget about it , Johnson angrily dispatched the troupe for a retaliatory run in Saigon . There is a second foundation stone in the bureaucratic model of reality that no one who likes to be driven to the office in an official limousine for have his desk banked with flags or thrill to a hurried summons to the White House Situation Room ) is disposed to cast aside . It is the official theory of human motivation . All killing in the national interest is carried out in strict accordance with certain scientific principles concerning human behavior . It is these principles that persuade Presbyterian elders , Episcopalian wardens , liberal professors , and practitioners of game-theory rationalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Killing and threatening to kill foreigners are rational , necessary , and effective instruments for building what President Nixon calls " a generation of peace " and what Dean Acheson twenty-five years ago called " situations of strength . " The official theory of human nature is a hopelessly oversimplified derivative of the rat psychology many of the national security managers learned in college . If you want to motivate a rat , give him a piece of sugar or hit him with a painful jolt of electricity . In international politics , however , it is dangerous to be overgenerous with the sugar ; that is " appeasement , " which , as the history of the prewar period showed , merely whets rat appetites . But while politicians feel they can not make very many political concessions without losing the game , their panoply of weapons to burn , blast , poison , or vaporize the rat is practically limitless . Such " negative reinforcement " will make him less dangerous and will be a good example to all other rats . In September 1946 . Clark M. Clifford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on U.S.-Soviet relations that laid out the analysis and policy recommendations that have dominated the last generation of move and countermove . The crucial paragraph perfectly embodies the rat-psychology view of politics : The language of military power is the only language which disciples of power politics understand . Cliflord here means them , not us . The United States roust realize that our government is determined to uphold the interest of its citizens and the rights of small nations . Compromise and concessions are considered , by the Soviets , to be evidence of weakness , and they are encouraged by our " retreats " to make new and greater demands . So pervasive is this mechanistic view of human motivation that it can withstand a great deal of hard empirical evidence about how human beings actually react to coercion . George Kennan , in problem by bombing the Soviet missile sites . advice that the President disregarded because he thought it risked a nuclear war and a minimum of 150,000,000 fatalities . Once the crisis was over , the Chiefs resumed business as usual . Gen. William Westmoreland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in Vietnam to the point of disaster , was rewarded with an appointment as Army Chief of Staff . The outstanding bureaucratic casualties of the Cold War have all been men who took modest risks to promote conciliation rather than confrontation . When he was surrounded by angry Harvard students milling around his car , Secretary of Defense McNamara , standing on the hood , suddenly weary of plastic explanations of the Vietnam war , screamed , " I was tougher than you were then in World War II and I 'm tougher than you now . " He would not even see that the students doubted his humanity , not his machismo . Why is toughness , defined as being comfortable with violence , so admired a character trait and so essential to one 's reputation in the national security bureaucracy ? Obviously these are men with well-developed power drives . One national security manager , who held a high position in the Defense Department , told a visiting psychoanalyst , without a trace of embarrassment , that the recurring dream of his boyhood was to be king of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , liked to talk about the United States as the " locomotive at the head of mankind pulling the ' caboose ' of humanity along behind. - Men with enormous power needs abound in American society . Boardrooms , gentlemen 's clubs , flag officers ' dining rooms , the Senate , and university laboratories are filled with them . Indeed , Americans have so come to expect the power-hungry look in their leaders that when a figure with a less developed craving , like Adlai Stevenson or Eugene McCarthy , comes along . he is regarded as something of an American Hamlet . However , men of power in America are not usually violent in everyday life . Indeed , one essential element of the gravitas characteristic of the successful manager is a capacity for exquisite self-control . In talking with equals , the national security manager goes out of his way not to ruffle feelings , and he has an absolute horror of making a scene . The predilection for violence that marks the national security bureaucrat results from the conjunction of a power-hungry social character and an inherently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems far more important . The obvious but fundamental fact is that for the Number One Nation , the use or threat of violence has seemed easier than all other methods of getting its way with the outside world . There isa huge superfluity of force . If a foreign-policy problem can be converted into a military operation , the responsible officer can count on getting action . The problem may not be solved ; it may eventually be complicated , as in Vietnam ? but the wheels of government will move . Managers are concerned with process , not results , because in the game view of international politics there is no end . John F. Kennedy called the State Department a " bowl of jelly , " in part because foreign service officers are cautious and conservative , but , more important , because by nature diplomacy is slow business . To put it in the simplest terms , in the age of well-developed lethal technology it takes much less time to kill a man than to change his mind or your own . THE national security manager operates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ignorance . James C. Thomson , Jr. , an officer in the National Security Council during the Vietnam escalation , notes that the men who made the basic decisions about Vietnam had only the shallowest knowledge about the place . One reason Vietnam was so quickly elevated as a symbol of national security is that the people at the top knew virtually nothing about the reality . Walt Rostow liked to write learned memos about the " Southeast Asians , " lumping people of a hundred cultures divided by ancient animosities into a single convenient target , much as the statesmen of the Eisenhower era converted the rest of the world outside North America and Western Europe into a manageable unity by calling it the " gray areas . " High-level managers are forced by the circumstances of their job to become generalists . To serve the President and retain his confidence , which is the only source of their power , they must be prepared to commit themselves to any crisis , wherever and whenever it appears . They also must try to organize the chaotic rush of events @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This means that facts must be fitted into available theories , for there is neither the time nor the energy to change theories in which bureaucracies have huge investments . Obscure events must be immediately located in a familiar ideological landscape . It is for this reason that State Department planners were talking about the " Sino-Soviet bloc " four years after the split in the Communist world had exploded into public view . There is. of course , no particular reason why investment hankers , generals , Texas politicians , or deans of colleges should know anything about Vietnamese politics . Often they know little about the political forces in their own communities . In addition , once they occupy their offices , they become willing victims of a social process that compounds their ignorance . In a bureaucracy there is a clear correlation between rank and credibility . Generals , ambassadors , and cabinet ministers can safely pronounce inanities that would end the careers of junior officers . Secretary of State Rusk once disposed of a complicated disarmament issue by observing that " we must project our power . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a corporate delusion that a rational decision had been made . The sense of omnipotence , which Denis Brogan and others have identified as the source of American interventionist policy , is the product of many individual illusions . These illusions , which are easy to acquire , are products of the bureaucratic process itself . Most of the information the national security manager receives in the course of an official day tends to reinforce his prejudices , and he is adept at filtering out unwelcome complications . Reports that contradict official wisdom , such as those that suggested the U.S. was not winning the Vietnam war , are viewed not as truth ? the personal implications of accepting them as true would be too serious ? but as public-relations problems to be dealt with in some way . Socially too , the managers are insulated from countervailing views or information . After all , they put in the longest days in America since the abolition of the sweatshop . ( Working evenings and weekends is itself a proof of success . For Robert McNamara the job began around 7:00 A.M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually to go to a dinner or reception where he would continue to discuss the same problems he had talked about all day , with essentially the same people . This nearly perfect insulation of the national security managers leads them into the trap of collecting isolated facts and figures . McNamara was of course the leading specimen in the national security bureaucracy of homo mrither ? alicus , i.e. , men who behave , and believe that other men behave , primarily in response to " hard data , " usually numbers ( infiltration rates , " kill ratios , " bomb tonnage ) . Like the detective on television , they are always looking for " the facts . " In the process they miss reality . They never get close enough or related enough to another society to do more than count things in it . If you relate to a country as a military target , you do not need to know anything about it except such details as are easily supplied by reconnaissance satellites , spy ships , secret agents , and the like . You @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Your job is to count.Things that stay still long enough to he counted are either inanimate or dead . PERHAPS the most important quality in a man seeking nonviolent , political solutions to national security problems is objectivity , and this is the quality that is least in evidence . The man who tries to understand or explain the point of view of the adversary can be accused of defending him . For someone to have suggested in April 1961 that the Cuban people were not likely to revolt against Castro because he was a popular leader , far more popular than the emigres the U.S. was supporting , was to sound pro-Castro . To suggest that the Soviet Union 's moves in Eastern Europe after the war were a reflection of deep-seated security fears rather than the first step toward world conquest was to be a Soviet apologist . In the game of international politics , practitioners must be fiercely partisan . The United States is the client , and the task of the manager is to increase her power and influence in the world , whatever the cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they are above all law , is a daily operating rule in the national security bureaucracy . In that hermetic world there are neither neutral principles nor reciprocal obligations . The fact that the United States would be outraged if Chinese , Soviet , or Cambodian aircraft flew over Washington is not viewed as having a bearing on the right of the U.S. to carry on such activities over other peoples ' territories at will . Dean Acheson summarized the prevailing code . In discussing the Cuban missile crisis he said that since the " power , prestige , and position " of the United States had been challenged , " law simply does not deal with such questions of ultimate power . " Like the manager of a soap company who paces himself by the bars of soap the corporation sells . the national security manager also measures his worth by how well his organization is doing . As John Kenneth Galbraith has pointed out , people in government , unlike poets , opera singers . and brain surgeons , are sustained by organizations . The defeated politician or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foundation to manage " faces total obscurity . " Generals and admirals and their civilian superiors invariably believe that what is good for the Air Force or the Navy is good for America . A few days after becoming Secretary of the Navy . Paul Nitze discovered a " power vacuum " in the Indian Ocean and a new " requirement " for the fleet . At a Congressional hearing on the B-36 , a proposed new bomber for the Air Force . Admiral Arthur Radford denounced nuclear deterrence as " morally reprehensible . ' ' It was not until the Navy invented the Polaris submarine-launched nuclear missile that the Admiral decided the peace of the world depended on the hydrogen bomb . flage . " Attack objectives " are easier to think about than the mutilated , weeping , and dazed human beings who will be the actual target of the bombs . " Pacification " trips off the tongue far more easily in a Pentagon briefing and looks better on the page of a neat memorandum than phrases that would actually describe the death and suffering to which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language as well . The routine use of such terms as " power vacuum " disguises a major policy premise and forecloses debate on what is actually a highly debatable proposition . The idea concealed by the term power vacuum is that a weak country must inevitably be dominated by a stronger one , that the power of one or the other of the Great Powers will " flow into " the country . The implication inherent in the term is that it had better be U.S. power that flows in . Thus the unacceptability of neutralism or national independence for weak countries is built into the working vocabulary of the national security manager . Perhaps the most striking characteristic of bureaucratic language is the recurrent imagery of manipulation . " The timing and crescendo " of operations " should be under our control . " " We should rev up Mr. X to explore negotiations . " " The United States Government might do better to carry forward the war on a purely unilateral basis . " " How should we permit negotiations to develop ? " Such random quotations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They reinforce the myth of control , the notion that the national security manager , with all the technological power at his command , can play the world like a giant console . Indeed , James Thomson , Jr . recalls that an Assistant Secretary of State in late 1964 proposed bombing and strafing patterns with these words : " It seems to me that our orchestration should he mainly violins . but with periodic touches of brass . " ALL great nations play the game , but few have equaled America 's fervor . In kindergarten games and high-school football contests , in power plays in the offices and board-rooms of great corpora-tions , in the inevitable academic rivalries of universities , and , of course , in the struggles of politics , the overriding objective is to win . The myth of competition and the glory and ex-citement of victory are fundamental to the American way of life . No nation honors its winners more nor is more confused as to what to do with its losers . The compulsion to win projected onto the world stage is called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Number One Nation , " President Lyndon B. Johnson exclaimed at a crucial moment in the Vietnam war , " and we are going to stay the Number One Nation . " The choice , as President Nixon has put it , is between staying Number One or becoming " a pitiful , helpless giant . " The object of the game is to be in a position to do whatever you want to do , whenever you decide what that is . Chips are called options . But the multiplicity of options the national security managers seek have helped to compound some of their most monumental errors . The broader the canvas , the wider the discretion , the more remote the objects of one 's plans ? the greater the risks of tragic mistakes . National interest is a meaningless standard . The crushing problem for policy planners in mid-century America is that they did not , and could not , know what were the real interests of the American people . The world was moving too fast . They explained and rationalized their choices by using the analogies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motion did not , in fact , resemble those of the familiar world in which they had received their political education . Ho Chi Minh was not Hitler . Mao was not Stalin . Castro was not Mossadegh . De Gaulle was not Napoleon . Thus it was that some of the greatest short-term manipulative triumphs turned out to be longer-term defeats . The American complicity in the assassination of Diem was a technical masterpiece . ( Everything worked beautifully Kennedy 's precautions for keeping most of the U.S. government in the dark , Henry Cabot Lodge 's suave deception of the Premier a few hours before he was dragged out of his office and killed , Pierre Salinger 's communique that compounded the deception . ) But the assassination wrecked the political structure in Saigon and almost led to an NIT takeover in 1964 . Who could have known whether it was in the American national interest " to sink or swim with Diem , " as some advisers were insisting at the time , or to replace him with a more pliable puppet ? This is the kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the post-imperial world . The game of nations has become too hard to Play . There are too many players . Empires are becoming impossible to manage . The attempt to play the imperial game is bringing horror , death . and misery to millions of people . It is recognition of this fact that has led to the attempts ? at Nuremberg , in the U.N . charter , at the Geneva convention ? to set rules of the game . The game of nations is now so dangerous that even those who manage the world 's most powerful nation must , for their own survival , learn to live within the law .                     