@@494754

Correspondence Busing Sirs : Your November 20 cover comment pays lip service to school desegregation by ostensibly rebuking the Congress , but opposition to busing is the thrust of the piece . There are genuine questions associated with this issue , but sloppy analysis and dubious legal assertions do not advance the inquiry . The recent Northern cases to which you refer , together with at least ten others like them , all involve de jure segregation , so it is at best a non sequitur to say that the Supreme Court has " declined to involve itself " in the de facto ( sic ) situation . Similarly , if you are correct that most other urban districts are legally vulnerable , then it does not follow that the demise of " legally induced school segregation " is " fast approaching " . ; unless , of course , the key clause in the latter sentence is the reference to the Brown case . In that event , you are implying that only classical statutory segregation is illegal , which is a legally indefensible proposition at this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than school desegregation itself , causes white flight is naive if not disingenuous . Your piece cites , but then ignores the implications of , the Berkeley evidence , which suggests that something other than busing is the determinative variable . Time magazine ( November 15 , p. 60 ) reports that the San Francisco Chinese " sense of community " to which you refer is a socially acceptable euphemism for reluctance to go to school with black children . The point here is less that you may be wrong about what underlies this phenomenon than that you owe your readers and your own traditions a more careful analysis of this issue , especially since the Supreme Court has repeatedly held that white opposition to desegregation , including by flight , is an impermissible basis for maintaining illegal segregation . NOTES ON CONTRIBUTORS KATHERINE GARRISON CHAPIN 'S most recent volume of poetry is entitled The Other Journey . JOHN L. THOMAS teaches history at Brown University . JONATHAN YARDLEY is book ? editor for the Greensboro Daily News . The assertion4 that segregation can not be ended by a " categorical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results of primary and secondary education " are remarkable in that both , to put it conservatively , are probably wrong . Unless the emphasis in the first proposition was slyly on the phrase " single act of Congress , " which would only partly rescue the misstatement , Congress could constitutionally and practicably legislate the end of virtually all school racial isolation . And that you have found a way to equalize primary and secondary educational outcomes will astound educators , including , I believe , your own Joseph Featherstone . Lastly , your reference to the testimony of Dr. Hamilton is most troublesome because both the argument itself and the use of the testimony are , to put it charitably , misleading . To suggest that " massive school integration " is " the chief objective in public education " of those who espouse busing as a remedy for illegal segregation is a sophomoric canard . To suggest that desegregation and quality education are unrelated , competing goals misrepresents the issues , the views of most educators and lawyers concerned with the problems , and , I believe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he spoke of " mere busing " as an artificial remedy , but he also spoke of the " necessity " of ending de jure segregation and a national enforcement policy against that school segregation which is seemingly de facto but actually the result of discriminatory official policy . He prefers nationally mandated integrated housing to pupil transportation , which is hardly to say that he finds no nexus between school segregation and educational quality . J. Harold Flannery Deputy Director Center for Law and Education Harvard University Cambridge , Massachusetts Sirs : I can not help but regard the November 20 lead comment on school busing as a step backward and away from The New Republic 's historic advocacy of an American society without racial walls . For it is idle to profess this goal and deny the means necessary to it , no matter how painful . There is pain to busing , as you fulsomely point out . But busing is a necessary means to the end of school desegregation . " It is unlikely , " the Supreme Court said of busing in April , " that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without continued reliance upon it . " The issue is not whether " massive school integration " will be the " chief objective in public education . " The issue is whether racial segregation will continue to be the rule in the nation 's schools , as it remains despite recent ? progress in the South . Integration , as the end result of desegregation , is neither a separate nor divergent goal from that of " quality education . " One is necessary for the other for the millions of children now confined to segregated schools . The Coleman report stands as persuasive evidence . And separate never has been and never will be equal . Which is another way of saying that there will be no genuine equalization of educational opportunities without desegregation , even if it takes a bus to get there . Donald Canty Washington , DC Sirs : Your cover editorial of Nov. 20 reveals The New Republic as a fair-weather friend of school integration . When the political bandwagon collides with the school bus , NR is ready to write off integration . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater than any possible educational or social benefits . " It is " foolhardy to concentrate on massive school integration . " Congress , according to NR , should busy itself ( with appropriations ) to make the separate schools equal . All hail " quality education " a la Plessy . But the segregated schools in which millions of our young people are iso:ated have a built-in sure-fail mechanism . They are schools for racism . They do not prepare for interracial amity . And worse , they rob their pupils of the equal opportunity for education affirmed by the Supreme Court 171/2 years ago . All of us are the losers but most tragically the 300,000 pupils trapped in such substandard schools in Los Angeles and many times that many in the rest of the nation 's segregated schools . The fundamental problem is that these young people are not in the right school . With proper planning ( school pairing , redrawn boundaries , and reassignments ) some could walk to integration . Others could be rescued by relocating schools or at school complexes or parks . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be rescued by the glacial advance of residential integration . But for many of today 's victims of educational short-changing , the easiest way to get them to the schooling that they need is to offer them a ride . Is that so preposterous ? It works in Berkeley , Riverside , Sacramento , Inglewood , and far better than you imply in Pasadena and San Francisco . Los Angeles buses 45,000 pupils a day but , as its school board president says , not one for integration . Frightened by the bus , or the bandwagon , NR can wash its hands of school integration , but the nation has an obligation to remove the segregation barrier to equal educational opportunity . John Caughey Los Angeles , Calif . Sirs : It seems that The New Republic is about to join with those liberals in Congress who have fought hard for school desegregation in the South and are abandoning it now that it is moving northward . In the first half of its November 20 , 1971 , article The New Republic forcefully condemns the House of Representatives for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the article it calls into question the entire concept of school desegregation . To begin with , federal courts are not finding " southern-style de jure segregation and urban-style de facto racial isolation to be quite blurred . " They are finding that what had been described as de facto racial isolation is indeed de jure segregation , i.e. , segregation brought about as a result of official action . School officials in the North who gerrymandered school boundary lines , contained inner-city minority children in schools overcrowded or loaded with portable classrooms , selected new school sites on the basis of minority group composition of neighborhoods , and concentrated minority group ? teachers only in minority group schools created segregated school systems just as surely as did state laws in the South . And on top of this , actions of other northern government officials ? discriminatory zoning laws , biased mortgage financing of homes , and segregated public housing , to name a few ? locked tight the school segregation . The New Republic goes on to deal in the kind of gross generalities for which northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It says " . . busing is a problem . When it is long distance and is imposed on elemen- tary school as well as older children , it carries real costs , and they are not only financial . " " Long distance " busing under even metropolitan-wide school desegregation plans is the rare exception not the rule . In fact , suburban school districts are becoming so heavily engaged in bus iransportation for reasons other than desegregation , that rerouting of bus schedules and an extra five-minute ride could accomplish a good deal of metropolitan school desegregation . And what are the " real costs ? " The New Republic is satisfied with the statement that " its busing adverse effects on the education and well-being of the children , black and white , are gieater than any possible educational or social benefits that may be derived from it , , will in many instances be justified , " without any elaboration . Actually , though test results are admittedly contradictory , the majority have shown that school desegregation is the most effective way to improve the academic achievement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in rate of achievement of nonminority children . Test results of various compensatory education programs have generally been much less encouraging . In addition , the Traffic Safety Council has found that riding a bus to school is safer than walking . And The New Republic says nothing about the adverse affects of increasing polarization in the country which school segregation only exacerbates . As for the " desire . . . for a sense of community " and " the community control movement , " these are important concepts , but it is ironic that the same white power structure which has denied resources to and , therefore , broken many community control movements among minority groups , is now vocalizing the greatest concern for them , and in terms of meeting minority group peoples ' demands ! This white power structure also chiefly represents the most mobile citizens in a metropolitan area ? citizens for whom a ten or fifteen minute ride to a desegregated school PTA meeting could well be shorter than the ride to the office , a preschool child 's private nursery school , country club @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nothing is more absurd than the statement that , " The time is fast approaching when the condition of legally induced school segregation with which the court dealt in Brown v. Board of Education will have been eliminated . " Every northern court which has ordered school desegregation has found " legally induced school segregation . " Brown was dealing with " state-imposed school segregation . " The difference between the two types of discrimination is so miniscule that the whole line of cases emanating from Brown are equally applicable in northern school desegregation cases . Cynthia Brown Washington , DC Nixon Watch Sirs : I noted John Osborne 's piece in the New Republic of November 6 - particularly his reference to a profane remark attributed to the President . The President 's use of this obscenity in describing the ABA was supposed to have taken place during a meeting in the President 's office on the morning of Friday , October 22 . I happened to be present for that entire meeting . I would like to set the record straight : The President did not use the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have great respect for your reporter , John Osborne . He is one of the ablest observers of the Washington scene and one who attempts to be as honest as a reporter can be in this city . Unhappily , his source misinformed him in this instance . The simple fact is that in the many hours I have spent with the President I have never heard him use the word attributed to him in Mr. Osborne 's piece . John D. Ehrlichman Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs Social Security Sirs : The article by Robert W. Dietsch in the Nov. 28 issue on social security , was searching and analytical . The system is in dire need of reform . One large segment of the economy which you did not refer to , and which is suffering perhaps even more than the wage earner , is , the small businessman and the farmer-rancher . Unless you are big enough to incorporate and pay yourself a salary , you must not only match the deduction of the wage earners you employ , but you are hit again at 150 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for yourself , as a self-employed person . This you may elect not to do , if you are not making a reasonable profit , i.e. , if you are not making enough to be required to pay income tax , or if you are in the red for the year 's operation . My situation is ranch owner-operator , where I employ two to five persons , depending on the season and work load . My suggestion to our congressman , John Melcher , was . that persons employing less than perhaps ten employees be relieved of the necessity for matching the deduction , of the employees . His reply was that one would be tilting at windmills to try to get such a provision put into law . A carbon copy to Senator Mansfield brought the reply that some relief for farmers and ranchers and other small businessmen should result from tax reform . But as Mr. Dietsch points out , this kind of thing is being defeated right down the line . No one contributes to my retirement , except my veterans ' retirement , And I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two service connected disabilities . I would prefer to have the social security system scrapped , and allow us to provide for ourselves by either commercial or government insurance . The present inequities are being crammed down our throat ! Any retirement plan should be voluntary . We have lost a valuable freedom in the social security system , where we are required to provide for retirement . Jerome Phelan Chinook , Montana Emma Goldman Sirs , : In his reconsideration Living My Life , ( November 27 ) Mr. Lynn somehow managed to miss all the most important aspects of the book . Emma Goldman 's idealism , made potent by her intelligence , sincerity ? and energy , rather than her radical politics , are what made her a vital figure to my grandparents ' generation . Her enormous courage was the most outstanding quality I and other young women I know who have read this book were most repeatedly impressed by .... Clearly it is part of Mr. Lynn 's bias to stress her early life , as it illuminates , or he thinks it illuminates , his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1971 , that " her political militancy was rooted in sexual resentment " seems , to say the least , rather facile and simplistic . In fact , any interpretation is probably premature for one who has read the book so quickly and carelessly that he can make such factual errors as referring to " her two older half-sisters and her beloved sister Helena , all of whom quailed before her father . " Had he read more carefully , he might have learned that Helena was the second of the " two older half-sisters . " Emma had two sisters , not three . He might also have learned more about the causes and the depth of her idealism . Mr. Lynn bombards us with loaded words that misrepresent Emma Goldman very much as the contemporary press misrepresented her during her lifetime . He is like the British reviewers of her autobiography in his emphasis on her " promiscuity- and his reference to her " stable " of lovers . Sex was a natural part of life for Emma Goldman , which attitude , though admittedly an unusual one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Lynn has used . She never succeeded in finding a man free enough of self-love and of traditional preconceptions of women to be able to respect her intellect and accomplishments at the same time he regarded her personally with affection . In her youth , men were motivated by her diminutive blondness to protect and own her and , incidently , to keep her from continuing her political activities . This was true of Ed Brady , with whom Emma lived for seven years before giving up on the relationship . In her maturity , she had the opposite problem ; men wanted to lean on her motherly tenderness and be supported . Her relationship with Dr. Ben Reitman was so maternal that he called her " Mommy . " She stuck it out for ten years this time . By whose definition are a seven-year affair , a ten-year affair , and a lifelong devoted friendship with Alexander Berkman to be called " promiscuity ? " Mr Lynn ... gets a lot of mileage out of her attack on a sneering woman in Rochester and her horse-whipping of Johann @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eager , " " screaming , " and " struck another blow " paint . a picture of her as a noisy , frenzied , unthinking harridan , just as the contemporary press did . In reality , her restraint was more notable than her anger . She many times quieted hostile or angry crowds with her eloquence , preventing riots rather than inciting them . Jane Goldman Evanston , Illinois In reply : Emma Goldman had several more lovers than Jane Goldman suggests . In the early days , there was " Feyda " as well as " Sasha , " and possibly Johann Most as well . Later on , there were the affairs DECEMBER 18 , 1971 with Ed Brady , Ben Reitman and Hippolyte Havel . As a woman of ? fiftythree , she found it impossible to keep her hands off a " flaxen-haired , blue-eyed Swedish boy , " despite the fact that Berkman was deeply upset by the relationship . And finally there was James Colton , who became her second husband . Does this series of affairs justify the use of the word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the word is , as far as I am concerned , descriptive , not judgmental . Jane Goldman also believes I overemphasize Emma 's emotional violence . Yet there are many other examples besides the attack on the sneering woman in Rochester and the horsewhipping of Most . Thus when she threw Ben Reitman out of her love life she did so by picking up a chair " in a blind fury " and hurling it at him . But as with my listing of her lovers , I cite these instances of her violence not in order to discredit Emma Goldman in any way , but in order to cast light on her extraordinary career . In sum , I believe that Jane Goldman has written a silly , needlessly protective letter . I am however , grateful to her for correcting me about that extra half-sister . Kenneth S. Lynn Lincoln Steffens Sirs : In his reconsideration of The Autobiography of Lincoln Steffens , Andrew Greeley writes that Steffens saw his life as the fulfillment of the Horatio Alger myth . But Steffens did not assert or imply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and good works . He did not believe the failure to " make it " in American society was some sort of moral stigma and his own biography was not a Horatio Alger story . He went from an upper-middle-class background in Sacramento to a successful position in journalism . Steffens was talented but there is also the clear indication in the book that he was lucky , especially lucky to be left a sizable inheritance by a friend in Germany . The point is the muckraker told his readers what he learned from his contacts with the famous and powerful . The Autobiography reveals a process of education in which a fairly conventional American came to shed his liberal illusions . It is true that Steffens did not pay adequate attention to the immigration phenomenon and it should be added that although he was a founding sponsor of the NAACP he was generally unconcerned with racism . Greeley dismisses Steffens involvement with the Jewish East Side as romanticism but the fact is that as reporter and editor Steffens seriously worked to learn from the cultural experiences of East Side intellectuals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejected the argument that the source of urban corruption was the presence of immigrants and called attention to the American cities with predominantly native-born populations that were profoundly corrupt . Greeley offers us an operational approach to the problem of corruption . He would have us build the political coalitions , operating within the system , that can improve the quality of urban life . . . . But even after all the years since the appearance of Steffens ' Autobiography we can still profit by reminding ourselves of his main point , that we need to uncover the roots of corruption and that these roots are not found in personal immorality but in the institutional arrangements of American society . 