@@494925

It was too bad that Gerald Ford and his associates could n't put Richard Nixon behind them and out of mind when they visited Japan , South Korea and the Vladivostok area of Soviet Siberia during the new President 's first venture overseas since he took the office last August . Maybe the comparative arithmetic of foreign travel set forth in fact sheets prepared for the horde of accompanying journalists ? 18 countries visited by Mr. Ford , 75 by Mr. Nixon ? bugged them a little . But the main reasons for the note of mingled envy , recrimination and braggadocio that marred an otherwise moderately successful trip were all too plain . Disassociation from the sick and disgraced former President was deemed to be desirable and essential . Along with others who had owed a great deal to Rich ? ard Nixon , Mr. Ford was seeking it before he went abroad . And President Ford , tainted by past identifi ? cation with his predecessor and diminished in public esteem by the pardon he had granted to Mr. Nixon , needed something more than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Before he left the Soviet Union for home and after he got back to Washington , he showed that he was not above letting his people claim a triumph for him at the expense of the man who had put him in line for the presidency by appointing him to the vice presidency after it was vacated by that confessed and unpardoned felon , Spiro T. Agnew . The claimed triumph was the agreement to nego ? tiate a new , 10-year agreement on strategic arms limi ? tation that the President and General Secretary Leonid Brezhnev concluded at their meeting near Vladivostok . Some aspects and oddities of the agreement to attempt agreement ? and it was just that , no more ? are dis ? cussed later in this report . The point made here is the way in which good , decent , modest , forbearing Ger ? ald Ford had let certain of his associates and spokes ? men denigrate his predecessor and , in the process , distort the record of strategic arms negotiation that preceded his first meeting and negotiation with Brezhnev . Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his former President for the benefit of his new President . Messrs . Ford and Brezhnev were still in Vladivostok when Kissinger recalled defects of Mr. Nixon in negotiation with Brezhnev that he , the Secretary of State , had not pre ? viously been heard to mention . Kissinger said to my informant ( not to me and , so far as I know , not to other reporters ) that President Nixon never looked Brezhnev and other Soviet negotiators in the eye . He seemed to them to be at once shifty and arbitrary , inflexible , prone to enter negotiation with excessively rigid and structured sets of ideas that he was unwilling or reluc ? tant to modify and that , in consequence , hinderedrather than furthered effective negotiation . This was strange and ugly stuff , coming indirectly but authori ? tatively from an official who before , between and after the Nixon-Brezhnev summit meetings in 1972 and 1973 praised Mr. Nixon 's grasp of the problems under negotiation , his skill at seeking and finding sensible compromise , and , in particular , his excellent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough , Kissinger had been saying recently and said publicly during the Ford trip that Mr. Nixon 's last meeting with Brezhnev in Moscow and the Crimea in July 1974 was a failure . But that , he also said , was because " in July , for a variety of rea ? sons , things were not ripe for an agreement . " After the first of Mr. Ford 's encounters with Brezhnev in Vladivostok , Kissinger discovered in his new master qualities of flexibility and rapport with the Soviet leader that were suddenly held to have been lacking in Richard Nixon . Aboard a special train transporting President Ford and his party from Vladivostok to a remote Soviet air-base , after the agreement to attempt further agree ? ment was announced , Press Secretary Ron Nessen said : " It was something that Nixon could n't do in three years , but Ford did it in three months . I do n't know what it was ? they hit it off . " Aboard Air Force One , flying home to Washington with the President , Nessen showed no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vladivostok agreement , whatever it even ? tually amounts to , is the culmination of years of prior effort and incorporates important elements of the 1972 Nixon-Brezhnev agreements . Instead he actually raised the paeanical ante , saying : " Richard Nixon could not achieve this in five years . President Ford achieved it in three months . " Still speaking of Messrs . Ford and Brezhnev , Nessen also said : " They have a similar sense of humor and that 's why they got along better than Nixon and Brezhnev got along . " This arrant nonsense had an interesting effect upon the White House press corps . It aroused the first expres ? sions of sympathy for Mr. Nixon and of outrage on his ( and history 's ) behalf that I 'd heard from that company for many months . At the White House , the day after Mr. Ford returned , Nessen was asked whether the President knew about the remarks and how he re ? acted to them . Nessen said the remarks had been dis ? cussed with the President and " he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was notable principally for its shortage of notable achievement and event . Here again , though in an oblique and more kindly way , the remembrance of Richard Nixon was pervasive . The principal purpose and accomplishment of the visit to Japan , in fact , were to assuage the hurts and angers that resulted from Mr. Nixon 's and Henry Kissinger 's failure to inform the Japanese government in advance of the US approach in 1971 toward accommodation with Communist China and from a similar failure to forewarn the Japanese government of US economic moves that gravely affected the Japanese economy . Mr. Nixon was gone but Kissinger was still blamed , and he bespoke a good deal of inner comfort and relief on his own part when he said in Tokyo that " perhaps the most important result of the visit ? beyond any of the specifics that were discussed ? has been the frank ? ness , cordiality and completeness of our exchanges . " Kissinger also perceived a parallel with the Nixon past that did not permit public mention . Everyone knew by the time Mr. Ford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revelations of the per ? sonal wealth that he had accumulated during his polit ? ical career , would have to resign within days after the President departed . It seemed to Kissinger that Tanaka had worked all his adult life for the eminence that he was about to lose , just as Richard Nixon had , and that in this sense both men were the central actors and vic ? tims of similar tragedies . Kissinger had thought up and coached Mr. Ford in a way around the embarrass ? ment that the imminent fall of a disgraced Prime Min ? ister who was also the President 's host ( along with the Emperor ) would normally cause . It was an argument to the effect that Japanese Prime Ministers , unlike US Presidents , were n't really bosses of anything but were merely the temporarily ascendant members of a like-minded community of politicians ? transient chairmen of the board , Kissinger put it , whose rise and fall made no serious difference . This theory bore little relation to the jugular realities of Japanese politics . But it ap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made it easier for journalists to concentrate upon such matters as Mr. Ford 's appearance on a ceremonial oc ? casion in ludicrously short morning trousers . The universally accepted impression was that Mr. Ford visited Seoul , the capital of South Korea , because it was close to Japan and avoiding it would have been a grievous insult to an ally . Before he began his trip , the President was known to labor under a related and somewhat confused notion that the detour to Seoul became unavoidable when a Korean resident of Japan tried to kill President Park Chung Hee and acciden ? tally killed Mrs. Park . Just what this had to do with Mr. Ford 's itinerary I never understood ; I simply re ? port that he thought it had a good deal to do with the decision to visit Seoul . One gathers that Secretary Kis ? singer either originated or shared this thought . Ac ? cording to the official account , Presidents Park and Ford concentrated in-their discussions upon what Park called " this bond of friendship , confirmed in blood " during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared intention to continue a high level of American military supply to South Korea along with the continuing and unreduced presence of American troops . The visiting reporters tended to concentrate upon President Park 's notorious policy and practice of domestic repression and upon whether President Ford had any thought of making the mitigation or aban ? donment of this policy a condition of further Ameri ? can aid . Secretary Kissinger delegated to Assistant Secretary of State Philip Habib , a former ambassador to South Korea , the task of saying no more on the mat ? ter at a press conference in Seoul than that " the subject came up as part of a general discussion between the two Presidents " and that " our fundamental concern and attention has been devoted to the problems of peace and security in the peninsula . " My impression , derived from other things Habib said , is that Mr. Ford actually warned President Park that the next Congress , with its increased majority of Democrats , is unlikely to sustain a high level of military and economic aid to South Korea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is substantially modified . But Kis ? singer had forbidden Habib to say so , presumably in consideration of President Park 's sensitivities , and the burden of reports from Mr. Ford 's press party was that he really did n't give a damn about what happened to President Park 's critics and opponents . The essence of the strategic arms agreement to seek further agreement announced at Vladivostok , Mr. Ford 's last foreign stop , was that US and Soviet nego ? tiators would try between now and a summit confer ? ence in the US next summer to figure out ways for each of the two countries to limit itself to an equal number of strategic nuclear delivery vehicles , prin ? cipally meaning missiles and bombers , and also to an equal and smaller number of missiles equipped with multiple nuclear warheads . A joint statement and Kis ? singer said that the equal numbers to be aimed at in both categories were agreed upon at Vladivostok . Kis ? singer also said that President Ford and General Sec ? retary Brezhnev agreed to withhold the numbers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to congressional leaders in Washington . The prior and subsequent shenanigans having to do with these num ? bers and with the overall Vladivostok discussions and agreement , rather than the arguable merits and demer ? its of the provisional nuclear agreement as such , oc ? cupy the remainder of this report . Reporters on the President 's homebound plane were told that the actual reason for delaying publication of the vital numbers ? knowledge that intelligent judg ? ment of the announced objectives requires ? was that Mr. Ford wanted to have the presumably agreed totals in hand in a formal , signed Soviet document before he committed himself to them . The evening after he re ? turned and before he met congressional leaders , White House reporters were told first that he would not and then that he would divulge the agreed numbers to the leaders and ask them to keep the figures secret for a few days . Senator Henry Jackson , a powerful critic of the administration 's previous nuclear and strategic policy , was probably in the ball park when he guessed that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Times said below 2500 ) . The determining factors , unknown at this writing , were the mix of missiles and DECEMBER . 7 , 1974 bombers that each government intended to establish within the agreed totals and the size and power ? " the throw-weight " ? of each country 's missiles . Kissinger said last October , after a meeting in Mos ? cow , that the prospects for a long-term agreement seemed to be good . Then he drew back in caution and was still cautious when he talked to reporters while the President 's plane was landing at a Soviet airbase some 80 miles from Vladivostok . The most to be ex ? pected , he said then , was some further reduction of the differences between the two governments . The So ? viet journalists and other propagandists who awaited the President 's press party at a hostel on the outskirts of Vladivostok differed with and resented this esti ? mate of the prospects when it was conveyed to them . They said much greater things were to be expected and would be realized if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Before the following dawn Kissinger was a changed statesman : he was busting out with optimism , dis ? 13 cernibly restraining himself from predicting a major breakthrough . Within hours on that same morning , the Soviet informants were also changed ? the other way . They said things were grim : the Americans had arrived with nothing in hand but obstructive objec ? tions to Soviet proposals . At around 1 pm , a Moscow journalist who is highly esteemed as a source by some of the American press party 's most distinguished or ? naments said he had it straight from the conference center that the arms discussion had ended in hope ? less impasse . It did n't , of course . In the late afternoon , just before the President left for home , Kissinger said the joint statement " marks the breakthrough with the SALT negotiations that we have sought to achieve in recent years and produces a very strong possibility of agree ? ment , to be signed in 1975 . " His exuberant manner more than his words led some reporters to elide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I did n't and do n't . In April 1962 a 35-year-old organizer and former farm-worker named Cesar Chavez packed his belongings , withdrew his life savings of $900 , and drove with his wife and eight children to the San Joaquin Valley town of Delano . He had in mind an ambitious undertaking : to organize a union of farmworkers that would put an end to the notorious labor contracting system , secure decent , wages and working conditions , and upgrade farm work into an occupation that was not a badge of inferiority . Earlier efforts to organize farmworkers ? by the Wobblies at the turn of the century , by Com ? munist-led unions in the 1930s , by AFL-CIO-backed committees in the 1950s ? had all been short-lived . Strikebreakers were too numerous and strike benefits too paltry ; local , state and federal officials collaborated in every conceivable way with growers ; racial mis ? trusts kept workers divided ; and all too often the organizers themselves were outsiders with little un ? derstanding of farmworkers or the peculiarities of large-scale agriculture . Slowly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmworkers how they could benefit by joining what was then called the Farm Workers As ? sociation . After working in the fields all day , he would drive 50 or 100 miles for an evening meeting in a farm-worker 's home . By 1965 the FWA had a few thousand dues-paying members spread over several counties . It was not yet ready for a strike , but when a fledgling union of Filipino farmworkers called a strike against table grape growers in the Delano area , the predomi ? nantly Chicano FWA could not stand idly by . Unani ? mously its members voted to join the Filipinos and in so doing embark upon a struggle for union recognition and workers ' rights that is still unfinished . Today the question is whether Chavez and his union ? now called the United Farm Workers of Amer ? ica ? can finish that struggle on their own terms . In 1970 , after five years of strikes and boycotts , the UFWA won its first major contracts . Three years later , the majority of growers who had signed with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They were able to do this without con                     