@@487971

" I believed then , " John Maynard Keynes wrote in 1929 , of the formation of the League of Nations exactly ten years earlier , " and I believe now , that it was a situation where an investment in political courage would have been marvelously repaid in the end . " There was no such investment . As the postwar powers intended in 1919 , and as Keynes himself had predicted at the time , the League became " a body merely for wasting time . . . an unwieldy ' polyglot debating society . " Extinguished in all but name by the Second World War , it resurfaced in - 1945 as the United Nations , with analogous defects again implanted , by its sponsoring gOvernments : " A moderate parody of the League , " as Sir Alexander Cadogan confided to his diary , " with all the failings and no advantages , that I can see . " The extent to which public trust was thus betrayed has been little considered . Officialdom , unable to conceive , except in after-dinner speeches , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consistently taken the view that both the League and the United Nations were the initiative of politicians , unrelated to public desire and imposed by governments on apathetic peoples still locked in rigid traditions of nationalism . Thus , in a recent issue of The Observer , the public information director of the International Bank sums up : The U.N . was not conceived by the peoples of the world and is not answerable to them . It was conceived by . . . governments , many of them  --  such as Stalin 's  --  pretty far from representing their people . So much for the opening words of the United Nations Charter : " We the Peoples " ? not " We the governments " or " We the civil servants " ? and the subsequent reference to " our respective governments . " So much for the Albert Hall rallies that urged the League 's creation , and the New York Post exulting in 1945 that the San Francisco Conference was " the most important human gathering Shirley Hazzard , novelist , worked for ten years at the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a recently published study of the United Nations experience . since The Last Supper . " So much for the individual and group action that formulated , during the First World War , the concept and principles of international peacekeeping while , as Wheeler-Bennett and Nicholls point out in The Semblance of Peace ; " in governmental circles there was little activity until 1918 . " But , while it is evident from their very impotence that the forms and procedures established by governments for the United Nations were remote from public influence , it is inconceivable that so novel , comprehensive and hugely publicized an undertaking as a world organization could have got under way without the impetus of public approval , or could have been other than an expression of irrepressible public will and human apprehension . ? Both of the powerless incarnations of internationalism were in fact short-sighted official devices to appease and short-circuit an evolving public pressure for treating on a global scale ills that were increasingly global . " One suspects now , " Senator Fulbright wrote in 1972 , " that , like the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orphaned at birth . " Despite their disclaimers of the public role , United Nations circles have continually found it necessary to assert that mankind  --  in Mr. Waldheim 's words  --  expected too much of the United Nations at the beginning . The public , however " unrealistic , " was in truth only taking its leaders ' solemn pronouncements seriously when in 1945 it placed its brief hopes in the United Nations Organization . Vastly more advantage might have been taken of the interest implicit in those uneducated " illusions " than was ever attempted by governments or U.N . officials ; and the mere necessity of having for decades to depreciate them as exaggerated suggests the original degree of public involvement . Today , certainly , excessive public confidence in its potential is not one of the organization 's problems . While it is indisputable that Stalin 's role in formulating the United Nations was " pretty far from representing his people , " the U.N . concept as officially proclaimed was not . We know that even under Stalin 's heel , in conditions where information and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new institution : " A quarter of a century ago , amidst the great hopes of all mankind , the United Nations Organization was born , " Solzhenitsyn reminds us in his Nobel address : " Alas , in an immoral world , it too grew up immoral . " Solzhenitsyn doubtless reveals the deficient grasp of reality deplored by U.N . leaders , but he has touched the heart of the matter : that an immense volume of public concern , interest and good will , extending even into postwar Russia , was cast away at the outset ; and that the organization had originally carried , in however uninstructed and naive a form , " the great hopes of all mankind " or a very large portion of it . The initiative , influence and support  --  and thus the responsibility  --  of the United States in shaping the infant United Nations outweighed even the collective role of the fifty other original member states . Little in the way of international conciliation was expected , or received , from Stalin 's representatives . A sequence of economic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China cast these postwar powers virtually as American satellites . Leadership of every kind ? moral , practical , procedural , financial  --  devolved on America , together with a second chance for " an investment in political courage that would have been marvelously repaid in the end . " But long-term politiCal investments were no more in favor in 1945 than they had been in 1919 . The U.S. Government took what it doubtless persuaded itself was the short cut to an " internationalism " which it conceived of as being at best a form of benign unilateralism through which American policies might operate , unobstructed , to universal advantage . We have learned more , since that time , of this theory of the short cut  --  the short cut to peace through war , . to security through deceit , to justice through lawlessness , to understanding a man by spying upon him . The short cut to world order was the manipulation or circumvention of the U.N. , effected through political and material pressures that were both openly and covertly applied . Dean Acheson , assigned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , subsequently recalled : " I did my duty faithfully and successfully , but always believed the Charter was impractical . " With what fidelity or success one can execute a task in which one has no credence is open to debate : Acheson was later to characterize the U.N . as " bunk . " His most recent biographer , Gaddis Smith , records that " Acheson delighted in criticism of the United Nations " and that he was " apathetic toward the idea of world organization and strongly hostile to what he saw as a naive faith on the part of the American people in such an organization . . . . As he grew older this critical attitude hardened into an obsession . " It was under Acheson 's direction , also , that the State Department fatally compromised the nucleus of professional internationalism in the U.N . Secretariat , by conspiring with the first Secretary-General , Trygve Lie , to place the majority of Secretariat staff secretly under the surveillance of the U.S. Government and make them subject to dismissal or retention according to State Department desires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the staff was crushed by Lie and his deputies in a wave of terminations and reprisals . The provisions of the illicit 1949 agreement between Lie and 392the State Department were elevated to public practice on the high tide of McCarthyism , and have remained there since . In accordance with the arrangements inaugurated by Lie , and concluded by HammarskjOld in 1953 , American applicants are subjected to exhaustive and intrusive tests for national orthodoxy by U.S. agencies before they may be considered for U.N . positions . It is a condition analogous to that adopted from the first , in violation of the Charter , by totalitarian states , and greatly magnified in significance because it comes from the organization 's democratic leadership and because the ' United States provides the preponderance of U.N. , headquarters ' staff . It took , of course , two to tango . Brian Urquhart , in his study of Hamm arskjOld 's secretary-generalship , has briefly mentioned Trygve Lie 's " supine acceptance of U.S. procedures . " While even belated criticism of Lie from official circles is to be welcomed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the international civil service was by no means passive . As pointed out in a legal action brought against him in 1953 , " the Secretary-General of the United Nations not only has been subject to these effective pressures , but indeed has initiated , cultivated , and sought them out . " Passivity would , more accurately describe the attitude of officials surrounding Lie who remained , throughout the years of this formative crisis , irredeemably horizontal . , If the enfeebling of the U.N . Secretariat was no more than a symptom of national intentions to make the organization the creature of governments , it was  --  as The Nation , among other journals , perceived at the time , ? an acute one . It was , moreover , a tacit admission that an incipient or potential expression of political objectivity must first be incapacitated before those intentions could be  --  as they speedily were  --  fulfilled . If governments should forget , nowadays , even for a moment , that the U.N . is the mere repository of national caprices , Secretariat spokesmen are there to remind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sum of its members ' demands , and nothing more . The , culmination of reason , necessity and fear that twice in this century attempted to , manikst itself in an enterprise of supranational authority , and was twice betrayed , did not , however , subside with hopes for the United Nations . The very universality of contemporary alarms , has nurtured an instinctive , as yet largely formless , need on the part of humanity to adapt its institutions toward its own salvation . The energies needed to realize such a new concept as world authority were generated only in the raw experience of universal catastrophe , and only briefly . But the irresistible forces  --  social , economic and Malthusian=that were thus denied a rational outlet by-passed the U.N . travesty and expressed themselves in other forms : in multinational corporations whose immense power , undisciplined by public awareness , is ' scarcely distinguishable from and often supplants the processes of government itself ; in regional accommodations such as the European Economic Community ; in a multiplicity of regional and interbloc negotiations from which the U.N @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ? within communities , to ethnic and almost tribal antagonisms , there has burgeoned the disaffection of the young from traditions of family , society and national pride . Environmental disturbance overflows national boundaries , as do its origins= the population explosion , the pollution of air and water , the depletion of natural resources . Nationalism is not yet a broken reed , but it has  --  compared to other growths  --  become a reed ; and a great tide of circumstance is driving us to a global concept of existence and survival . It is ' only at the U.N. , ironically enough , that the holy relic of nationalism continues to be venerated as if we were still living in 1945 rather than 1984 : , the talisman of national sovereignty , ' ever brandished at us as the insuperable obstacle to effective world government , now seems to retain its magic properties mainly in the forum of the world organization . It is at the U.N . that governments compensate , with a show of nationalism , for the concessions they make to interdependence in other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more responsible member states are actually constrained there within the lowest common denonfinator. ' - Whenever there have been stirrings in the public breast toward a replacement , or serious revision , of the U.N . apparatus that would align it with contemporary and impending realities , they have been stifled by the exhortations ' addressed to us now for generations from U.N . circles : that the public must lower its expectations still further , that criticism would be damaging , that evidence must be withheld so that the present " embryonic " organization may fulfill its destiny in some distant era  --  having slept , like Rip Van Winkle , through the intervening vicissitudes . While it would be difficult to cite an example of a public institution that had corrected its own deficiencies while being deprived , of public comment , the audience best qualified to weigh such arguments will not be found at United Nations receptions or , New York dinner tables ' nit in Vietnam or Cambodia , . Burundi or Biafra , in Saigon prisons or , Russian prison camps ; it would include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Declaration of Human Rights and received no acknowledgment of their appeal to the United Nations Secretary-.General . U.N . officials should expound no position to their immediate hearers that they would not be willing to ' advocate to the most afflicted members of humanity . , - The embryo of international ' accord is in fact more than fifty years old : I submit that this is an unusually protracted term of gestation , and that world authority should now be born . In far less time than it has taken the U.N . to consider  --  inconClusively  --  the definition of the word " aggression , " the British Empire has been dissolved , the Roman Catholic Church convulsed , space travel and computerization introduced , abortion legalized , and the worship of technology transformed into the ecological consciousness . An entire generation has grown up for whom the U.N . is not a " new " idea in a state of , growth but a place of arrested development , part of the exhausted and discredited , political establishment of the past : this is the most , globally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it will presumably dictate its own terms for survival . , If I were to ? summarize the ' negativism of the present United Nations in a single word it would not be " embryonic " but " elderly . " By deliberate exclusion of the young , or even the youthful , from any voice in its ' policies and councils the organization has virtually set a date on its own demise . By evading their opportunities for moral 393 leadership , its spokesmen  --  with the exception of HammarskjOld  --  haVe forfeited even their place in the world 's imagination . " The United Nations deals in the realm of what is possible , not of what is right or wrong , " we are informed in a recent Secretariat publication . And perhaps this Ehrlichmanism  --  which totally contradicts the moral obligations laid upon the United Nations by its Charter and Declaration of Human Rights  --  does give insight into an Orwellian U.N . view of " the possible " as a finite entity without ethical content , designated by bureaucrats and not susceptible of expansion through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continues to allow this sort of specious rubbish to be imposed upon it as " peacekeeping , " it will presumably deserve the world of wars and persecutions it has been getting . If the nations , in extremity , are ever to seek forms of world order , they will turn to an institution of self-proclaimed limitations . Public disbelief and public indulgence are at the root of the ineffectuality of the U.N . Public agitation is the key to its reform . With the best will in the world , as the ominous saying goes , suppcirters of the U.N . concept have made themselves unwitting accomplices of the very nationalism they sought to temper , shielding the organization from nourishing criticism , not wishing to learn of its weaknesses themselves and seeking to conceal them from the world at large . Well wishers of internationalism came to feel , no doubt unconsciously , that if this version of their hopes were dissolved it might neither be missed nor replaced : hence , in part , their insistence not only on the Emperor 's Clothes but on his underclothes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . achievements . ? It is certainly not contended here that the United Nations has never done anything useful ; no such claim could be made by , or conceivably gratify , any reasonable being- . Over a period of nearly thirty years the United Nations system has employed tens of thousands of persons at a cost of tens of millions of dollars , and it would be remarkable indeed if this experience had produced no demonstrable results . What has been attained , however , is pitifully small , considering the possibilities offered and the sums and exercises involved ; and the organization 's lines of public association have been ever more attenuated , its very humanity consumed in ritual absurdities and in an administrative pattern that makes Parkinson 's Law look like jurisprudence . Only questions can create answers ; but the public has not known what questions to ask of the United Nations . For this , the press bears a heavy responsibility . Press coverage of the U.N . is , in a word , abominable . The ? well-disposed elements of the press  --  who disseminate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few exceptions , taught themselves to look on the United Nations as a place where governments go to church and where official views and spokesmen must be treated , grotesquely , with a reverence they could not possibly command in another setting . Some of the 500 permanently accredited press representatives at the U.N . have been fixtures since the beginning ; others have been there for twenty years , still others for fifteen or ten . Almost like staff members , they grow old in the service , wined and dined by an officialdom that it would seem uncivil to challenge or embarrass . If any independent investigative reporting is attempted by this press ' corps , it rarely sees the light of print . Dispatches on political or economic affairs might often have been written by U.N . officials themselves  --  the organization 's ten-year silence on the Indochinese war , for example , has been scarcely discussed by an incurious press . United Nations expenditures are persistently misrepresented as a tiny fraction of the actual total , administrative expenses being given , and operational ones excluded . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are portrayed almost as philanthropic volunteers disbursing private funds . Scandalous malpractice , as exemplified in the bizarre Fasla case now before the International Court of Justice  --  and gross mismanagement that has even become the subject of agonized reporting within the organization itself  --  will be ignored by the press in favor of a cliff-hanger crisis over a U.N . stamp , or human interest stories of mind-bopling banality . Criticism that does find its way into responsible journals is frequently defused with a concluding incongruity about hopes for peace . This bedside manner , which is related to an inability to take the organization seriously and hold it to proper , standards , has done immense harm to the United Nations . The public , fobbed off with camomile , dimly senses it will never be told what the United Nations is " like " and loses the interest that only truth can stimulate . The public , like the Lord , chastiseth whom it loveth : its silence is never an indication of approval but of indifference and disbelief . The public can be primed , instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present institution diverted to exposing deficiencies and urging renewal . One can discuss " solutions " to the problems of the world authority only as one may talk of facilitating the process of governing any human group : there is no conclusive order that can be set on mankind . ? But the true " solution " is to involve the public  --  to incite its wrath , raise its hopes , and capture its imagination with an infusion of truth and immediacy . Rip Van Winkle lethargy , with its self7serving fatalism , must go . An unresponsive United Nations should be , as Dag Hammarskjiild advocated ' , " swept aside for a new approach : " Contemporary events now suggest the outlines of new approaches in which governments will be viewed as only one of the channels through which peoples are represented . We are already living under a large measure of supranationalism , though not of any ultimately responsible kind . It is half a century since H. G. Wells foresaw that the forces of the business and scientific worlds , whose enormously magnified pressures are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motive for world order as a means of preserving , extending , and regulating their interests without the inconsequential irruptions of nationalism . While it is idle to expect this new phenomenon to submit to the jurisdiction of the present United Nations , no power group has a greater  --  or even a comparable  --  stake in realistic forms of future world government . There is no way to neutralize the forces of multinational commerce . If their energies can not be constructively channeled , they will quickly constitute a new despotism . If , on the other hand , they can be disciplined by necessity and placed under restraints of reason and humanity , it is from these sources that world authority is likely to derive , initially , its powers of compulsion . In the study of particulars , the experience of the League and the United Nations may be taken as a cautionary tale . The most exemplary system that can be devised , ' however , will be meaningless unless it operates , in ' a context of public engagement  --  of public debate , analysis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the adrenalin of public institutions . I urge that we take a far less deferential tone as we press the question of our ' survival .                     