@@493725

Golda Her life reads like a Hollywood script composed by an overzealous screenwriter bent on producing a spec- tacular on great moments in contemporary Jewish history . To provide unity the major character , preferably a woman for added poignancy , is placed at the center of all key events . All the required scenes are available : a child cowering in fear of a pogrom in czarist Russia , a girl enjoying the freedom and opportunities of the United States yet determined to become a socialist pioneer in the wastes of Palestine ; a young woman suffering extreme poverty and personal hardship in the barren homeland . The heroine of this increasingly improbable scenario ? she scrubs laundry by hand to pay for the schooling of her children ? is a woman torn by the conventional feminist conflict between the duties of wife and mother and a compelling ideological commitment Nor is melodrama missing : there is the permilous journey to Amman in 1948 , unconvincingly disguised asan Arab woman though she knows no Arabic , when she tries to persuade King Abdullah not to loin the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shot showing the newly appointed Israeli minister to the Soviet Union engulfed by a mass of supposedly assimilated Russian Jews , who defy the authorities to greet the emissary of the Jewish state in front of a Moscow synagogue . Is this a bit much , perhaps ? Later , in depicting the Jewish heroine 's audience with the pope , should n't the writer have hesitated before giving his heroine the haunting utterance , " I am the daughter of a carpenter " ? Finally , why , as a climax , did he present an old , sick woman , now prime minister of the embattled state , in the role of arbiter , obliged to make crucial political and military decisions when her male cabinet ministers and generals were in disarray during the onslaught of the Yom Kippur War ? The plot seems extravagant ; judicious blue-pencilling clearly would be in order . Yet that 's how it was So obituary comment on Golda Meir runs the danger of indulgence in superlatives made hollow by repetition . But a cautious reduction of her stature would not be closer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fulfillment in Jerusalem was direct . There were no deviations in plan or purpose . From the beginning to the end , her convictions had a disarming , and sometimes disconcerting , slogan-like clarity : a persecuted people must be emancipated Having learned the meaning of independence in the United States , she herself took part in this emancipation . And being a socialist , she strove to build a just society in a Jewish homeland . This terrifying , unswerving simplicity in thought and feeling ? her detractors would call it simplistic ? was a prime source of Golda Meir 's strength . She was spared the doubts and hesitations of more complex or timid natures . In every crisis she refused to be deflected by considerations she dismissed as rationalizations for an unwillingness to face the consequences of a basic belief . No amount of acquired sophistication or temptation to disenchantment could shake her assurance in the purity of her goal and the possibility of its realization . The assurance , allied to shrewd competence , made it possible for her to become both a combative , sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Jewish people . She knew not only what she wanted but what should be wanted , and she had a unique power to communicate this knowledge . At her best she was a remarkably effective speaker . Her best was not on most occasions at the United Nations or on other formal occasions when she had to deliver a carefully prepared address . Then she spoke like her diplomatic colleagues . But when she cast away the prepared text , as she once did at the UN to appeal directly to the Arabs , or in times of peril or triumph when she spoke impromptu to the Israeli multitudes , she had no peer . There were more brilliant stylists among Zionist orators ? some deplored her poor Hebrew and elementary English ? but her audience was more concerned with her message than with her oratory style . Those who heard her became for a moment selflessly involved in her emotion and her In the 1940s , when the struggle of Jewish Palestine against the British Mandatory Power was launched , she was the most moving exponent of what seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 600,000 venture to challenge the British Empire to " open the gates " of Palestine to Jewish survivors ? The policy of resistance was formulated by Ben-Gurion , but Golda became its voice . When she declared at village meetings or at kibbutz funerals , " we have no alter native , " she meant that people of a given commitment had no alternative . Less dangerous courses could be pursued , such as settling for a modest immigration quota and a permanent minority status for the Jewish community of Palestine . Similarly , when Ben-Gurion advocated the declaration of a state after the passage of the Partition Resolution , though all knew that Arab armies were poised for the invasion of the fledgling country , Golda was among the chief activists . Many devoted Zionists counselled prudence , to avoid imperiling all that had been achieved by four decades of Jewish settlement in a confrontation either with England or the Arab states . Such prudence was alien to both her convictions and her temperament , not because she was foolhardy and ignorant of the immense risk but because the risk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refugees and the Zionist dream -- was greater . This attitude dictated her course in the coining decades of struggle . As a leader of the Histadrut , the Israeli labor federation , she was at first uncompromising in her egalitarian vision . She insisted on the principle of equal pay in the Histadrut regardless of the nature of the work . At one time , the nurses of the federa ion 's health plan , who wanted to receive more pay than charwomen , viewed her as their antagonist . When she was minister to Moscow , she tried to run her office in keeping with the austere principles of the kibbutz tradition . Inevitably these Utopian efforts foundered In Israel and abroad , outside the kibbutz enclaves , individuals sought rewards in accordance with their skills and their positions . Impassioned but no fanatic , Golda bowed to realism . Yet all her life , the kibbutz cooperative remained her image of the ideal society . That her daughter and grandchildren worked in a Negev desert kibbutz was her special pride . And at international socialist conferences , she appeared to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement and of a labor party that , despite the imperfections and concessions of the present , still cherished the dream of a socialist society with a human face . The idealistic girl matured into an adroit Stateswoman , skilled in negotiation , temperate in argument and wonderfully persuasive with the great of the earth . But the granite core remained . Her critics called her short-sighted and inflexible in her insistence on " secure borders " when she became prime minister They called her indifferent to the plight of the Palestinians ? an accusation that she rejected . Her policy was shaped not only by an ideological conviction of the justice of Israel 's cause , but by her own experiences . She knew that when she had worked in a malaria-infested kibbutz in the valley of the Jordan , she had made Palestine more habitable for Arabs as well as Jews . She knew that she had called herself a Palestinian at a time when Arabs disdained the designation . And she knew that from 1947 on , she had repeatedly and vainly pleaded for cooperation between Arabs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ derived from the abandonment of Israel by the powers pledged to the state 's safety in 1948 and in 1967 . Therefore " secure borders " became for her synonymous with Israel 's survival . The Yom Kippur War was the bitterest experience of her long life . This was not only because of Israel 's peril , but because for the first time she was made the butt of her people 's agony . Her associates were aware of the letters she received from parents blaming her and her ministers for the deaths of their sons . No suffering in her personal life could have equalled her pain at these barges , because in each instance she sorrowed with ihev ed . But the measure of her influence with the Israeli people is that she surmounted the grimness of period and became revered again in the years before her death . In a speech she gave before the Six Day War , she declared that her life had been blessed . She enumerated he blessings : the child fearful of pogroms had lived to be the free citizen of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the just society of a kibbutz . I ler national and social visions were on the way to fulfillment . Dying as she did before the hoped-for peace with the Arabs has been achieved , it is hard to be confident that he optimism of this earlier summation of her life had been sustained . And there is the added irony that the &ace,; if achieved , will be attained by the man against whose social and political policies she fought all her days . But she had too much wry humor not to appreciate the tricks of history , and too much magnanimity where the fate of her people was involved for any personal disappointment to be more than slight . For many who shared her beliefs but lacked her courage , she was a gadfly . In an intimate sense she was the conscience of the Jewish people . Those who loved her will long remember the deep , firm voice that called to action and the searching eyes that dernanded , " where are you ? " In 1967 , when she saw many young American Jews thronging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " You are ready to die with us . Why do you not remain to live with us ? " This question tormented her maiwith increasing intensity . Not too long before her death she spoke of plans to come to the United States in behalf of aliyah , immigration to Israel . In any case , it is doubtful if even she would have achieved the miracle of stimulating large-scale immigration of American Jews to Israel . Women throughout the world viewed Golda Meir as an example of what women might accomplish . Americans responded to her homespun , earthy directness . For Israel and the Jewish people she became a mother figure ? wise , compassionate and stern when need be . The shrinking pantheon of great national leaders has been further diminished by her passing .                     