@@485146

A remarkable book is about to be published . It is called Simple Justice ( Knopf ) and will be appearing in the bookshops soon after the first of the year . Written by Richard Kluger , a nonlawyer , it is an event in the law . Simple Justice is the definitive account , to date , of the struggle for black equality in America , a , struggle which culminated in the Warren Court 's 1954 decision in Brown v. Board of Education . In times like ours , there are enormous pressures to abandon the struggle for desegregation . President Ford , now pushed from the Right by Ronald Reagan , has repeatedly reiterated his disapproval of bussing  --  the only way meaningful desegregation can be achieved in most Northern cities , housing patterns being what they are . Congress is backtracking in its support of HEW for desegregation . The social scientists are divided over the evidence on bussing . The constitutionalists are questioning how far a federal judge should go , especially in a situation like Boston . But Simple Justice does what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters in perspective . Possessed of the perspective which Richard Kluger so ably gives us , it is very difficult to turn back from the dream of an integrated society which the Warren Court shared with Martin Luther King . Brown v. Board of Education was not one but four cases , originating in Clarendon County , South Carolina , Prince Edward County , Virginia , the state of Delaware and Topeka , Kan . Richard Kluger , who spent seven years writing his book ( it runs to 823 pages ) , was more than once tempted to relate in detail the grass-roots story of only one of these cases . But as he traveled to each of the regions in which the School Segregation Cases arose , it became evident that the fight for desegregation took on different aspects in the various locales . The Clarendon County case which reached the Supreme Court is named Briggs v. Elliott , but its real protagonist was the Rev. Joseph Albert DeLaine , son of a slave , who was fired from his job as a teacher and whose house went up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Kluger went to Clarendon County , riding over many of the same roads that Thurgood Marshall rode as a young attorney for the NAACP Legal Defense Fund , interviewed as many of the participants in the drama as possible , and is able to make us feel that we , too , were there when it all began . We are present also in Wilmington , as the Delaware case is brought before the courageous Collins J. Seitz , then chancellor of Delaware and now chief judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit . We are with the Rev. L. Francis Griffin , pastor of the First Baptist Church in Farmville , Va. , and leading force behind the Prince Edward County case . As a 10-year-old , he had been informed that he was no longer welcome to play sandlot baseball , " told , with childhood 's cruel candor , that such comradeship would have to end because his white friends ' parents had decreed it . " And , of course , we are in Topeka , where the suit was brought that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a white , Jewish civil rights activist , Esther Brown , had more to do with arousing the black community against school segregation than did the nominal black plaintiffs , Oliver Brown and his daughter , Linda . Simple Justice is a magisterial volume . In addition to placing the reader on the scene at each critical moment as each of the School Segregation Cases wends it way toward the Supreme Court , Richard Kluger replays the historical record from the original sin of slavery to the passage of the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments , to the gradual erosion of equality for the Negro through Supreme Court decisions in the late 19th and early 20th centuries . In a manner whose lucidity and humanity recall Anthony Lewis 's Gideon 's Trumpet ( though Simple Justice is a far more ambitious enterprise ) , the author charts for the lay reader the principal judicial events on the road to Brown . Perhaps because he is not narrowly trained as a lawyer and therefore views decisions in the context of social history and judicial biography , Kluger presents a course in constitutional law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follow , for example , the path from the decision in the Civil Rights Cases of 1883 , in which the Court held that Congress was not empowered to prevent " private " discrimination even by businesses said to be open to the public at large , to Justice Henry Billings Brown 's infamous majority opinion for the Court in Plessy v. Ferguson ( 1896 ) , in which separate - accommodations on railway cars were held to be " equal . " Looking at the Plessy decision , which takes on particular , ironic interest in the light of Judge W. Arthur Garrity 's ruling and the recent turmoil in Boston , Kluger focuses on the majority 's reliance on the decision of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court , then headed by Chief Justice Lemuel Shaw , in the 1849 case of Roberts v. City of Boston . Young Sarah Roberts would walk each day past five elementary schools for white children to the Smith Grammar School , badly run-down , which had been designated since 1820 as the school for Negroes . When her father was repeatedly , rebuffed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearby white schools , he engaged Charles Graham Sumner , one of the leading civil rights advocateS &his; day and later a distinguished U.S. Senator . For the BOston School Committee to segregate Negro children was ' not only , Charles Sumner argued , to " brand a whole race with the stigma of inferiority and degradation " but injured white children as well : " Their hearts , yet tender with childhood , are necessarily hardened by this conduct , and their subsequent lives , perhaps , bear enduring testimony to this legalized uncharitableness . " But Chief Justice Shaw and the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court were not persuaded by this plea , and suggested instead that segregation could be not only equal but might be for the benefit of both races . The Boston School Committee ; 125 years later , has a long way to go before it fully absorbs the lesson taught by Charles Sumner . The legal struggle for black equality that culminated in the Supreme Court 's 1954 Brown decision has long been identified with Thurgood Marshall , but Kluger makes us conscious of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remote and uncompromising . W.E.B . Du Bois , founder of the NAACP , and Booker T. Washington , who genuflected too easily before the white man and urged his race to work hard and be realistic , rather than push for too much equality too soon . We are also introduced to leading figures in the NAACP and its Legal Defense Fund , many of whom have heretofore not been sufficiently known to or acclaimed by the general public . Charles Houston , born in black Washington , D.C. , a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Amherst College , the first black ever elected to the Harvard Law Review and dean of Howard University Law School , emerges as a seminal influence on that younger group of lawyers who were to argue for the NAACP in Brown . He exacted the highest standards of legal work from all who had contact with him , and drove himself unremittingly . And what a group of young men they were , working out of sparsely furnished offices at the Legal Defense Fund in New York ! Many of them are famous now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; William Hastie , retired chief judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third CircUit ; Spottswood Robinson III , distinguished member of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ; James Nabrit , president of Howard University . Yet they emerge in this book as very distinct young men , often with quite different ideas about legal strategy and each with his special talent to contribute to the cause . Thurgood Marshall , however , was the man who held them all together . His special talent was not only his academic brilliance ( in fact , there were at NAACP headquarters men whose purely intellectual powers were greater than his ) but also his savvy and shrewdness , his sense of realistic possibilities at a given place in a given time , and an earthy warmth that embraced all with whom he dealt . A glimpse of these qualities is still evident from the questions  --  and tone of those questions  --  which he now asks of counsel during oral argument before the Court . Marshall was the field general of the attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the field as in the courtroom . He enjoyed talking the , language of his people , on the chicken-and-greens circuit or at a Southern Baptist Church . He had a knack of " getting people to want to giveof themselves , " gifted young white lawyers out of Harvard , Yale and Columbia Law Schools , such as Charles Black and Louis Pollak , who would work alongside William Coleman , Jr . ( now Secretary of Transportation in President Ford 's Cabinet ) and Robert L. Carter ( long-time counsel to the Legal Defense Fund , now a federal judge , and an immense help to Kluger when he was writing this book ) . It was black and white together in the offices of the - Legal Defense Fund , as they prepared to argue before the Court against some very powerful adversaries , notably the elegant , patrician John W. Davis , a highly skilled advocate and head of one of Wall Street 's most prestigious law firms . Yet , after reading this book , an emerging law school graduate may feel more tempted to cast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to work for social justice rather than join the comfortable Establishment . Not that Kluger 's portrayal of the , other side lacks balance . Davis , a man born with his pants creased and who had been the 1924 Democratic nominee for President , believed that rapid social change in the South could not be brought about by a Court decree , and the technical resources his firm employed were of a scrupulously high order . But because he failed-to feel the central moral injustice of the Negro 's plight , he does not seem , for all his ability , to have made a difference with his life . One of the lasting achievements of Simple Justice will be to encourage those who read it to , make a difference with theirs . A great strength of Simple Justice is its honesty and thoroughness . It is as warm in its admiration for the courage of lower court federal judges like John J. Parker of the Fourth Circuit , whose nomination to the Supreme Court the NAACP helped defeat , as it is for Judge Waites Waring , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in turn , made an outcast ) in order to rule in favor of the black drive for desegregated , equal education . It examines in detail the role of social science evidence in the Brown decision and is not ' afraid , for all its admiration of the man , to point out the inconclusiveness of Dr. Kenneth Clark 's " doll tests . " Simple Justice will be a sensation , because Kluger has been able to reconstruct the conferences of the Justices , and their probable votes , after each of the oral arguments in Brown . What goes on in the conference of the Justices is so secret that rarely has the seal been broken . No one but the Justices is ever admitted to the conference room , the junior Justice serving as doorkeeper and recipient of messages from the outside world . However , Kluger has managed to get hold of handwritten notes by Justices Robert Jackson and Harold Burton which summarize ( though sometimes cryptically ) the discussion that took place . With the help of the late Alexander Bickel and others , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Harvard Law School library , and the book . contains some highly significant , never before published memoranda of the Juitice . He interviewed the late Chief Justice Earl Warren and Associate Justice Tom C. Clark , each of whom said what his own view had been . Finally , after he had meticulously pieced together what he had reason to believe was the story , he got in touch with many of the law clerks for the Court during the period , in order to verify and flesh out the story . Many were of very great assistance , especially ( with his Justice 's permission ) John Fassett , law clerk to Justice Stanley Reed . Although the story will create a sensation in legal circles , the result that Kluger has achieved by piecing together the conference discussions and internal maneuverings within the Court while the School Segregation Cases were before it is not sensationalism . His is not a book of tantalizing bits of gossip but a work of careful scholarship which illuminates how the judicial process deals with an explosive social issue . He combines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's view of the role of the Court in approaching the problem of desegregation . Justices whose moral position the author admires come in for personal criticism . Justice Douglas , who was often insufficiently appreciative of the contributions , and indifferent to the well-being of his law clerks , is portrayed as a " cold , highly introverted , sometimes downright unfriendly man , " one who , to paraphrase a law clerk , seemed " another of those liberals who loved humanity in the abstract , but could n't stand people in particular . " On the other hand , Stanley Reed , whose original stance was against reversing Plessy v. Ferguson , is more sympathetically portrayed as a man of conscience who wrestled hard with his Southern upbringing and the issues . When Brown first came before the conference of the Justices on the morning of December 12 , 1952 , Chief Justice Fred Vinson was presiding over , the Court . Although no vote was taken , the line-up appeared to look like this : Four of the Justices ? Black , Douglas , Burton and Minton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ending school segregation . One , Reed , was ready to vote to affirm it . The others apparently did not say how they would vote , except for Frankfurter 's indication that he was ready to overturn Jim Crow schools in the nation 's capital . Vinson and Clark were troubled by the uproar the Court might stir in voting down segregation and feared protracted domestic strife ; they plainly preferred a wait-and-see stance . Jackson , according to his clerk who later succeeded to the Supreme Court , thought Plessy had been rightly decided and was ready to take the " unhumanitarian " position that it should now stand ; according to all other evidence , he did not admire Plessy and would not oppose a Court vote striking it . down , unless a majority insisted on declaring that segregation had been wrongly held to be constitutional all along . The clerk to Justice Robert Jackson , referred to above , was William Rehnquist . In testifying before the Senate in 1971 at his confirmation hearing , Justice Rehnquist swore that the contents of a memorandum , entitled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ initialed " who , " and arguing against overturning school desegregation , reflected not his own views but Justice Jackson 's . However Kluger , with evidence from Rehnquist 's co-clerk for Jackson during the 1952 term , presents a compelling case that Justice Rehnquist may have been seriously mistaken in his representations to the Senate on this matter . With the Justices initially divided , Felix Frankfurter stepped into the breach . Despite his long , personal fight on behalf of minorities and equal justice , the School Segregation Cases were not easy for Frankfurter to decide , as his biting ( and often poorly answered ) questions to counsel for ' the NAACP on oral argument indicate . Frankfurter was , in general , an apostle of judicial restraint , unwilling to over-turn settled practices and the judgments of state legislatures . He put his diligent law clerk , Alex Bickel , to work delving into the legislative debates prior to , the passage of the Fourteenth Amendment to make certain that history posed no bar to reversing school desegregation . When he was satisfied that what was morally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court engaged in , judicial review  --  a very different function from that of legislating ? Frankfurter devoted all his energies to delaying action by the Court until unanimity could be reached . Bickel recalls him as rushing back from one of the conferences of the Justices " in a state bordering upon exultation . ' He said it looked as if we can hold off a decision this term , that no one on the Court was pushing it , that no vote had actually been taken . . . and that if we could get together some questions for discussion at a reargument , the case , could be held over until the new term . ' " Questions , of course , were not difficult to find . And when the new term of the Court began , Earl Warren was Chief Justice . The new " Chief ' was a chief indeed . After reargument , the feeling , in late March 1954 , remained 8 to 1 ( Reed still the lone dissenter ) to strike down segregation . But it was as yet unclear whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , concurring opinions . Earl Warren appreciated the need for a unanimous opinion on an issue that might badly split the nation . The author demonstrates how he used his moral force and administrative and diplomatic skills to achieve it , , finally winning over even Stanley Reed , " for the good of the country . " The opinion handed down by the Warren Court on May 17 , 1954 was simple and modulated . It did not go as far as many individuals would have liked . In showing us how that opinion came into being , and the compromises its wording represented , Richard Kluger gives us all , a valuable lesson in judicial statesmanship  --  one which should be of use to beleaguered judges of the 1970s . Even more disappointing to liberals was the Court 's implementation decision , Brown II , delivered in the spring of 1955 and containing the much debated phrase " with all deliberate speed . " At that time , the dominant voice in conference seems to have been that of Mr. Justice Black . No man was more forthright than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school segregation must end . But his fellow Justices , respecting his knowledge of the South , heeded his warnings that " the less we say , the better off we are , " that nothing was " more important than that this Court not issue what it can not enforce . " It is sad that almost all the problems confronted by the Justices of the Warren Court are still with us today . They are particularly exacerbated , as the headlines remind us daily , in the context of Northern , large-city school desegregation . In the South , particularly at the time of Brown , whites and blacks tended to live in reasonable proximity to each other , although their separate schools and drinking fountains were clearly labeled . Thus desegregation could often be achieved by simply altering school attendance lines . In large Northern cities , whites and blacks often live hi compact , widely geographically separate neighborhoods ( such as Boston 's Charlestown and Roxbury sections ) . Large-scale bussing is the only practicable way to desegregate . That fact , based on demography and causing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led to the current political storms . There have been assaults on all fronts . Last fall , when a number of tense school systems were opening under desegregation orders , Gerald Ford repeatedly deplored the use of forced bussing as a means to bring about equal educational opportunity . He did so , despite a stern admonition from the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights that , by such conduct , the executive branch was severely undermining the authority of the federal courts . In an election year , it seems likely that very few candidates for the Presidency will display the courage shown recently by George McGovern in Louisville , when he insisted that the Democratic Party must adopt a firm stand in support of court-ordered desegregation . For the past several years , Congress has conducted a curious annual ritual . The House , whose members represent comparatively parochial community interests , has voted to amend the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to deprive the Department of Health , Education and Welfare of the power to cut off federal funds to school , districts which refuse to desegregate promptly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narrow margins , has refused to go along with such legislation , realizing that to do so would eliminate the perhaps most effective way to persuade cities ( especially in the North ) that they must desegregate . Last fall , however , a majority of the Senate sided with the House to cut down HEW 's enforcement capability  --  a move whose practical and symbolic implications are not lost on black people . While 56 per cent of Americans say that they approve of desegregation , 75 per cent ( according to the latest Harris poll ) disapprove of bussing as a way to accomplish it . But something other than bussing is clearly at work here , for no one seriously objects to the fact that vast numbers of American children are daily bussed to school throughout the country for nonracial purposes . Michael Novak , a **27;2311;TOOLONG Catholic philosopher , whose latest work ( in the Moynihan-Glazer tradition ) is The Rise of the Unmeltable Ethnics , has tried to explain the urban white fear of what is at the end of the bus line : Kenneth Clark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the black ghettos . The story is visible to anyone who has shared the heart-rending experience of working with the one-third of all blacks who are part of the black underclass . Working-class whites , whose own children are on the brink of the same dropout rates , low achievement rates , high rates of drug-use , and climbing rates of early pregnancy and illegitimacy , are afraid of the black underclass precisely because they understand the pull of downward mobility . They see downward mobility all around them . They feel it in their families . Blacks in Boston , having experienced the mood of white crowds " protecting " South Boston 's Carson Beach ; having watched mothers on the march , waving tiny American flags and chanting Hail Marys against bussing in Charlestown and East Boston , and having ' followed the vivid television accounts of the turmoil in Louisville as it undergoes metropolitan desegregation , give a less sympathetic explanation . They call it " racism , pure and simple . " However , even substantial segments of the black community have abandoned the faith . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than twenty years to see the dream of Brown v. Board of Education realized . There has been infinitely more deliberation than speed . But in part , the failure to push hard for integration stems from a healthy appreciation of the strengths of the black community and from a realization that only when blacks have power and control over their destiny will they be able to realize their full human potential . In a little noticed legal action of the early 1970s , CORE , under the leadership of Roy Innis , filed an amicus curiae brief before the U.S. Supreme Court , suggesting that , rather than integrate , blacks should be permitted to secede from school systems that practiced discrimination . In that way , they could prevent being further " whitewashed " and establish schools where black was , indeed , beautiful . The brief was filed in the Mobile , Ala. case , argued and decided at the same time as Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education , in which the Supreme Court legitimated ' large-scale forced bussing as a means to bring about desegregation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court in 1971 , largely , no doubt , because the Court knew that many whites would have rejoiced in its reasoning : " Them in their schools , and us in our schools . That 's fine with us . " But the Atlanta chapter of the NAACP , against the strongly expressed views of manylawyers for the national organization , successfully opposed active support of a metropolitan desegregation suit that would have dispersed the black community . It settled instead for the promise of many more positions of power within the largely black Atlanta school system . Upholding the Atlanta plan , the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals , a bastion of liberalism during both the Warren and Burger Court eras , has recently sounded an ominous note . It found itself forced to admit that " , every judicial design for achieving racial inte-gration in this system has failed " because of " white flight " and proclaimed that : The aim of the Fourteenth Amendment guarantee of equal protection . . . is to assure that state-supported educational opportunity is afforded without regard to race . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Commenting on the Fifth Circuit 's decision , Warren Fortson , a lawyer for the Atlanta school board , said that the court was " kind of picking up on the mood of the country . " And in a survey published by the Boston Herald American just before the opening of the Boston public schools last fall , four out of ten blacks opposed bussing . The social science evidence of whether bussing produces either educational gains or improved racial attitudes for blacks or whites is indeed very mixed . The principal author of the Coleman Report seems to be reversing himself of late , much to the ' delight of Boston 's Louise Day Hicks , who could not resist repeatedly calling his reappraisal to the attention of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights during its hearings on the Boston case last summer . The Thomas Pettigrews engage in endless acrimonious debate with the David Armors of the academic world about the benefits of desegregation , challenging each other 's techniques of statistical analysis , while the Jensens and Shockleys look on from the sidelines . Each lawyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " scripture " to cite as an appendix to his brief . Caught in all this pother are the federal district judges  --  lonely men like Judge Garrity of Boston , James McMillan of Charlotte and the late Stephen Roth of Detroit , who are often looked to by civil libertarians as the last hope of mankind or , at least , of black mankind . These judges seem to have the President , the Congress , the white public opinion polls , many blacks and some social scientists arrayed against them . Apart from the contempt power , the judiciary has few tools to enforce desegregation orders . And the contempt power must be sparingly exercised , lest it make martyrs of those , like the majority of the Boston School Committee , who ride the crest of popular resistance . In addition , the judges ' law school educations , focusing on the analysis of appellate decisions , have seldom given them the breadth of knowledge or the training in statistics that would enable them to understand such complex issues as school desegregation and its implementation . And a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether in a democracy judges should be asked to assume so much of the burden of ' desegregation . Alexander Bickel , whose untimely death occurred almost a year ago , was chief exponent of this last viewpoint . In his recently published final book , The Morality of Constraint , he wonders whether the idealists ( or were they idealogues ? ) who made up the majority of the Warren Court were sufficiently sensitive to the . . . set by culture , by time- and place-bound conditions " in an ethnically pluralistic society . Judges , not being popularlyelected and hence not politically responsible , act at their peril , thought Bickel , when they decide such complex matters as the Reapportionment Casei with the simple slogan  --  one man , one vote  --  or shuffle blacks and whites around a large-city school system in checkerboard fashion . Such remedial decrees , he believed , do not recognize the importance of diversity or of keeping communities intact  --  considerations which many mental health professionals deem vital . Liberals today are in doubt as to which course is more truly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become involved in running almost every aspect of a school system ( a position into which Judge Garrity has nearly been forced in Boston ) or to give a more popularly representative school committee the freedom to try to accommodate the command of the Constitution to " local conditions . " Very thoughtful people express alarm at too much reliance upon the judiciary to solve major social problems , as Nathan Glazer has in the current issue of The Public Interest . In this confusion of mind at almost every level of society , we grope for sources which might provide some guidelines toward an " answer " to this dilemma . Simple Justice , I would suggest , is exactly such a source . Richard Kluger , to be sure , only touches , in a brief final chapter , on the problems that have arisen during the twenty years since the Brown decision . Yet ; by setting the questions raised today in the context of history , he shows that they are not really new questions . Dwight Eisenhower , like Gerald Ford today , supported the decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal troops into Little Rock in 1957 . He later said that appointing Earl Warren as Chief Justice was one of the greatest mistakes of his Presidency . The social science dispute in Brown was as heated , and the evidence as conflicting , as the dispute over bussing is today . Yet the Supreme Court acted unanimously . For the decision in Brown v. Board of Education was a moral imperative , as Judge Garrity 's decision to bus in Boston is in the present era . To borrow , again , the words of Alexander Bickel : Like poetry , then , as a verse by Auden tells us , the great School Segregation decision of May 17 , 1954 made nothing happen . But only like poetry . Only as it may sometimes seem that nothing but power , purposefully applied , can affect reality , only thus could it be said that this first decision had no consequences . . . . In fact , announcement of the principle was in itself an action of great moment , considering the source from which it came . Immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was placed " where the public mind shall rest in the belief that is in course of ultimate extinction " . . . . Simple Justice , like Brown , brings us back to first principles , at a time when many are tempted to forget them . Its writing was for its author , like poetry for Keats , " a vale of soul-making . " At one point during the fall of 1953 , as the final NAACP brief in Brown was being written , Thurgood Marshall turned to the white , Yale-educated Charles Black , who was working with him , and gave him the ultimate accolade : " You are a Negro . " The same can now be said of Richard Kluger . If a man should achieve nothing more with his life than to write a book like Simple Justice , his life will still have been grandly lived . This is a monumental accomplishment. ?                     