@@487956

Early on , Nelson Rockefeller went bananas over shelters and tried to require construction . . . that would have bankrupted property owners all over the state . His " edifice complex " has resulted in the billion-dollar-plus Albany Mall , a very costly monument to his memory , of insufficient utility to justify the many millions it will cost the state annually for generations . He tried to build a fourth jetport for the metropolitan area , first at Calverton , Li. , " and then at Stewart Air Force Base , west of Newburgh , both more than 60 miles from the New York City line , with inadequate means of transport for freight and , passengers to and from it , . . He failed to prevent Spiro Agnew from knifing his own appointee , Republican Sen. Charles Goodell , in 1970 , permitting James Buckley to be elected to the Senate as a " Conservative " . . . and did not lift a finger to stop Buckley 's being seated in , the Senate as a Republican .. . . Worst of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bitter end with RMN , regarding our illegal intervention in Indochina , and is just as hawkish as Nixon , Ford , Kissinger , Schlesinger , Jackson and Wallace , favoring Mu , tual Atomic Deterrence ( MAD ) as the way to peace and security . . . . The President was wise in choosing an ex-Governor as his nominee , in view of his lack of executive experience , but most unwise as to whom he chose . . .. What Congress should now do is not only say nix on Rocky but pass a Joint Resolution giving the President a short list of moderate Republicans as the only persons it will approve as Veep . . . . My suggestions , in alphabetical order , are Edward Brooke , Clifford Case , John Gardner , Mark Hatfield , Walter Hickel , Charles Percy , Elliot Richardson , Francis Sargent and William Scranton . Frederic C. Smedley Arabs in Israel Waierly , Mass . Carl Cohen " Democracy in Israel , " The Nation , July 20 asserts that Israeli Arab citizens have " full civil rights  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is overwhelming that Israeli Arabs , both Christians and Moslems , are second-class citizens at best . For example , Sabri . Jiryis , an Israeli Arab in exile , documents in The Arabs in Israel the systematic discrimination suffered by his people in the " personal , political and , economic " spheres of Israeli life . This , of course , is to say nothing of the ultimate form of discrimination suffered by more than a million Palestinians . . . . Cohen claims that Israeli Arabs have " their own political parties " and that their " elected representatives " represent ' real participation " in Israeli society . Yet Israeli Palestinians have been denied the right to form any party which reflects their nationalist sentiments , , thus leaving them with a choice between Zionist and Communist parties . Further , the existence of a few Palestinians in the Knesset no more reflects equal rights for them than has the existence for many years of a few blacks in Congress meant equal rights for blacks . . . . Many Israeli Jews , including Jewish ' members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have protested the persecution directed at Israeli Arabs . So have American : Jews such as Noam Chomsky and LF . Stone . Chomsky , for instance , has said that to the extent that Israel is a " Jewish " state , then to that extent " it is not democratic " and contends that the " legal structure of the state " is " inherently discriminatory . " . . . Edmund R. Hanauer , Executive Director Search fqr Justice and Equality . in Palestine Massive inflation is an economic ill that destroys savings , shrinks pensions and pushes to the wall all thou on fixed incomes . Its traditional remedies are high intereft rates , " tight " money , Increased taxes and reduced credit , on the theory that taking money out of circulation and thus making it scarcer will enhance its value once again . RecesSion has generally the opposite effect , and the , unemployed and marginally employed bear its principal burdens . The accepted treatment calls for low , interest , easy credit , reduced taxes , deficit spending and are gov- ernmental creation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of inflation , conventional wisdom is that the cure should also be opposite . Today 's economic woes embrace both sets of symptoms , and applying the standard treatment for one merely exacerbates the , other . It is a brand new economic disease , which was promptly christened " stagflation " ; but calling it names does not seem to have had much effect . The Nixon administration 's economists displayed from the start a bankruptcy , of ideas ; their " old time religion " consisted of treating the inflationary symptoms , and only those , in the traditional manner . Recession continued unchecked , and so did the inflation . Resort to so-called " fine tuning " ? a euphemism for doing very little of anything  --  had predictably no effect . By the time Richard Nixon fled to San Clemente , it was clear that the new economic ailment was not going to respond to the old panaceas . Gerald Ford , perhaps in realization of his and his staff 's lack of expertise in economic matters , proceeded to summon a small army of economists and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preceded , of course , by a number of " mini-summits . " The hope was wistfully expressed that some sort of " consensus " would emerge . No such luck ; the doctors disagreed , as it was ordained they would . The summit is over , and affairs are still in the hands of the same group of , unsuccessful practitioners whom Ford inherited , along with the intractable ailment , , , from his predecessor . As matters continue to slide downhill , with each member of the crew seemingly frozen at his station , the only unequivocal statement of policy that has been forthcoming is that no , radical measures are necessary , and that the positive action of wage and price controls will not be taken in the near future . There are suggestions here of panic bordering on catatonia ; surely the continuing drift indicates even to the dullest mind that something new must be tried . Jawboning and coinage of new words are unavailing ; words won win this war . A good housecleaning is overdue ; those whoSe prescriptions have been tried and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offer , should be promptly jettisoned , Strong action is called for and it should include ; at the minimum , immediate ( if only temporary ) ' mandatory price controls . ' Control too ' long delayed is bound to be fruitless , for when ' it can be anticipated it Will surely be circumvented . As John Kenneth , Galbraith recently said , he saw no great damage in fixing prices that were already fixed , and " Where the private power already exists to fix wages , the public power to do so must be asserted . " $issinger Overreaching Hiniself The Popper affair is the latest illustration of how our much-lauded Secretary of State ( moonlighting as head of the National Security Council ) is rapidly and deservedly getting himself into the national doghouse . According to an account by Seymour M. Hersh in the September 27th New , York Times , supported by a mass of corroborative detail in other media , last July David H. Popper , American Ambassador to Chile , accompanied by Secretary of the Army Howard H. Callaway , was discussing further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Popper injected the question of " human rights , " i.e. , increasing world concern over the continuing mistreatment by the ' Chilean junta of political prisoners , numbering , according to Amnesty International , between 6,000 and 10,000 , subject to beatings , electric shock and psychological torture . Apparently Mr. Popper 's ' chief reason for raising this issue was that the 1973 foreign aid bill called on the Nixon administration to request that the Chilean Government protect the human rights of individuals and institute humane treatment of political , prisoners . This seems innocuous enough , but when ' Kissinger received a cablegram recounting Popper 's role in the negotiations he flew into one of his frequent rages and scrawled on the cable , " Tell Popper to cut out the political science lectures . " This insulting comment led to Popper 's receiving what amounted to a formal letter of admonition . Since Popper is a career diplomat , the gratuitous rebuke raised a storm among officials in the Bureau of Inter-American Affairs in the State Department . An Administration source told Hersh that Popper 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guys , " the source explained , " that if they want something  --  like more arms  --  they 've got to behave . It 's not only perfectly appropriate to raise the issue during meetings about-other matters , but the legislation requires that you must keep the human rights issue right up in the junta 's face . . . . " Thus Kissinger has taken another step in squandering the good will which was his from 1969 on . Partly because of his highly publicized skill as a negotiator , partly because ' of his-family 's escape from Nazi Germany , he enjoyed a prolonged honeymoon with the press and Congress . Now he is a wide-open target for criticism , as previously he was the recipient of uncritical admiration . The transition is his own fault : even as the executor of American nperialist policy he could have been less high-handed . Re has posed as a conciliator but his actions belie his words . As chairman and de facto boss of the 40 Committee he declared , " I do n't see why we should stand by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its own people . " Who appointed him the judge of responsibility or irresponsibility of Chileans , Vietnamese , Italians or any other nationals ? , Castro 's denunciation of U.S. policy in Chile , as pronounced by President Ford and executed by Secretary Kissinger , is supported by , undeniable facts . No informed person ' expects ' more than a modicum of morality in intei. - national . relationS , but Kissinger has carried inhumanity to the tpOint where - the gap between pretension and reality is so wide that it ' can no longer be bridged . He was Nixon 's man ; Ford , who gladly inherited him , may find himself heir to a political liability instead of an asset . ' Step Right Up ' Secretary of Agriculture Earl L. Butz is not a man to whom the country would instinctively turn for enlightenment or guidance in a season of travail . His customary posture is that of irrational optimism tinged with callous disregard for the suffering of those less well situated than himself . Secretary . Butz 's consistent advice to , Americans who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tighten their belts . But if he can not advise us or assist us , Secretary Butz seems at least eager to entertain us . His department has completed plans for a fent show which , with prayers and song , will endeavor to convince the citizenry that food is both abundant and cheap , for which blessings they should thank God and the Department of Agriculture . According , to Steven Laine , a consultant to Butz who was recently made the department 's publicity chief , - " For maximum emotional impact , all audio will be musical rather than verbal , ranging from a hymn of thanksgiving as the Pilgrims bow heads over their first harvest to America the Beautiful as the best of this year 's crop ' stands for harvest . " Local clergymen will be invited to intone a prayer or two at each stop on the tour . The display in the tent is to cover the country 's food and farm history from the first pumpkin to the latest soybean The show should get on the road soon , says Lain ; " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The notion of Secretary Butz as proprietor of a traveling tent show has provoked some sardonic comment in Washington . Rep. W.R. Poage of Texas , chairman of the House Agriculture Committee , said : " Well , it 's not the kind of , thing that would occur to me . " Jim Hightower , director of the Agribusiness Accountability Project , was still sharper . He called it " the most ridiculous idea since Earl Butz was nominated for the Cabinet . " Bluff Is No Policy The recent Ford-Kissinger bluster , aimed supposedly at the oil-producing countries , fooled no one . The least plausible part of it is the clearly implied threat of military action , That solution evaporated in 1956 when Anthony Eden launched a British-French-Israeli attack on Egypt . The operation was abruptly aborted by President Eisenhower , and today the Arab rulers are not apt to take seriously any talk of harebrained military ventures in the Middle East . Nevertheless , however implausible , the implied threat had a calculated purpose . Probably it was conceived by Secretary of State Kissinger to impress on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the utmost seriousness and might in concert take measures , other than military , to bring the oil producers to heel . Unfortunately , joint economic action is almost as unlikely as joint military action . It was also intended to give the impression of American leadership , and perhaps to dispel the notion that Gerald Ford is too good-natured to be a " strong " President . N t that he , or Mr. Kissinger , wants to go too far in tht direction , but one reason why Nixon was re-elected by a landslide was precisely that the American people thought McGovern , running on a platform of morality , gave an impression of weakness . Looking ahead , to 1976 , Mr. Ford must do a balancing act . And the chances are that he will continue to- balance , for the distress over the oil situation is not necessarily as unanimous as the public hand-wringing might lead one to believe . Last year 's panic over energy shortages , however induced , left a residual public uneasiness that has made easier an unconscionable rise in domestic gasoline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressing indignation at the cold-blooded greed of the ' Arabs , are enjoying profits unprecedented even in their notoriously profitable industry . And the consumers meekly pay whatever is demanded . What else can they do ? For many people , the automobile is a necessity i ( to get to work , for example ) and domestic oil-burning furnaces , except in rare cases , can not be converted to other fuel . So the oil cartels , foreign and domestic , have the consumer over a barrel , and there is every reason to suppose they are happy with matters as they are , and have no intention of permitting , fuel prices to drop substantially . Thus , the oil sheiks are content , the oil companies are content and the gasoline and fuel distributors are incidental beneficiaries : their profit margins have increased on a dollar , basis . - The Ford Administration can not be quite so happy because , however important petroleum may be to the political way of life , the economy is being bled white , and that too is important to politicians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one , so are all the other measures the Ford Administration has proposed . The President invoked the Golden Rule : " We can help ourselves only as we are considerate and helpful to others . " However , loving thy neighbor is not a pursuit much favored in American business , nor is it likely to be effective in international relations , when the whole world is thirsting for oil . The producers know this , and do not feel guilty about throwing their weight around . They are merely behaving like good monopoly capitalists . " Our policy is an empty box , " laments a U.S. official . That seems to be so , and the reason is that there has thus far been a reluctance to get the facts out into the open , where they might , provide a base for a policy . Certainly , the United States is an energy hog , and by persuasion as coercion could cut its use by 10 per cent , perhaps more ? But that sort of restraint , while useful , does not constitute a policy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more from realization . What is needed immediately . is an answer to basic questions : What is the actual role of the multinational oil companies in back-room negotiations between the producing countries , and the consuming countries ? Is n't conflict ' of interest inherent when international cartels , and American companies as well , act as co-representatives of U.S. interests abroad ? We know who is paying most for the grotesque hike in world oil prices  --  the poor countries and the poor individuals are paying most  --  but how are the profits being divided up ? When some of these facts are out in the open , public ( policy , backed by public opinion , can begin to make sense . The oil producers are not proving amiable , * and big countries are having to swallow their anger ' when little countries laugh at them . But if the whole truth were known , the anger might be more broadly , distributed . It is a test for President Ford , and for other-leaders of the highly developed , oil-hungry nations . The Education of Earl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the eve of ' a committee vote to impeach the President , the nation 's editorial writers sprang to their typewriters to offer fervent praise of the former Chief Justice for possessing in abundance precisely those qualities which Nixon , so conspicuously lacked  --  integrity , honesty , a deep sense that public office is a public trust . The impulse was understandable , but in its eagerness to praise Warren the press largely ignored the fascinating evolution of his political career . The question , which can be discussed more appropriately now than it could at the time of his death , is this : what prompted the remarkable change in Warren 's political views and values after he became Chief Justice ? Three distinct phases marked Warren 's career : Deputy , then District Attorney , of Alameda County and Attorney General ( 1920 to 1942 ) ; Governor of California ( 1942 to 1953 ) ; and Chief Justice ( 1953 to 1969 ) . There was no hint of greatness in the first phase of his career . He was an honest , diligent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aligned with the right wing of the Republican Party . He is said to have admired Hiram Johnson ; if so , he kept his admiration under wraps , for Johnson 's old enemies were his chief sponsors . A few key issues suggest the kind of politician Warren was during phase one . As District Attorney , he was responsible for the prosecution of King , Ramsay and Connor ? the so-called Ship Murder case  --  in 1936 . Whether the case was or was not a labor frame-up is less important than the fact that the trial was a scandal . Jurors were drawn from lists submitted by large banking and industrial corporations ; more to the point , the deputy in charge of the case had borrowed large sums of money from a woman who served as a juror  --  a fact not known to the defense at the trial . Warren probably did not know about it either at the time , but later , when the connection was made public , he still upheld the verdict . Still later , when Gov . Culbert L. Olson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Ramsay and Connor in December 1941 , Warren denounced the action as " an outrage to public decency . " During the long years of investigations , hearings and agitation that finally culminated in Governor Olson 's issuance of a pardon to Tom Mooney on January 7 , 1939 , Warren consistently opposed the pardon . Olson could not pardon Warren Billings , Mooney 's co-defendant , because of a prior conviction . So Billings had to serve an additional ten months in prison after Mobney was freed because the State Advisory Pardon Board voted 3 to 2 against commutation . Warren , an ex-officio member as Attorney General , cast the deciding vote. , THE NATION/October ' 12 , 1974 California has today what is acknowledged to be one of the ablest Supreme Courts of any state , but the remaking of the court was a slow process set in motion by Governor Olson . One of his fine nominees was Dr. Max Radin , long a member of the faculty of the Law School of the University of California . Of this nominee the Republican San Francisco Chronicle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a high degree of judicial temperament and a passion for justice ... who should be confirmed with no more of the scurrilous attack that arises from inability to distinguish between liberal faith and subversive character . " But the Judicial Qualifications Commission , of which Warren was an ex-officio member , voted 2 to 1 against confirmation and Olson was forced to withdraw the nomination . The deciding vote was cast by Warren . When the La Follette committee conducted its famous inquiry into farm labor conditions and violations of civil liberties in California in 1939 , it would be charitable understatement to say that Warren , as Attorney General , was uncooperative . In those years no public official was more highly regarded by the lAssociated Farmers of California . In the wake of Pearl Harbor , Warren was perhaps the most influential advocate of mass evacuation of all persons of Japanese descent , citizens and aliens alike , from the three West Coast states. , More important than the position he took were the reasons he cited for taking it . His statements showed unmistakable racial bias and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Japanese were removed , Warren , by then Governor , opposed the federal government 's suggestion in 1943 that they be permitted to return . " If the Japs are ' released , " he said , " no one will be able to tell a saboteur from any other Jap . . . . We do n't want to have a second Pearl Harbor in California . " Once the ban was lifted , however , he followed the strong lead of Democratic Atty , Gen. Robert W. Kenny  --  now a Superior Court Judge in Los Angeles  --  and took a firm stand for protection of their personal and property rights . Other issues  --  many in fact  --  might be cited to establish the point that nothing in the first phase of Warren 's career foreshadowed his performance as Chief Justice . Before 1942 , when he was first elected Governor , Warren 's image had been that of Mr. District Attorney : grim , humorless , prudish . But under the talented direction of Clem Whit-aker and Leone Baxter , California 's famous " campaign management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . that of a smiling , warm , friendly man with a charming wife and a bevy of attractive children who , for some in-325 explicable reason , had been kept in the background . As Governor , Warren began to exhibit a few signs of having opted for the Hiram Johnson " progressive " stance , but it was good politics for him to pose as " independent " and " nonpartisan " because Democratic and " decline-to-state " registrations in the state well exceeded the Republican . He expressed an interest in health insurance , spoke about the need to regulate lobbyists and opposed , as ex-officio member of the Board of Regents , the loyalty oath imposed on the University of California faculty ( he favored a similar , oath for all state employees ) . The loyalty oath fight taught him something . He was unmercifully attacked by right-wing elements and he was  --  despite a widespread impression ? to the contrary  --  a good hater who never forgave those who opposed him . So while ' it can be said that Warren tilted slightly to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signs of the transformation to come . The late Arthur H. Samish , for years the undisputed boss of the California legislature , offers this comment on Warren as Governor in his engaging autobiography : " Warren had it easy during the war years . California was booming with war plants , military bases , and the Governor could play the hero by reducing taxes and still run a surplus . " As Governor , Warren was beset by few of the searing problems that had plagued Olson or that were to plague his successor , Edmund G. ( " Pat " ) Brown , who had to cope with the accumulated social costs of the boom years . Nor was there any hint of change in anything Warren said or did as Republican Vice Presidential nominee in 1948 . Like most Republican nominees that year , he charged the Democrats with being " soft on communism , " but did so in the rather mild and gentlemanly style that Dewey preferred . Against this background , how is the extraordinary performance of Warren as Chief Justice to be explained ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost the precise moment when the major issues of the postwar period began to reach the Court . And his period of initiation was brief indeed . For example , he was appointed Chief Justice on October 5 , 1953 , and eight months later he wrote the Court 's opinion in Brown v. Board of Education . Warren once said that the change from Governor to Chief Justice was a " traumatic thing " and added : " But change you must if you are to do your duty on the Supreme Court . " And change he did . With politicians , perspective closely correlates with position , and Warren was , above all , the consummate politician . His entire adult life , with the exception of a few years after leaving law school , had been spent in public office . Judged by the record , Warren was a conservative Republican  --  he served as state chairman and national committeeman  --  until he became Governor . Once in Sacramento , a way station on the road to high national office , he adopted a " nonpartisan " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side . This is not to imply that he was insincere , - then or later , but it does suggest that he was primarily concerned with political self-preservation until he got where he wanted to be . - Once he became Chief Justice it could be said that he finallk felt free of political inhibitions , but at best this provides only a partial explanation . Instead of inhibitions , he now faced a new political challenge . The great Chief Justices , and Warren was one , have usually had a canny political sense ; witness the performance of Charles Evans Hughes . Under Warren , the Court had to face an accumulation of pressing social issues , some of which had acquired a special urgency because they had been neglecte during the World War II and cold-war years . He becamrF Chief Justice at a critical moment in the history of the Court , when the outlook for civil liberties and civil rights was bleak . Vacancies on the high bench had given President Truman a chance to fashion the disastrous " Truman Court " with the appointments of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warren 's strong , tactful and politically astute leadership , the dangerous course of the Truman Court was reversed . With the close of the third term under Warren as Chief Justice , it had become apparent , as C. Herman Pritchett pointed out , that the Court had turned one of its historic corners . Warren 's career , ' thus stands as a monument to the proposition that politicians have been known to grow in moral insight and social understanding to the point where they will respond , in a responsible manner , to the challenge of new issues and changing times , even if the times change faster than their personal convictions . Warren learned from experience ; he had been changing even when he did not appear to change . He listened , and learned , from Democratic rivals whom he liked and respected , such as Robert W. Kenny , who , as state Senator and Attorney General ( 1942-46 ) took stands on controversial civil liberties and civil rights issues that Warren was to espouse as Chief Justice after 1953 . " Pat " Brown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was another Democratic politician whom the Governor liked and often consulted and from whom he learned more than he ever acknowledged . The truth about Warren is , as Alan Barth has written , that " he grew prodigiously . " It should be emphasized that he was the product of a special political subculture ; nativism , California-style . ' Until late middle age he was active in the Native Sons of the Golden West , an organization whose members could not bring themselves to admit that a Japanese born in California was also a native son . " AntiOrientalism , " deep-seated and virulent , was one of the major components of the Native Son ideology . The other was that , as a kind of legacy from their pioneer parents and grandparents , native white Californians were entitled to preferment for public office , elective and appointive , over the latter-day immigrants , including Okies and Arkies , who were flooding into the state in quest of the good life , and bringing with them all manner of tramontane ideas that threatened turmoil in paradise . Warren @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  he was too much the activist for that  --  but by observation-4 and experience and a growing awareness that the new arrivals far outnumbered the native sons and daughters . Although he never publicly apologized for his role in the World War II internment of Japanese-Americans , he is said to have expressed deep regrefS in his autobiography which Doubleday and Co. will publish next year . This volume should afford new insights on the political ' education of a most remarkable American politician who grew to greatness .                     