@@491635

T 17Phe genius and fame of Norman Rockwell were responsible for an entire school of gifted artists who gravitated to the offices of the Post and vied for the covers of the magazine when a Rockwell was not occupying the prized showcase spot . Each had his own personality and style , but the themes were generally those which so fascinated Rockwell and which he passed on to the whole nation  --  kids , bums , cops , dreamers , old folks , animals , oddballs , soldiers , young love . . . and religion . His religious attitudes came as normally to Rockwell as breathing . His ancestry was English , with haughty intimations of aristocracy fostered by his mother , so that the little boy , born in 1894 and living in middle-class neighborhoods in both New York City and Westchester County , naturally gravitated to the caste-conscious Protestant Episcopal Church , which had retained the churchly traditions of olde England while also catering to the commonsense virtues of competing Protestant denominations . Norman 's family was so religiously inclined that he was allowed neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Sundays . His mother was a hypochondriac who fancied herself in the pangs of a terminal disease through most of the days of her life ( she lived to be 85 ) , and when she felt too ill to attend church , the family always sang hymns at home in the parlor . In his early days on Morningside Heights in Manhattan , Norman was caught up in a wash of post-Spanish-American War patriotism , even at St. Luke 's Church , where he was an undersized brat in a miniature battalion of would-be soldiers carrying wooden guns . Later , he was a choir boy at the famous Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York , and he also attended a church in Mamaroneck when the Rockwells prospered and moved to the suburbs . Norman always had an underpinning of religious life and training to fall back upon . Fortunately for us , his personality was compounded not only by lavish doses of true spirituality and insight , with great love of his fellow human beings , but these guiding traits were also tinctured by highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // nyone who has been , as Rockwell was , choirboy and crucifer in the solemn Episcopal church , will understand Norman 's experience in what he was to call later " the underside of church life . " In Mamaroneck , the church where he sang stood on a hill next to a school for wayward girls . He and a few other young devils dressed in cassocks and surplices used to climb up into the belfry of their church in order to yell at the girls and tease them with ribald comments . Once the church sexton locked the boys in by mistake , and so Norman had to return home late for dinner for inexplicable reasons . In later years he devoutly believed in all things good . As an artist , he saw human flaws  --  as a man , he forgave them . For all Rockwell 's 317 covers , through the years , of course , many other artists , each in his own way , spelled the master while he worked and took over center stage . Religion was also a recurrent theme with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bent a bit for a smile . In the cover above , George Hughes did a churchly scene which might be inelegantly entitled : " Is a pew the proper place for a pooch ? " Hughes himself provided no solution to this bittersweet dilemma . He left it up to the yearnings of the little boy and his beloved pal , balanced against the dignity and propriety of a deeply concerned congregation . Hughes was a youthful man who favored young family scenes . At right , he has caught an uncomfort-able moment in the reverent act of christening  --  Dad can only hope a touch of water will cool baby down . T he remarkable thing about the thousands of covers which were painted over the years for the Post is how well they stand up creatively when one has the rare opportunity , as the editors do , of reviewing them all together . They are the ebb and flow of styles  --  in American art , in patterns of living , and in modes of thought . In religious subjects , there were two basic themes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in things spiritual , which was a boon to an artist with the technical capabilities of a Leyendecker . The other side of the coin , since churchgoing is a human experience , is the valiant attempt to reach for heavenly things which falls somewhat short of the mark . Perhaps that is where the genius of Rockwell so clearly emerged . Humor was part of his chemistry . So was beauty . But only he could blend these contrapuntal elements . It was reason enough for greatness .                     