@@290051

A 15-year urban renewal splurge has left Boston 's government and financial districts strong and healthy , but the city 's neglected downtown retail center has stagnated as established stores have followed the middle classes to the suburbs . Last week Boston joined with Jordan Marsh , the city 's biggest department store , and Sefrius Corp. , a French syndicate , in a bold attempt to change the situation . Their plan : to build a $220 million project called Lafayette Place that is designed to make downtown shopping attractive once more . <P> An important part of the developers ' strategy is to make it easy for shoppers to get to-and around-the twelve-acre project . There will be a 1,500-car parking garage for suburbanites and , for city dwellers , a direct underground link to the existing subway system . Once at Lafayette Place , shoppers will be able to move from store to store at three levels : in a subterranean concourse , on ground level and , by way of flying bridges , on the second floor . Instead of simply recreating the usual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inward-there will be continuity with the surrounding area . Some of the new stores will front on established city streets , others on Lafayette Place 's own maze of pedestrian malls and glassed-in galerias , which were designed by the architects ( I.M. Pei &; Partners with Cossutta &; Ponte ) to have the same twists and unexpected shop-filled alleyways as old Boston 's typical streets . Says Jacques Tz , president of Sefrius : " People will feel that they are in a lively city-not trapped in a moneymaking machine . " <P> Lafayette Place 's buildings will be in scale with surrounding architecture and will rise above the retail floors to provide space for offices and a hotel . These should help attract people and keep the center bustling . Last week , even as the ambitious scheme was announced , it began moving toward reality . Wrecking crews started to demolish the first old building on the site of Lafayette Place .                     