@@283986

The Xerox Corp . has grown to wealth and prominence by making it relatively easy and inexpensive to copy almost anything . Yet for the past decade , researchers at the company 's Webster , N.Y. , laboratories have been trying to find a way to render documents invisible to the luminescent eye of a Xerox machine . That seemingly suicidal quest was prompted by a growing clamor from publishers of copyrighted material who are angry about unlawful pirating of their works-and by Government nervousness about dissidents leaking xerographic evidence of federal mischief to the public ( read Jack Anderson ) . <P> Xerox now has finally come up with an anti-Xerox weapon : a combination of fluorescent dyes that can render a piece of paper uncopiable . The dyes , which can be sprayed on a document from an aerosol can , are invisible until hit by the powerful light of a Xerox machine . Then they fluoresce with a bright flash that makes the copy momentarily illegible . After copies of a document had been distributed to all those authorized to see it , the original @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that attempts to make additional , unauthorized copies would produce only blank paper . <P> Xerox has been granted patents in the U.S. and Britain for the process . But company officials clammed up when an abstract of the patent was published last month in an obscure technical newsletter-which , ironically , could probably profit from being made copy-proof . A Xerox spokesman insisted last week that the company had no firm plans to market the fluorescent foiler . Wall Street analysts who follow the company say that if the product is ever introduced , sales probably would be restricted to the Defense Department , and others who could demonstrate a compelling need . Company officials do note that the fluorescent dyes can thwart only genuine Xerox machines . But that would certainly cramp the style of any future Daniel Ellsbergs . Xerox accounts for fully 85% of office copier sales and leases , including most of the machines in the Pentagon .                     