@@279991

When the Pulitzer Prizes are announced next week , the citation for public service by a newspaper-barring a last-minute reversal-will go to the Washington Post for its continuous digging into the Watergate case and related campaign scandals . Certainly the Post deserves credit for its tenacity But the trade knows that personal honors belong to an unlikely trio of relatively junior newsmen , the Post 's District of Columbia editor , Barry Sussman , 38 , and Reporters Carl Bernstein , 29 , and Bob Woodward , 30 . None of the three was accustomed to covering stories of national significance , all felt the intense heat of Administration denunciations that threatened to wilt their credibility , even among some fellow newsmen . <P> Their partnership began by accident . Sussman paid an unusual Saturday visit to the office last June 17 after learning that five men had been arrested that morning while breaking into Democratic headquarters . He borrowed Bernstein from the Virginia desk to check the five suspects and called in Woodward for help . These three-and other Post reporters-at first covered the story as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in July , Managing Editor Howard Simons told Sussman to choose two reporters to work full time on Watergate ; Sussman retained Bernstein and Woodward . <P> Insinuations . The team 's most important news break came on Oct. 10 , when it revealed the existence of a network of agents hired to undertake political espionage for the Committee for the Re-Election of the President , and named Donald Segretti as one of the operatives . Five days later , the Post ( along with TIME ) linked Segretti to Presidential Appointments Secretary Dwight Chapin . On Oct. 25 , Woodward and Bernstein wrote that Presidential Aide H R. Haldeman had access to a secret campaign kitty used in part to fund political sabotage . Though other publications-principally TIME and the New York Times-kept up a steady rhythm of Watergate beats , Republican spokesmen reserved their harshest denunciations for the Post The paper appeared to have been caught in a serious gaffe when it reported that an important witness had established the Haldeman connection in testimony to a grand jury Such testimony was not given , though Bernstein and Woodward had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Post 's critics increased after the election , when Watergate stories faded for a time from the Post 's pages . <P> There were insinuations that the Post had played the Watergate story heavily only to help George McGovern 's election chances . The Post was naturally eager to disprove that notion . Working up to 16 hours a day , Bernstein and Woodward hounded C.R.P staffers in their homes and badgered White House aides with endless phone calls . " It was like selling magazine subscriptions , " Bernstein remembers . " One out of every 30 people will feel sorry for you and buy one . "                     