@@494818

DECEMBER 9 , 1972 There Is No New Majority Coalition Politics by Paul R. Wieck Before November 7 , there was a lot of chatter about the white , ethnic vote in the industrial areas of the North being the swing vote this year . Sometimes it was , but it was n't always part of the winning coalition . Again , we were told the Wallaceites in the South were the key and that to succeed , the Democrats must nominate candidates who could hold that vote . In some states , that proved true ; in others , not . Or that the youth vote , particularly on the campuses , would rewrite the rules . Often , they did . But not always . Ditto , the black vote , the Spanish-speaking , the suburbanites , the farmers and ranchers . Not everything can be explained in terms of the arithmetic of coalitions . The personalities of the candidates and the appeal they have or lack as individuals obviously affects outcomes too . I focus here however on voter categories and how they behaved November @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to epitomize the widely held belief that racial fears of the working class in the industrial centers would be decisive , it would have to be the fight between Edward Hanrahan , the Democratic incumbent , and Bernard Carey , the . GOPnominee , for state 's attorney in Chicago 's Cook County . Dumped by the Daley organization , Hanrahan ran on his own in the primary and swept aside both an organization opponent and a reformer . On Nov. 7 , Hanrahan scored heavily in the white ethnic wards of Chicago and made deep inroads in the working class suburbs to the west of the city . But as the returns poured in , a coalition new to Cook County politics formed to give Carey the victory . As expected , Carey swept the affluent and traditionally GOP suburbs north of Chicago , his margins bettered by the influx of Jewish voters to that area in recent years . He carried all seven Lake Shore wards in Chicago populated by affluent liberals ? five on the north shore and two on the south shore . To cap it off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a total of 50 in the city ) and carried 62 percent of that vote for 58,000 of his 129,000-vote majority . Carey was n't the only beneficiary of ticket-splitting in the Lake Shore and black wards ; the returns show that these voters had a ticket but it did n't follow party lines . McGovern won them all , carrying black wards with 91 percent and the Lake Shore precincts by varying margins . Republican Senator Percy rolled up huge majorities along the Lake Shore and carried the 15 black wards by 1193 out of some 260,000 votes cast . Then , the black wards gave the Democratic gubernatorial candidate , Dan Walker , 83 percent and he took all but one of the Lake Shore wards . Walker went on to forge his own statewide majority by taking 60.6 percent of the Chicago vote , 40.8 percent in the Cook County suburbs and a surprisingly strong 49.6 percent downstate where he pulled thousands of small town and rural voters over to his column by walking tours that took him to 500 to 600 small communities , most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These same down- , state voters gave Nixon and Percy commanding majorities everywhere except in black and students ' precincts ! The white ethnics who voted for Hanrahan contributed heavily to the Walker win ; but they also helped pad the majorities of Nixon ( 59 percent in the state ) and Percy ( 62 percent ) , although both men failed to carry most of the wards and precincts heavily populated by Hanrahan supporters . Across the South , no one pattern predominated in 1972 . Georgia gives us a splendid example of contradictions when we lay side-by-side the returns from the Nunn-Thompson Senate race and the Young-Cook race for Congress in Atlanta . Nunn unseated Sen. David Gambrell ( D ) in the primary by pitting rural and small-town white votes against the candidate of the Atlanta metropolitan area . Nunn stayed out of the black area , choosing to ride the coattails of the McGovern-Young ticket in Atlanta and McGovern and other local black candidates elsewhere . It worked . He not only swept black districts in Atlanta but won Fulton County , his Republican opponent 's home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GOP nominee . Meanwhile , Democrat Andy Young , the first black from the deep South to be elected to the House of Representatives in this century , fashioned a different kind of coalition . He won overwhelmingly in Atlanta 's black areas , captured about 30 percent of the white vote , mostly young professional people , union members , students . In a few white precincts around campuses , he picked up 46 to 47 percent , while in the " silk stocking " eighth ward on the North Side of Atlanta , he received 27.7 percent of the vote . He won by nearly 10,000 votes . Just the opposite happened in North Carolina where Republican Sen.-elect Jesse Helms , a highly vocal and conservative radio commentator from Raleigh , started with a substantial basic GOP vote the mountain counties in the western part of the state and the more affluent Republicans in the growing metropolitan areas . He needed to add one more group to his coalition and it was n't difficult to find . Helms scored heavily in the Klan-infested mill towns of the Piedmont ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lot of conservative Democratic votes in the eastern part of the state . His defeated opponent , Nick Galifianakis ( D ) , had the moderate Democrats , blacks , students . That support enabled him to carry such major cities as Greensboro , Winston-Salem and Durham plus Chapel Hill . But it was n't enough . The more smashing GOP victory came in neighboring Tennessee where Sen. Howard Baker ( R ) , a moderate in the Southern context , formed a completely different coalition that returned him to the Senate with 62 percent of the vote . After losing three straight statewide elections with liberal candidates , the Democrats decided to give the conservative establishment in the party a sort of " last hurrah " by letting Rep. Ray Blanton ( D ) have the honor of opposing Baker . Blanton comes from the cotton counties in the western part of the state , traditionally Democratic and segregationist . It was just that ? a " last hurrah . " Baker came out of GOP strongholds in the mountains of east Tennessee with an unreal majority ? some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Baker 's majorities dropped but he still carried every congressional district , losing only a few west Tennessee counties by small margins . Baker carried the student vote comfortably and picked up an estimated 40 percent of the black vote . But ponder this : At Wharton School in Nashville , a black area , McGovern won 881-64 while Democrat Blanton was held to a 425-237 edge . In a Nashville upper-class ward , Nixon won 1376-267 , but Baker overwhelmed the conservative Blanton 1489-190 . In one ward around the University of Tennessee , McGovern won 1523-1256 ; Blanton lost to Baker 1567-1007 . New coalitions also appeared in the Rocky Mountain West where Democrats scored upsets . For a model of ticket-splitting , nothing equals the race of Rep. Teno Roncalio ( D , Wyo. ) a highly vocal opponent of the Vietnam war , long-time friend of the Kennedy family and a McGovern backer at Miami Beach . Nixon carried Wyoming 100,000-44,000 , while Republican Senator Clifford Hansen won reelection 101,000 to 40,000 . Then , 35 percent of the people who voted for Nixon and Hansen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biggest in three successful races for the House . His margins came from the cities ? Cheyenne , Laramie , Casper ( the hometown of his opponent and normally Republican ) , Rock Springs . Meanwhile , he lost in three smaller , marginal counties that have almost invariably gone for a Democratic winner . In Colorado , it was the vote in metropolitan Denver that gave Democratic challenger Floyd Haskell his stunning upset victory over Republican Senator Gordon Allott . Haskell carried the metropolitan area ( 260,000-244,000 ) by holding down GOP majorities in DECEMBER 9 , 1972 suburban Jefferson and Arapahoe counties ; winning Boulder , once a GOP stronghold but moving toward the Democrats with the addition of a huge student vote at the University of Colorado ; and carrying Denver and Adams County , both normally Democratic , by comfortable margins . He also beat Allott in El Paso . County ( Colorado Springs ) , a GOP stronghold , and in other Democratic or marginal areas such as Pueblo . and Grand Junction . His final majority : about 9000 . Environmental issues played a big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mexico , a comparable coalition failed . In Idaho , the Democratic candidate for Senate ran almost even in Ada County ( Boise ) , a GOP stronghold . Usually , that means a Democrat is close to winning . But the normal Democratic majorities in the mining counties of northern Idaho did n't materialize , and the Republican won . In New Mexico , GOP Sen.-elect Pete Domenici broke up a heretofore winning combination for Democrats , splitting the Spanish-speaking vote in " the north " of the state right down the middle and carrying most of the East Side counties ( his opponent 's home territory ) , where conservative Democrats with ranching and oil interests predominate . Domenici won Albuquerque , normally Republican , by a comfortable margin ( 16,000 ) . But it would n't have been enough if the Democrats had held together their coalition in the northern and eastern counties . Through it all , one group of voters was consistent ? the students clustered around major campuses , plus some smaller campuses with liberal academic traditions . They supported McGovern . They rejected conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tennessee , Franzenburg , the Democratic gubernatorial candidate in Iowa ) . They17 tended to vote with major winners at a state level . They also looked after their own interests . Over the last decade , many campus communities have had difficulties with the local power structure . Students appear to be very aware of who makes and enforces the laws , and after voting their own ticket at the top of the ballot ( McGovern , Percy , Walker in Illinois , for instance ) , they paid close attention to two kinds of local races ? prosecuting attorney and state legislature . Democratic candidates took the prosecuting attorney 's post away from Republicans in a number of communities with large student votes ? Champaign and Carbondale , Ill. , Ames , Iowa , Boulder , Colo . In Champaign , students helped elect a young black Democrat to that office ; in both Champaign and Carbondale they helped elect legislative candidates , some of them recent graduates . In Ames , a heavy majority helped Ruth Harkin , 28-year-old wife of Tom Harkin , the man who discovered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , win her race for county attorney . At the same time , Iowa students voted for a 21-year-old student who won election to the legislature as a Republican . Last but hardly least , students at Northwestern ( in Evanston ) and the University of Chicago ( Hyde Park ) contributed significantly to Carey 's winning majority in the Cook County state 's attorney 's race . Once all the returns are analyzed , state-by-state , it 's probable that leaders of both parties will find it prudent to offer the kind of candidates who can make it on the student slate . The variety of coalitions in 1972 offer few clues for building a majority in the ' 70s . They offer only this solace : Despite the overwhelming mandate for Nixon-Agnew , the die is n't cast . The voters are still busy rearranging themselves .                     