@@493863

levels provided in the new pension bill . Shepherd was asked to assume , and did assume , that Congress would vote the annual increases in compensation payments necessary to maintain the ratio , having in mind that Congress in the new pension bill had mandated annual cost-of-living increases in the basic pension levels . Shepherd came up with a five-year added compensation cost of $30.2 billion and passed this figure to Town ? send . She and Feldman say that he got it from somebody else . Thus was born Feldman 's revised " ratchet effect . " CBO 's assistant director , James Blum , said on November 29 that the Shepherd projection was never cleared with him and CBO director Alice Rivlin and therefore is not a certified CBO projection . Its only official sanction to date is that it appears as a speculative figure in one of Alair Townsend 's " issue papers . " Shepherd and Townsend say that they do not assume that Congress actually will do what the projection assumes it will do . Blum says that CBO certainly does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Foreign Wars and Disabled American Veterans , the old-line veterans ' organizations most likely to react to the new pension levels as Feldman assumes , said in late November that their organizations had no intention of demanding compensation increases on the scale predicted by Feldman . Feldman called his new ratchet figure a " CBO projection " and " CBO information " when he passed it to journalists and officials . He accused White House and Office of Management and Budget assistants of frustrating efforts to get the projection and its implications to Carter before he signed the new pension bill . He alarmed Alfred Kahn , the President 's new anti-inflation counsellor , with the projection and told reporters that Kahn wished he had advised the President to veto the bill . Dennis Rapp , Kahn 's chief assistant and Feldman 's friend of many years , guesses that Kahn may have advised a veto if he 'd been on the inflation job long enough to review the pension bill adequately . Rapp says that Kahn was n't on board soon enough to make any pension recommendation to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that other advisers saw to it that Kahn never had a chance to advise Carter to veto the bill . Carter had to accept or veto the bill by Monday evening , November 6 . Kahn , Rapp and two staff specialists on veterans ' affairs , Ellen Goldstein at the White House and Suzanne Woolsey at OMB , did n't know when they came to work Monday morning that the White House press office had announced the previous day that the President had signed the pension bill and seven others Saturday , November 4 . Kahn thought he still had time to submit a written recommendation to Carter and he discussed the possibility with Woolsey . She believed Feldman 's ratchet theory was phony . She also believed that the pension levels in the new bill were excessive andpotentially inflationary , and she so informed Kahn . Nevertheless , she also told Kahn , only the director of OMB , James T. McIntyre Jr. , could speak for it and in any event she agreed with everyone else involved that the President was morally and politically obligated to sign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the assassination of John F. Kennedy and the massacre at Jonestown . Even though the two events are of a vastly different order , they have met with a curiously similar public response : a compulsive searching for explanation , whether cosmic , social , political or psychological . One would have thought this country , after experienc ? ing so much shock and woe since 1963 , would now be too jaded to ask the kind of questions that have been consuming us all week . But there they are : How could those people submit their wills to a man like Jones ? How could they stay with him ? How could they kill themselves ? How could they kill their babies ? Ultimately , we have all been looking for an answer to a question we asked back in 1963 : Is this the product of a peculiar lunacy , or does it reflect on us all ? The natural reaction to an event of such horror is to distance oneself from it ? to blame it on somebody else or make it seem the act of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ryan had n't been out after publicity , was the way some people handled the news from Jonestown . It was those TV cameras that drove them over the edge , was another explanation . Why did n't the State Department know what was going on in Guyana ? is a question I 've asked myself , but it 's not an explanation of what happened , and it 's not at all clear what the US government could have done about it even if it had known what was going on . Other scapegoats abound in public print and private conversation . One of the more deserving is Mark Lane , who did have an idea how explosive Jonestown was , kept his mouth shut about it until more than 900 people were dead , and then , the moral maggot , sought to blame it on the CIA , the FBI and the United States in general . Toss and Pravda , along the same line , have recast their usual indictment of American social evils ( ne ? glecting to mention religious liberty ) and said all this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commentators have swelled the list of " others " that we all can point to in order to keep the terror of Jonestown from ourselves . It was religion , some say . It was socialism . It was cults . It was California . It was the jungle . It was Jones . In fact , it was Jones , in part . For without Jones ( or someone like him ) there could have been no Jonestown massacre . It was Jones 's magnetism that drew acolytes into the People 's Temple . It was Jones , using a combination of entry rites , tithing , fellowship , social services , psychic rewards and ( increasingly ) physical punishments , who kept his followers committed to him , even as he descended into paranoia . Clergymen of traditional denominations say it requires self-discipline and peer counseling to keep them from absorbing the adulation of parishioners and beginning to believe themselves superhuman . Jim Jones had no such discipline and he had no peers . His power corrupted him completely . When journalists began exposing brutality , sexual aberration and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his flock to the jungle . There he became the Emperor Jones , as in Eugene O'Neill 's play . In isolation from all civilized values , he went absolutely mad . His followers , isolated from all influences but him , followed him into his maelstrom . To blame Jones for the events in Jonestown , I think , is to absolve both religion and socialism . It 's being argued that suicidal zealotry is some sort of logical extension of a belief in God and that collectivism inevitably leads to maniacal dictatorship . But the evidence is that Jim Jones used both Christianity and Marxism as cloaks , though he actually understood and believed in neither . He is quoted as saying in Indianapolis , at the outset of his career , that religion was a Way of making money without getting his hands dirty working . He seems gradually to have become his own god , and a rapacious , acquisitive , unbrotherly one at that . He was about as religious as Josef Stalin and about as socialist as Tourquemada , and neither Marx nor Jesus should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survived Jonestown , as Charles Manson did his helter skelter , the American public might have been satisfied to see punishment inflicted on him and his henchmen as a way of exorcising the ghosts of Guyana from its con ? sciousness . But with Jones dead , it seems likely that the country will make a collective scapegoat of other nontraditional cults . Tom Robbins , a Queens College expert on so-called " new religious movements , " says he expects a " wholesale witchhunt " against such groups as Hare Krishna , Synanon , Unification Church , the Church of Scientology , the Children of God and other non-established groups . He says he expects con ? gressional and grand jury investigations , and also efforts in state legislatures to overturn court decisions restricting the ability of relatives to kidnap and " deprogram " cultists . According to Robbins , an anti-cult " hysteria " is set to break loose just at a time when " the growth curve of these movements is on the wane . " Statistics on cults tend to be anybody 's guess , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social change , becoming conventional or waning in importance . The Children of God , for example , have shifted recruiters from hippie enclaves to the disco scene , sending women into singles bars for " flirty fishing " among men who ca n't succeed at picking up other girls . Jesus freaks and charismatic Catholics seem to be drawing closer to traditional denominations , and middle-class young people seem to be turning away from Eastern religion back to booze , pot and fraternity parties . There is no question that Sun Myung Moon and Synanon deserve investigation and prosecution to the extent that they have violated the law . But coming down on them will not make Jonestown go away , even though we may try to make it do so . For there is more to Jonestown than Jones or cults or California . Newsweek columnist Meg Greenfield has hit on part of it when she says that the images we have of Jonestown resonate with " the dark impulses that lurk in every private psyche " and that " what made the Jonestown affair such a disturbing metaphor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a few yards away . " I think Greenfield is profoundly right . But I also think there is a non-jungle dimension to the Jonestown experience , an American one . Why did people join the Peoples ' Temple in the first place ? Why did they stay ? The push-them-away answer is , " Well , they were poor and black , drug addicts , old people , easy to fool . It could never happen to me . " But this cult and others have thrived because of things that have been missing from American society as a whole . What have the sects offered ? Fellowship , love , an opportunity for commitment , but most of all , authori ? ty . Name a traditional American institution and it is virtually certain that its authority has been under ? mined : the family , the church , schools , the govern ? ment , the presidency . Once children rebelled against the religion of their parents by " losing their faith . " But with their parents already practicing agnosticism , what rebellion was there but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ split , " why not find a " true family " ( as the Reverend Moon calls his church ) or a " dad " like Jim Jones ? The American government has shown it can not win wars the way it used to . People thought it knew how to run a prosperous economy , but their confidence is badly shaken . People once believed that Wall Street , the CIA , the FBI or the " establishment " was managing everything in secret conspiracy , but now all the veils have been pulled and it seems that no one at all is at the controls , not even the Wizard of Oz . Symbolically , the reliability of traditional authority came into question in Dallas 15 years ago . Somebody shot our president . We could n't keep the assassin alive long enough to find out whether he acted alone or with somebody else . We all saw Oswald killed on TV , and we 've insisted that TV take us every other place thereafter . It took us to Vietnam , and when we did n't like what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next president we picked turned out to be a crook , and we expelled him . This one ? It 's too soon to tell whether or not we 've made another mistake . It is little wonder that several million Americans have been attracted to groups whose leaders provide total authority , because there has been so little of the regular kind in the United States this past decade and a half . Nine hundred followed their leader to horrible deaths , and I think it does involve us all . An insidious campaign is afoot in Washington to dilute and , if possible , to destroy altogether President Carter 's human rights policies in Latin America , the Middle East , Asia and Africa . The only element of these policies escaping the new onslaught is the question of human rights in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe , but the administration , for its own political reasons , has largely abandoned this campaign anyway in recent months . Perhaps the saddest aspect of the current situation is that the president seems resigned to see his brave human rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the subject still emanates from the White House ? rather than to confront powerful economic interests in the United States opposing the broad sweep of humanitarian policies . Sadly , the Carter administration is quietly disengag ? ing from its worldwide advocacy of human rights just as this policy is beginning to show serious results . Repressive governments , particularly in Latin America , have been making grudging concessions to the cause of human rights , and it can probably be argued that new tendencies toward redemocratization in the Hemi ? sphere ? Peru being a good example ? have been reinforced by the early Carter pressures . Similarly , it is quite likely that Cuban president Fidel Castro decided in November to release thousands of political prisoners in order to remove one of the principal obstacles to improved relations with the United States , in which he is clearly interested , and to erase his image as a violator of human rights . In this , Castro appears to have beaten Mr. Carter at his own game , and , at the same time , to have gained points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America . To judge from recent wall posters and newspaper editorials in Peking , even the Chinese leadership , seemingly caught again in a major power struggle , is borrowing from the Carter vocabulary to claim that the defense of human rights must not be allowed to remain a " bourgeois slogan . " The principal reason for the efforts to torpedo the human rights policy is annoyance on the part of much of the United States business community , including defense contractors , that the restrictive Carter guidelines on assistance to dictatorial regimes are costing them millions of dollars in sales . United States military sales to Latin American countries have been suspended because of human rights violations , although this standard does not fully apply to such " strategic " countries as Iran , the Philippines or South Korea . The inconsistency of the Carter policies in this area , dictated by pragmatic considerations , is a separate aspect of the larger problem . Because of the administration 's human rights posture , the Export-Import Bank has been refusing to provide export loans and guarantees to American manufacturers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Chile . American representatives in the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank have opposed develop ? ment loans to dictatorial countries . Thus the concen ? trated businessmen 's attack on the human rights policy .                     