@@493658

Mr. X2 There is perhaps only one institution which the United States might have the confidence to borrow from Britain : the House of Lords . Into a House of Lords one could ? and would ? at the appropriate moment drop someone like ? well , George F. Kennan . George F. Kennan ? the famous diplomat . George F. Kennan ? the former ambassador to Moscow . George F. Kennan ? one of the authors of the script of the Cold War , especially in the article he contributed to Foreign Affairs in 1947 under the pseudonym of " Mr. X. " George F. Kennan ? who is now old . George F. Kennan ? still a high priest of the establishment . If the United States had a House of Lords , it could put him out to pasture there . He could make speeches about the increasing incidence of dry rot in the wainscotting of old New England houses , or the suitability of wattle fences in Wyoming . He would not be allowed to talk about Russia . Old men can be very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vulgar , try to win their old battles . They try to lose them again . George F. Kennan recently spoke to the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington , asking that America should now be particularly nice to Russia . " George F. Kennan Urges a New Vision of Russia , " was the headline to a lengthy extract in The Washington Post . Trustworthy Russia , George F. Kennan says in effect . Friendly Russia . Rather cuddly Russia . " The Soviet Union remains , of course , an authoritarian state . " How airily that " of course " dismisses the facts . On the same day in which his speech appeared in The Washington Post , there was a front-page report from Moscow in The New York Times : " The Soviet Union , on United Nations Human Rights Day , placed more than 20 dissidents under house arrest today . . . , and officially threatened to have ' drunken hooligans ' break up a silent demonstration in Pushkin Square . " But why be too much concerned ? Such things are a matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moderate , in fact conservative man ; a man who , whatever other failings of outlook he may have , is a man of the middle . " He is talking of Leonid Brezhnev . One turned back to The New York Times . " A few nonparticipants who stood by watching the Human Rights vigil wiped tears from their eyes . " Andrei Sakharov was warned not to attend ; so were Alexander Ivanchenko and Yuri Grimm . Those put under house arrest included the writer Georgi Vladimov , the electrical engineer Vladimir Slepak , and mathematician Naum Meinam , and the wives of two other dissidents , Alexander Ginsburg and Yuri Orlov . At least four dissidents tried to leave their homes to take part in the vigil , and were at once taken into custody . Moderate Mr. Brezhnev . Friendly Mr. Brezhnev . What matters in all this is the rhetoric . George F. Kennan opposes those who , like the Committee on the Present Danger , think that Russia today poses an immediate military threat to the United States , and it is not my purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in what an old man of the establishment then wants to do . He wants to achieve " a more workable consensus behind our policy towards the Soviet Union . " When I hear the word " consensus , " in such a context , I reach for my water pistol . It is always the conviction of the George F. Kennans , which seems to grow stronger with their own debilitation , that a consensus may somehow be manufactured to paste over differences . He then proposes ? and listen carefully : " a series of private gatherings in which would be included not only high-level policy-makers of the moment but leading members of this opposition i.e. , the Committee on the Present Danger , as well as possibly a few others of us who are interested in Russian affairs . " In other words , policy is again to be determined in private gatherings of an elite , the differences once more ironed out in secret : the same old , how very old elite ; the Council on Foreign Relations given a new lease of life . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that an elite consensus on foreign policy is probably the most dangerous way of conducting a country 's relations with the world . What George F. Kennan is proposing is the politics of senility , and one means by that the particular senility of the diplomat . Since diplomats are meant to make terms with foreign powers , and are not always very successful at it , they spend their old age saying that now is the time to make terms . It is one of the graciousnesses of old people in private life that they try to make peace with everyone . They tidy up their papers . But precisely for that reason we should beware of the old man who wishes to tidy up the world before he leaves it , and especially to tidy up his own record as a diplomat . Blessed are the peacemakers , but not when they are senile . They look for consensus at the cost of reality . George F. Kennan may be described now as " Mr. X2Y trying to square the account of " Mr. X " from 1947 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Sources of Soviet Conduct . " Its essential argument was that the West should " confront the Russians with unalterable counterforce at every point where they show signs of encroaching upon the interests of a peaceable and stable world . " This policy he defined as one of " containment . " In the telegram that he sent from Moscow to the Department of State on September 8 , 1952 , he said that Moscow wages " partial wars , " involving " the elastic and opportunistic use of a wide variety of tactics including outstandingly such things as deception , concealed penetration and subversion , psychological war , and above all the adroit exploitation of every conceivable form of division in capitalist society . " The curious fact about this description is that there is not much of it that needs altering today . Yet for many years now George F. Kennan has interminably argued that by " containment " and " counterforce " he did not necessarily mean a military response . " Mr. Xi " is the revisionist historian of the views of " Mr. X. " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and " counterforce " were certain to be interpreted in only one way . Dean Acheson put it well when he said : " George reminded me of an old horse my father used to have that would pull our buggy around . We 'd go over an old clapboard bridge and the horse would stop to turn round to see the noise he was making . Of course when he stopped the noise stopped . Then he would go faster , and more noise , of course ; stop , turn round again , and so forth , until he got across the bridge , never realizing what the stir was about . " Stalin died in 1953 , the same year in which Dean Acheson withdrew George F. Kennan from the Soviet Union in anticipation of his expulsion , because the Russians were infuriated by some of the ambassador 's observations about life in Moscow . Stalin 's death and his own resignation from the Foreign Service became events of parallel importance in his own mind . He still has a unique gift for interpreting the history of Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech in Washington , for example , he noticed that the Soviet Union was created 60 years ago , that exactly half-way through that period he wrote his " Mr. X " article , and that now at the end of the period he has his new vision of Russia . Russia must be very grateful that George F. Kennan has been there all along , guiding it to the " middle ground " which he thinks it now occupies . Soviet historians are adept at rewriting history , but they have not yet got round to putting him at its center , where he clearly ought to be . Anyhow it is since 1953 that " Mr. X2 " has been assiduously trying to get ahead of the revisionists in tidying up the record of " Mr. X. " The death of Stalin is of great convenience to him , since he can show that the Soviet Union changed exactly when he left it . But there have been consistencies in his views . He has always believed that foreign policy should be based only on calculations of national interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other country is an authoritarian state because , as he said on July 11th this year , he knows of " no evidence that ' democracy , ' or what we picture to ourselves under that word , is the natural state of most of mankind . " It always has had " a narrow base in time and space . " This not only makes it easy for him to join with Pepsico , Coca Cola , Control Data Corp. , and El Paso Natural Gas , who are not much concerned whether a country is authoritarian , to ask last year for a less suspicious attitude to Russia ; it also enables him to write off wide areas of the world , such as Africa , as being beyond the real concerns of the United States . What is common is that policy should be based on an arbitrary drawing of spheres of interests between the great powers , and " Mr. X " ' s policy of containment of Russia has been converted into one of the self-containment of the United States . This lack of confidence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has led him to make some outlandish proposals . On . March 15 , 1948 , he argued that the Communists were likely to win the forthcoming elections in Italy ; that the Italian government should therefore be persuaded to outlaw the Communist party ; that this would undoubtedly lead to civil war ; that the allies would then probably have to reoccupy Italy ; that there would be much violence ; that the Russians would presumably then intervene ; that the result would no doubt be a military division of Italy ; but that this would at least be preferable to ceding all of Italy to the Communists by one coup at the elections . At every stage , this prediction was false . But there is among his papers an even more startling idea . He argued at the end of World War II that Germany had never shown itself capable of democratic government ; that it had enjoyed orderly government only under a strong monarchy , supported by a powerful upper class . It followed that the allies should seek the restoration of the monarchy in Germany , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What monarchy ? " This lack of confidence in democracy has its parallel in the elitism of his proposals for the conduct of foreign policy . " He still keeps looking for a Tory party in America , " says someone who has followed his career , " but there is n't one for him to find . " It is Kennan 's attitude to Russia that matters most . He is obsessed by it , whether it is to " contain " it , or now to come to more accord with it . Many of his views of Russia were gathered in the 1920s from Russian emigres , and were afterwards reinforced by his experiences in Central Europe . What he learned from them both was , not so much an anti-Bolshevism , butthe age-old view of Russia , its huge plains , its great sky , its vast spaces , its innumerable , patient people , lying there on the edge of Europe , primitive and barbaric , maybe , but this primitiveness and barbarism giving it , in almost Spenglerian terms , some secret , mystical power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russian leaders , he is really talking of the timeless conservatism of the czarist state , ruling over one of the great " heartlands " of the world , which has so fascinated the Western mind , and it is perhaps not irrelevant that George F. Kennan was a young man when McKinder 's theory of the great " heartlands , " as the determining " geopolitical " reality in world politics , was fashionable . But the obsession with Russia is precisely what the United States seems to have been freeing itself from , and the obsession should not be revived by an old man who is still squaring his own account with history . There may not be much to say for the Committee on the Present Danger , but there is danger also in the views of a one-man Committee on Past Concerns . Henry Fairlie                     