@@491226

The sexual aims of psychopaths are consistently and parsimoniously limited to literal physical contact and relatively free of the enormous emotional concomitants and the complex potentialities that make adult love relations an experience so thrilling and indescribable . Consequently they regard sexual activity very casually , sometimes apparently finding it less shocking and enthralling than a sensitive normal man would find even the glance of his beloved . None of the psychopaths personally observed have impressed me as having particularly strong sex cravings even in this uncomplicated and poverty-stricken sense . Indeed , they have nearly all seemed definitely less moved to obtain genital pleasure than the ordinary run of people . The impression one gels is that their amativeness is little more than a simple itch and that even the itch is seldom , if ever , particularly intense . The male psychopath , despite his usual ability to complete the physical act successfully with a woman , never seems to find anything meaningful or personal in his relations or to enjoy significant pleasure beyond the localized and temporary sensations . The female , whether or not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to indicate similar evaluations of the experience . Even these sensations seem to wither precociously and leave the subject a somewhat desiccated response to local stimuli . Sensations so isolated are , no doubt , peculiarly vulnerable to routine and to its justly celebrated antidotes for excitement . The familiar record of sexual promiscuity found in both male and female psychopaths seems much more closely related to their almost total lack pf self-imposed restraint than to any particularly strong passions or drives . Psychopaths often seem by preference to seek sexual relations in sordid surroundings with persons of low intellectual or social status . Sometimes , however , the convenience by which what is little more than a whim can be gratified may play a greater part in this than specific preference . Another and more serious kind of sordidness also seems to constitute real inducement . Beneath his outwardly gracious manner toward women and his general suavity and social charms , the male psychopath ( or part psychopath ) nearly always shows an underlying predilection for obscenity , an astonishingly ambivalent attitude in which the amorous and excretory functions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that an impulse to smear his partner symbolically , and even to wallow in sordidness himself , is more fundamental than a directly erotic aim , itself hardly more to him than a sort of concomitant and slightly glorified back-scratching . The chief aim of this work is to help , in however small a way , to bring patients with this type of disorder into clearer focus so that psychiatric efforts to deal with their problems can eventually be implemented . It has of course been necessary and in every way desirable to eliminate all details that might lead to the personal identification of any patient whose disorder has been studied and recorded . All patients referred to have been carefully shielded from recognition . It is nevertheless true that the psychopath engages in behavior so unlike that of others and so typical of his disorder that no act can be reported of a patient from Oregon seen ten years ago without strongly sug gesting similar acts by hundreds of psychopaths carried out in dozens of communities last Saturday night . I can only express regret to the scores of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have never seen or heard of but who have , no doubt , reproduced many or perhaps all of the symptoms discussed in these episodes . This disorder is so common that no one need feel that any specific act of a psychopath is likely to be distinguishable from acts carried out by hundreds of others . In discussing the possible influence of environment on the development of this disability , I hope I will not promote unjustified regret or remorse in any parent . Hundreds of times fathers and mothers have discussed their fear that some error or inadequacy on their part caused a child to become a psychopath . Most parents of such patients personally studied impress me as having been conscientious and often very kind and discerning people . As will be brought out later , I do not believe obvious mistreatment or any simple egregious parental errors can justifiably be held as the regular cause of a child 's developing this complex disorder . All parents , no doubt , make great as well as small mistakes in their role as parents . It has seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fathers feel most uneasiness are the opposite of those so regretted by others and assumed to he the crucial mistakes that have contributed to the maladjustment of a child . Less than in most other kinds of psychiatric disorder has it seemed to me that one could find and point out as causal influences gross failures on the part of the parents which people of ordinary wisdom and good will might have readily avoided . During recent years it has become popular to blame parents in glib and sweeping terms for all , or nearly all , of the misconduct and inadequacy of their children . It has also become popular to insist that society and not the one who commits the crime should be held responsible for murder , rape , or armed robbery . Sometimes these claims are made without any appeal to evidence at all but merely by repetition of the familiar clich ? . Some psychiatrists have even attempted to account for antisocial behavior by assuming that the parents unconsciously want their suns or daughters to commit criminal or immoral acts and that the progeny carry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These conclusions , like many others that have been drawn in the attempt to give fundamental and dynamic explanations of things still unknown , rest chiefly on theoretical assumptions -- assumptions made on the basis of analogy or arbitrarily interpreted symbolism about what is in the unconscious but what is never brought forth into consciousness or otherwise submitted or demonstrated . This , I maintain , does not constitute genuine evidence as it is known to science , law , or common sense . 1 hope that the great numbers of conscientious and honorable parents who to my knowledge have struggled courageously over the years , despite grief and frustration , to rehabilitate their sons and daughters ( and to make restitution in their behalf to society ) will not be led by such fanciful explanations to blame themselves unjustly . In the reports that follow , an effort has been made to present persons who are able to make some sort of adjustment in life and who may perhaps be regarded as less severely incapacitated , and in varying degrees . These patients are offered as examples showing , in some respects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In them , however , it may be regarded as milder or more limited . The psychopathologic process , the deviation ( or the arrest ) , is , as with the others , a process affecting basic personal reactions ; but here it has not altogether dominated the scene . It has not crowded ordinary successful functioning in the outer aspects of work and social relations entirely out of the picture . Case History #1 : No attempt will be made to give a detailed history of this man . Suffice it to say that the incidents mentioned are not isolated experiences in the general life pattern but rather expressions of a motif which persistently recurs to interrupt the outward serenity . He is now fifty years of age , and he has gone on to achieve considerable business success , being an equal partner in a wholesale grocery concern . As a businessman there is much to be said for him . Except for his periodic sprees , he works industriously . He has contributed foresight and ability to the business , whereas his partner has contributed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of action . He is pleasant and affable during his normal phases , which make up the greater part of his time . One gets the impression , however , that ordinary life is not very full or rich , that strange gods are ever calling him , and that the call is far dearer to his heart than anything else . He is , perhaps , like a man who through necessity has given himself over to foreign ways for most of his hours and who goes on fairly patiently but without spontaneity until the time when he can throw it all aside for a while and go wholeheartedly at what he finds really to his taste . These recesses are sometimes taken at intervals of a week ; occasionally several months go by without one . They sometimes last merely a few days , sometimes a week or more . He does not drink in groups with men and women whom he meets in the ordinary course of his life . It would never occur to him to have a cocktail party or to serve whiskey to friends in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point in what might be called ordinary or normal drinking , in the sense , say , of taking several highballs to be warm and lively , to talk more gaily to pretty women and cut a finer figure in their eyes , to be more playful , to throw aside the routine problems of the day , and to express oneself a little more vividly . If he drinks at all , it is to reach a state of roaring folly and perhaps to continue until he may fall limp . He frequently goes out of the city and , in some hotel of dubious standing , gathers afew coarse companions and begins to pour liquor into himself on such occasions . His associates are usually uninteresting drifters or vagrants ready to accept any handout . Sometimes obvious psychopaths are included . Often harlots are called into the room where this noisy group of fat , middle-aged men are already staggering about , sweaty in their undershirts or lying out half stupefied across the beds or on the floors . The women are stripped or encouraged to strip themselves , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great clamor arises . The women are chased about and fumbled over . Intercourse is accomplished by the more energetic ones , not in the privacy ordinarily considered desirable but in the presence of all and often on beds across which a more sodden member of the group lies snoring . Men and women stumble about , the men pouring more and more whiskey into themselves , the women usually drinking little but occasionally picking their senseless companions ' pockets . Daylight often finds a few of this jolly brotherhood still wobbling feebly or crawling about the room in search of more liquor . During the next day some pull themselves together and depart , others remain drinking and cursing through the morning and afternoon . Consciousness and power to speak or sit erect come and go through the hours . During these more lucid intervals some find what they take as exceeding delight in sitting , naked and unsteady , on the edge of an untidy bed , staring at a companion , smiling inanely , and , in slurred , mushy tones , repeating for thirty minutes or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You old son of a hitch . You old son of a bitch , you . " Case History #2 : This man has never been admitted to a psychiatric hospital . He has often spent a few days in general hospitals while sobering up and occasionally a week or more in retreats which advertise their success in curing the liquor habit . For perhaps 80 or 90 percent of his existence he has been a prosperous and respected member of his community and outwardly is not unlike other men of the same position . He comes from excellent stock and his educational background includes four years at a celebrated preparatory school and three at a well-known university . During his student days he took no interest whatsoever in any of his studies . His shrewdness , his skill at utilizing the work of his friends , from whose papers he usually patched together his own themes and essays , and his reliance on cheating in examinations enabled him to stay in the university through his junior year . His real interests during this period consisted in decking himself with tine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social gatherings , and in flimsy but pretentious lovemaking with a large number of prominent young ladies . In the eyes of these and of their mothers he passed as a dashing beau , almost as an arbiter elegantiarum . Among his fraternity brothers he was regarded with mixed feelings . Though better supplied with funds than most of his associates , he did not pay his dues and seldom his hoard at the fraternity house where he occupied the choice quarters . These shortcomings , however , were tolerated , if not entirely overlooked , because of the urbanity he lent to house parties , his impassioned speeches on the sacred mysteries of brotherhood , his eloquence and skill in inducing desirable freshmen to join his group , and the general air of jettnesse dorCe which encompassed him . Some of his contemporaries , vexed at finding their dinner clothes or their favorite shoes always on this peacock at the very time they were most needed by the rightful owner and pressed to pay dues and other expenses which were higher for others because of his delinquencies , occasionally grumbled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special grounds for his fraternal zeal . His consecration in whipping up fraternity spirit in less ardent members was notable . Space forbids a detailed survey of his career . It has been remarkably consistent . At nearly fifty years of age he finds no difficulty in having always at his beck and call several women who rush to comfort him and who work incessantly to find new positions for him each time he loses the last one . For long periods of his life he has been almost entirely supported by wealthy ladies who entertained him for weeks at fashionable house parties in summer and at winter resorts and who " lent " large sums of money to him time after time when he moaned his inability to make a fresh start in life . He sometimes slept with the wives of his friends but , when a careful study is made of his life , it appears that he sought a mother-surrogate rather than a mistress or a real mate . Invariably the relation was one in which the woman served as protectress and support . His most effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in becoming maudlin drunk , weeping like a baby , begging his companion to give him lethal drugs so that he could destroy himself , and quite generally indulging in theatrics familiar in spoiled children . In his work as insurance agent , cotton broker , automobile dealer , advertising specialist , etc. , he showed consistent and remarkable capacities for rest and casual disregard of primary responsibilities . It is true that he made valuable business associations at the country club , where he played golf or loitered a good part of each day . These associations often enabled him to make a good living for brief periods , but no matter how easy the work or how favorable the prospects , he had no serious difficulty in failing . Nor had he any more difficulty in arousing fresh enthusiasm in some tender-minded lady , or ladies , to raise money for a new venture or to find some easy position for him in the business of her friends or relatives . He usually preferred women older than himself , becoming , in fact , a veritable lion among dowagers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mother him . The large number of women who appear in his life story have this in common : they have consistently been of sober temperament and inclined to ward domesticity rather than toward flirtatious , erotically passionate , or promiscuous behavior . This is true of the younger as well as of his older benefactresses . Prominent in his plan of life are frequent sprees of drinking which he inaugurates by a few highballs in pleasant company but continues alone in his own quarters , in a hotel room , or perhaps in some bawdy house . These episodes sometimes occur without any objective precipitating cause but often follow some disappointment or reverse . He seldom fails to get word to the lady who is mothering him at the moment , giving dramatic utterance to his woe . Strenuous efforts are made to save him . Doctors are called , friends are sent to reason with him , and the ladies themselves plead . Despite all this attention , which he appears to relish keenly , he continues to drink , usually not in capacitating himself but taking enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several days with our hero chiding and complaining , bursting into tears , and heaping his own self-pity upon the floods of pity which beat about him from his many women friends . Frequently , it has been necessary to send him to general hospitals and occasionally to psychiatric hospitals , where he finally settles down amidst all sorts of dramatics. // Jan . Feb. ' 75 His ability to alarm and to draw out protective impulses in women is remarkable . Superficially he gives the impression when with them of a dashing and somewhat predatory male . He is not entirely without ambition as a lover and actually seduces some of his protectresses . His approach in seduction is , however , nearly always through pity . This case well portrays the astonishing power that nearly all psychopaths and part-psychopaths have to win and to bind forever the devotion of women . Because of this they are often regarded as vigorous or romantic lovers , as men of peculiar virility . I believe , however , that they are seldom as well endowed in this way as the average man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in really erotic aims as most men . Such things are of course impossible to prove or to demonstrate , but the more intimately a large number of such people are studied , the stronger becomes the impression that it is chiefly woman 's impulse to mother that they arouse . Feminine intuition senses that here , concealed beneath an appearance of maturity , is a baby or something very much like a helpless , crying little baby . Her deep instincts to nurse and to protect this winsome little darling are unconsciously called out . The superficial relationship of woman to her lover conceals this fundamental urge . She longs to take this defenseless creature , hold him to her breast , guard him , shape him , and let him grow up under her protection . Her feminine intuition . which so accurately divines the presence of the spiritual baby , fails , alas , to understand that it is a baby who will never grow up . Case History #3 : This man , whom for convenience we may call W.R.L. , first came to my attention professionally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There , surrounded by dozens of the most complete madmen an imaginative layman could conceive , he strained , cursed , bellowed , and hurled defiant imprecations at all about him . Having seen him in the past occasionally at balls or garden parties in a Southern city famous for the amenities of life , I was astonished at the spectacle he now presented . He literally raved as he twisted and spat , damning his wife especially but sparing no one . Though quieter and less dramatic when he believed himself unobserved , he gave at this moment as good a superficial impression of honest madness as any of the psychotic patients among whom he writhed . After a few minutes he quieted down enough to speak with some relevance and made it plain in vigorous terms that he held his wife entirely responsible for his plight . He admitted drinking ; this was his wife 's fault . He had , to be sure , derided and fought with the policemen . This would never have happened had his wife not called them to him for no good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been through several dozen such episodes during the last ten years . He belonged to a family widely known for its wealth since colonial times . His direct paternal ancestors included a general in the Continental Army during the Revolutionary War and two governors of a proud Southern state . His maternal background included a signer of the Declaration of Independence and a Confederate brigadier celebrated for his dashing and urbane personal qualities no less than for his valor at Antietam and Gettysburg . W.R.L. , when glimpsed at a garden party or when hailed in the street , seemed a proper and impressive scion of two such splendid strains , uniting in his person , it might be said , the rarest culture of two states . His courtesy was not only warm but distinguished , his manners so cordial that one felt better after greeting him . His general bearing combined the utmost dignity with perfect spontaneity , giving a deep conviction of one sophisticated , mellow , and commanding . But there were times when this impressive mask dropped and our gallant gentleman took on quite another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the hospital . After having eschewed strong drink utterly for a year and maintained , on the whole , his fine superficial front , he suddenly and for no discernible reason got pretty generously full . A hit wobbly but full of energy , he burst into the house , roundly cursed his wife , smashed a few vases , threatened to give her a thorough mauling , and departed for a roadhouse . Here he reveled for a few hours with more belligerence and buffoonery than gaiety or eroticism , then swept back in a passion to his house . He shook his wife out of bed , accused her of ruining his life and of unfairly taking possession of money which he had earned through shrewd speculation , and demanded a check for thousands . Actually he had for many years been sustained financially by his wife 's father , a high official in banking circles who not only kept his son-in-law employed in a respectable position at a local bank which he controlled but also furnished from time to time relatively stupendous sums to cover rash and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occasion under discussion , Mrs. L. succeeded , after a struggle with her husband , in reaching headquarters by telephone . When the police arrived , they found her locked for protection in a downstairs room . W. , boasting that he could not be taken alive , had knocked the wooden supports from the banister railings and piled these , with chairs , coffee tables , and other furniture , into a barricade on the stairway . Half naked above in the bathroom behind additional defenses , he challenged the law with magniloquent mock heroics to take him . For a while he waved a revolver as he hurled his obscene threats . Seeing that the policemen , who knew him well , came on despite his gestures , he laid this aside . Though making no serious attempt to injure his besiegers sufficiently to provoke painful retaliation , he wrestled with them , clawed with a fine show of violence , and was taken off cursing , grunting , and kicking . Though fundamentally childish and full of puerile self-pity , he was on the surface one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well bred in his manner , a gracious and warming geniality which seemed , surely , to overlie great dignity and pride , caused all the personnel on the ward to treat him with particular deference . He all but became the pet of the hospital . Persuaded by his apparent sincerity , his wife agreed after two days for him to come home on a pass for a few hours . She soon called the hospital and asked for attendants to be sent . He was brought in , mean and vehement , from a barroom where he had already drunk to excess after first creating a shocking uproar at his house . He showed great vexation and restlessness at the delay , sighed and held his head in his hands , swearing that he could not stand it another hour . He very plainly showed and stated that he felt even one day in the hospital too severe a measure to take against such trivial indiscretions as his . After three or four days his wife , a highly intelligent person , though far from confident that he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take him home . When last heard from several months later , he had given no further serious trouble . It is quite possible that he may continue the appearance of a fairly good adjustment for a year or two , but it must be remembered that he is supported in this by financial aid and by strong moral efforts on the part of his wife , his father-in-law , and others . His history shows that he has remained as long as two years sober , fairly industrious , and nearly always in his mask of the grand and charming gentleman . It is important , however , not to give him access to substantial sums of money . Eventually , despite all efforts to protect him , his psychopathic tendencies come forward and he repeats with ingenious variations the theme of the episodes here described . Case History #4 : The limitations of space allow only a few highlights to be thrown on this man 's interesting career . Though still in the late twenties , he was already a doctor of philosophy , and the coauthor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physics . Although delayed by truancy and alcoholic Continued on page 100 continued from page 18 escapades for a year in obtaining his degree , he always showed noteworthy ability in a technical sense so long as he applied himself . Now and then he was disabled for several days or a week , during which times he drank enough to remain semiconscious or climbed into trees , from which he hurled noisy defiance at his friends and later at policemen who attempted to get him down . He drank chiefly alone and sometimes urinated in bureau drawers , his own or his roommate 's shoes , and indulged in other pranks of the same caliber . Having obtained his degree , he had little difficulty in securing a satisfactory post on the faculty of a state university . lie did not , however , enter upon these duties . Having taken up residence with an aunt in the university town several weeks before the beginning of classes , he at once proceeded to drink on weekends and to haunt public houses of unsavory reputation . One night a few days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made himself particularly disagreeable to his companions , who consisted of two prostitutes and a local derelict . In a mood of great irritability and arrogance he quit this group and joined another woman of the streets with whom he had frequently consorted but in whom he had never shown any special interest . During the next hour he drank little but spent his energy ridiculing and slandering his acquaintances in town , the faculty of the university , and particularly his aunt , who was his only local relative . At about three o'clock in the morning he astonished all present by announcing in curious tones that he and his present companion would straightway join themselves in holy matrimony . Before leaving with such company as he could gather , he took pains to telephone his aunt and insist peremptorily that she attend the nuptials . One may be left to imagine the consternation and confusion of the elderly and very circumspect lady as she sought first to understand and then to counsel her nephew . On arriving at the residence of a justice of the peace , the aunt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts to dissuade our subject from proceeding . In desperation they pointed out not only the defects of character so plain in the prospective bride but also her considerable age , her poorly made false teeth , and her unprepossessingly dyed hair . With oaths , obscenity , and a very artificial show of gaiety , these objections were waved aside , and the bridegroom fulfilled his aims . The next day he condescendingly allowed his aunt to begin efforts to annul the marriage , but , while expressing his approval , he took very little active part . When earnestly questioned about his motivation , he casually averred that the whole affair was meant as a joke . " But on whom is this joke ? " an elderly friend of the family asked with some asperity , " Why on me , I suppose , " confessed the disinterested bridegroom , laughing with what appeared to be a calmness and lack of concern almost incredible under the circumstances . He never showed any signs of serious worry or of shame , although he glibly confessed to being in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the university succeeded in obtaining their new instructor 's resignation before he actually took up his duties . He obtained several other good positions in universities where his work was fitful but promising . His personal life soon became so spectacularly designed to embarrass the institution that he had to be dropped . Despite many apparently self-imposed and purposeless obstacles inhis career he continues to obtain positions , sometimes keeping them as long as a year . His family is called upon to see him through difficulties when they arise , and he continues to speak of those who assist him as if he considered them in a large measure responsible for his troubles . Case History #5 : When first seen by me , this man , a physician , was still in his early forties . From the country town in which he was practieing medicine an inquiry came concerning his professional ability . Everyone regarded him as a brilliant man . His patients loved him , and while he was working regularly , his collections were more than adequate . It was often impossible to find him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he lay out in third-rate hotel rooms or in the fields semiconscious until he could be found and coaxed hack home . This was tolerantly accepted as one of his idiosyncrasies by the rustic folk he attended . It was inconvenient , but like drought and the boll weevil , what the devil could one do about it ? The community , in which not only social drinking but even card playing and dances were generally regarded as devices of Satan , intuitively sensed that the Doc 's doings had little or nothing in common with the proscribed gaieties . Later performances include locking himself in a hotel room alone where he would drink to stupefaction , arouse the management , break furniture , telephone his wife that he had decided to kill himself , and remain until taken by police or friends who broke open the door . Once when he attended the meeting of a regional medical society in a large city , an exploit brought him to the notice of local newspapers . " Found drunk on high altar of St. Philip 's Church " was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intention of devoting himself to constructive occupation but , despite the serious troubles that his conduct has brought him , he actually continues as before . Et NOTE : A sequel will appear in the next issue of the Post , in which the single fascinating case history of a sexually troubled woman will be examined .                     