@@488000

Eugene Pokorny has already established himself as the ranking whiz kid of 1972 's Presidential politics . Earlier this year , after eighteen months of quiet and patient work , he put together Wisconsin 's corner-turning primary victory for his boss , George McGovern . He followed this up by returning to his home state of Nebraska  --  where he was born in a small Bohemian farming town twenty-six years ' ago  --  to manage another McGovern triumph . And , a few weeks before the Democratic National Convention , he moved on to Texas , where he scouted up a few eleventh-hour switches to the South . Dakota Senator . Yet , these earlier credits have served merely to establish Pokorny as the manager of McGovern 's beleaguered campaign in Illinois. , The state 's importance is traditional and obvious . It carries twenty-six electoral votes ; it 's a swing state , and it swings indicatively : since 1900 , only one candidate ? Woodrow Wilson in 1916 ? lost Illinois but still won the Presidency . And its Democrats are of several stripes . Downstate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the energetic political work of industrial unions  --  particularly the Steelworkers and the farm equipment locals of the United Auto Workers . The Democrats of the suburbs are burgeoning and splitting . Soine have drifted into peace politics and its spinoffs ; others are concerned as much or more by issues like bussing and public safety . Inside Chicago , Mayor Daley 's organization , despite slippage , still rules . And this town is where Pokorny  --  while trying desperately to free himself to pull something together on a statewide basis  --  is beginning to age all too rapidly . At the moment , the Chicago branch of the McGovern campaign still hangs by a single  --  local  --  issue . The war , , disarmament , welfare spending , tax these issues have yet to make themselves felt . Instead , inside Mayor Daley 's organization  --  closer to its bottom than to its top , too  --  the issue is how to settle the score with McGovern for his having helped to give fifty-nine seats at the Democratic National Convention to enemies of the Chicago machine . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and file is still bitter . ? Mayor Daley 's delegate hassle was a two-step affair . As the first step , Alderman William Singer , a Democratic reformer , and Jesse Jackson , a civil rights independent , put together an official party challenge to the Mayor and fifty-eight organization-tied delegates . The Daley fifty-nine had been elected , legally and handsomely , for the most part , at Illinois ' spring primary . However , the challengers found evidence of violations of the Democratic Party 's newly reformed rules : secret meetings , slatings , electioneering and other abuses . Accordingly , Singer 's , group made its case to a hearing officer . named by , the Democratic National Committee . The officer 's findings of fact upheld the challengers , and so did a subsequent vote on the challenge before the Credentials Committee of the convention . At this point , as the party rules go , those fifty-nine seats at Miami Beach were to be empty . However , Singer 's people determined to fill those seats themselves . They set up a citywide series of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives to Congressional district caucuses , where the substitute delegates were to be chosen . Abruptly , though , the Singerites canceled these meetings . Instead , they set up a handful of tiny and tightly controlled caucuses . There , using what must be fairly described as a bizarre system of balloting , they hand-picked the fifty-nine substitutes . Mayor Daley 's organization got wind of these all-butsecret caucuses . The Mayor 's oldest son , Richard , , and several trusted lieutenants , led thousands of precinct workers into the different Singer meetings . Their purpose was simply to make their organization 's case : namely , we might have slipped up on some of the details of the reform rules , but , at least , our fifty-nine delegates were elected by almost a million Chicago voters , while your substitutes wo n't be able to make any such claim . As it happened , though , the Daley people wound up by shouting vainly into the angry gavelings of the Singerites . At one of the caucuses , too , a Daley ward leader may or may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspaper photographer got shots of the confrontation , if not of an actual blow . Anyhow , the storm-trooperish echoes of the Daley operation spoke louder than the legitimacy of the organization 's beef . The Singerites eventually steered their substitutes safely through the Miami floor fight , where McGovern gave them the votesi to stay . Afterward , McGovern 's people naturally moved to make peace with the Mayor . Pokorny , was flispatched to Chicago several weeks before Labor Day to ' begin making conciliatory noises to many of the organization 's ward boSses . Scrupulously , he began to consult them on much of the McGovern work proceeding on their turf . Also , the Illinois staff quickly booked the Senator into a half-dozen appearances here , and Frank Mankiewicz guarantees that McGovern will return as many times again before Election Day . Mayor Daley , a stickler for high visibility by the top of the ticket , growled at Hubert Humphrey for neglecting Illinois four years ago . " Humphrey never devoted enough time to Illinois , personally or organizationally , " concurs Pokorny , so McGovern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And , hereabouts , the McGovern people say that Sargent Shriver got the second spot as a favor to Mayor Daley  --  not only because - of the Kennedy tie but also because Shriver served until twelve years ago as the , president of , the Chicago Board ' of Education . Nevertheless , the Chicago campaign is limping badly . The staff called a series of neighborhood meetings during August . The turnout was heartening , at first glance . However , a huge number of the volunteers thus , enrolled were college students and they all trickled back to the campuses during September . Voter registration has been a disaster . Pokorny set a target of 100,000 registrants for one week last month . Fewer than 30,000 voters  --  roughly one-fifth of them under , 21 ? signed up , and many of those were pulled together by the Daley organization ( for its own purposes ) , and not by the McGovernites . They 'll have another shot at registration , this month . Experienced canvassing talent is extremely short . It has already been 4 ? siphoned into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governor , and Republican Bernard Carey 's for Cook County state 's attorney . As a favor to ' Mayor Daley , Pokorny is skirting the doorbell-tinging reformers  --  the Independent Voters of Illinois , the Independent Precinct Organization  --  so there 's little incentive for them to ' push enthusiastically for McGovern . Finally , Pokorny is telling McGovern workers to help State 's Attorney Edward Hanrahan . At the ' moment , Hanrahan is on trial for allegedly trying to frame the survivors of the 1969 raid on the Black Panthers . As a result , the State 's Attorney is exceedingly unpopular among blacks and anathema to McGovern 's natural base among Chicago 's white liberals . Pokoniy can answer their objections only by shrugging , " We support the straight Democratic ticket . " Despite all these attempts to appease Daley and his people , the July bitterness of the convention still lingers strongly inside the organization . Remarkably , Daley  --  not William Singer , not George McGovern  --  wound up by practicing a politics of participation during the scrap to fill those fifty-nine Chicago seats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did attend those steam-rollering caucuses . Consequently , they saw for themselves what was happening . They got their anger  --  and it was legitimate  --  at , first hand . They did n't have to sit back and wait for the Mayor 's command to begin to spout . And so these ward heelers have put their rage onto the organization 's far-flung grapevine : Indeed , inside the , organization , there 's what amounts to a stampede of anti-McGovern opinion . " I 've - got a lot of runaway precinct captains on my hands , " concedes one ward boss . ' And it 's too late to turn them around  --  even if I want to . " Pragmatically ; the Mayor needs to turn his troops around . For , if the national ticket runs weakly , it will jeopardize the state and county tickets , where the organization 's fortunes lie . After winning the Democratic primary as an insurgent , Walker haE t  --  ut up some strong , bridges to the Mayor . The polls show him running well , although Gov . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself a powerful campaign presence through advertising and volunteer work . However , the other state candidates are troubled . ( For example , Rep. Roman Pucinski desperately trails Sen. Charles Percy , who seems to be running less against the Democrats than against Richard Nixon  --  that is , Percy would like to set up his 1976 chances by running well ahead of the President . ) As they have begun to shop for help downstate , they 've turned inevitably to McGovern , because his farm record reads well there . These candidates may draw closer to the Senator inside Cook County ( where they could help him ) , but they have n't so far . And Daley 's county slate  --  led by the embattled Harirahan and backed up by Circuit Court Clerk Matthew Danaher , a long-time prot  --  g ? of the Mayor  --  is also faltering . Democratic ward leaders are now worrying not only about the threat of a GOP landslide but also about an even worse prospect for the organization , a wild spree of ticket-splitting . Says Edward Vrdolyak , Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ huge steel mills are located : " I 'm afraid my people are gon na go into that voting booth , pull the curtain , and start to dance ! " Chicago already proves this much : the organizational wizardry of the McGovern campaign was drastically overrated . Granted , - it plowed its way skillfully through the primaries . There , though , it could move ahead a state at a time . After a careful year of groundwork in key states , the primary campaign could move across the country like a barnstorming troupe . McGovern could pour a lot of manpower and money and his own time into a single primary , set ' up his tents virtually overnight , play to a winning house , and then strike camp and hurtle on to thenext state . Consequently , it was . never a national campaign  --  it was simply a string of local campaigns . As soon as it tried to establish itself nationally , after the convention , it spread itself too thin . Presumably the remedy/ for this was to begin searching for strong ribs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the pre-convention spine . In Chicago , this bit of political surgery has n't come off . A few weeks ago , Gene Pokorny could say confidently , " The White House is the whole ball game . All the glamour , the excitement , the high stakes  --  they come with the Presidential campaign . People have got to be drawn by it , and they will he . We 'll get all the help we need . " So far , his prediction has been absolutely wrong . ?                     