@@479217

THE QUAKE THAT ROCKED CRS after the televising of the documentary The Selling of the Pentagon should have surprised no one . In fact , in the old See It Now days when raw-nerve documentaries came almost every Tuesday night , Edward R. Murrow and I anticipated shock waves every Wednesday morning . We simply assumed that it was part of the ecology of aggressive journalism and volatile issues . When documentaries find their mark , pressure groups such as the cigarette or pesticide industry , the American Medical Association , the Farm Bureau , the National Rifle Association ? and the military-industrial complex ? take action . Their demolition manual goes something like this : STEP Enlist Senators or Congressmen generally sympathetic to our cause to attack the reliability and motivation of the Eastern intellectual elite responsible for the program . ( See the file on the Farm Bureau 's success with the 1956 CBS Crisis in Abundance program . ) Do n't attack the central thrust of the commentary . Pick away at errors of fact ? no matter Lam slight . STEP 2 : Plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the industry . ( See the National Rifle man on the NBC documentary on gun control , 1967 ; also see chemical publications on Rachel Carson 's Silent Spring broadcast , 1963 . ) Some columnists may also be willing to reprint a prepared bill of Fred W. Friendly , former president of CBS News and colleague of the late Edward R. Murton : , is Marrow Professor of Broadcast Journalism at Colombia and television adviser to the president of the Ford Foundation , particulars against the documentary . ( See George Sokolsky , Jack O'Brian , and Westbrook Peeler during the Murrow-McCarthy period . ) STEP 3 : Organize a telegram and letter campaign to Congressmen and the Federal Communications Commission . Get a threat of license revocation inserted in the Congressional Record . Stone friendly Senators may even threaten hearings and investigations . ( See Bricker on the Bricker Amendment broadcast , Smathers on Trujillo , Holland on Harvest of Shame , Utt on The Great American Funeral . ) STEP 4 : Create seeds of doubt over production techniques . Claim that big-name correspondents are really just on-camera @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NBC migrant-worker show , 1970 . ) Suggest that interviewees were paid to perform ( Battle of Newburgh ) . Also attack Hollywood production techniques , " scissors and paste " editing of interviews which takes them mit of context ( viz : South African apartheid broadcasts , Howard K. Smith , 1954 , Walter Cronkite , 1962 ; Newburgh welfare show . Irving Gitlin. 1965 ) . STEP 5 : Organize letters and telegrams to the sponsor . Some concerned corporations in allied industries may even agree to threaten loss of business . This technique was used effectively during the Joseph McCarthy period but is less effective now that the high cost of air time has virtually eliminated single sponsors . " Minute buyers " are less vulnerable to identification and pressure . Warning : do n't permit spokesmen to enter the arena of central debate of the documentary . Stay on peripheral issues and ambiguities in narration where the credibility of reporting can be questioned . CAUTION : To he used only in the event of prime-time documentaries . Employment of the kit in response to Saturday afternoon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause effects more harmful than the original broadcast . In my own list of the twenty most effective documentaries of the television age , from The Case of Milo Radalovich to Hunger in America , Newburgh , Who Killed Lake Erie ? and Harvest of Shame , only two ? on the Louvre and the Kremlin ? were , for obvious reasons , not subject to such assaults . Often the major artillery against the documentary has been manned by zealots who never saw the broadcasts . Columnist George Sokolsky went after Edward R. Murrow and AT.COA for permitting J. Robert Oppenheimer to argue his case on the Atomic Energy Commission security proceedings , demanding equal time for Admiral Lewis Strauss . The Oppenheimer interview never mentioned or alluded to the security proceedings or to the case . Of The Selling of the Pentagon , it was clear , as was later admitted , that its most savage detractor , Vice President Agnew , had not seen the broadcast before criticizing it . What elevates The Selling of the Pentagon above virtually all others is that the assault on it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the first time since President Eisenhower criticized CBS-TV 's Khrushchev interview of 1957 . Spiro Agnew , after denouncing CBS in a speech he termed " perhaps the most important I will deliver in my term as Vice President . " charged in later televised comments that the program was " a clever propaganda attempt to discredit the Defense establishment " of the U.S. Secretary of Defense Melvin Laird suggested that his Department had been helped in Congress " because of the very unprofessional type of work that was done . " And Herb Klein , the White House 's head of communications , said that while the President had nothing to do with the Vice President 's attack on the documentary , there was no reason to believe " the President did n't share his the Vice President 's views . " In the best tradition of documentary-demolition practiceg , Congressman F. Edward Whert , Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee , called it : " one of the most un-American things I 've ever seen on a screen . . . . " Air Force ! Space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a contrived product of " scissors , paste , and a collection of callous consciences ? ' And the financial weekly Barron 's , in a bold headline over a full front-page editorial : CBS HAS FORFEITED ACCESS TO THE NATION 'S AIRWAVES . Even the Peabody Award jurors , before voting the program a special award , were cireu ? larized with material such as the Air Force ' Space Digest critique . Principally because of the overreae ? tion , The Selling of the Pentagon became one of the few really controversial documentaries to gain a second showing . CBS News President Richard Sal-ant 's early education as a lawyer and his midcareer baptism as an editor combined to give him the visceral strength to reschedule the documentary twenty-eight days after the original broadcast , winning him the affection of his staff arid profession , and the wrath of the Pentagon , whose snipers brought about their own Appointment in Samarra ? a second showing that attracted a far larger Nielsen audience than the first . After showings of almost every other controversial documentary , creators of the broadcasts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sessions with lawyers , and explana:ions to top management and affiliated stations that second showings were resisted , thus preventing the public from seeing what the controversy was all about . IRONICALLY , FEW COULD HAVE pre " dieted the storm that would swirl around The Selling of the Pentagon . It was not intended to examine the massive $73 billion defense budget , its effect on our economy , or ramifications such as the price our beleaguered cities pay for this security . The field of focus had narrow parameters : " to investigate ... the range and variety of the Penta ? Bon 's public-affairs activities . " In truth the most damaging indictment in the program came from President Nixon , who , narrator Roger Mudd pointed out near the conclusion , last November had issued a " memorandum to executive agencies criticizing what he called self-serving and wasteful public relations efforts " and directing an end to such " inappropriate promotional activities . " If it is not true , as The Selling of the Pentagon concluded , that the military is " a runaway bureaucracy that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' funds are being used to promote propaganda which insists on America 's role as " the cop on every beat in the world , " as Roger Mould 's narration put it , then those charges should be rebutted with the dignity and lucidity they deserve . They are serious claims . and they do need to be answered . But rather than addressing itself to the major points of the broadcast . the Pentagon and its protectors have chosen to fight on the low ground of invective rather than on the high ground the military tradition deserves . There is no doubt that in the making of The Selling of the Pentagon , CBS was guilty of some marginal errors of fact and oversimplifications . CBS News is rightfully embarrassed that its nar ? ration reported there are 30,000 offices in the Pentagon when the figure is closer to 5,000 . It was misleading to report that a visit of the " traveling colonels ' . to Peoria was " arranged " by the Caterpillar Tractor Company when the host was , technically , the Peoria Chamber of Commerce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the dominant industry of Peoria , and as a filmed interview with a Caterpillar vice president clearly states , the company was certainly in on the invitation . The Pentagon charged that too many of Defense Department spokesman Jerry Friedheim 's responses at a news conference appeared to be evasive " no comment " answers . Of thirty-four questions originally filmed , three answered by " no comment " were included in the six answers used . The Pentagon 's eons-TELEVISION plaint is bona fide , if limited . Having viewed the film three times , I do not , however , conclude that Mr. Friedheim was discredited in the sequence . I , for one , respect him for not telling aggressive reporters the size of a nuclear warhead . The Pentagon was upset that excerpts of its indoctrination film were used without its and the stars ' permission . That is right from the program-demolition kit again ? cigarettes , pesticide , and toy advertisers objected to the use of their commercials in documentaries . The doctrine of fair usage can certainly be applied , although to my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from using brief excerpts of CBS material . The Pentagon 's stated excuse for civilian distribution of old John Wayne-James Cagney propaganda films is that the " Freedom of Information Act " precludes any embargo of nonrestricted material . That may be true ? but there is a vast difference between making films available on request and distributing them wholesale and retail by all available means . As for Assistant Secretary of Defense Daniel Z. Henkin 's objection to the removal of the phrase , " as one might say , " from his interview , it might be useful to examine just how that se-quence was constructed in the first place : MR . HF.NKTN : We 're trying our best to provide information . There , undoubtedly have been times when certain actions have been staged . I think this is true of all TV news coverage . After all , this interview is being staged as one might say . MUDD : How so ? MR . HENKIN : Well , props were set up , arrangements were made . You and I just did not walk into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MUDD : Well , we wanted to film in your office . But your people said let 's go in the studio . So we did n't stage it . do not know why that two-second line was cut from what Mr. Henkin said ? writer-producer Peter Davis and his executive producer , Perry Wolff , may not have known it existed ? or why their film editor removed it . But I rlo not agree with Mr. Henkin that " the deletion changed a statement into an accusation . " Who among public figures has not had far more crucial phrases dropped from a newspaper interview 32 without crying foul ? N HIS CRITIQUE OF THIS and other I editing , Mr. Henkin moves into an area where dialogue is healthy . Errors of fact are never excusable , but the verdict on a broadcast should turn on such imperfections only if they are massive and/or affect a series of decisive points . Broadcast editing , on the other hand , can be crucial . Editing is vital not because television techniques entail any more or less staging than any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but because of the immediacy and intimacy of the medium . The driving force behind editing is to give the interview pace and to make it interesting ? but always to preserve the original meaning and context . The . Selling of the Pentagon controversy has elicited some wild charges from normally sober sources . But such windmilling ignores the existence of these standards of editing or insists that they were violated in the interest of some kind of hanky-panky to " get " the military . The Vice President , for example , suggested that the " many references to the colonels ' as though they were part of a totalitarian junta and the assembly of their statements totally out of context ... were propaganda devices worse than those that CBS accuses the Pentagon employees of . " Let 's look at the film record ? for indeed there is a stenotype record of every minute , which every documentary editor worth the name insists on having inland before he begins . The technique is much like that used by newspapers and magazines , only there are no ellipses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : We asked the man in charge of all Pentagon public relations . Assistant Secretary of Defense Daniel Henkin , if he felt the press did a good job covering the Defense Department . In the filmed interview the Mudd question was identical to the above and prompted the following answer from Mr. Henkin . The part actually used is italicized . MR . HENKIN : I believe that it does . From time to time , of course , it gives me some headaches , and 1 give the press some headaches. fVe understand that . We act professionally . There is a professional relationship , not only with the Pentagon press and with other members of the Washington news corps , but with newsmen who cover military activities around the world . It is for them to assess , not for me to assess , but my evaluation of this is that we have a working relationship , an understanding that we make mistakes and we do make mistakes , the press makes mistakes , but I do not believe that there is a feeling of distrust . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do make mistakes and the press makes mistakes . And I think it would be a tragic situation for our country , particularly for our national strength , if there developed a feeling of distrust , and not a recognition that as humans we do make mistakes . Certainly no one can say that shortening that answer in that manner changed Mr. Henkin 's meaning substantively . I happen to know that Mr. Henkin does not feel that it did . Example 2 : Compression of monologue filmed or taped on location .. Here the criticism was that Colonel John McNeil , a member of a team of traveling colonels , was edited in such a way as to put Prince Souvanna Phouma 's words in Colonel McNeil 's mouth . Again the italicized portions indicate what was used . COLONEL McNEIL : Now Souvanna 's position on North Vietnam was pretty thoroughly stated in November 1967 . He said that we can count forty thousand North Vietnamese soldiers in our country . On his visit here last year , he raised the figure to sixty thousand . But they fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paid , trained . and encadred by North Vietnam , By what right , what moral do they assume the right to liberate us ? I If South Vietnam becomes Communist , it will be difficult for Laos to exist , the same goes for Cambodia and the other countries of Southeast Asia . If in those last lines the Colonel meant to be quoting Souvanna Phouma . CBS erred in not making that clear . But there are no quotation marks in ad-lib conversations and any fair-minded person reading this text would be hard put to find out where the Prince ends and the Colonel begins . CBS News contends that the controversial lines can not be found in that precise language in any of Souvanna Phouma 's published statements in the period designated , and contends that such sweeping generalities about the importance of Southeast Asia are sprinkled throughout the Colonel 's comments ? i.e. , " Now the Chinese have clearly and repeatedly stated that Thailand is next on their list after Vietnam . " Whether in fact those are McNeil 's words , or the Prince 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a partisan foreign-policy indoctrination to a civilian audience . The Army has a regulation which states : " Personnel should not speak on the foreign-policy implications of U.S. involvement in Vietnam , " which is what Roger Mudd said . The Pentagon disagreed . Editing other people 's words is always a complicated responsibility . I have gone over the transcripts of The Selling of the Pentagon a dozen times . In response to a Pentagon suggestion , I have studied Dan Henkin 's serious attempt to analyze the editing and I have examined his conclusion that some of the meaning was substantially changed , as some of the more hostile critics have claimed , with malice aforethought . I give the editing a clean bill of health , although there probably are several instances in the interview with Mr. Henkin where compression of separate sentences coupled with a line recorded earlier make the program vulnerable to those in search of mischief . The journalistic or poetic license to edit varies with the personality and with the type of broadcast . If it is an hour with Dwight Eisenhower or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduced from twenty with former Vice President Richard Nixon on the subject of Presidential succession and the Vice Presidency , a producer with credentials can and is expected to use the material in such a way as to get the most out of it . Interviewees from Walter Lippmann to Leander Perez to Dean Rusk have said in effect , " You 're a pro . my words are in your hands . " Often they have admired the editing and thought it made them , as Lippmann once put it , " . . . more lucid , less verbose . " But in the case of highly controversial documentaries with nervous spokesmen for sensitive issues , there may have to be a slightly different set of standards . The personality involved ought to be briefed on current editing practices . He always has the right to decline , and the more sensitive the issue , the more restrained the editing must be . It makes no sense to expect a participant in a controversial documentary to review his copy but , if in doubt on a certain phrase or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a phone call may help . And every effort should be made to let the viewer know that the quotations are the result of editing . For example : " Former President Johnson presents his account of great events , issues , and decisions ... edited from several lengthy conversations with Walter Cronkite , filmed in the autumn of 1969 at the LBJ ranch in Texas . " Or : " The participants in this controversy were filmed at different places and different times , and their opinions have been edited here in juxtaposition to reflect the debate . " All network news organizations have editing guidelines , whether written or not . But the only foolproof guideline remains the conscience of the producer or editor . And if a wayward producer tried to tell a seasoned film editor like John Schultz or Bill Thompson to engage in tinkering , he would have a resignation on his hands . Again , in a frenzied exchange over peripheral issues , the central point raised by The Selling of the Pentagon has been lost . I N FAIRNESS TO TILE ARMED FORCES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In World War II . Information and Education , as it was called , included propaganda films on Why We Fight . Some of those Frank Capra productions are still classics , as is True Glory by Carson Kanin and Carol Recd . But in today 's twilight zone , when one citizen 's police action is another man 's call fur a protest march , when the nation is split down the middle over an undeclared war against an enemy that few Americans have learned to hate , the terms " troop indoctrination " and . " anti-Communist propaganda " are hardly identical . Certainly there is no ambivalence in the law : taxpayers ' money is not to be used to propagate political views . That is why the Congress forbids USIA films and other literature from being distributed domestically ( it required a specific act of the Senate and House to release the USIA commissioned film , Years of Lightning , Day of Drums ) . Yet armed forces propaganda " B-movies " starring Wayne , Cagney , and Jack Webb are bicycled from Kiwanis Clubs to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not so much break new ground as it spotlighted old problems . For example , time morning after the broadcast , some old Pentagon hands who admired the broadcast were asking each other , " But how could they have ignored the so-called ' muzzling of the military hear-TELEVISION ings in the early Sixties ? " Indeed , the key to military attitudes on such basic issues as propaganda and civilian control of what Congressman H ? bert once called the " gigantic and colossal propaganda machine on the banks of the Potomac " was revealed in the almost forgotten Senate Armed Services hearings of the 87th Congress . It was then that the new Secretary of Defense , Robert McNamara , first learned the power of that machine . He made a noble attempt to mute the shrillness of " military liberty " generals like Edwin Walker , whose views on the Cold War often violently contradicted U.S. foreign policy , which was attempting to create some kind of d ? tente with the Soviet Union . The more subtle general officers concerned with troop indoctrination conceded that anti-Communism lectures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the influencing of foreign policy . But control was another matter . In its study , The Military Establishment , the Twentieth Century Fund includes a segment of the testimony between the Navy 's chief of information , Rear Admiral D. F. Smith , Jr. , and Senator Strom Thurmond , himself a major general in the Reserve . If it existed on film , it might have added perspective to the CBS documentary : SENATOR THURMOND : Communism is the common enemy of the United States and the free world , and every true patriot would be against Communism ? ADMIRAL SMITH : Yes , sir . SENATOR THURMOND : IS that not right ? ADMIRAL SMITH : Yes , sir . SENATOR THURMOND : So that there should be no objection to military personnel making expressions or making speeches on the subject of Communism . the insidious nature of it , their aims and designs , the techniques of subversion and so forth . ADMIRAL SMITH : Yes , sir . SENATOR THURMOND : Are you in accord with that ? ADMIRAL SMITH : I am completely in accord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech but what I throw in a few nasty cracks about Communism . The proliferation of those " few nasty cracks about Communism , " about the Vietnam war , about mushrooming defense budgets , about anti-ballistic missile systems ? all amplified and duplicated by Madison Avenue-type films and tapes , slick brochures , and expensive magazine advertisements mid for by defense contractors , together with what happens " when a major arms project is cut hack " ? is part of what President . Eisenhower 's farewell was intended to warn against : This conjunction of an immense military establishment and a large arms industry is new in the American experience . The total influence ? economic , political , even spiritual ? is felt in every city , every State house , every office of the Federal government re must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence , whether sought or unsought , by the military-industrial complex . The potential for the disastrous use of misplaced power exists and will persist .... When Robert McNamara became Secretary of Defense , Eisenhower 's warning was part of his challenge . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distribution of so-called indoctrination films . Recently , when one of his chief assistants , Joseph Califano , saw The Selling of the Pentagon and realized that these films were still being circulated for civilian use , his response was , " I thought Bob had gotten rid of those films years ago . " Then he added , " We never understood why we needed such propaganda films in the first place . " A LTHOUGH I GIVE the CBS documentary high marks , I would have gone still further and examined the role of aerospace lobbies and their influence on so-called defense journals such as Air Force/Spare Digest . A glance at any of these publications reveals their dependence on advertising from such major aerospace industries as Boeing , Teledyne , and North American Rockwell , together with a host of minor subcontractors . I also would have included some justification for the Defense Department 's legitimate information functions : that is , communications on training programs , deployment activities , even weapons development on a more restrained basis . The dissemination of certain so-called morale information concerning servicemen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam , is , in my judgment , permissible and conceivably necessary . A healthy defense establishment has every right to conduct a reasonable and imaginative public-information program , and it ought to be able to defend it . Six weeks after the broadcast the shark waves and the contradictions eontinned . On April 9 the Pentagon announced that some excesses revealed by the documentary were being eliminated , including the glamorizing of judo and other hand-to-hand combat before young audiences . Assistant Secretary of Defense Henkin ordered a review of all films and the weeding out of those reflecting outdated Cold War foreign-policy concepts . A Pentagon announcement conceded , " Times do change and from time to time we do learn something from suggestions you the news media make . " But not all branches of government learn . On the very day of that announcement Frank Stanton and CBS News received a subpoena from Chairman Harley Staggers of the Special Subcommittee of the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee . In chilling language CBS was ordered to provide " all work prints , outtakes , sound-tape recordings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made by CBS " in connection with the program . Stanton replied that he would supply what was broadcast and nothing else . He is on solid ground because film outtakes and unused scripts are like a reporter 's notebook : privileged , the courts have held , unless they contain evidence pertaining to national security or some high crime , and then only in very extenuating circumstances to be specified and limited by the courts . CBS 's affiliated stations have responded in their predictable manner , with some notable exceptions ( WTOPTV Washington . reran the documentary before CBS did ) . Stations ' stomach for investigative journalism has always been queasy , and in this climate of a softening market , their dependence on the network and their loyalty to its news division vary inversely . Acceptance of documentaries has always been a prob . lem . Even today , some major cities do n't run the nightly news shows such as Cronkite . Brinkley , and Smith-Reasoner . The public response to the documentary has been generally favorable , and mail to CBS , by a 2-to-1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been far less ground-swell support than stood by Ed Murrow during his McCarthy ordeal or that rallied around the BBC in its battles with Prime Minister Harold Wilson . Perhaps that is because television 's image is so fuzzy . You ca n't do your worst most of the time ? turning those privileged channels into an amusement midway ? and then exnert sunnort nn those rare moments                     