@@277383

WHILE several hundred Poles looked on in silence , West German Chancellor Willy Brandt walked slowly toward a granite slab that towers over an empty area near Warsaw 's Old City . The memorial rises on the site of the Jewish ghetto , whose 500.000 inhabitants died either in the 1943 uprising against the Nazis or in prison camps . Solemnly , Brandt placed a huge wreath at the base of the monument . Then , unexpectedly , he dropped to his knees . For an electrifying half-minute , his face sculpted in deep emotion , Brandt knelt on the pavement . It is particularly noteworthy that this symbolic act of national atonement was performed by a man who spent World War II in voluntary exile from Hitler 's Germany . <P> Brandt was in Warsaw to establish normal diplomatic relations between West Germany and Poland for the first time since the end of the war . In the city 's Radziwill Palace , with Polish Party Boss Wladyslaw Gomulka beaming in the background , Brandt and Polish Premier Jozef Cyrankiewicz , a former Auschwitz inmate , signed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sq . mi. of former German territory east of the Oder-Neisse rivers . In return , some 100,000 ethnic Germans who have lived in the Oder-Neisse region since the end of World War II will be allowed to emigrate to West Germany . <P> Tormented History . A glass-clinking round of cultural and economic socializing followed the signing , as members of the delegation that accompanied Brandt sought out their Polish counterparts . Student leaders met , Novelist Gunter Grass mingled with a group of Polish writers , and Berthold Beitz , representing the giant Krupp enterprises , conferred with leaders of the Polish Planning Commission . Nevertheless , neither Brandt nor Gomulka had any illusion that all the hatreds that have grown up between Germans and Poles over the course of 1,000 tormented years could be dispelled quickly . <P> Genuine normalization of affairs between West Germany and Eastern Europe is blocked by an issue completely separate from the treaty : an agreement on the Berlin problem . Brandt is not expected to submit the Polish treaty or West Germany 's four-month-old renunciation-of-force agreement with the Soviet Union to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But there was growing worry , especially in Washington , that Brandt might have committed a tactical error in agreeing to the two treaties before Berlin 's status was resolved . <P> The Soviets , according to a top member of the Nixon Administration , believe that because Brandt 's government is so strongly committed to relaxing tensions with the East , it can not leave the Moscow and Warsaw treaties in limbo for long . According to this view , Brandt may eventually be forced to accept the Soviet plan for Berlin : a " third German state " with economic ties to Bonn but with none of the political links that guarantee the city against absorption by East Germany . Other officials argue , however , that Moscow is moving slowly on Berlin largely because it is having trouble forcing East Germany 's Walter Ulbricht into line .                     