@@487924

TWo weeks ago , William Randolph Hearst , Jr . broke what he described as his self-imposed silence on the case of Patricia Hearst . In an editorial that appeared on the front pages of Hearst papers across the country , the publisher appealed to President Carter for the pardon of his niece , the convicted bank robber . Although this was publisher Hearst 's first editorial salvo , the campaign for a pardon has been underway for a while . The editorial recited the names of some of those who have enlisted : William F. Buckley , Cesar Chavez , Ronald Reagan , Senator Hayakawa , former San Francisco Mayor Alioto , California Lieutenant Gov-. governor Dymally and the FBI agent who headed the search for Ms. Hearst . These ' advocates of Patricia Hearst 's release have a strong argument . As the editorial said , she " was torn from her apartment and brutally terrorized and violated during endless weeks of confinement in a coffin-like closet . " Were it not for the sequence of events set in motion by her kidnapping and mistreatment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ms. Hearst did not succeed in exculpating herself by demonstrating to the courts that she had been under duress when she robbed the bank . Even so , the participants in the campaign assert that she deserves to go free because her crime was a product of terrible things that happened to her and that were beyond her control . Hearst 's editorial contrasted the punishment imposed on his niece with what he apparently regards as the tender treatment the courts provide ordinary crimi- . ' ( Continued on Page 427 ) THE GUATEMALA PAPERS HOW DULLES WORKED THE COUP d'ETAT STEPHEN SCHLESINGER Almost exactly twenty-five years ago a right-wing exile named Col. Castillo Armas overthrew the Guatemalan Government then headed by leftist President Jacobo Arbenz . Most Americans , and many Latin Americans , have always regarded the coup as a native invasion aided by U.S. operatives from the CIA . Except for some revelations in , the early 1960s that President Eisenhower had himself ordered extra fighter planes sent to Castillo Armas to bolster the faltering military expedition , no one ever saw either the White House or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drama . Now , documents released to me in June under the Freedom of Information Act ( more than 1,000 pages of telegrams , memo papers and research studies , all prepared by officials of the State Department in the period of 1953 and 1954 ) show that , far from being simply an exile operation , the Putsch was conceived of and run at the highest levels of the American Government in closest ' cahoots with the United Fruit Company and under the overall direction of Secretary of State John Foster Dulles , backed by President Eisenhower . What strikes an observer immediately about the Guatemalan affair is how history has over the years practically abandoned it . No book has ever ' explored it ; no Senate committee has ever investigated it . The flood of CIA confessions of recent vintage have all relegated the demise of President Arbenz to a minor f6otnote on early CIA pathology . Yet the ' new material demonstrates that ( Continued on Page 449 ) 1 , ( Continued from Front Cover ) nals . Taking a slap at the requirement that suspects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complained that , " As a result of this dedication to protecting the rights of criminals , dozens of self-confessed killers now walk our streets as free men and women . They have been released by the courts because their confessions were obtained under circumstances less than immaculate . " Such scorn for the rights of suspects is , of course , in character for Hearst editorials and for such advocates of Patricia Hearst 's release as Messrs . Buckley , Reagan and Hayakawa . One wonders , therefore , how these champions would react if the courts were to apply to all criminals the principle they assert on behalf of Patricia Hearst : that criminals should go free if their crimes are outgrowths of brutal mistreatment suffered by them at some earlier time . Terrible as the suffering of Patricia Hearst was at the hands of the Symbionese Liberation Army , it was no greater than what had been experienced by many of the half million , Americans now confined in jails and prisons . The only significant difference is that Patricia , Hearst 's ' ilnigreatment was concentrated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mistreated from infancy ; their life stories would be . chronicles of child abuse , broken homes , deprivation and physical brutality . Knowing this , , would publisher Hearst pardon them ? Perhaps the advocates of Patricia Hearst 's release will assert that the proximity between her brutalization at the hands of the SLA and her gun-toting assault on the Hibernia Bank makes a pardon appropriate . Here , too , many other prisoners could make similar claims . Patricia Hearst was brutally terrorized and violated repeatedly . Homosexual gang rape is endemic in our jails and prisons . True , the violations regularly , endured by prisoners take place when they are confined by the state and not by the SLA , but that distinction makes little difference to the.victims . As we all know , many , crimes are committed by prisoners- recently released froin confinement. ? Even if pardons should be ' extended only to those9whose mistreatment almost exactly parallels what happened to Patricia Hearst , a , lot of criminals would go free .. Those of us who believe that it is urgent to maintain the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regardless of the suffering they have previously endured , will not be persuaded by the arguments advanced for pardoning Patricia Hearst . But we may be entitled to express the hope , albeit diffidently , that publisher Hearst and his associates in this campaign will be less derisive in the future when someone tries to explain crime by pointing out its roots in misery and degradation . Better still , perhaps we could persuade them to enlist in a different campaign . With the example of Patricia Hearst 's frailty and susceptibility to evil influence before them , they might join a campaign for more humane treatment of all those accused and convicted of crime . That does not absolve criminals of guilt , but it should make us treat them more decently , once we have decided that they must be punished . ARYEH ' NETER Midterm Sweepstakes T he 1978 elections will not tell us much about the American mood . Nor will they measure President Carter 's performance and popu- larity . And they will not return ' a verdict on the peculiar record of the 95th Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the quite extraordinary irrelevance of the campaigning now nearing its issueless climax . The chat from the televised stump is all about such things as the death penalty , abortion , the Panama Canal  --  and , over and over , taxes and how they should be cut ( without reducing government services , of course ) . No wonder the forecast is for a light turnout at the polls . , There was a time in living memory when you , could tell a Democrat from a Republican without a scorecard . Now all but a handful from both groupings ( " party " is too precise a word ) have sought and found the comfortable middle ground . They , compete only in the slickness or stridency of their support for what they imagine to be the values of the middle class , the only class that matters to them . The poor do n't vote . The cartoonists during the dying days of the 95th Congress were drawing pigs wallowing in troughs . The inspiration for the porcine theme was the Congressional rally around the pork barrel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this year of $10 billion , to which Carter gave a veto that was sustained . Congress 's real hoggishness showed up in the tax legislation  --  no " reform " and plenty of new breaks for the able-to-pay , corporate and individual . " This was the year of the haves , not the have-nots , " wrote the conservative Christian Science IVIOnitor , while U.S. News &; World Report acknowledged that " never before have business and investment been so favored at tax-cutting time . " It will " trickle down , " as they used to say in the 1920s before the Crash : and the 25% unemployment of the depression . So what will happen , given this record , in , the passionless , partyless election of 1978 ? The , machinery of incumbency will work again . House Republican leader John Rhodes predicts " massive " - gains for his group ( but declines to define that , term ) . GOP , Chairman Brock says happiness for him would be fifteen or twenty more House seats ( raising his minority from , say , 34% @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wood a bit too obviously and says contentment for him would be a loss of less than forty in the House . Statistically , the candidates who sotto ogee Call themselves Republicans should win some governo ? ; ships , since twenty-six of the thirty-six State Houses at stake this year are held by people who occasionally admit to being Democrats . Most candidates are running from " inside " something , even politics , given that J.E . Carter 's first twenty months in the White House have not burnished the glamour of an " outsider . " The early-morning-line sheets predict a slight Democratic loss in Congress . Distressingly , the terms of the dialogue ' of the political year 1978 have been set by the Right . The electoral Left , such as it is , is mute and programless . The unhomogenized Right does not directly : win many elections but it permeates the political proeesSn , buying candidates in both Democratic and Republican markets , party identification being a mere detail in the politics of " governing coalitions , " to use Alan Wolfe 's phrase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1976 ) . Imagine what $20 billion pared frOm the defense budget and applied to the social needs of this country might get done  --  think about it because the candidates never do . It should not be said that it does not matter which candidates or party we vote for in this election ; choices still have importance in many cases . But , with a few exceptions , ' the real issues are not being discussed , let alone faced , in 1978 , and no attention is paid to how this society might be brought to a state of justice . That issue in all its complexity should be the first item on the agenda of the Left for 1980 . Aggiornamento B y electing a Polish cardinal as Pope , , the Sacred College has shown ' a stunning comprehension of the modern , world ; , by choosing the name of John . Paul II , Cardinal Karol Wojtyla has shown that the policies of Vatican Council II are irreversible . In a drama upstaging The Shoes of the Fisherman , the actors of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process of aggiornamento ( bringing the Church abreast of contemporary realities ) initiated by the encyclical Pacem in Terris of Pope John XXIII , confirmed by Paul VI in his Populorum Progressid and institutionalized in the final document ' of Vatican II , Gamdium et Spes . . Two years of lackadaisical investigation into wrongdoing in high places have produced meager results in the Koreagate scandals , which were originally billed as the next big act after Watergate . Of course the enthusiasm for investigations of this kind cooled noticeably during the period , but other factors help account for the frustrating way in which the Koreagate investigations have fizzled . In the case of Watergate , Congressional investigators were pursuing an unpopular President ; even Republicans could join the chase . It is another matter when Congress undertakes to investigate its own collectiVe behavior or the behavior of individual members of both parties , including the Speaker and the Majority Whip . Then , too , the subjects of the Koreagate investigations had learned from Watergate and adopted clever tactics . With the aid of Congress and the Department of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " stonewall " quite successfully . It took federal authorities five months to obtain Tongsun Park 's testimony , for which they had to negotiate as with a sovereign power . And five months after the inquiry began , the first special counsel stepped aside , charging a conspicuous lack of enthusiasm for the inquiry on the part of the chairman and other members of the committee . The committee then shrewdly summoned the indispensable Leon Jaworski , who has been endowed by the media with magical powers as the scourge of wrongdoers in government . But even Jaworski finally wearied of the obstacles he encountered and , in effect , bowed out with an audible sigh . " Nothing , " he complained , " had clicked . " The results have indeed been unimpressive . Three former members of Congress were charged with having received nearly $700,000 from South Korean agents . Since former members no longer have a claim on Congressional protection , it remained for the Department of Justice to indict two of the three , the statute of limitations apparently protecting the third . Lesser charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to whose defense COngressional colleagues and assorted lobbyists have been quick to Tally . The House Ethics Committee has voted to recommend censure for one of the four , but-he will probably be re-elected despite that slap , Yet Tongsun Park testified that , as sole broker for the purchase of surplus rice , he had distributed $850,000 to thirty-one Congressmen , and eight past and present Senators . That is quite a bevy , nor does the fact that many of those named did list Park 's donations and benefactions as campaign contributions materially lessen the offense . No member of Congress should have needed a briefing on the impropriety of accepting cash contributions from Park , not to mention gifts , in kind ranging from hotel accommodations to cufflinks to hurricanelamps . But excuses of a sort can be offered for these erring members , which accounts for the fact that their colleagues were so reluctant to embarrass them . , L.itor , r In the first place , the Koreagate scandals were really about rice , which has been characterized as " a very political crop " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avid rice eaters , and those who do like it seem to prefer the long-grain variety grown in Louisiana and Texas . Of California 's bountiful crop , only about a third is sold on the domestic market . So what to do with the surplus ? An ingenious solution was found in the Food-for-Peace program , under which funds were appropriated to help feed , among other peoples , hungry Asians with an insatiable appetite for rice . Politically this was a rather sticky operation since rice grows in only a few states and hence lacks the large automatic political support that such crops as wheat and corn command . Thus financing the sale of surplus rice was an exercise in political ingenuity in - which South Korean " gifts " were used to line up support that might otherwise have been hard to obtain . Fortunately South Korea was a military ally and the recipients of Park 's " bundlesof cash " could feel that they were at least helping a friendly power . B ut what really made the Koreagate payoffs possible was the curious American ambivalence about bribes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Bribery in furtherance of sales , whether of rice or missiles , is regarded as little more than an expense . And since giving bribes for the benefit of trade has been blessed by custom , receiving bribes of the same sort came to seem more a windfall than a crime . Mr. Jaworski , while disappointed at the results of the inquiry , is consoled by several considerations . The disclosures , he is confident , will make public officials more sensitive to the risks of " yielding to greed " ; it will also make them more careful about dealings with " persons . whose backgrounds and intentions are not clearly known , " and it will alert foreign governments to the possible hazards of bribing American Congressmen . But the inquiry has done little to correct the tendency of Congressmen and other Americans to wink at bribes as at worst peccadilloes if paid out in the course of " doing business . " This Iis not to imply that Americans are more venal than other peoples , but it is true , as the Koreagate scandals confirm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper and improper when it comes to making money . Voters seem as blind to the proprieties as are the officials and business executives exposed by the investigations . It will be surprising if any of the Congressmen and , Senators involved in recent " ethical scandals " are defeated in the coming election . As long as they " deliver " for their constituents , it is thought all right for them to " take a little " in the good cause of our export trade . ? Born of working-class parents in 1920 , Cardinal Wojtyla - worked in a chemical factory while attending high school and serr , : linarOre has spent all but in ra two years of his life'ComMunist country , and knows both the strengths and the weaknesses of communism . He became a professor at Catholic universities in Lublin anAllq:akow , then auxiliary bishop in Krakow ( 1958 ) and Archbishop in ' 1964 . In this'eapacity , he particiPated in ' Vatican Council II , where he stgrongly supported both John and Paul . The cardinalate came in 1967 , He cites his working-class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the challenge of cornmunisni . On Italian TV just before the Conclave , he said ; " We always try to be close to the people . We share their worries , This creates confidence and is the indispensable condition to fulfill our duty and our mission , " Less abrasive than the , hard-hitting Cardinal Wyszynslci in his relations , with the Polish Govern-ment , the new Pope has been a sturdy defender of the Church , at once inflexible in doctrine , astute in asserting Catholic prerogatives and , supple in political adjustments . ' With his three predecessors , he shared the belief that the . Conciliar Church ( postVatiCan II ) must distance itself from the imperial Constantinian Church of the last sixteen centuries by returning to its Biblical origins as the Church of the poor and the oppressed . John Paul II , like his namesake , displatys a social , sensitivity that has become a prerequite for the papal office . He combines it with ' theological conservatism and political savoir-faire in a position that appears to represent the sentiment of the Sacred College more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moderation and political reaction that elected John Paul I. That combination , conceived and organized by Cardinal Benelli of Florence , was sprung on the cardinals magna cum celeritate , catching some of them unprepared . This October election makes it clear that many cardinals had second thoughts  --  and , thanks to the intervention of the Holy Ghost , acted on them sooner than they could have expected . Happily , the Sacred College deviated from its practice of choosing a Pope aged 60 to 70-odd , and picked a comparative youngster of 58 . The probable influence of John Paul II on East-West relations , on the Common Market , on Washington , is awesome and unpredictable . But even at this juncture , one can ' see that Euro-communism will have ' in the Vatican , if not a supporter , an open-minded critic . Not that John Paul II is i'soft " , on Marxism ; on the contrary , he regards Marxism and Catholicism as . philosophically irreconcilable . But he follows . Pope John 's distinction in Pacem Terris between " false doctrines on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historical movements " originating in those doctrines " by which men seek to help themselves , The door is thus open to a dialogue with Marxists , Quite ' possibly he will go further . A basic tenet of Euro-communism is independence from Moscow , a tenet that can hardly displease a Polish prelate . The new Pope may well be reluctant to be at sword 's point with the leading Euro-Communist party , the Italian . In the short run , this may prove to be the most important difference between John Paul II and John Paul I. Without Cardinal Benelli 's quiet blitz that ' resulted in the election of the short-lived Pope , the Sacred College might not have achieved the clarity that second thoughts often bring . Millions of Italians believe in both the dialectic and the Holy Ghost . They might find it fitting and proper that Cardinal Benelli 's triumph in August should have ordained his defeat in October , CARL MARZANI Working Together W hen a powerful labor union leader invites representatives froM more than 100 Left-leaning organizations to consider with him the formation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might expect a rather remarkable congress . United Auto , Workers President Douglas Fraser 's meeting on October 17 in Detroit to create a " coalition of coalitions " was an extraordinary event , if only because it happened . It is a rare occasion when the myriad single-issue groups so active in the political arena these days  --  the women 's groups , the Chicanos and the environmentalists  --  find themselves standing together with organized labor , let alone working together on a national political agenda . Any attempt to provide a more cohesive structure to progressive politics should be heartily welcomed , particularly at a time when a Democratic President appears to have turned his back on the " populist " principles embodied in a Democratic Party platform barely two years old . Fraser 's loose political alliance of disparate grass-roots organizations across the country  --  if it materializes  --  could mark the beginnings of what Marcus Raskin calls " a decade-long struggle for control of the Democratic Party . " Fraser was unanimously authorized to appoint an executive steering committee . And the meeting issued its first challenge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to veto the ' regressive tax-cut bill . Story of a Story T t is not often that a journal under the press of weekly deadlines gets a chance to rewrite the historical record , and so it is with a mix of , pride and outrage that we publish Stephen , Schlesinger 's revelations about our State Depart:1 ' ment 's role in Abe 1954 coup d'etat in Guatemala . Until now , it had been assumed that the Guatemalan coup was just another instance of the CIA run amok . But , drawing on more than 1,000 documents released to him under the Freedom of Information Act , Mr. Schlesinger demonstrates that the Putsch of Guatemalan President Jacobo Arbenz was conceived and run at the highest levels of the American Government , under the overall direction of Secretary of State John Foster Dulles , in close collaboration with the United Fruit Company . How Schlesinger got onto his story is a story in itself  --  one worth telling at a time when so many talk about investigative journalism but so few do anything about it . Guatemala had long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children 's book ' about that country . His plans to visit there a couple of years ago were disrupted by the earthquake , but his curiosity was piqued by constant oblique references in books about the CIA and/or our secret o  --  erseas operations , to " the CIA-backed coup " in Guatemala . " So last fall I went to the library ' and took out all the books on Guatemala that referred to the coup , and it turned out that not a single book was written by an American  --  all were by former members of the Arbenz government . I realized that for all the attention paid to the CIA and government improprieties , no one had ever really looked into what happened in Guatemala . yet . it was this coup that gave the CIA its swagkerini sense that it could overthrOw any government it wanted to . " Last September he applied to the State Department under the provisions of FOIA and two months later State 's Freedom of Information Office phoned him to say they had uncovered more than 1,000 documents which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before Schlesinger pried the documents loose , but finally , in June of this year , he paid a $150 Xerox fee and received the incriminating evidence . Later , he applied to the CIA and the Air Force for additional documents . Together , they have requested search fees amounting to $4,000 , which he has declined to pay . With the assistance of the ACLU he is now challenging the proposed search fee , arguing that the FOIA statute piovides for waiver when " the information can be considered as primarily benefiting the public interest . " Mr. Schlesinger and Stephen Kinzer are working on a book about the coup which they expect to complete next year and which we are more than confident will benefit the public interest . JACK HOLLAND- : ? Fin toomp jAal ; GEE yiffmarma T en years ago it became obvious to the British Government that something would have to be done about Northern Ireland . In 1968 a civil rights campaign , demanding an end to discrimination in housing allocation and job opportunities against Northern Ireland 's Catholic minority , forced the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corner of Ireland , still nominally ruled by the British . Nominally , because , though Westminster was the sovereign Parliament , Northern Ireland had had its own government , based at Stormont , near Belfast , for nearly fifty years . And for fifty years Stormont had been ruled by one party  --  the Protestant Unionist Party . After 1968 Stormont was suspended , and the British are now more deeply than ever involved in running the state . During the decade several theories have been advanced to explain what the British have been doing in Northern Ireland , and why . The one most generally accepted  --  especially in America  --  is that Britain has been acting as policeman , impartially keeping the two warring tribes of Catholics and Protestants apart . If this " Bobby " theory had been , examined with the attention it warrants , it would long since have been exposed as a myth . It pretends that during these years of violence the IRA and the various Protestant paramilitary groups have been engaged in a continuing series of sectarian killings and counter-killings , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the middle and tried to prevent an outright civil war . That view , at best only half true , has obscured the role played by British Governments , with their military and administrative apparatuses , since 1968 . Conveniently , it does not recognize that two different , if occasionally overlapping , conflicts have been going on there . One of them is indeed sectarian , but it has usually ' been one-sided and carried out by Protestant terror gangs against ordinary Catholics . The other , the campaign of the Provisional IRA , though it has often resulted in terrible civilian casualties , has been directed primarily against the army and police , ' and so-called " economic " targets . The British have shown themselves much more selective in dealing with both campaigns of violence than the " Bobby " myth would lead one to expect . The past ten years can be divided into three periods-1968-70 ; 1970-74 ; and 1974 to date  --  each period punctuated by changes of government in London : Labour to Conservative in 1970 ; and Conservative back to Labour in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tactics changed in ways that reflected some of the ideological differences of the two political parties . Yet the true role of the British was unchanged : that of defender of the state of Northern Ireland . 