@@487974

The American Corrections Association is the backbone of a billion-dollar business , the handling of offenders . Its members met recently for the 103rd annual time , this year in Seattle . Although that city , is tucked away in a corner of the country , nearly 2,000 delegates of the 10,000-member ACA made it : wardens , , guards , parole and probation officers , food providers , doctors , chaplains , psychologists , educators , social workers , recreation directors , ' juvenile officers , community relations people , lawyers and  --  around the edges of this ticketed throng Thomas Gaddis is co-author of Killer , the murder journal of ' Carl Panzram , ' being reissued by Fawcett World Library in November . Mr. Gaddis is a Portland , Ore . psychologist and founder of Project Newgate , now operating in six U.S. prisons . ? some of the offenders upon whom this vast service structure of the middle class rests . One offender who had done time in three prisons pointed with some irritation to the convention slogan in the fat program book : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " That , " the old ex-con said , " is the mother-dude of all cop-outs . " Interestingly enough , the keynote speaker said virtually the same thing . New York federal Judge Lawrence W. Pierce let the delegates know that he was " opposed to discussing safe generalities about the need for everyone to get together and support the criminal justice process . " Judge Pierce told his audience that , in a nation which puts a high value on freedom and liberty , we have the longest prison sentences by a wide ' margin of any industrialized nation in the world . Stretches in excess of five years are rare in most European countries . In 1964 Sweden committed thirty-eight out of 11,227 convicted persons to terms exceeding four years . But four years was the average sentence in the U.S. federal system in 1971 . , Judges committed 4,000 out of 15,550 ( 26 per cent ) to a term exceeding five years . " I agree with Judge Marvin Frankel 's observation that we in this country send far too many people to prison for terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He recommended more six-month prison sentences as part of three-year assignments to a correctional services center in the community . He stressed that such services be used at the option of the offender , rather than by gumshoe surveillance and compulgion . The judge also suggested that prisons get out of the rehabilitation trip , and quit the treatment posture . He was considerate to ' his audience and did not dwell on treatment as control . As a former prosecutor , Pierce recognized that " prison is the retributive and incapacitative underpinning necessary to sustain the enforcement of society 's criminal laws . Provide a humane setting and as decent a climate as possible in prison , and carry a modest program input normally conducive , to human development and well-being . " Such a program would include counseling and group discussion , literacy and language training , library materials , physical exercise and recreation , work tasks and spiritual guidance . And shorter sentences . The judge 's keynote ' did not go down too well with many of his listeners . The following morning ACA 's president , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave the delegates what they yearned to hear , a rousing , gut-busting , get-off-our-backs challenge . An attractive , large-framed and forceful woman , she assured her audience that the only way to reform the prisons is to change the criminal justice system . Change the laws , you legislators . Offenders , worry less about prisoners inside and help crime prevention in your communities . Probation officers , know your community resources . Citizens , understand your police . Newsmen , tell the truth . She was cheered to the echo . After all , corrections workers were just doing their job , , like everybody else . These delegates were like the thin men marching in the old Civil War parades . The survivors of corrections , marching down a road strewn with the corpses of those who were too liberal , or not shrewd enough , or too queasy-stomached , or unable to " adjust " by knuckling under to politicians , or over-innovative , or simply unlucky . One shrewd administrator who had bounced from post to post lumped the survivors under a " will to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fail . " This made it as easy as Ehrlichman 's explanations of Watergate . ? People-keeping is a venerable business . The ACA began in 1870 with a prayerful renunciation of punish , ment . Its statements , since honored in the breach , are interred in penology books and for exhumations by Jessica Mitford . The ACA was originally the American Prison Association . They dropped the word prison in 1952 and embraced a wider circle of penal toilers . But " corrections " is now a tarnished word connoting prison , and another change seems imminent . " Today , I predict , we are on the threshold of adopting a new name more descriptive of our involvementwith the total system of justice , both adult and juvenile , " President Wheeler said . The hard hat of the ACA is now a great pavilion over a congeries of enterprisers . Proposals , grants and sales are the game . The federal pipe line pours billions of dollars into innumerable , jurisdictions , grantees and enjoyers of indirect benefits , the money coming down with a peculiar political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overgenerous with prisons . /t must be got from Washington , and getting it has generated a new industry and grant expertise . , The result is a proliferation of upwardly mobile job holders trying industriously to pin jelly to a wall . One lady professor with no prison experience built an enterprise with federal grants totaling more than half a million dollars . The proposals centered on that intriguing question of academic educators : what are the Goals and Standards ? In this case , G and S for prison staffs teaching the grade-school curriculum . Since nobody around a prison knows what G and S are or how to express them properly , the teachers need some in-service polish at field centers . These sessions became command performances for prison staffs for an entirely unrelated reason : wiser officials noted that the sessions provided fluency in grant language  --  a patois understood by academic evaluators in Washington equally unversed in prison work . Grants aside , the ACA this year responded to recent events with changes in its organizational structure . The shock of Attica , the death of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ riots , sweeping judicial decisions in favor of prisoners , the Cromwellian strictures of prison reformer Tom Murton ( who keeps trying to form a rump ACA ) and many other forces , shook the ground under corrections . Like a dinosaur astride an earthquake fault , in 1972 it moved . The ACA constitution was changed , its purposes and objectives rewritten . Many new sectors of the penitentiary business became members . New bylaws were adopted placing minority members and even two ex-offenders ( one a former bank robber ) , on the board of directors . The board became a group about the size of the U.S. Senate . Perhaps the dawn of change is always cosmetic . The hard-lining power resides , of course , in the executive committee , salaried administrators and staff . But even this change is remarkable in a group whose core control makes the Pentagon look like a quaking marshmallow . Successful conventions always have a fun side . Delegates with foresight and $7 enjoyed a fine crowded boat ride with bourbon en route , steamed clams and salmon steak on Kiana @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full moonlight , seemingly arranged by the host committee to pour silver over the salty waters of Puget Sound . Delegates braced for earnest work at the Expo Center  --  three , general sessions , fourteen sectional meetings and more than forty workshops . These were well attended , except for those that began at 8:00 A.M. Typical workshop titles were " Career Education in Corrections " ; " What 's Happening in Correctional Libraries " ; " Religion in Corrections " ; and the usual Evaluation and Standards sessions . Best workshop title was " Handwriting on the Wall for Institutional Change " ; it was sponsored by the wardens ' group . A more appropriate title would have been Handwriting on the Wall for Institutional Changers . Parole  --  that ulcer in every American prison  --  was discussed under sponsorship of the formidable Association of Paroling Authorities . Changes in due process , new contract parole efforts and inmate rights received airing . . m an g . With parole as institutionalized in this country as the oil depletion allowance , change comes hard . Workshops found themselves deep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time , on the news- , stands was an article by Herman Schwartz , a liberal law professor at NYU Buffalo , who defended the Attica prisoners. , The , article was titled " Let 's Abolish Parole , " and Schwartz characterized the process as a vicious , arbi7 trary and antiquated method of prison release . Delegates noted with some bewilderment that the piece appeared in Reader 's Digest . As at most conventions , personalities met and policies were thrashed out beyond the scheduled ' meetings . To the ' warden 's hospitality room , high in an adjoining hotel , came , the men and women loaded with power in its most corrosive form  --  total sway over the entire lives of other people  --  prisoners and guards . While the ex-otfenders and innovators batted ideas around in the workshops , the heavy power men drank and kept phoning their prisons to be sure they were still there . Among the wardens , everyone played the tough game , lest anyone think that they could be anything but hard. , Privately , many wardens are disgusted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they have no control over whom they get or , for how long . , , The featured climax of the convention was the appearance of three genuine former POWs from Vietnam , 1 ? under the title , " Psychological Aspects of Long-term Incarceration . " The two lieutenants and a , sergeant , Richard Stkatton , Kile Berg and Dan Pitzer , sounded like any other ex-prisoners . " There is no way you can punish me and then have me be pliable , " Stratton said . " Every time you punish me you destroy your chance to change me , " Pitzer said . " If the prisoner is given a wide range of materials to read and study , " said Berg , " and the prisoner chooses freely without coercion to change , then it is useful because it is genuine . " , At the annual convention banquet , awards were given for merit and performance . Receiving a distinguished award was ' Russell G. Oswald , former New York Commissioner of Corrections ; he had , ordered the state trooper assault into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gunfire . It was the worst confrontation of Americans by Americans since the Civil War . With a nudge from Nelson Rockefeller , Oswald had his story ghost-written into a book to counteract the ACLU 's monumental Attica study . He has been taken care of by a lateral transfer in the New York system . Oswald is a survivor . Such an award , is nothing new to ACA , however . Under threat ; it is a close-ranks group . Years ago the members responded to the indictment and removal of Colorado Warden Roy Best for sadism and brutality ( whipping prisoners with a 6-inch-wide leather - bat ) by electing him president of the Wardens Association . Down on the exhibition floor , life went on as usual . Steel , gas , learning systems , monitor television and self-serving corrections agencies . True innovations was the protein extender  --  a soy bean product to make less meat more meaty . Another booth was quite bare , except for a photographic screen and a note . The note said , " Sorry ? the slides were , stolen . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            