@@485434

The notion that an American armada was necessary to prevent a Cuban invasion of Central America was too much for even the American press to swallow . Newsweek ( November 28 ) commented : " Certainly no responsible'Navy officer expected Castro 's Communist-trained commandos to stage any major onslaught on any other country . " Tune 's issue of the same date found no evidence of Cuban connivance , much less military participation , in either the Guatemalan or Nicaraguan rebellions . The State Department itself admitted that it had no " hard evidence " ; in the light of State Department public-relations techniques , this could be abbreviated to just " no evidence , " Both uprisings were essentially military coups d'etat of the type which are the normal method of change in government in most of Latin America . In Nicaragua , the rebels were a group of cutthroats , even more virulently anti-Communist than the Somoza brothers , and scarcely likely to appeal to Castro . Why , then , did the State Department and the President see fit to dispatch ' to the Caribbean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five destroyers and some land-based aircraft , on a mission which , even if there were some substance to the reports of Cuban aggression , would call at most for a flotilla of PT-boats ? The reason would seem to be solely political and minatory . The situation in Latin America is indeed parlous for the great American corporate , interests , which have billions of dollars invested there and prefer to deal with reactionary governments that , in return for their cut , can be relied on to cooperate . The trouble is that the underlying population did not get its cut ? everything went to the political and plutocratic elites . As a result , the whole area is now on the verge of revolution . " This instability , " writes E. W. Kenworthy in The New York Tones , " is a legacy of old wrongs ? of peonage , exploitation , police brutality , suppression of liberty and the postponement of economic reforms by the small ruling classes . " The ruling classes and their American colleagues being what they are , the masses are sympathetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be sympathetic to the devil himself if he promised them a new deal . How will the dispatch of the Eisenhower armada change all this ? It will not change a thing , obviously , except to alienate some of the little support ' we have left in the region . But a slow , negligent , conservative Administration tends to act forcefully when the troubles it has prepared for itself come upon it . Then it responds to the urge to " do something " ? no matter what . While it is thus preoccupied with the drama of force , it continues , to neglect opportunities to do something constructive . In El Salvador , for example , a new junta has overthrown a tyrannical regime which kept all but the ruling class in dire misery as long as it could hold on to , power . The reformers complain that they have been unable to establish any contact with American ' representatives . They hunger for recognition , but the State Department will take no steps until " it is satisfied with the political coloration of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ November 5 ) . This dilatory attitude , ruinous in the past , in this instance may turn out to be ' desirable if it invests the corning Administration with an opportunity to pass on the credentials of the new El Salvador regime . A Black Day ? If We Are Found Out In its November I9 issue , The Nation asked editorially . " Are We Training Cuban Guerrillas ? " The question was based on information obtained by Dr. Ronald Hilton , Director of the Institute of Hispanic-American Studies at Stanford University , during a recent visit to Guatemala Dr Hilton was told that the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency had acquired a large tract of land near Retahuleu which , stoutly fenced and heavily guarded , was being used as a training ground for Cuban counter-revolutionaries preparing for an invasion of Cuba . With but two exceptions , the American press paid no attention to Dr. Hilton 's revelations or The Nat  --  on 's comments . And no newspaper at all carried any reference to the following revealing incident , reported to the editors of The Nation by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Club of San Francisco by Lyman B. ' Kirkpatrick , Inspector General of the CIA and second-in-command to Allen W. Dulles , a member of the audience addressed the speaker : " Professor Hilton of Stanford University says that there is a CIA-financed base in Guatemala where plans are being made for an attackon , Cuba . Professor Hilton . says it will be a black day for Lath ; American and the United States if this takes place . Is this true ? " After a long silence , Mr. Kirkpatrick replied : " It will be a black day if we are found out . " Cuba has not yet been attacked ; but , in a journalistic sense , the black day is already here . As noted , the news blackout on the Kirkpatrick incident has been complete , and only the Los Angeles Mirror reported on Dr. Hilton 's charge directly . The New York Tines did so indirectly . In its issue of November 20 , it carried a Guatemala dispatch noting , an admission by President Miguel Ydigoras Fuentes , that a secret military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that ? according to President Ydigoras Guatemalans are being trained there for guerrilla - warfare with modern U.S. weapons and with the benefit of U.S. military consultation . Opposition deputies in the Guatemalan Congress asked for an investigation , but this reqpest was voted down by the Administration supporters " on the ground that a debate would bring out secret military information . " Ydigoras branded as " a lot of lies " reports that the trainees were preparing for an invasion of Cuba , but on the same day he called for a " Korea-type police action " by Western Hemisphere nations against Cuba and promised support for such a move if the Organization of American States would initiate it . He also sent President Eisenhower a message thanking him for his action in sending naval patrols to the ' Caribbean . Clearly , then , there is no disagreement that a secret base for training guerrillas exists in Guatemala ; the only disagreement is on motives and intentions ? an area in which ' heads of state tend to favor their own side and to put the worst @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the CIA 's participation , where there is so much fire it may safely be assumed that the CIA , our chief counter-revolutionary - arm , is throwing gasoline on the flames . Moral Blindness Primary responsibility for the disgraceful New Orleans school situation rests , not on the howling mobs of teenagers , the white mothers screaming and brawling in the streets , the guitar-playing hillbilly Governor . ( " You are my sunshine ? 01 ' Jimmie " ) , or the demagogues from the canebrakes and bayous who make up a majority of the state legislatuie , but on the " moderates , " the burghers , " the gO6d PeoPle " of this , the most civilized of Southern cities . After Little Roek , the moderates knew *hat to exOct . They had time to prepare . But what did they do ? In general , they adopted a " good 426 po'sition " ? good , that is , for twenty years ago . They announced that decisions of the Supreme Court and the lower federal courts must be respected . They said that the schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order . They alerted the police . But they made no positive effort of any kind to win popular acceptance of Judge Wright 's long-deferred order . The churches , the trade unions , the teachers , the press , the civic organizations , the business community were not urged to take the lead in offsetting the counter-pressures which were so clearly being mobilized by the opposition . Even in their insistence that the schools remain open , the moderates , in the main , took care to point out that they were , as individuals , opposed to integration ? and thus failed to raise the moral issue to which the community might have responded : What about those four little Negio girls ? What about their rights ? The failure is syMptomatic of a basic national malady : . We are confused about the nature of moral issues . On many matters , reasonable men , holding views that are in conflict , can find a middle ground . But on moral issues , there is no " moderate " position . " In contrast , " as Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " half-truth is usually just as unsatisfactory as untruth . The insult of spitting on a man is not mitigated by expelling only a little saliva . The sneak thief does not reform when he stops picking pockets , except upon Saturdays . In brief , ' when right and wrong are involved , a compromise solution is likely to be no solution at . I never know whether the moderate on segregation is one who'is half-right or half-wrong . In any event , his position is untenable . For in such a matter , half-right is still wrong and half-wrong ' is never right . " Let Atlanta , Birmingham , Charleston and the other Southern cities next in line study well the failure of leadership in New Orleans , where the moderates failed in turn to learn from the experience . of Little Rock . As for the New Orleans moderates , let them reread Lincoln : " Let us not be diverted by ? those ' sophistical ? gropings for some middle ground between the right and the wrong , vain as the search for a man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . Neither let us be frightened from our duty by threats of dungeons for ourselves . Let us have faith that right makes might , and in that faith , to the end , dare to do our duty as we understand it . " Hot Cargo Nation readers ' will remember the articles by Grace DesChamps , on the dumping of- atomic wastes off Cape Cod by the AEC Sept. 19 , 1959 ; June 25 , 1960 ; as a result of the activity which the publicity aroused , the agency was forced to discontinue the practice . That situation is reviewed at length , with his usual skill and thoroughness , by E. J. Kahn , Jr. , in the October 15 The NATION New Yorker ; the November 18 Vineyard Gazette reports a sequel which shows how right Miss DesChamp was , A Gloucester fisherman , trawling for flounder in Massachusetts Bay , hauled up from the bottom a thirty-gallon drum encased in concrete and containing " low-level radioactive materials . " The drum had been lying at a depth of 275 feet in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The fisherman turned it over to the Coast Guaid , which turned it over to the AEC , which shipped it to Oak Ridge , Tennessee , for burial . " At present , " comments the Gazette , " there is said to be no dumping of atomic waste at sea , but this episode shows that earlier - practices of the AEC were ill-advised and improper . Those of us who oppose dumping at sea , including recently aroused nations across the Atlantic , have reason on our side . " Indeed they have , but it would be still better if there were less atomic Waste to be.disposed of . The recent death of a Brookhaven Laboratory physicist in an automobile accident is instructive , though not for the victim . His car was in a head-on collision on the Brookhaven reservation with a skidding truck carrying fifteen tons of atomic wastes to Oak Ridge . The druins were well protected and remained intact ? but suppose the collision had involved another truck , or a train ? Those in the vicinity might wish atomic energy had never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wins a vote in the U.N. , there is loud rejoicing among American editorial writers and news broadcasters on the premise that the United States has won a great victory . The latest of these triumphs is the seating of President Joseph Kasavubu as the representative of the Congo Republic , ( Leopoldville ) by a vote of 53 to 24 , with 19 abstentions . No single victory of this type is a Pyrrhic one ; but a succession of them , indefinitely prolonged , may finally undo the U.N . The record in this case is that the Belgians , when things got hot in their colony , pulled out hastily in the hope that they would ultimately be called back to fill the resulting vacuum . To facilitate this resurrection , they wished to install Mr. Kasavubu as Premier , but this maneuver was so transparent that it failed . The Soviet bloc used the successful candidate , Patrice Lumumba , to thwart the Belgian scheme and further Soviet interests in Africa . This scheme also failed with the ouster of Lumumba 's allies by Colonel Mobutu , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congo strong than " even though he can not control his own army . With American support for Kasavubu , the U.N . intervention in the Congo is headed for early failure and the Belgians have a very , good chance of getting back their colony behind a facade of independence and with the cooperation of an African elite headed by Moise Tshombe or someone hke him . Such an outcome will leave the U.N . discredited and bankrupt . Financially , the United States may come to the U.N . ' s rescue , but it can not restore the world organization 's prestige . Most of the uncommitted nations will recognize American and Soviet intransigence as the cause of the U.N . ' s difficulties in the Congo , but the ' greater guilt will fall on the United States , because lit will have won all the victories . On this reasoning , the ultimate victory would be the expulsion of the Soviet bloc , or its withdrawal at some stage to form its own U.N . The neutrals would then have the choice of joining One of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States would doubtless proceed to expel any U.S.-U.N. member who joined the USSR-U.N. , American victories would continue to pile up , and the American commentators would continue to rejoice until the Eastern and Western U.N.s engaged in a nuclear war to decide which was the legitimate world organization and which the illegitimate . But by that time , of course , what would it matter ? 