@@493205

got relatively low prices . Domestic consumers ? for whom the country 's second largest crop is a primary raw material in the production of meat , poultry , milk and margarine ? paid more for food . Cargill and the other companies were also able to use the embargo to promote expanded production in Latin America in order to compete with the American export market and increase corporate independence from the US . Sen. Clark originally announced that the subcom ? mittee planned to hold hearings on all the grain companies and then call government officials to ask how corporate activities influence food and agricultural policy decisions . However , the election intervened , and in September the investigative body was renamed the Subcommittee on Foreign Economic Policy , leaving staff uncertainty as to whether grain companies are still in their jurisdiction . The investigation is tem ? porarily suspended ? with the other five comp-anies and government officials yet to testify . Perhaps the Car ? gill disclosures have already revealed too much about how our agricultural policy is actually made . The new Senate leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offending the powerful grain dealers , or for reasons of its own . Grain company ties on Capitol Hill are strong , as campaign contributions indicate , but with on-going investigations by the FTC , the ICC , Justice , the Commodity Futures Trading Commission , USDA , and various grand juries , it will be increasingly difficult to ignore the power held by these global corporations . There are so many Malraux that it seems hard to find the continuity behind his incarnations and his works . He was both a man of action and an intellectual . Indeed , in a country whose greatest poet had written that ours is " a world in which action is not the sister of dreams , " and whose greatest intellectuals had always at least flirted with action , no writer had ever carried a passion for it so far . The man of action first appeared as the somewhat dubious adventurer in search of abandoned yet profitable statues in Cambodia . He quickly became the champion of an ticolonialism in Indochina , the apostle of revolution and antifascism who not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against Franco in Spain and warned Europe against Hitler . He reappeared , at the end of the German occupation of France , as a Resistance hero , as a military commander in the battle for Alsace ? and as a Gaullist . Soon , the febrile fighter for the causes of the Left became the Minister of Culture for de Gaulle , the official propagandist for the Fifth Republic , the solemn and incantatory purveyor of funeral orations for the martyrs and artists commemorated by the regime . Many of his contemporaries ? including his skillful biographer , Jean Lacouture ? never quite understood or forgave him for that metamorphosis . The artist was no less multiform than the actor . The early decadent fantasies , marked by symbolism much more than by surrealism , were soon superseded by the extraordinary novels that put the techniques of the modern movie at the disposal of grand mythopoetic scenes . Their characters debated hectic intellectual and metaphysical arguments in the midst of jungles , battles , bombings and executions . Literature as the arena of the fight between man 's will and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man 's nature by placing him in extreme situations ? not as the mirror of society in which characters reveal their individuality in ordinary trials and tribulations ? this is what we owe to Malraux the novelist ; all of Camus and much of Sartre have come out of that mold . Even while he was in the headlines , leaping from novel to novel , and turning episodes from Man 's Hope into a film masterpiece , he was working on his essays on art . That vein began in the 1920s as a confrontation between the Asian arts of contemplation and the Western arts that celebrate man . It flowed from the 1930s to the present into an enormous series of books ( the last of which appeared the day before Malraux ' death ) ; they examine all major styles and artists in painting and sculpture . While he was meditating on the " imaginary museum " of world art , he was publishing , in bits and pieces , what he called anti-memoirs , a mosaic of rewritten fragments of his earlier novels , of conversations with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mao or Picasso . It is not surprising if the French , who had gotten used to that combination of enfant terrible and well-established luminary , and who met Malraux regularly , either live on television or under the covers of a new volume , suddenly realized that he had occupied in the cultural life of their nation a place no one had been big enough to fill since Victor Hugo . " France is a widow , " Pompidou had said when De Gaulle died , thus following that tradition of describing her as a woman which had begun with Michelet , one of the writers whom Malraux admired most . Many Frenchmen seem to have felt a comparable loss this time . And yet , there has been something embarrassed about their tributes , in two respects . First , the commentators and the mourners seem to have been distracted by the diversity of Malraux ' work , and diverted by the sensational and the spectacular in Malraux ' life . However , even if he was one of those artists whose personal drama seems staged so as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eclipsing them , he never showed any interest in the private Malraux . He did his best to create a mythic one , whose function it was to transcend the " miserable little bunch of secrets " which is each person 's private life , so as to take part in actions and to create works of art that would ask certain fundamental questions ? just as General De Gaulle had created a public De Gaulle whose function it was , as Malraux put it , to " maintain France 's honor as an invincible dream . " Those questions one finds behind all of Malraux ' moves and all of his works ? they are the questions of Dostoevski and Nietzsche , and they were going to become the questions of a whole generation of French writers . Remember : the young Malraux bursts on the literary scene just after the end of the First World War . If God is dead , and if the easy hopes of humanism are illusions , if man thus lives in the absurd ? as Malraux was the first to call the radical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of death , suffering , humiliation ? how can he escape from nihilism , how can he give meaning to his life ? At times , Malraux ' answer seems to be : through a collective fight for the cause of freedom , which lifts the actor out of solitude and the oppressed out of humiliation ( Sartre 's answer , too , later on ) . At times , he seems to turn away from the creation of a common future toward the celebration of a collective past . For Malraux this means the great moments of national glory , as in his Gaullist threnodies , or the great stylesand recurrent metamorphoses of art , " one of the secret and highest forms of the strength and the honor of being man . " But the deepest answer does not change : man shall escape from nihilism by questioning destiny , by defying death in his acts or in his works , by " transforming into consciousness the widest possible experience . " Nazism was nihilism : Malraux could only have been antifascist . And when the Communists became the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolution , Malraux moved away from them . What attracted him to Gaullism was the combination of two promises : that of the renovation of ideals derived from France 's historical experience as a nation , and the promise of efficiency . A man concerned with defying destiny did not want to fight only for lost causes . The Imaginary Museum he created in his books , the Houses of Culture he promoted as Minister , do not aim at making people the complacent consumers of all arts , or at preparing a synthetic new art passively derived from the past , but at reminding us all of the innumerable ways in which artists , primitive or sophisticated , and art , sacred or humanistic , have asserted this " strength and honor , " whether in religious acceptance of destiny or in revolt against it . He wanted to infuse those who have a gift of creation with the will to start anew , in debate with or in opposition to the creators of the past . His works on art are not historical essays , and art historians who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the struggle between man and meaning , between artists and their visions , on the dialogue between different civilizations . Man as a creator who becomes the rival of God ? except that God may have all the answers , and man 's glory lies in his questions ; ' man as the servant of quarrels greater than himself ? of quarrels that are those of all mankind ? this has been Malraux ' constant vision . His are the insights of a modern Pascal who would have wagered on faith in man rather than faith in God . Both its compelling presence and the variety of its modes of expression reflect the ambitious consisten ? cy of an author who was both Protean and Promethean . He may have been the last Romantic , but he was also the first Existentialist . And while it is easy to show that his life was not always up to his legend , it is even easier to prove that the two often coincided , and that the myths themselves always aimed at inspiring the readers with tales of great causes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heroic , inseparable from an age in which " destiny " took the form , not of banal deaths , but of such scourges as world wars and extermination camps ; a style both spontaneously lyrical , and carefully contrived to create such unforgettable symbols of man 's fate as the final scenes of the novel by that name , or the descent of the dead and dying aviators from the mountain in Man 's Hope , or the gas hell on the Russian front in Altenburg ; a hunger for seeking " change for the Absolute , " that currency only religious souls possess yet so many agnostics need ; a fascination for history , which crushes man yet provides him with the grandest opportunities for defiance ; a passion for those " Men of History " who succeeded in deflecting its course : these are all concerns and qualities that seem almost anachronistic in an age of mediocrity , when history takes the insidious form of statistics , power is busy with mere management , and terrorism becomes the small change of heroism ; when writers either return to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as characters . Hence that other embarrassment : in the prosperous France of 1976 , whose politicians hurl at each other " social blueprints " without national vision , and whose youth oscillates from conformity to cynicism , Malraux seemed like an outsized relic from another age , and young writers promptly explained that he meant nothing to them . Did Malraux himself sense this kind of disharmony ? Did he project on De Gaulle , in his Fallen Oaks , his own disenchantment with Europe 's present ? He noted that the present civilization is the first to be both the conscious heir of all past ones , and devoid of values ? deprived , it seems , of the will to create new ones and even of the energies of nihilism . His last " anti-memoirist " books often strike that note of derision and grotesqueness which he had , in his youth , called le farfelu , and which is Malraux ' sardonic equivalent of Sartre 's pathetic nausea . And yet , it appears that his very last book ? on art ? announces a newmetamorphosis : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creation or for rediscoveries . The aging writer who , despite a long series of personal tragedies and illnesses , kept writing until the end , and belied his unfair reputation for oracular fuzziness and rhetorical hollowness with an extraor ? dinary attention to detail , a scrupulous reconstruction of the essence of great men 's lives , words and works , and the most dazzling conversation , will remain an example of a man entirely faithful to his own ideals . Those famous ellipses and flashes of lightning which have jolted his listeners and his readers were the natural expression of one of the most incisive minds in the history of French literature . If intelligence is the art of illuminating a subject by binding together aspects that no one had yet linked or sought out , nobody has been more intelligent . But above all , after this or that aspect of his life has died down , he will at last be seen for what he is : both the greatest literary genius of a new kind of literature that tried to make sense of the experiences of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of artistic creation , and a man who , in all his activities , served and exemplified a country , France , of whom he said , almost 30 years ago , that " it has never been greater than when it spoke for all mankind , and this is why its silence is so poignant to hear . " Malraux deserves the same epitaph ; but in both cases , the silence shall not last . France will still find ways of " astonishing the world , " and taking full measure of Malraux has only just begun . He gazes back at us from the faded , forgotten pictures of the 1960s . Usually he is the younger unplaceable figure a step behind the recognized men , the faces and reputations so soon to atrophy . He stands a bit stooped on alien , windswept airfields beside bloated briefcases and McGeorge Bundy . Slightly blurred , he listens from the discreet back row of chairs around the wall of the Cabinet Room , while at the table ( the front row too visible , as it happened , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Walt Rostow exchange earnest looks with Lyndon Johnson . Later , with the same group , he sits erect and alert on the shadowed patio of the LBJ ranch as Curtis LeMay admonishes them on the nuances and rewards of imaginative targeting . Now he is back . The close dark hair is ripened gray . Exile has put wrinkles into the angular , immobile face . He comes from that other decade as a vague and thus acceptable memory . He is henceforth to be captioned Secretary of State .                     