@@277595

When the research submarine Alvin sank in the Atlantic off Woods Hole , Mass. , in 1968 , its three crew members managed to scramble to safety . But their box lunches went to the bottom with Alvin-5,000 feet down . Those uneaten meals , it was revealed in Science last week , eventually provided researchers with valuable new information about the workings of life processes in the ocean depths . <P> Ten months after the accident , when the little sub was raised and drained , scientists noticed that the six bologna sandwiches , two apples and two thermoses of bouillon seemed remarkably well-preserved-even though they were soaked in sea water . Intrigued , a four-man team led by Microbiologist Holger Jannasch at Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution ran tests on the lunches ranging from simple tasting to detailed lab analysis . Their conclusion : the apples were about as well-preserved as if they had been kept in a refrigerator while the rest of the food had fared far better than that . <P> Having eliminated various factors that might have accounted for the decay slowdown-such as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preservative qualities-the scientists decided to double-check and expand their findings by suspending marine bacteria and nutrients at even greater depths . They concluded that the rate of degradation is an average of " ten to 100 times slower in the deep sea . " In the deep , they found , there seems to be " a general slowdown of life processes , " probably due to the " combined effect of high pressure and low temperature . " Alvin 's sandwiches , for example , were under 150 atmospheres of pressure at about 39 F. <P> The Alvin-inspired findings are of more than academic interest . " One obvious implication concerns the use of the deep sea as a dumping site for organic wastes , " the report says . Because of the slow degradation of organic materials , anything dumped on the ocean floor may be effectively removed from the natural recycling process , and whatever nutrients it contains will be lost-perhaps for as long as a century .                     