@@491462

Editor 's Note : This distinguished military critic , himself a graduate of the United States Naval Academy , points to problems of lowered standards , lax discipline and eroded command authority that are seriously compromising the " New Navy . " Evening , the Gulf of Tonkin  --  the beginning of a long night for the United States Navy . After a full day launching air strikes , the great carrier USS Kitty Hawk rests in calm seas , a floating city of 4,483 men . It is 7 p.m . October 12 , 1972 , and for the next seven and one-half hours tension and terror will roll across the decks of the mighty warship . Bands of black sailors go in search of white crewmen . They wield chains , broomsticks , wrenches , fire extinguisher nozzles and metal pipes as they scream , " Kill the white trash . " Sleeping crewmen are dragged from their bunks , beaten and left bleeding on the decks . Those able to stagger to the chaotic ship dispensary are threatened and harassed by another band of blacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are wounded , three so seriously they must be airlifted from the carrier to shore hospitals . Not until the early hours of the morning is the riot quelled . The Kitty Hawk violence was a frightening manifestation of the winds of change sweeping through the Navy 's rigging today , symptoms of a sickness afloat , a widespread malaise never before experienced by the American fleet . The infection did not suddenly come to a head aboard the carrier . It had been festering for years as a social rev-olution convulsed the United States . Since 1971 there have been at least ten mutinous incidents of significant proportion in the Navy , one of them as recently as last July aboard the carrier Franklin D. Roosevelt in the Caribbean . Two of these confrontations  --  the one on the Kitty Hawk and a second racial blowup aboard the carrier Constellation a month later  --  caused the House Armed Services Committee to launch a full-scale investigation of " disciplinary problems in the U.S. Navy . " More than 2,500 pages of testimony from fifty-six witnesses and an examination of the entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subcommittee , headed by Rep. Floyd V. Hicks ( D  --  Wash. ) , to conclude : " The United States Navy is now confronted with pressures , both from within and without , which , if not controlled , will surely destroy its enviable tradition of discipline . " Additionally , " an environment of leniency , appeasement and permissiveness " has led to lowered Navy morale and a deterioration in appearance and performance . Even more ominously , the committee found , this " easy " atmosphere enhanced chances for mutinous acts and brought about " an alarming frequency of successful acts of sabotage and apparent sabotage on a wide variety of ships and stations within the Navy . " The report pointed to lowered Navy recruiting and training standards as being responsible for an influx of " agitators and troublemakers " into naval ranks , thus creating fertile ground for trouble . The Hicks report has been ignored by many congressmen and brushed under the rug or criticized as overstated by some in the Navy . The two carriers , they note , had been at sea three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and relaxation , frustrations had built up among crew members . Yet a recent visit to many ships and stations of the Navy 's crack Sixth Fleet , sampling opinion from admiral to seaman , from executive officer to mess cook , bears out the report 's findings . And last November , the commander in chief of the Pacific Fleet sent a message to all ships and stations noting in his own command " the disregard of law , order and common decency . . . an atmosphere of lawlessness , intimidation and defiance of established authority . . . unprovoked assaults and robberies by marauding gangs of Navy personnel upon smaller groups . . . " The Navy , like all our institutions , has reaped the whirlwind of student dissidents , the anti-Vietnam trauma , the drug culture and black militancy and anti-military feeling . These outside pressures have weakened the fleet at the very time it must face the greatest challenge in its history from rapidly expanding Soviet sea power . But some of the Navy 's problems are of its own making , and the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instead of resolving it . This period of mutiny , disobedience and internal sabotage has coincided with the most profound internal changes in the Navy 's history , begun four years ago under Admiral Elmo R. Zumwalt , who ends his term this summer . The tenure of this personable , energetic , bright officer  --  youngest ever to hold the post of Chief of Naval Operations  --  has thus been one of great controversy . Taking over in an era of social transition , he firmly believed that the Navy must change along with the nation . But the speed and manner in which he proceeded to foster that change have split the Navy wide open . Many young officers , enlisted men , and petty officers believe Zumwalt , in the words of one of them , is the " best thing that ever happened to the Navy . " They applaud the more relaxed discipline and the emphasis on people that have marked Zumwalt 's tenure . But numerous senior and middle-grade officers and chief petty officers ( CP0s ) ? as well as a very large number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  are shocked by recent developments . They blame him for too much permissiveness , and a dangerous weakening of the Navy 's chain of command . One admiral , who served two years ashore in the first part of Zumwalt 's tenure and then returned to sea in precisely the same area he had commanded before , noted a " tremendous degradation in discipline and readiness " in the interval . The backbone of Zumwalt 's controversial program has been his famous " Z-grams , " general directives published throughout the Navy on matters ranging from shore leave to civilian clothes to wash facilities . In his first Z-gram , Zumwalt said he was committing himself " to improving the quality of Navy life in all respects and restoring the fun and zest of going to sea . " Many Z-grams have been aimed at eliminating the " Mickey Mouse " irritations  --  unnecessary or obsolete regulations  --  and at improving the attractiveness of a service career . Laudably , some of them have dealt with the problem of racial friction and have established new means of communication on racial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other Zumwalt programs  --  most in the Navy would agree  --  has been praiseworthy . But the effect has often been deplorable . Many in the fleet attribute the confusion in standards and slackening discipline so evident in the Navy of today to the interpretation of the Z-grams rather than to their substance or purpose . The messages themselves have at times been so vague and imprecise that they have required a bewildering stream of follow-up clarification . For example , Z-gram 57 issued in November 1970 stated that " in the case of haircuts , sideburns and contemporary clothing styles , my view is that we must learn to adapt to.changing fashions . " The message explicitly allowed any officer or enlisted man " to grow sideburns or neatly trimmed beards or mustaches . " The same Z-gram also authorized wearing of dungarees to and from work in naval commissaries , exchanges and service areas . New rules already permitted such changes , but the Z-gram emphasized the point . It produced the greatest variety of hairstyles seen in the Navy in its history , and at many naval stations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sight . In January 1971 , another Z-gram stipulated that hair , beards and mustaches " will be neatly trimmed , well groomed " and " sideburns will not extend beyond the bottom of the earlobes . " But Pandora 's box had been opened . The following December still another Z-gram had to be issued : " Z-57 has been erroneously interpreted . Instances are still observed of men in public with dirty or torn uniforms , haircuts and beards which are below standards . ... " At a Mediterranean port , a chief petty officer orders several shaggy-maned crewmen to cut their hair before leaving ship . But an officer waves the men ashore and later joins them for drinks in a harbor bar . " How the hell can I enforce discipline with a situation like that ? " says the CPO wearily . Adds a chief in the Sixth Fleet : " It 's nonsense the amount of time we have to spend on a simple thing like haircuts . " The net result of the Z-grams on grooming and personal appearance has been , most naval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the men , a " slovenly " appearance , as the Hicks subcommittee put it . By far the most potentially detrimental of Zumwalt 's revolutionary reforms have been those which , in fact though not in intent , have weakened the authority of the entire chain of command . For instance , each major command was ordered to establish a minority affairs officer who will have " direct access " to the commanding officer and who " will be consulted on all matters involving minority personnel . " Specialized human relations councils were established ; " gripe " or " rap " sessions and " hot lines " for complaints direct to commanding officers , bypassing immediate superiors , were instituted . Again the intent  --  to establish a " viable two-way dialogue at all levels of command " ? was commendable , but the effect was that the chain of command was weakened and new limitations were placed on a CO 's authority . Juniors were encouraged  --  by indirection  --  to bypass superiors . As the Hicks report on the Kitty Hawk and Constellation incidents noted , middle-management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diluted by the Chief of Naval Operations when he addressed all naval personnel in a series of Z-grams . " Especially rankling is the fact that many of the Z-grams  --  there had been 119 by last June-involve petty administrative details that have previously been exercised by commanding officers . This centralization of command and administrative power in Washington has been deleterious to all the links of authority from admiral to seaman . Following the Kitty Hawk and Constellation incidents , Zumwalt further contributed to the problem with a public admonition made even before the facts in these cases were fully known of senior Navy officers and of his staff for failing to solve racial problems within the Navy . The Hicks committee tersely rebuked him , pointing out that " again concern over racial problems seemed paramount to the question of good order and discipline , " and regretting " that the tradition of not criticizing seniors in front of their subordinates was ignored . " Many of the reforms Zumwalt has achieved are to the good ; and the Navy will certainly never return to its past . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with which the Navy must deal if it is to survive as one of the bulwarks of our defense . 1 . The realities of racial bias have been blown out of proportion and needlessly exacerbated . The Hicks report found no " instances of institutional discrimination on the part of the Navy toward any group of persons , majority or minority . " Yet racial frictions in the past few years have been increased rather than decreased by the subtle establishment of what amounts to two standards in the fleet  --  one of them preferential for minority groups . Time and again officers and petty officers said they were hesitant to record offenses  --  particularly against blacks . Yet , as the House subcommittee reported , the great majority of the dissidents in the Kitty Hawk and Constellation cases and in other incidents were black . These were the same types of men who either fell for or fostered an idea of black separatism that made any reprimand of a black sailor appear to be a racial rather than a naval matter . Thus , notes the Hicks report , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on an individual basis . Rather . they perceive that punishment to one is punishment to all . " The report further emphasizes that " what many of these men view as discrimination is more often than not a perception rather than a reality . " In ships with a small number of blacks there is usually little trouble , but in larger ships with several hundred black sailors , polarization inevitably occurs : " The Brothers " form a separate part of the crew with Black Power salutes and symbols . " This ship is sitting on a volcano , " said one Sixth Fleet officer . " The whites aboard are scared , or mad , or both . Everybody 's uptight . You constantly hear blacks saying , ' When we take over . . . when the revolution comes ... . ' " Much of the hesitation to enforce discipline against blacks represents a fear of political and promotion consequences . The appellation " racist " is easily applied but hard to outgrow in the service today ; it can be the kiss of death to promotion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against their superiors , or they seek relief from just punishment by writing to their congressman , or organizations such as the American Civil Liberties Union . The inevitable result is a " rocket " from Washington which requires answer , even if the disciplinarian is not reversed . The CO who tries to keep his justice evenhanded  --  black or white  --  may not be supported in his efforts . " A white man is really afraid to tell a black he has screwed up , " a Sixth Fleet CPO said . 2 . Lowered recruiting and training standards , a " quota system " and a rapid turnover in personnel . The all-volunteer service and a quota of black enlistments pressured the Navy into recruitment measures which have contributed materially to its recent state of woe . Despite the Nixon administration 's avowed opposition to quotas as a discriminatory way of achieving equal opportunity , the Navy 's recruitment goals for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1973 , were established at 12 percent black , 6 percent other minorities . With the draft scheduled to end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Constitution pending , the Navy intensified its drive for black recruits . Enlistment standards had been lowered in the 1960 's to permit recruitment of high-school dropouts and men with the equivalent of a sixth-grade education . Some of the advertising appeals and recruitment methods were dubious . They often made impossible promises , actual or implied . Now emphasis shifted to numbers , not quality . During one six-month period , more than a quarter of the enlistees were from Mental Group IV , the least educated and scoring lowest in qualification tests . Many had only rudimentary knowledge of mathematics and English in a service where technical analysis and effective communication are essential for promotion . Recruitment of large numbers of Group IV personnel was doomed to failure . Experience in World War II , Korea , and since had shown that these men rarely pull their weight and account for a hugely disproportionate percentage of the Navy 's disciplinary problems . At this critical juncture the Navy 's three " boot camps " or recruit training schools at Great Lakes , Illinois ; San Diego , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time from the prior nine weeks ( it used to be eleven ) to seven weeks . Done to accommodate a new three-year enlistment program , it was , all agree , a failure . The naval training stations reflect much of the same permissiveness as the rest of the Navy . They are rarely tough and hard . Many CPOs refer to them scornfully as " charm schools . " Some of the recruits themselves have complained about the looseness of the boot camps . " The hardest thing I had to do at Great Lakes , " one sailor said , " was to fold my skivvies . " Spurred by congressional and public criticism after the riots and mutinies of 1972 and 1973 , the Navy is now remedying the enlistment mistakes of a year ago . Enlistment standards have been raised . The percentage of Group V enlistees is dropping sharply . Today those enlistees accepted come from the upper portion of the group , are high-school graduates , and most of them are qualified for some form of technical training . The Navy 's boot camps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasis on military discipline , naval traditions and shipboard training . But the Navy 's manpower problems are not over . In the last six months of fiscal 1973 ? when there were no draft calls  --  the Navy was able to enlist only 83 percent of its needs . And despite the fact that its total strength is being sharply reduced , it ended the year more than 8,000 men short of authorized strength . With the hot breath of the draft no longer a factor , there is a real question whether the Navy can recruit enough men of high quality . Equally important , the Navy is having a tough time keeping men aboard once they have served a single term . All sorts of inducements to persuade men to reenlist , to induce suitable junior officers to make a Navy career , are being tried . Congress has approved a reenlistment or extended tour bonus  --  which for critical or highly important specialties can reach as much as $15,000 ? are offered to each qualified officer or man who signs on for an-other term after his first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlistees  --  only 10.3 percent in 1970 ? has risen , as a result of all these measures , to a respectable 23 percent in fiscal 1973 . Yet retention rates do not adequately reflect the personnel situation in the Navy today . Many of those who chose to stay in the Navy were not nearly as qualified as many of those who got out . Many who leave the Navy are influenced in their decisions by the red tape and delay and the judicial leniency now prevalent in military disciplinary procedures . Many feel that legalisms tend to pervade the services ' administration of justice  --  and , in turn , reflect the sense of permissiveness which permeates the fleet and the nation today . Theft , a crime corrosive to any structure of teamwork , is pervasive , and the use of marijuana and soft drugs is so frequent , even aboard ship , that in one Sixth Fleet ship a brig annex , three times the size of the original brig , has been created to house offenders . Psychological rewards  --  the sense of a job worth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ missing in today 's Navy . Many junior officers , longterm CPOs and first-class petty officers  --  many with years of service at stake  --  want " out " as soon as possible . Time and time again , man after man said : " I 'm getting out just as soon as my twenty years are up . " 3 . The erosion of military justice . The Uniform Code of Military Justice , which governs the disciplinary procedures of all the services , replaced the far stricter " Articles for the Government of the Navy " in 1951 . The reforms were needed , but unfortunately , the code introduced some of the same legal delays , red tape and paperwork that have tied up our civilian courts . The Navy , however , could live with the Code of Military Justice , but many officers feel its provisions and , above all , its intent are being watered down , sometimes by congressional pressures , but most of all by what Colonel Robert D. Heinl , Jr. , U.S. Marine Corps ( retired ) , has described as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mainly by radical lawyers and consistently sustained by libertarian civilian courts . " In a comprehensive review of many court rulings of the past six years , Colonel Heinl , writing in the Detroit News , points out that  --  despite explicit constitutional authority for a separate and distinct system of military justice ( Congress is charged with making " rules for the government and regulation of the land and naval forces " ) ? continuous legal challenges and rulings have sought " to impose literal application of the libertarian and egalitarian provisions of the Constitution upon the Armed Forces which , in their nature as institutions , can not tolerate or coexist with libertarianism or egalitarianism . " Repeatedly , civilian courts have overturned military decisions and have forced honorable discharges  --  with veterans ' benefits  --  for servicemen who had been convicted of criminal , subversive , or seditious acts . In 1969 the U.S. Supreme Court , in a shocking judgment which reversed 200 years of precedents , held that military courts-martial should not try uniformed personnel for " civilian " offenses . As a result , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ multiple offenses of rape , sodomy and burglary was released , presented with a check for $50,000 worth of back pay and , over the unavailing protests of the Army , put back in uniform . ? The U.S. Court of Military Appeals , the highest court of the military legal ladder , composed entirely of civilian justices , has echoed some of the bizarre judgments of civilian courts . It has ruled , for instance , that an officer who drew bad checks to pay gambling debts committed no offense and that a convicted Vietnam private who lobbed a live hand grenade into a sergeant 's but should be freed because his counsel did not introduce character witnesses . Theft , almost nonexistent in the old Navy when military law permitted the immediate bad-conduct discharge of a proven thief , is now a fairly general problem both afloat and ashore . Its effects are obviously corrosive to the development of teamwork so essential to any military society . As a chief in a Sixth Fleet ship put it , " the kids ca n't leave anything lying on their bunks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another pervasive problem in all I he Armed Services . Happily , in the Sixth Fleet , the use of hard drugs is rare , but marijuana , pep pills , hashish and amphetamines are an almost universal part of the naval scene . Intermittent spot checks , body and locker searches and special inspections  --  even aboard fighting ships  --  by dogs trained to sniff out narcotics , are some of the control measures tried , all of them handicapped by aberrant court decisions ( one of which freed two confessed drug-running soldiers who had been detected by a dog ) . One ship in the Sixth Fleet has had to triple the size of its detention facilities for a " brig annex " to house sailors found guilty of possessing or using marijuana . Another aspect of the watered-down code : the red tape and delay on most disciplinary procedures and light court-martial sentences , which often bear no relationship to the seriousness of the crime . Legalisms and judicial leniency have also influenced many COs to overlook offenses which might normally have been punished ; the personal records @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thus , the Navy of today is in crisis . Too often , there is lacking that " conviction of excellence " the late Fleet Admiral Ernest J. King defined as the kernel of morale . Indeed , spirits were so low among embattled command rank officers in the Sixth Fleet that Vice Admiral Gerald E. Miller felt constrained to issue a special order early in 1973 reaffirming his faith in these men . But there are bright overtones in this somber picture . First and most important , the majority of the Navy 's personnel- white and black  --  are sound ; the misfits , the militants , the malcontents and the oddballs are a minority . Properly screened and selected , the young recruit of today has assets his forefathers never had  --  a much better technical education and therefore a capacity for grasping the complex details of a highly technical profession . " 1 find it hard to keep up with them , " a chief said . " These kids will get in a week what it takes me a month to master . " Second , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's slump in morale and discipline may have " bottomed out . " The shock of last year 's mutinies and the determination of a few courageous commanders to cope with the growing chaos in the fleet led to somewhat sterner measures and perhaps a reversal of recent trends . The Navy 's recruiting command has been reorganized , and more careful screening is being stressed . Basic training is more thorough than a year ago . Not all ships are affected by the malaise of the fleet . A good captain can usually foster a " happy ship . " Aviators and submarine crews  --  both very carefully selected , both with a sense of dedication to their jobs , both keyed to teamwork  --  are so far relatively immune to the deterioration around them . But it is always harder , in the Navy 's phrase , " to walk the cat back " when discipline has once been relaxed and morale has declined , especially since heavy pressures on the side of still more permissiveness are being exerted . The first and fundamental requirement in the renaissance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fundamental purpose of a navy  --  to deter war , to protect our vital interests and to win battles . Neither the Navy nor any of theother military services can be a social science laboratory and still retain combat effectiveness . To win public support and to restore that sense of excellence which is the key to all morale , the Navy must clean its own house . It must restore the high-spirited , wise leadership it has usually had in the past , leadership dedicated to holding the line against unwise congressional and bureaucratic , political and sociological pressures ; leadership that puts first things first : a disciplined , dependable and effective fleet . This leadership must stress selectivity and quality of personnel  --  not quotas or quantity  --  it must rigorously eliminate the malcontents , the radical militants , the disgruntled time-servers and the misfits . It must stress one standard for white and black . As Rear Admiral Samuel L. Gravely , Jr. , the first of the Navy 's two black admirals , said some time ago , " Equal opportunity should mean just that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must stand firm against any further civilianization of the Code of Military Justice . Military justice must be military  --  a disciplinary prop . A clearcut ruling by the Supreme Court that would put up a " No Trespassing " sign around the military justice system would greatly aid inpreventing the continuous erosion of the system by the encroachments of the judicial branch . The Hicks report put the problem in a nutshell : " Discipline is the keystone of the Armed Services of any nation . If discipline collapses , a military force becomes a leaderless , uniformed mob , capable only of accomplishing its own destruction . " There is not , there can not be , there never will be a so-called " democratic army or navy . " There can be a navy of a democracy , but it must be composed of proud , high-spirited young men who expect and welcome a structured life of discipline tempered with humanitarianism , and who recognize that wearing the uniform entails special obligations , duties , laws and restraints as well as privileges . A sense of excellence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again emphasized in the " New Navy " of today and tomorrow . The deterioration of our Navy has gone so far that a time of decision has been reached . The Navy quite possibly can survive the assaults upon its budget , its size , the reduction in its strength and even the petty and narrow economies that tend to hobble it . But it can not survive the assaults upon its soul.                     