@@251988

CAREFULLY damping its obvious elation , the Nixon Administration moved last week to check the early euphoria as well as to calm the fears generated by the revelation that the President will travel to Peking . Nixon briefed congressional leaders and his Cabinet . Secretary of State William Rogers counseled ambassadors of the most nervous nations , including Taiwan , Japan and the Soviet Union . Out of all the talk came one firm insistence : no agreements-except to talk-have been reached by the long-estranged U.S. and China . <P> A White House directive even ordered Washington officials not to discuss the arrangements , agenda or policy implications of the summit conference with newsmen . Not only does Peking insist upon secrecy , it was explained , but the Communist world usually takes as officially inspired any speculation in the U.S. press , so a misstatement could torpedo the sensitive talks . Actually , the Administration 's clampdown may well have an effect opposite to the one desired . Speculation about the meaning of a major move announced by the President with considerable drama is both proper and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produce uninformed guessing games of even greater danger to successful summitry . <P> Key to Indochina . The most immediate problem facing U.S. diplomacy on the twisting road to Peking was the international status of Taiwan , especially its China seat in the United Nations ( see following story ) . But the larger concern was the potential impact of Washington-Peking collaboration on the war in Indochina . Washington tried to disclaim any direct connection between Nixon 's journey and ending the war . Yet roughly a year ago , Rogers declared in a Tokyo television interview that " Communist China is the key to the future of Indochina . If they would talk sensibly about a settlement , we think we could work out a peaceful settlement very quickly . " Such thoughts obviously still remain tantalizing , and some kind of deal on the war was a possible goal of the summitry in Peking . It was conceded that the war had been discussed by Henry Kissinger and Chou En-lai in their 16 hours of secret conversations . At the least , Kissinger must have outlined U.S. plans for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nixon being welcomed to Peking at a time of fierce combat between Communist and U.S. forces would be improbable . Premier Chou last week told a group of visiting U.S. China scholars that his first concern was U.S. withdrawal of all of its forces from the " dirty war " in Indochina . Besides , in the view of China watchers , Peking assumes that the U.S. has lost the war in Indochina and is definitely pulling out .                     