@@487933

In his long , discursive interview with James Reston of The New York Times ( October 13 ) , Secretary of State Kissinger touched on a number of more or less philosophical themes . Fot example , he stressed , as he has on other occasions , that ' interests " generally must take precedence over " ideals . " Often we must settle for the best we can get , not necessarily what we prefer , because " national interests " require it . He did concede ' that " pragmatism unrelated to a purpose becomes totally self-destructive " and pointed out that this country 's " idealistic tradition " gives it a resource that " exists in no other country in the world . " But once again he managed to oppose " ideals " to " interests " in an unrealistic manner , a failing not uncommon among those who fancy themselves tough realists and clever pragmatists . " Interests " is at best a slippery term . The economic interests of certain groups and industries ? military and strategic interests ? or what ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . So he must have thought that what we did or tried to do there was in furtherance of our national interests , But he stresses what he regards as the termination of our active involvement as a positive achievement , So what are we to assume he thinks in retrospect about the war ? And what made it possible for us to reduce our involvement in Vietnam if it was not , in large ? measure , the insistent protests of millions of starry-eyed " idealists " who , it turned out , had a more realistic perception of American interests than those war-gaming master strategists and crisis managers . On the question of his involvement in the attempt to " de-stabilize " the Allende regime , Dr. Kissinger spoke about " the gray area between the exercise of diplomacy and the use of force , " implying that he would like to see this gray area kept as compressed as possible . But he did not respond , convincingly when Reston quoted Jean Monnet : " A democratic country as open as America can never really run a secret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations ? " and , if it tries to do so , in the end probably its losses are really ' greater than its gains . " The ultimate reckoning on the cost of pursuing " national interests " by such means in Chile may well sus-/ tain Monnet 's premise . Nor did Kissinger know quite what to say when Reston quoted a colleague as having asked Willy Brandt , " What does the young generation in Germany now think of America ? " and Brandt replied : " The magic is gone . " When Brandt was asked what he meant by that , he said that we have used power , he thought , in a way that did not comport with our ideals , particularly in Vietnam . Is n't it realistic to insist that the opinion of the young generation in Germany and elsewhere  --  indeed world opinion  --  should have been more carefully weighed when this country 's representatives were attempting to define American interests in Indochina ? In the long run , how can this country hope to base policy on the pursuit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditional ideals ? Is n't the basic problem always to define American interests in a manner consistent with those ideals and to apply the same tests to ways and means of implementing policy ? Posing an irreconcilable antithesis between " interests " and " ideals " constitutes an unrealistic evasion of the problem . Conflicts and Motives Disclosure of Nelson Rockefeller'sgift list has raised issues that transcend in importance the question of whether he should be confirmed as Vice President . If he is confirmed , these issues and the doubts they raise will continue to haunt him , nor will they be resolved if he is rejected . The question of motive has confused the basic issues , just as it has apparently confused Mr. Rockefeller . He is reported to be " perplexed and dejected " ; he feels hurt that his motives have not been universally understood as he understands them . But conflicts of interest do not turn on the question of motive . ' For example , a city employee may hold the patent rights on a product which he honestly believes would be of benefit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a city employee from dealing directly ' with the city are not aimed at assessing motives or judging the fairness of a particular transaction but at preventing the potential abuse inherent in such situations , regardless of motive . A conflict of interest was inherent in the loans which Mr. Rockefeller made to Dr. William A. Ronan ( former - Ichairman of the MTA and now chairman of the ' Port Authority ) , and to Edward J. Logue , head of the state 's Urban Development Corporation . The public understands that an official may be placed in a position where he must decide whether to resign rather than accept some decision on which the person who appointed him to his post insists , or to shelve his , own best ' judgment and go along ? with the demand , from on high . Because this can be a very difficult decision , it should not be made more difficult by placing a $500,000 personal loan in the scales . In other words , it may be hard enough for the appointee to say " no , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to forfeit these and also face the possibility that a large loan might be called is placing too great a strain on the relationship . If the loans to Ronan and Logue were legitimate loans , a conflict of interest was inherent in them ; if they were intended from the start to ? be gifts , it would really make no differenCe . In either case they were improper . That the loans to Dr. Ronan were canceled during a two-week period when he was technically off the state ( payroll would merely indicate an awareness of the impropriety , that is , of the conflict of interest . The $50,000 gift to Dr. Kissinger falls in a different , category ; no inherent conflict of interest was involve-0 since Kissinger had ceased to be Rockefeller 's adviser . But the fact that the gift was made three days before Kissinger , was sworn in as Nixon 's national security adviser suggests not so much appreciation for past services as expectation of continued loyalty and , one might say , ready access and influence . It was indiscreet in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men , but it was not improper per se . ? On the other hand , the financing of the Victor Lasky- . Arlington House book smearing Arthur J. Goldberg was , as Sen. James Buckley concedes , " obviously in a dirty tricks category . " ( The Senator 's brother , William F. Buckley , Jr. , is chairman of the corporation that owns Arlington House , so the judgment may be accepted as robjective ) . In this instance there can be no pretense that the funds were advanced for the purpose of meeting " the pressing human needs " of Victor Lasky , the rationale Mr. Rockefeller used in justifying some of his other gifts and advances . Here the purpose was to finance ' a hatchet job on Mr. Rockefeller 's opponent in the gubernatorial election of that year . The deal was negotiated by John A. Wells , a long-time trusted Rockefeller adviser , and if Mr. Laurance Rockefeller put up the $60,000 involved as a legitimate investment his reputation for business acumen must be reassessed . Nor does it matter much that his brother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book or that he has personally and publicly tendered his " sincere and unqualified apology " to Mr. Goldberg . It is a measure of the corruption of our political mores that a man of Nelson Rockefeller 's position and stature should even momentarily have considered such a politically stupid and morally offensive tactic . This new evidence not only demonstrates that Mr. Rockefeller , for all his experience in public life , fails to understand what conflicts of interest are all about , or , if he does , that he is quite willing to ignore them to serve his own ends ; it also demonstrates that he does not understand , on the basis of his own statements and sworn testimony , the kinds of conflicts of interest to which great wealth , such as that possessed by him and by other members of his family , can so easily give rise . In the circumstances , the Senate Rules Committee should reopen the hearings and take further testimony . Javiorski 's Resignation It is painful to say this , but Special Prosecutor Leon Jaworski 's resignation , effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's performance as Special Prosecutor has been exemplary . It is consistent with his known record as a practicing lawyer , a former president of the American Bar Association , and a public figure . There is reason to ? believe that in appointing him , Richard Nixon relied on Jaworski 's conservative leanings for as gentle treatment as could be expected under the circumstances . If so , Mr. Nixon was disappointed , But that is in the past . Mr. Jaworski now feels that his task has been largely accomplished . Actually , his dearture is premature and leaves unsettled matters that are by no means unimportant . What impelled him to spoil a record so praiseworthy ? Newsweek ( October 21 ) , quoting a " close associate , " suggests that Jaworski was " lukewarm " about writing a final report which would make explicit Nixon 's role in Watergate . If so , he joins Nixon 's apologists , who argue that he has been punished enough . The same source added that Jaworski wanted to avoid the task of prosecuting his fellow Texan and one-time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merits of these reports , Jaworski leaves the erroneous impression that Watergate is all cleared up . It may seem so to those who take a short-term view , but the fact is that Richard M. Nixon presided over a conspiracy to subvert the American democracy which is about to celebrate its second centennial , and it would be rash to assume that he is the last of his breed . The more the facts are brought out in the present plot , the greater is our protection against future attacks . Then there is the question of President Ford 's blanket pardon of his predecessor and benefactor . Mr. Ford has volunteered to explain his reasons and motivations before a Congressional committee , but in effect , Mr. Jaworski has already prejudged the episode in Mr. Ford 's favor . He feels the President  --  any President  --  can exercise the power to pardon at any time after a federal crime , whether actual or putative , has been committed . It is a dubious interpretation . Article II , Section 2 of the Constitution reads that the President may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nixon avoided certain impeachment by resigning . Can , then , a President who was headed for impeachment be absolved by a pardon , granted by his successor  --  whom he has himself appointed ? Further questions are raised by the timing of Jaworski 's resignation , just as the trial of the five defendants in the cover-tip case is beginning . He can not possibly know what revelations that trial may bring . The joint interests of the defendants , if any still ekist , are outweighed by their separate , individual interests . Who knows what varieties of plea bargaining may emerge , in which Jaworski 's judgment might play a decisive role ? The public , surely , would have more confidence in any such bargains if Jaworski were still on the scene , regardless of the merits of his successor . Henry S. Ruth , who was recommended by Mr. Jaworski , is credited with having held the staff together after Archibald Cox 's dismissal , but there is no certainty that he will be appointed ; in fact , if President Ford 's logic ' is/ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Boston President Ford 's hastily considered comments on Judge W. Arthur Garrity 's ruling in the Boston school desegregation case at his October 9th press conference revealed a misunderstanding of the Constitution , misconceived the function of the executive branch and undermined the cause of equal justice under law . While deploring violence , the President felt compelled to say that Judge Garrity 's decision " was not the best solution to quality education in Boston , " reiterated that he had " consistently opposed forced bussing to achieve racial balance as a solution to quality education ' ? and disagreed with the judge 's , decision ( see article by Maurice Ford , p. 389 ) , Very few people , black or white , enjoy pouring public funds into bussing and into paying overtime to state and local police ( who in Boston , by the way , have done an exemplary job ) . But bussing in Boston is not to bring about some whimsical racial balance . It is a necessary remedy to enforce the constitutional right of both black and white children to attend desegregated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ June , Judge Garrity detailed how the Boston School Committee , through means ' devious and overt , systematically segregated and discriminated against black children and teachers . It is to vindicate these rights , to undo the harm which has been done , that bussing is necessary . For only in a desegregated environment will children of both races learn to interact and to think of one another ( and themselves ) other than in termsik of stereotypes . Only then will the school experience be a microcosm of the real world , In his statement , President Ford also urged the citizens of Boston to respect the law , but he is an experienced politician and should . have foreseen the effect of his remarks . The message to whites in South Boston was that , Judge Garrity notwithstanding , " their President " understood and was with them . The message to blacks was that the Chief Executive had small concern for their legal rights . At the very moment when Mayor Kevin White was in court requesting federal marshals , and when the NAACP was requesting additional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the situation in Boston , the President , at his news conference , was declaring his reltictance to provide federal assistance . In Boston , reaction was predictable . " I was , so happy when I heard his statement I felt like screaming , " said Mrs. Fran Johnnene , an anti-bussing leader in Hyde Park . State Rep. Michael Flaherty of South Boston commented : " I love him . He said what we 've been saying all along . He implied that technically everybody must obey the law , but civil disobedience to an unjust law does not warrant federal troops coming into a community . " School Committeeman John J. McDonough said that President Ford 's remarks left " Judge Garrity against the world . He should sit down , and say ' Am I right and everybody else wrong ? ' " In our country , it is the judiciary which interprets the law . The Executive des site . 1 . - - r d ' e ment he may ha -- -7F , - Thould encoura sup . arge s wi enforcing it . Mayor White was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ false hopes and fanned the flames of resistance that will almost inevitably lead to further disruption in Boston . " In response to almost universal criticism in the press and by the legal profession , and perhaps with some belated insight of his own , President Ford has complied with Sen. Edward Brooke 's request that he tape a special message to the people of Boston , reminding them of their city 's proud heritage of respect for the ' rights of others and insisting that children 's safety must be paramount . This shows a refreshing ability to admit error and to reconsider , an ability lacking in his predecessor . But it will be difficult to eradicate the , effect of the President 's first remarks on those not disposed to comply with Judge Garrity 's order in a troubled city . Menon : The Counter-Dulles No doubt V.K. Krishna Menon , whose death on October 6 was with few exceptions indifferently noted in the U.S. press , was temperamental , did not suffer fools gladly , and was often impatient , mercurial and abrasive . What has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kindness and good humor  --  are not too important in a man of Menon 's political stature and achievements . With all its poverty and squalor , India is a great country , and it owes its independence largely to Jawaharlal Nehru and Krishna Menon , following Gandhi 's spiritual guidance , while he lived . To carp at Menon is pike criticizing George Washington because he was parsi-monious in the management of his estate . For many years , Menon was a one-man lobby in London for India 's independence . The CommOnwealth of India League was practically moribund when he took it over in 1929 . Bertrand Russell and Stafford Cripps ' had done their best for it , but they were not Indians . Menon pamphleteered and lectured ceaselessly , literally lived in the League office , and subsisted largely on a diet of tea and buns . Yet he had inexhaustible energy and after he and Nehru met the two were for many years almost inseparable . Menon was certainly not a dedicated ' capitalist , but he was far too independent to function as a Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been projected by the journalists , and not only by those in the United States . He was , to be sure , a man of the Left , and in the West a certain odium attaches to such people ? Harold Laski , C. Wright Mills , even , in time of right-wing frenzy , to liberal capitalists like Cyrus Eaton or Edward Lamb . The one great error which stands to Menon 's discredit is his underestimation of the threat of Communist China while he served as Defense Minister . But he has been belabored far too heavily . On the other hand , when he was named as India 's delegate at the United Nations in 1952 , Menon 's statesmanship was a material factor in the organization 's prestige and influence during his tenure and in India 's leadership of that body . At the ' U.N . and in every other available forum Menon stressed the essentials of world order . James Tracy Crown , professor of political science at New York University , who knew - Menon well and did biographical research on him in India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world affairs : " What Menon effectively insisted upon was that Third World countries must be given a voice in world councils ; international peace depends upon world cooperation between the United States , the Soviet Union and the People 's Republic of China ; and world disarmament now is an absolute necessity . " The first has been achieved , a beginning has been made . on the second ; without the third , poverty and insecurity remain the fate of billions of human beings . V.K. Krishna Menon was in effect the counter to John . Foster Dulles , and as such he was often quoted in these pages with approval and gratitude . See " Krishna Menon : Architect of Peace " by Sam A. Jaffe , The Nation , August 28 , 1954.                     