@@491402

We 've come to think of everything as instant . .. . instant coffee ... instant pictures from the magic boxes of Polaroid or Kodak 's foolproof instant smile box .. . overnight success stories or of the stock market 's turn downward ... fast food service , thanks to McDonald 's , Red Barn , Mr. Fish &; Chips , and frozen pizzas . instant copies from Xerox , Burroughs and IBM ... instant meals from our Frigidaire microwave ovens which when overcooked become instant ashes . Even schools and colleges seem to spring up virtually overnight , as public and junior college districts are formed and state university systems expand . These instant products , instant ideas and instant decisions , and the resultant mistakes , have become as common as the mediocrity they produce . There is one uncommon and refreshing example of a solid institution being built through long-range planning based on many of the same ideals that have carried America through its first 200 years . That is Northwood Institute , a **25;3731;TOOLONG college based in Midland , Michigan , with additional campuses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2,400 students strong with programs strung from one end of this country to the other and overseas as well , is the result of an idea spawned by two college educators in 1958 . That idea  --  to provide a more productive , business-career-oriented higher education  --  has emerged as a bright beacon for the average Joe or Jane . Not premed , prelaw , pure liberal arts or engineering , but a college career that blends appreciation of liberal arts with the down-to-earth realities of preparing to earn a living . How refreshing  --  a college that teaches something that someone else is willing to pay you to do for them . A needed , wanted skill . Thus , Northwood has evolved as an uncommon college for uncommon students . The two men who gave birth to the " Northwood idea " were young professors , early in their mid-American academic pursuits . Dr. Arthur E. Turner and R. " Gary " Stauffer were faculty members at Alma College , Alma , Michigan , where their " far out " college idea was hatched . Art Turnerand Gary Stauffer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what has become a multimillion-dollar , nonprofit , and tax-exempt coeducational college . Send in your money as it wo n't be wasted on the study of whether white mice will mate with spotted mice when the moon is full . This adult , professional management education center has moved out from its Midland headquarters to Cedar Hill ( near Dallas ) , Texas ; Houston ; West Baden , Indiana ; Bloomfield Hills , Michigan ; Monterey , California ; and to South America and Western Europe . When I asked Dr. Stauffer , now vice-chairman of Northwood , " Why another college ? " he said , " The moon program , Sputnik , etc. , caused Art and me to think about what 's been left undone here on earth . Both of us have quite a few youngsters of our own and we had the real-world questions about what kind of higher education might be most practical if they did n't want to be doctors , lawyers , or educators like ourselves . The emphasis on science and engineering was a natural thing fifteen years ago ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in aeronautical engineering would cut your grass for $5.00 in California and Florida , as the field was saturated . We began to wonder what would become of the American world of business and private enterprise if a new generation did n't come along to keep business going and growing . " Serving the student by serving industry , Art Turner , now chairman of the college , continues : " We meant specialized business such as automotive marketing ( including part replacements ) , retailing , hotel and restaurant operations , the culinary arts and fast-food franchises , fashion merchandising , advertising and marketing communication , accounting , the management of any size business . That was our basis of beginning : going to business to see what types of people , with what qualifications , would be required to fill the ranks of the future operation and growth of important industries . " After all , business developments and practices are changing daily , just as fast as  --  and in many ways , faster than  --  other fields . The advent of electronic data processing " ( the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a phone buddy in Nome , Alaska ) , " increasing governmental intervention , stricter accounting procedures and the ever-constant challenge of creative competition keep today 's businessman on his toes . There is no way a pure academic education can keep up with these changes . " So , in other words , you are bringing business to college . " Yes , we 've done two things differently . First , we 've brought the business world  --  through the practicing business person ( example : Bob Lund , Chevy head , and Dow 's Gerstaker ) ? into the classroom on an almost daily schedule . We 've staffed our faculty with men and women from the business they teach  --  people who have been there and have successfully competed in the real world of work . " Second , we 've put the student into the business world to observe and participate in it while he or she is still in school . " " And , " Stauffer adds as an aside , " we 've organized our own operation as a business with a highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What 's more , we operate on plans developed five and ten years in advance , which are constantly updated and changed to maintain their relevancy , but which provide continued direction . " Just how does Northwood serve business and industry ? " Take our automotive marketing program , for instance , " suggests Stauffer . " In the early Sixties we were talking to some friends who happened to be car dealers . " ( Some people say all car dealers are your friends until the day after you buy a car from them , but that 's just not true . Since my husband bought into Rathmann Cadillac in Melbourne , Florida , I heard stories of people turning back odometers and , of course , the old story of a car driven only by a little old lady on Sundays to church has a customer 's side too . A fine-looking man comes in and wants to trade his son 's car that he drove only to work  --  of course , his son was a demolition derby driver ! But I guess car dealers have one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as there have been as many lousy jokes about their honesty as there have been about the love of 45 about the inside world of big corporations . mothers-in-law and wives with migraine headaches . ) " The dealers were bemoaning their personnel problems , not being able to find good people who had a good working knowledge of all aspects of the business  --  sales , service , accounting , parts inventory , personnel , business office , just everything . We were asked if it would be possible to train people in college for such responsibilities . " Well , at first there was some doubt " ( how can you train a man to kick a tire or slam a door ? ) " probably because nobody had done it before . But as we discussed it , we realized , first , that there was a definite need and , second , that with a good deal of planning and the right faculty such a program was definitely practical . " Further , because of its close proximity to the massive Detroit auto industry and its success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banking , fashion merchandising and others , Northwood was a natural for the new program . A small group of Midwestern car dealers , representing all the major domestic manufacturers , formed an advisory committee to help formulate the program . The National Automobile Dealers Association was solicited for funds to write and publish textbooks , develop a home study program and establish a Certified Automotive Merchandiser Award . In 1964 , a pilot , college-level program was introduced at Northwood . Fewer than fifty students , mostly sons of dealers , enrolled . " This year , " beams Stauffer , " enrollment in the program is the largest of any of Northwood 's thirteen curriculums , with both men and women students , and it is being taught at all three of the college 's campuses . " The Certified Automotive Merchandiser Award was announced as a joint Northwood/NADA program in 1966 . It 's the car dealer 's answer to CPA , CLU ( Certified Public Accountant , Charter Life Underwriter ) , and other professional programs involving college courses , written and oral examinations , minimum experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar program , the natural outContinued on page 82 Northwood continued from page 45 growth of the automotive marketing curriculum , serves the automotive replacement parts industry and is called Automotive Replacement Management . The automotive industry has , in return , responded to Northwood 's efforts , providing members for the active advisory committees which oversee the relevancy and currency of the courses , and classroom lecturers ; moreover , individuals , companies and associations within the industry have contributed a $1 million Automotive Education Center to the college . And the Automotive Organization Team , a group of old-timers within the industry , has constructed its $500,000 Hall of Fame on the school 's Michigan campus . The Hall honors such old-timers as Henry Ford , Sr. , Walter P. Chrysler , Roy D. Chapin , Sr. , Louis Chevrolet , Fred Duesenberg , William C. Durant , William S. Knudsen , B.E . " Barney " Oldfield , Alfred P. Sloan , Charles E. Wilson , Charles Kettering and many others . It is due to be completed and dedicated this fall . Northwood 's advertising curriculum is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For fourteen years it has conducted eight- or ten-week workshops for advertising personnel in the Detroit area . The workshop series , co-sponsored by the Adcraft Club of Detroit , has several hundred graduates . Northwood belongs to and is active in the Adcraft Club , the Industrial Marketers of Detroit and the American Marketing Association . Northwood advertising students annually participate in the regional collegiate competition of the American Advertising Federation and have , for the past two years , placed second in competition against such large schools as Michigan State , Notre Dame , and Southern Illinois . " This year we were second again , and again behind Michigan State , but we beat Notre Dame and the rest of the field . It 's kind of nice to be able to say you beat Notre Dame by sixty points in anything . " smiles Robert Ellis , chairman of the advertising curriculum . Northwood 's five-member team consisted of only freshmen and sophomores : the others came " loaded for bear " with mainly upperclassmen . Ellis , not atypical of other specialized faculty members , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early retirement as a vice-president of Kenyon and Eckhardt Advertising in 1972 to join the Northwood faculty . From its humble beginnings in 1959 with fewer than 100 students in only a handful of curriculums , Northwood has grown in enrollment , curriculums and facilities . Its 2,400 students are enrolled in either two-year associate-degree programsin accounting , advertising , association management ( the only college curriculum available in this field ) , automotive marketing , automotive replacement management , business management , executive secretarial studies , fashion merchandising , fine arts and humanities , general education , health care management , hotel and restaurant management , interiors marketing and management ( currently in its first year as a pilot program ) , and retailing management ; or in four-year bachelor of business administration degrees in business administration or business administration with an accounting major . In addition , a one-year certificate program is offered on the Northwood campus in southern Indiana . Students of its California campus , The Monterey Institute of Foreign Studies , are upperclassmen and graduate students enrolled in such subjects as international studies , languages and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and international economics . " Even here , " reports President Donald W. Schma , " we 're preparing students for careers in these fields , not merely giving them the information without the knowledge and skills required to put it to work to earn a living . " That 's a meat-on-thetable living . ( And at today 's prices , that 's no small task ! ) Northwood 's management education program is a major step in thenew management education that is developing to meet the computer age and to prepare front-line management personnel to meet the needs of business . The program is staffed with specialists who are skilled in the new technology and education for their industries . It 's currently active in several major areas , including automotive marketing , automotive replacement , food service management , health care management and arts management . Since affiliating with Northwood in 1973 , the Monterey Institute has begun working even more closely with industry . " We offer business with international interests a program called Training for Service Abroael , wherein they send us key personnel  --  and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the language , but also the customs and mores , the trade practices , the money systems " ( and I could have used that the last time I was converting dollars to yen in Japan . The price went up while I was computing the exchange ! ) " and almost every other aspect of the country to which they are being assigned , making the individual a more effective representative of his or her organization and country , " explains Sch ma . Conversely , international companies of foreign nations often send the personnel they are stationing in the states to Northwood 's Monterey Institute for similar studies aboutour languages and way of life . This program is called " English as a Second Language . " Each Northwood campus provides ultramodern facilities and staff for conferences , seminars , workshops and other functions held by business , school , professional , trade and other groups . In addition , seminars are held in other cities and at other places . A Unique " 2-plus-2 " Concept A Northwood-developed " 2-plus2 " concept gives each student the personal choice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business career . That choice is whether to end his college studies after two years , having learned useful and marketable skills and earned an Associate Degree in a specialized field so that he does n't feel his first two years have been spent just locating the library and taking subjects unrelated to his prime interest , or to continue his education for an additional two years and further his knowledge and skills , rounding himself more thoroughly in general business practices and the liberal arts and earning a bachelor 's degree . Northwood 's unique approach is to provide a student an approximate blend of 20 percent credit hours in his or her major area ; 40 percent in related business courses , i.e. business law , accounting , personnel , etc. ; and 40 percent in humanities and liberal arts . The result is a graduate who has not only a good business background but also a firm foundation for personal and professional growth . The Beginning of the Multi-Campus Concept Northwood quickly outgrew its thirty-seven-room mansion in Alma and acquired a 268-acre wooded site on the bank of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to spell it ) River in Midland . In 1962 it held its first classes there in new facilities designed by renowned architect Alden B. Dow . Today , the campus has the largest enrollment and most highly developed facilities of any Northwood campus . Its major buildings , all designed by Dow in contemporary brick and natural woods to complement the beautiful natural setting , include housing for more than 800 students , a spacious Student Activities Building , the Charles E. Strosacker Library , the NADA Automotive Education Center , the Dow Commons cafeteria and student lounge area , the AOT Hall of Fame , the Griswold Communications Center , the Jean Hoxie Tennis House and the Louis B. Juillerat Stadium . Also in the early 1960 's , the In-stitute opened extension centers in Lima , Peru ( but due to the unstable political complications , the group left with their shirts on their backs and the promise that if Peru " cools it " they will return ) , and Quito , Ecuador , teaching its business courses as applied in the private Con tinued on page @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Peruvian and Ecuadorian nationals have passed through these courses , thereby bringing a better understanding of the American economic system to those areas . Northwood students from the United States have for many years been engaged in a program of study in Europe , where they study European business practices and culture in such countries as France and Italy . In 1966 , in answer to requests of Southwestern business interests , Northwood opened its second campus , Northwood of Texas . Northwood of Texas is Texas . In the heart of the Dallas/Fort Worth Metroplex , eighteen miles southwest of downtown Dallas and twenty-eight miles southeast of Fort Worth , the campus is situated on some of the most rugged terrain in north-central Texas . Its cedar-covered hills and valleys , and its ever-running bubbling stream once comprised the site of overnight campgrounds for cattle drives headed to market . Later , the shouts of cowboys and the rumble of hoofs gave way to the laughter and excitement of a boys ' club camp . Today , a quieter ( well , any mother will tell you the Rolling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could n't be called quiet ) , more serious  --  yet in its own way , exciting  --  mood pervades the site as scores of Northwood students prepare for their earning and learning years . Facilities , again designed by Alden Dow , have been blended into the rustic landscape . Of stone , brick , masonry and natural wood , they capture the feeling of the setting and look non-institutional . The Lambert Commons houses student activities and recreation facilities , the library , meeting facilities and administration offices . Students reside in housing nestled against a hillside only a few hundred feet away . Additional apartments and the Management Education Center top one hill . Across the rambling brook are the classroom building and athletic fields . An outdoor swimming pool provides warm-weather recreation . It might be a wooded LaCosta or " fat farm extraordinaire " if you did n't know better . The following years , in 1967 , the school opened its third major campus , Northwood of Indiana , in the resort area of West Baden/French Lick . The campus lives amidst an exciting history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The campus 's main facility is a giant former resort hotel built in 1902 . The huge , six-story structure of 700 rooms is circular and surrounds a 208-foot-diameter atrium capped by a 150-foot-high dome , making it a sort of academic predecessor to Houston 's famous Astrodome . The atrium features giant columns around its perimeter , huge potted palms , impressive statuary and a floor inlaid with millions of pieces of imported marble . All student rooms face either into the atrium or out to the beautiful rolling countryside . The great building still attracts many thousands of visitors each year . Numerous gazebos , formal gardens and quiet walkways highlight the 350-acre site . Where the great and the near-great once came to " take the waters " at one of the nation 's most popular spas , Northwood students now live , dine , attend classes and study ( not necessarily in that order ) . In the great kitchen where multi-course meals for 1,500 guests were once prepared , students in Culinary Arts work in a gleaming new all-electric kitchen . The campus is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Park Service . In 1972 , Northwood assumed operation of the prestigious Bloomfield Country Day School in Bloomfield Hills , a Detroit suburb . Bloomfield Country Day teaches grades seven through twelve . " Tutie " Vanderkloot , daughter of General William S. Knudsen , once the U.S. " Production General " in World War II , has had a great deal to do with the success of the school , as she raises money tirelessly , through good times and bad , to keep its standard high and its deficit low . Northwood and The Monterey Institute of Foreign Studies joined forces in 1973 , providing Northwood with enhanced international recognition and opportunities and MIFS with proven management and career-development skills . But Not All Work and No Play Lest the impression that Northwood students are of a one-track mind  --  work , work , work  --  be given , consider the excellent intercollegiate teams that both the Indiana and Michigan campuses of the college have fielded in baseball , basketball , football , golf , track and cross-country . Northwood of Michigan has held winning football and basketball @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the league several years ago , being Conference football champions for the past two years . The Northwood of Indiana teams have also held enviable records in their athletic endeavors . Both schools have had their share of players elected to all-star teams , and a handful have gone on to pro careers . Because of the close availability of so many big-league sports  --  the Dallas Cowboys , the Dallas Tornado Soccer Club , and the Texas Rangers  --  plus big-college athletics , Northwood of Texas has forsaken intercollegiate sports for those of the intramural variety . The school may be the only college with its own chili cook-off , in an area of chili cook-offs . Other campus activities range from student publications and broadcast stations to fraternities and sororities , drama clubs and choruses , car and ski clubs . Each fall the Indiana and Michigan campuses ' Automotive Marketing students plan , organize and stage the biggest new car shows in their respective areas and man the exhibits themselves . in Indiana , they arrange nearly 100 of the cars within the giant atrium , creating a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardened tire-kicker . An antique car show is held in the same setting each spring . Northwood of Michigan automotive students exhibit upwards of 300 new cars and trucks on the mall of their campus and combine this with a simultaneous automotive parts show . Their show annually attracts up to 50,000 visitors . Northwood of Texas auto students work at the annual new car show of the State Fair of Texas and the later one of the Tarrant County ( Fort Worth ) New Car Dealers Association . Women of Northwood One popular function on each of the three Northwood campuses is neither a curricular nor an extracurricular activity  --  it 's more of a state of mind . Dubbed " Careers for Women , " it 's an informal but highly planned approach to helping women students and graduates find their place in what remains , despite much progress , a man 's world of work . Seminars , visiting speakers , fashion shows , cosmetics lessons , and special problems discussions lead the women to better understanding of what to expect when they get out of school . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Northwood of Michigan campus , explains , " We are not going to paint a rosy picture that tells the girls that once they have their degree , they have it made . But neither are we going to scare them to death . We just want them to know what to expect and to be prepared to handle it . " Many women who never spent a single day in class at Northwood  --  or , in some cases , have never been on one of its campuses  --  play a hig role in its activities . A national women 's board , with chapters in major cities across the nation , as well as in communities where there are Northwood campuses , helps supervise the scope of women 's activities at the school and performs a Herculean task of raising hundreds of thousands of dollars for the college each year . Sponsors of popular charity auctions for the college , members of the women 's boards organize , promote and stage the auctions as well as special Library Week activities , special sales and other social , and fund-raising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten to twelve women for their contributions to educational and cultural activities . In the past five events , held in different cities each November , such well-known social and civic leaders as Mrs. Henry S. Miller , Jr .. of Dallas ; Mrs. William L. Fortune of Indianapolis ; Mrs. Robert Stanton of Carmel Valley , California ; Mrs. Esther Dorothy of New York City ; Mrs. Kenneth D. Owen of Houston ; Mn . Edward Linthicum of Dallas ; Dr. Rosina Tamassy of Rome , Italy ; Dame Freya Stark of Treviso , Italy ; Mrs. Harding Lawrence of New York City ; Mrs. Robert Vanderkloot of Bloomfield Hills ; Mrs. Jane Murchison of New York ; and Mrs. Joseph 0 . Lambert of Dallas have been honored . Funny  --  they asked me to speak and I did , but the only thing they gave me was applause . This Uncommon College Produces Uncommon Grads With a strong education in the basic tenets of the private enterprise system and a basic understanding of the need for profit in business , Northwood graduates are in demand by business firms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the college has organized a National Placement Bureau for the use of graduates and alumni . As bureau Director James Bromley puts it , " I may have the easiest job around here ! " Northwood 's three-term ( fall , winter and spring ) academic year is not costly . A total of $3,150 covers all three terms  --  one academic year  --  including tuition , room , board and student fees . ( And many of North-wood 's programs are two-year associate of arts degrees . ) Scholarships are available , based on merit as well as need . Financial aid and part-time employment opportunities are also available  --  and hundreds of Northwood 's undergraduates are benefiting from these " pluses " on their way to a practical " real world " education . rt                     