@@479806

WHEN I CHECKED INTO my Philadelphia hotel the night before the opening of the Club of Rome 's 1976 meeting , a small green light on the wall was flashing insistently . A sign under the light said , " Call for Message . " When I called , the operator said , " There is no message . " I asked why. , the light was flashing . She replied , " The system is broken ; we 're trying to fix it . " During the next few days , I thought often of that light . Clearly , the global system in which we live is malfunctioning . Warning lights blink wildly all over the world . So it is reassuring to know that the members of the Club of Rome are dedicated to finding out what is wrong , and to prescribing a solution . They are a remarkable body of scholars , industrialists , and civil servants who give fresh luster to that worn-out phrase " men of goodwill . " Their three-day meeting in April was a beautiful demonstration of moral concern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of intellectual content , much of it bordered on the absurd . I had come to Philadelphia looking for a message about the future . Like the telephone operator at the hotel , the Club of Rome had no message , at ! east not one that I found intelligible . They filled the air with exhortations , inspiring visions , and noble proposals , hardly any of which came to grips with the problems of the world . At the close of the conference , I was left with a troublesome question : Can an intellectual disaster be a moral triumph ? THE IDEA OF HOLDING the Club of Rome 's meeting in Philadelphia is credited to Fulvio Oliveto , a member of the Philadelphia chapter of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers . Oliveto made his proposal to the club 's chairman , the Italian industrialist Aurelio Peecei , who was enthusiastic . The idea was then taken to Philadelphia 's prestigious Franklin Institute , and on to the First Pennsylvania Corporation , the city 's leading financial institution , whose leaders had been looking for a suitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cost of the conference , plus part of the cost of an exhibit on " futures " to be mounted at the institute . Surely the sponsors were not unmindful of the public-relations benefits to be reaped from such an enterprise , but compared to all the foolish , costumed stagings of Revolutionary War battles and other embarrassing Bicentennial manifestations , the decision to invite the Club of Rome to Philadelphia stood as a model of intelligence and good taste . The Club of Rome had never before held one of its full-scale meetings in the United States . It was coming to these shores bathed in a mystique almost without parallel for an organization so young and lacking in wealth , power , or constituency . Part of the club 's fame is , undoubtedly , attributable to its elegant name . The word club has a social flavor that can not he duplicated by organization , institute , or even society . " Rome " connotes imperial majesty , ecclesiastical grandeur , and continental sophistication . Add to this fortuitous choice of name an arresting first report seeming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you have the beginnings of instant renown . The club was founded in 1968 at the home of Aurelio Peccei , following a leisurely luncheon at the Accademia dei Lincei in Rome . As Peccei tells the tale , the weather was balmy , the view from the academy was lovely , and the wine flowed freely . Thirty concerned citizens from ten nations had gathered to discuss mankind 's ominous prospects , and to consider what a small group like themselves might do to improve them . The urbane aura of that occasion characterizes the deliberations of the club leaders to this day , making their meetings seem a little dilettantish , but , at the same time , establishing a mood of cordial civility that inspires faith in the possibility of rational solutions . The club is " a queer animal , " in Peccei 's words , with no organization or staff , keeping no formal minutes of its meetings , and having practically no budget . " When we first tried to get support , " says Peccei with a smile , " we got much support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found a way around its lack of direct income . Its conferences , which take place almost every year , have been subsidized by the governments of Austria , Switzerland , and Canada , and by business groups in France , Japan , and now the United States . Its research projects are underwritten by governments , foundations , and corporations . The power of persuasion is clearly not the least of its members ' talents . Chartered in Switzerland as a nonprofit association , the club 's membership is limited to 100 , and is drawn from all parts of the world , with the notable exceptions to date of Russia and China . Peccei is at pains to make clear that he has no grandiose plans for bureaucratic growth . The club 's purpose , he says , is to act as a catalyst , to point out the nature of world problems , to propose alternative solutions , to alarm and enlighten governments and entire populations . THE WEB OF GLOBAL CRISES ? technieal , social , economic , and political is labeled by the club the proble- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is an all-encompassing , interrelated complexity . The club maintains that such problems as food , population , resources , pollution , poverty , etcetera can no longer be dealt with as identifiable , discrete matters , but must he considered as a dynamic maze of interacting phenomena . This does not appear to be an original thought in fact , it seems downright obvious . However , the Club of Rome 's great contribution was lo try to be specific about what everyone knew to be generally true , to attempt to quantify and examine the forces at work . Seeking nothing less than a mathematical model for the whole world , it was inevitable that several club members should find their way in the summer of 1970 to MIT , where Prof. Jay Forrester and his group were performing pioneering work in the field of systems dynamics . With financial support front the Volkswagen Foundation , an international team of researchers was put to work under the directorship of Dennis Meadows , and a year later the first report to the Club of Rome was ready . A popularized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the title The Limits to Growth . The essence of the report was that exponential growth trends in population , industrialization , pollution , food production , and resource depletion threaten to bring us to the limits of global capacity within 100 years , resulting in catastrophe . No sooner had the ink dried ( actually it never did dry , since the hook has sold more than 2 million copies around the world and new editions are still being published ) than the debate began between proponents of growth and no-growth . This issue , which made the Club of Rome world-famous overnight , has also proved to be something of an albatross . Peccei has tried vainly to explain that Limits to Growth was merely a first report to the club , and that it was not intended to be a statement of club policy . Club members have learned that it is easier to get your name into the newspapers than to get the story told to your satisfaction . The argument about growth and no-growth seems to have generated much more heat than light . What Meadows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destructive , not exactly the sort of statement that should enrage reasonable men . Those who have attacked the report because it does not allow for the corrective actions people will take are coining very close to a tautology . People will indeed take action , not only because of automatic factors such as price changes ( the effect of which perhaps the report has underestimated ) , but because of reasoned action resulting from forecasts such as the report itself . In your warning , say these critics , you have neglected to consider that we might listen to your warning . Adding to the confusion is a lack of agreement about what exactly is meant by " growth . " The Limits to Growth does not advocate a cessation of constructive activity , as some critics have assumed . Continuing technological advance , according to the text , will be " both necessary and welcome , " as will " higher productivity , " which could be " translated into a higher standard of living or more leisure or more pleasant surroundings for everyone . " In short , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proved to he an emotional argument between worried advocates of planning on the one hand and mildly optimistic advocates of laissez-faire on the other . Members of the Cluh of Rome , although professing dismay at all the confusion and tumult , could not have helped but feel that The Limits to Growth was a success beyond their wildest dreams . The controversy it sparked had inspired the very debate it was the club 's aim to encourage . Then , suddenly , the entire picture changed . This animated , essentially academic , colloquy was interrupted by an outraged clamor of protest from an unexpected source ? the underdeveloped nations of the Third World . " How can you have the effrontery , " they asked , " to talk about limiting growth while we are starving and impoverished , just planning to embark on some growth of our own ? " The Limits to Growth , they maintained , could only be viewed as part of a conspiracy to further subdue the exploited peoples , and the Club of Rome , as its name implied , was obviously an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gentle members of the club were shocked and abashed . Certainly they had not intended to slight any of their brothers on this planet . They resolved to make amends . In so reacting they were already expressing the moral compassion and intellectual chaos that were to mark the Philadelphia meeting of April 1976 . A sermon and a hymn C OMPUTERIZED FORECASTING on a global scale has not been abandoned by the club . A new world model has been created by members Mihajlo Mesarovic and Edward Pestel , and stored in Mesarovic 's computer at Case Western Reserve University . This model is more complex than the Limits model ; it divides the world into ten distinct geographical regions , and has data on different " levels " ( individual , group , demoeconomic , technology , and environment ) . It contains statistical information on about 100,000 relationships , such as birth rate to population growth , oil prices to fertilizer production , and " The public capital stock to economic output . Scenarios can be played showing the probable impact of various alternative policies in the fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy , and population control . Work with this model formed the basis of the second report to the Club of Rome , published in 1974 , entitled Mankind at the Turning Point . At the Philadelphia meeting , which was called " New Horizons for Mankind " ( the titles begin to pall ) , one session was devoted to a report by Mesarovic and Pestel on current use of the model as an alternative policy tool . At Case , Mesarovic is studying how alternative U.S. policies might affect the global food crisis . Other projects are under way in Germany , Iran , Venezuela , and Egypt . The progress reports on these projects were , I thought , the most substantial and interesting part of the conference . 1 heard some knowledgeable people complain that the model contains assumptions that are unwarranted , but to all such criticism Mesarovic and Pestel respond that they are learning by doing , and keeping the model " open " for modification . If the club had restricted itself to improving such policy tools , advocating their use , and publicizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they were performing a valuable service . Of course , this would mean diminishing headlines , and a sense of frustration for Peccei and his colleagues , whose aim it is to prod the world continuously , vigorously , and in every conceivable fashion . It would also fail to satisfy the Third World critics of The Limits to Growth . So the club embarked on two new ventures which were unveiled in Philadelphia : the RIO project ( Reviewing the International Order ) , , under the direction of the Nobel Prize-winning Dutch economist Jan Tinbergen , and Goals for Global Societies , directed by the philosopher Ervin Laszlo . These two works may stimulate enough controversy to satisfy the club 's zest for perpetual agitation , but they arc likely to damage , permanently , the club 's reputation with clear-thinking people . The RIO report , the full version of which is to be published some time this year , contains much solid information , and reflects devoted consideration of world economic problems , but it is , I believe , fatally flawed . In brief ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor nations , with the objective of reducing the 13-to-1 ratio that exists between average income in the richest 10 percent of nations and the poorest 10 percent . The word gift is not used , to be sure . Various euphemisms are adopted . There should be " transfers " of fertilizers , and " transfers " of funds for development ( more than $30 billion by 1980 ) , " compliance " by transnational enterprises " with host countries ' plans , " " subventioning " of the cost of technological know-how , and so forth . In addition , the developed countries should assist the underdeveloped countries or " developing , " to use the pre-ferred word ? by reducing tariffs , easing immigration restrictions , and levying taxes to support a central world treasury . " Continuation of the study , " says a document distributed by the club , " may well indicate that the very concept of nation-state is outdated . " T TAKES NO GREAT INSIGHT into human / affairs to conclude that citizens of the wealthier nations may not be willing to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report maintains that redistribution of wealth is required in order to avert worldwide disaster . It seems to me that the opposite argument can be made more compellingly . Impoverished masses are much less likely to cause trouble for us than developing nations , which are just beginning to feel their oats . Angola-like controversies can arise , of course , but the superpowers have developed ways of handling such confrontations . The brutal truth is that the poorest nations do not pose a substantial threat to our well-being . Knowing , however , that the emerging nations will emerge eventually , whether we want them to or not , we are seeking their goodwill . We need their raw materials , we would like to have them as markets , and we want them to fall within our sphere of influence . Also , although we are terribly selfish , we want to do what is right . What the average American considers to be right tends to be expressed in the form of what American leaders consider to be politically feasible . The outer limit of such policy at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the plan which Secretary of State Kissinger proposed to the U.N . Conference on Trade and Development in Nairobi last May 6 . The main feature of this plan is the establishment of a billion-dollar International Resources Bank designed to stimulate private investment in the development of Third World resources , and to help stabilize the prices of such resources . There are other elements designed to ameliorate some of the problems faced by the poorer nations , but nothing vaguely resembling the extravagant demands of the RIO package . RIO is not a rational proposal . It calls for more charity than people are willing to give . In order to become effective , it requires nothing less than a change in human nature . It is a sermon masquerading as a study . If we protest , however , the Club of Rome is ready for us . It quickly brings Ervin Laszlo on stage with Goals for Global Societies . Human nature can change , says Laszlo . " Our researches show that the inner dimension of all major nations and cultures is capable of creative and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and newspapers , conducting interviews , and in a variety of ways trying to capture the philosophical mood in different parts of the world . They claim to have evidence showing that there are humanistic goals which all people can accept , and which will enable mankind to survive in a spirit of harmony . The final report , like RIO , will be published later this year . At Philadelphia , Laszlo presented some preliminary findings : Americans believe that their level of consumption is immoral , and that their politicians are not as forthright as they ought to be ; in Western Europe the young are flocking to the ideals of the counterculture ? utter honesty and self-limitation ; in Eastern Europe there are socialist goals ; in Japan there are indications that the aspirations of the average citizen are less materialistic than they were in 1973 ; in the Arab nations there is an urgency to catch up with the West , but a desire for something other than a consumer society ; in Africa people are essentially religious ; and so forth . " What we need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new ethical consciousness . " The lights dimmed , and a slide was projected with the heading " The Required Transformation in Contemporary Values and Beliefs . " At this point my notes become sketchy : " all religions ... universal compassion ... brotherhood . . . world solidarity . " It was late in the day , and there was restless stirring in the hall as the third session of the conference drew to an end . Yet a sudden hush seemed to descend as Laszlo concluded . " We all have a moral obligation , " he said , " to spur development of a sense of solidarity . " If RIO was the sermon , then Goals for Global Societies was the closing hymn . Romantic reformers A T THE OPENING SESSION Peccei had invoked the ethical and moral imperatives of the Declaration of Independence . Throughout the conference , speakers kept referring to the Bicentennial and the spirit of the American Revolution . Yet the single element most conspicuously absent from the conference was the very pragmatism that characterized the American Founding Fathers . Jefferson and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to hang their hopes on anything as ephemeral as the " evolution of a new ethical consciousness . " Their great achievement was to create a government for people who were imperfect , yet who wanted to live in freedom under a system of law . They were clearheaded , skeptical men of the Enlightenment . The Club of Rome meeting was imbued with a very different spirit , a romantic neoidealism akin to that which prevailed in nineteenth-century Europe . Also , for all the lip service paid to the achievements of the U.S. , I sensed undercurrents of resentment and disapproval . The mood brought to mind not Philadelphia in 1776 , but in 1876 , when the Centennial Exhibition attracted large numbers of European visitors . They crowded into the glass-and-iron Machine Hall to marvel at the many new mechanisms powered by the gigantic Corliss steam engine . American technology had come into its own , and astute observers could see that this portended significant changes for the human race . Europeans were impressed , but grudgingly so , patronizing the young nation as being technologically strong but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude persists . The 1976 Club of Rome meeting was , perhaps more than anything else , a genteel confrontation between the new world and the old , between American pragmatism and European intellectualism . The principal speakers at the meeting were all Europeans . Two of them , Mesarovic and Laszlo , were nominally Americans , but European horn and educated . As fur the Latins , Africans , Asians . Arabs , and other non-Europeans , most of them , having been educated in the European tradition , shared the European mode of thought . The Americans were outnumbered about 10 to 1 , and outtalked about 100 to 1 . However . when the final oratory died away , they seemed to have acquitted themselves very well . For a while , things did not look promising for the image of the host nation . The ugly American arrived in the person of Vice-President Nelson A. Rockefeller , who almost soured the affair beyond redemption . The opening banquet at the Franklin Institute was one of those festive occasions that impress even the jaded partygoer . The invited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the world , about half of them Club of Rome members , but also a select group of Philadelphia citizens who had been invited by the sponsors . Everyone had beenchecked , and then checked again , by the Secret Service . The many agents with walkie-talkies and troopers with rifles heightened the pleasant feeling of dramatic tension . Dr. Bowen C. Dees , director of the institute , walked serenely around the room , greeting as notable a collection of guests as his venerable building had seen in some time . All of a sudden the Vice-President was there , moving into the heart of the crowd , smiling , reaching out to shake hands . The feeling of power was electric . Soon we were seated in the Benjamin Franklin Memorial Hall , under the huge white statue of Franklin by James Earl Fraser , dining on crown roast of lamb , and basking in the festive atmosphere . Then , after the coffee had been served , Nelson Rockefeller stood up and gave a harsh , crude , insulting speech that embarrassed everyone in the room almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech , as speeches go ? a no-nonsense Moynihan-like rebuke to unrealistic demands of Third World nations . However , before this group of benevolent humanitarians and invited guests , the effect was shocking . It is to the credit of Nelson Rockefeller 's reputation for responsibility that the almost universal assumption amongst the guests was that he had not seen the speech before he stood up to deliver it . Each of the three times he said that the most meaningful thing America can do to solve world problems is to increase its own well-being , so as to serve as an example for others , he appeared to wince . When he called the Club of Rome naive for the second time , I felt that some speechwriter would soon be out of a job . He concluded by berating doomsday prophets and expressing total faith in the American people . There was hardly any applause . He shook hands with Peccei , who was flushed but grinning , trying to pretend that he had not been insulted . John Bunting , chair . man of the First Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Club of Rome members that they would have " equal time " the next day . The Evening Bulletin reported the event in the hockey parlance of the season : " Vice-President Nelson A. Rockefeller checked First Pennsylvania Corp . chairman John R. Bunting , Jr. , into the boards last night . Bunting came up fast , saying it did n't really hurt . " J OHN BDNTING is a slight , trim man with an imperturbable manner , a man who appears to know that the world is undergoing upheavals , and that in the future only those with foresight and a fine sense of balance will be able to keep their footing . In his speeches and reports , which took note of the Club of Rome long before 1976 , he has spoken of the danger of uncontrolled growth , while at the same time pointing out the vital role that growth , and even inflation , have played in making political and social change possible . His writings portray an orderly mind that sees the purposes served by an element of disorder . This contrasts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order but do not see the complexities ? or the dangers ? involved in getting it . Most American businessmen might think that sponsoring a Club of Rome meeting was a waste of hard-earned stockholder money . Bunting , one imagines , aside from Bicentennial publicity considerations , was intrigued by the intellectual and social chemistry which might result when these notables from all over the world gathered together , not only to talk to each oilier and to the public , but , incidental . ly , to absorb something of the flavor of Philadelphia , and of the United States of America . On the first day , during the RIO session , after Idriss Jazairy of Algeria had excoriated transnational enterprises , reciting a " litany of exploitation , " and calling for their control by international " antitrust " legislation , G. William Miller , Chairman of Textron , Inc. , was called upon to comment . " We must consider , " said Miller softly , " the realities of human nature from the beginning of recorded time . The arguments we have heard will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the have-nots . ' This is not a negative comment . It is realistic . We must seek a confluence of self-interest . " If there is a receptive climate , he continued , investment capital will flow from the rich nations to the poor . He suggested that we build with the institutions that we have , trying to make the transnational corporations a force for good in the world . I wondered if this straightforward approach might not bring about a change in the tone of the meeting ; but it was not to be . The next speaker , Enrique Iglesias of Chile , responded defensively , " Do we appear rhetorical and literary ? Well , we are building a new code of moral conduct . " The following morning Richard Gardner of Columbia Law School tried to turn the meeting 's attention to the limitations imposed on all action by the imperfections of human beings . He spoke of the ineffectual ways in which our political leaders function even when goals are not a matter of dispute . His wry humor evoked little response . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Magnavox , addressed the meeting briefly . Referring to the RIO proposal In love with ideals T IS MADDENING to hear what seems to / be pure common sense , and to see that it is making no impression on the au- dience . What is there about the people at this conference that makes them immune to persuasion by evidence ? " Everyone tries to discourage us , " Mesarovic told me . " We do not get discouraged . " Yes , but there is more to it than that . One element was touched on the first day by the Indian journalist Romesh Thapar , when he said that " those of us who come to conferences are an elite who live luxuriously , copying your ways . " The members of this elite group in no way represent the reality of life as it is lived by the masses in their countries . Nor , on the other hand , do they represent the real power establishment ( a few maverick industrialists like Peccei notwithstanding ) . This point was made by another Indian , Prof. Bacigha @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The ideology that we formulate may be tolerated by the upper class . But this is hypocrisy . " Members of the Chub of Rome represent neither the proletariat nor the ruling classes , but that very thin layer of society which used to he called the intelligentsia . To a certain extent this disqualifies them from speaking with authority about the future , for they represent nobody , and in any political upheaval they would be likely to disappear without a trace . One might even postulate that their interest in a world order stems in part from their frustration over the lack of a just order within their own homelands . During the three days of the conference there was no mention of the oppressive conditions that exist within the nations of so many of the participants . Not a word about political imprisonments , Peccei entitled " The Humanistic Revolution . " When I saw what it was , I felt like saying to her , " Dear lady , I have already read this , and I beg you to take all the copies of it that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a good and kindly man , with wonderful talents for organizing and inspiring people . Tell him not to waste his time spinning these wild fantasies . " I picked up the article which I had struggled through a few days previously : " Something fundamental must be done to change human society and man himself . ... The challenge , in other words , is that of a quantum jump in human quality . Nothing Less or different can suffice . And only a humane philosophy of life ? a new humanism firmly established as the inspiration and guideline of society can generate and sustain this qual-itative change . " A LL CLUB OF ROME literature makes liberal use of italics to stress apocalyptic warnings and transcendental solutions . At this point I would like to italicize a sentence of my own . We dare not trust the future of our children to any scheme that insists upon a change in human nature , particularly since the Club of Rome and others have shown convincingly that we can not afford to wait for the millennium , but must plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ con front us . As Messrs . Miller , Gardner , and Stern told the conference , our only hope is to work with the people and institutions that exist . It is all very well to strive for the evolution of a new ethical consciousness . Who would not endorse such an effort ? It is true , as Laszlo has said , that our attitudes are constantly changing , and sometimes such efforts have amazing success . Yet one thing has never changed , through the coming and going of great faiths , through the rise and fall of chieftains , emperors , doges , protectors , popes , and commissars , and that one thing is the struggle for wealth and power . Such empirical reality does not impress the European intellectual . An Austrian graduate student tried to explain it to me once in a wine cellar in Salzburg : " You do not understand . We simply must have our theories . " It is all too easy to make fun of the implausible ideas of Peccei and his colleagues , and of the ornate sentences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rome meeting drew toward its close . Ideas are wispy and have no reality until that sudden , unpredictable moment when they catch fire and explode . Then no one , least of all the person whose idea it was , can predict what will happen . From the witty conversation of Parisian salons , and some half-baked ideas of Jean Jacques Rousseau , we can trace a line to the fall of the Bastille , Robespierre , and finally Napoleon . Ideas can be laughable , but they can also be frightening , particularly grandiose political ideas . The ultimate expression of political intellectualism is to be found in the People 's Republic of China . During the Goals fur Global Societies session , Paul Lin of McGill University spoke of this phenomenon . " Freedom and welfare , " he said . " are abstractions that mean nothing to the oppressed . " Beyond RIO and Goals for Global Societies , beyond all the Club of Rome visions of a new order , lies the reality of Communist China . It is the one place in the world where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beckons like easeful death , but not yet . Time enough for that if we fail . " Be a little naive " A T THE END , THE 1976 MEEUNG of the Club of Rome seemed both ludicrous and frightening ? and yet , as I said at the outset , inspiring . The same Arthur Stern who on the final day counseled the club members to return to the world of the possible was at the previous night 's dinner comparing them to Diogenes and Jesus . " The deep faith in these men shines through , " he said . " With all its shortcomings , the Club of Rome is unique . " At the press conference that followed the final session , Peccei and his executive committee members responded to questions that , while not hostile , were plainly skeptical . From the point of view of press coverage the event was already a success , having received respectful front-page coverage in the New York Times , which in turn had brought representatives scurrying from Time and Newsweek . But Peccei , an evangelist to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to carry the clubs message forth continually to the public . He looked around the room , wistfully , wrinkling his brow like an aging Marcello Mastroianni . " Be a little naive , " he said , " as we have been accused of being . It can be a better world . " A reporter asked , " Are you personally satisfied in your conscience that you are a model world citizen ? " There was an embarrassed pause . " We are not saints , " answered Peccei . " But I will die with the belief that I did what I could . " 