@@284191

Valry Giscard d'Estaing promised to bring " change " to France . So far , at least , he is delivering . In a carefully staged show of disdain for the pomp of the Gaullist years , he walked rather than rode to his inauguration at the Elyse Palace , wore a business suit instead of tails , talked for a few minutes about a " new era " instead of delivering an oration about the glories of the past . Over the next few days he announced the first of several measures to " relax " French political life . He decreed an end to widespread wiretapping by government snoopers , promised greater freedom for the French press , and placed a ban on sales of arms to unspecified regimes at odds with France 's " liberal mission . " Said Giscard : " France is a liberal country , and must set its sights further on going in that direction . " <P> The precise nature of Giscard 's liberalizing will become clear during the next few weeks , when he reveals his plans to deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring about his heralded " transformation of French society . " But to judge by the Cabinet that Giscard trotted out in a chatty , informal television presentation , it was clear that he is unafraid of a wrenching break with the Gaullist past . After 16 years in power , De Gaulle 's self-proclaimed heirs had come to view the government as their own ; Gaullists held ten of the 16 Cabinet posts in the late Georges Pompidou 's government . But Giscard named a renegade Gaullist , former Interior Minister Jacques Chirac , as his Premier ; although the new President needs Gaullist support to get his programs approved by the National Assembly , he added injury to insult by giving only four of the remaining 15 portfolios to orthodox Gaullists . <P> As he had promised , Giscard brought a woman into his Cabinet . Simone Veil , 46 , a prominent Paris jurist , was named Minister of Health . Three posts went to members of Giscard 's small Independent Republican Party . No fewer than eight posts went either to nonpolitical civil servants or to leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Giscard 's wafer-thin margin of victory . One of them was Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber , 50 , publisher of the weekly L ' Express and self-styled French new frontiersman , who after many years of unsuccessfully striving to project himself as a Gallic John Kennedy , has at last found a national role ; as Giscard 's Minister of Reform , a new post , he will have a chance to try out his long-advocated proposals for giving more power and authority to local and regional government . Jean Lecanuet , 54 , another centrist leader with somewhat more real political clout than J.J. S.-S. , was given the sensitive Justice Ministry . Giscard is likely to lean most heavily on three ministers with whom he has strong personal ties :                     