@@279191

Only last spring it looked as if the script for Campaign 1972 would include as a subplot a nonstop firefight between the Administration and much of the press . If George McGovern won the Democratic nomination , it seemed then , he would certainly enjoy favorable treatment at the hands of many columnists and reporters . So far , however , that has not happened ; disenchantment with McGovern has drawn tough criticism even from sources that are ostensibly sympathetic to his candidacy . Though attacks on Richard Nixon have been harsher , the White House hardly needs to seek fresh quarrels with the media . The President not only has a huge lead in the opinion polls but is enjoying the spectacle of the press giving McGovern his share of lumps . <P> Columnist Joseph Kraft seemed to speak for a number of antiwar liberals last week when he wrote : " The basic fact is that the country is faced with an unhappy choice . " With Nixon representing the Republican right and McGovern the Democratic left , Kraft observed , there are " no good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ torn to tatters . " Moreover , he added , McGovern 's " performance in the campaign continues to raise questions about his capacity to govern . " New York Times Columnist Tom Wicker , a Nixon critic of long standing , has not been quite so stern , but he called attention last week to " a long McGovern summer of fumbles and foolishness . " <P> Wry Note . Reporters have compiled a long list of black marks against McGovern : his early waffling on welfare and wealth-distribution , his inept handling of the Eagleton affair , dissension within his own campaign organization , and contradictory statements that called his credibility into question . When McGovern came up with new tax proposals two weeks ago , David Broder noted wryly in the Washington Post that the candidate had " interrupted his devastatingly effective effort to discredit himself as a presidential contender . " " McGovern 's problem these days , " wrote Bob Healy in the Boston Globe , " is that he does not know what he wants to say , how to say it , and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " <P> Arthur Schlesinger Jr. , one of McGovern 's staunchest defenders , has questioned the ability of what he calls " conventional-minded political reporters " to understand the McGovern campaign . Indeed , the press seems to have gone through three separate phases with McGovern 's candidacy . Until Edmund Muskie faltered in the primaries , reporters generally consigned McGovern to also-ran status and paid little attention to his ideas . Then coverage focused on the organizational wonders of his nomination drive . During that period , observed the Christian Science Monitor 's Godfrey Sperling , McGovern was getting a " free ride " from a largely uncritical press . Finally , the fare went up during the California primary , when journalists joined Hubert Humphrey in picking at McGovern 's specific proposals and finding fault with them .                     