@@283682

When he was told that the little cornfield on the banks of the Illinois River was strewn with old Indian arrowheads and pottery shards , Northwestern University Archaeologist Stuart Struever decided to do a little spadework , hoping to unearth an ancient Indian settlement . What he found exceeded his wildest expectations . The plot , owned by a farmer named Theodore Koster , may well hold some of the most important archaeological remains ever discovered in North America . <P> Excavating steadily for the past five summers in Koster 's cornfield , which is 45 miles north of St. Louis , Struever 's team has dug up the remnants of at least 15 separate prehistoric settlements . Stacked atop each other in easily distinguishable layers-or horizons , as archaeologists call them-the individual settlements were in remarkably good condition . They had been so well preserved by covers of protective dust , which blew down from nearby bluffs after they were abandoned , that they can be " read " by archaeologists like pages of a history book . The oldest layer dates back some 8,000 years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parts of the fertile Illinois River valley as well-were inhabited long before the Egyptians built the Pyramids or the ancient Britons erected their monument at Stonehenge . <P> The number of diggers at the rich archaeological lode , most of them volunteers , has grown steadily . They have already removed some 100,000 cu . ft. of earth , painstakingly examining all of it . Each fistful of dirt must be carefully sifted through screens , not only for fragments of Stone Age tools and weapons but also for bones , plant remains and other seemingly trivial objects . Fossilized snails , for example , can be studied for evidence of ancient climatic changes ( different species survive in different temperature ranges ) . That , in turn , could explain why some of the settlements were abandoned . Seeds , on the other hand , can provide strong hints about what the ancient settlers ate . <P> Struever has already gathered so much useful material that he needs a computer to store , catalogue and analyze all his data . His findings , though still far from complete , have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lived in the area . Contrary to the accepted view , Struever says , these Stone Age people apparently led a rather idyllic life . Food was plentiful in the lush valley , allowing them to feast on nuts and wild grains , ducks , mollusks and fish . One cooking pit , for example , contained some 22,000 fish bones of all sizes , down to skeletons of 1-in. - long minnows ; apparently they were all cooked together in a giant prehistoric bouillabaisse . <P> Peaceful Life . Unlike Stone Age hunters and gatherers elsewhere , the Illinois dwellers were not nomads ; they lived in relatively permanent homes made of logs , twigs and grass . The diggers have found no evidence of warfare until a few hundred years before the establishment of agriculture in A.D. 800 . It was during this period that the population began to grow noticeably , probably increasing the competition for the available food supply .                     