@@250988

" A total responsive environment , " the manufacturer calls it . That is the way one company describes its new three-level baby crib equipped with toys to grasp and pull , sand timers to watch , wheels to spin , voice-activated mobiles and sound tapes , plus a tank awash with live fish . According to the developers and to some child psychologists who have endorsed the environmental crib , almost every baby needs such a scientifically engineered corral for sleep and play . Parents who prefer the traditional , simple " containment crib , " it has been argued , may end up with a child who is not too bright . <P> The claims for the gadget-laden crib typify a growing trend in child psychology toward forced early education and " programmed enrichment . " Now Harvard Pediatrician Richard Feinbloom has strongly urged the American Academy of Pediatrics to take a stand against it . At the organization 's recent annual meeting , he maintained that elaborate educational toys for infants are no be ' er playthings than pots and pans . As a matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the elaborate new " crib environments , " may endanger normal intellectual and emotional development . <P> A follower of famed Swiss Psychologist Jean Piaget , Feinbloom believes that systematic infant training generally fails to speed learning-with or without special toys . Even when children do acquire some skills early-counting , for example , or understanding the principle of cause and effect-they soon forget them , and rarely can they apply this knowledge to new situations . In any case , knowledge gained unusually early has no value over the long run . Kittens , for example , understand " object permanence " - the idea that things stay the same even when they are out of sight - before human infants do , but " they can not do very much with their precocious acquisition , " Feinbloom observes . <P> Children and Chicks . Beyond that , Feinbloom believes that teaching babies is no substitute for playing with them ; turning them over " to a machine wired up for sound and light " deprives them of the warm parent-child give-and-take that is crucial to emotional health and to eventual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new special equipment is that certain mental skills can be acquired only by " imprinting , " a special form of rapid learning that generally occurs at certain critical periods soon after birth if it is to occur at all . That is the way newly hatched chicks learn to follow their mothers . But , observes Feinbloom , children are not chickens : they do not learn intellectual skills by imprinting , and if they miss one learning opportunity , they will get another later on . " Do we need any more anxiety than we already have about reaching milestones on time ? " he asks rhetorically . Also erroneous , Feinbloom insists , is the theory that everything that is learned must be taught . In fact , children pick up abstract concepts just by exploring the world around them and meeting new situations .                     