@@493957

How Now Brown ? It is the shameless campaign . His base in his own state is uncertain . . . no , that 's too kind : Jerry Brown 's standing in California is a shambles . Nationally , his campaign has been swamped in the backwash of Kennedy 's maneuvering . Fascination with the contest between an incumbent president and the liberal heir apparent has wrecked Brown 's possibility of running as underdog . It is very hard for him to raise money , even in some of those communities in California that have supported him generously in the past . Technical talent hangs back , maybe waiting for a call from the Kennedy campaign , or at least figuring that this is n't going to be the year for an upstart . In Brown 's maiden trip to New Hampshire back in April , the Democratic party regulars there , who are supporting President Carter , displayed great finesse , duplicity , and pleasure in playing a prank on the upstart from California . The official occasion for Brown 's visit was an invitation by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor of a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced federal budget . Since the Republicans control the legislature , it was a GOP invitation . After Brown 's arrival , the Democrats announced their intention to boycott the proceedings , leaving Brown the choice of insulting his fellow party members or canceling his appearance and looking foolish . Brown chose to look foolish , and the Democratic leadership threw open the doors of the governor 's office at the crucial moment so the press could observe his humiliation . On Brown 's first regular New Hampshire campaign swing in September , he was dreadfully upstaged by rumblings from Kennedy himself . That was the week that Kennedy announced permission for a campaign from his wife and mother , stories that knocked not only Jerry but also the pope off the front page of the Boston papers . At the end of October Brown got his biggest bit of media attention when he got hit in the face with a pie . But soon his entourage dropped to two reporters , both of them from California , whereupon he went home . Home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think he should stay . His campaign is considered hopeless and silly . Brown himself is held in disdain ? even worse than active hostility , really ? lacking the strength for a spoiler 's role in 1980 . Whatever slight interest there was in Brown , it seems , was as a magnet for the anti-Carter vote . And now that there is Kennedy , Brown seems completely superfluous . But ignoring Brown is like repeating in national politics all the emotional mistakes of adolescence : popular equals pretty ; off-beat , weird , loner equals unpopular . Jerry Brown is in politics what the strange kid with glasses and a cowlick was in junior high school ? which is to say , he is very possibly ahead of his time and likely to succeed . It is hard to defend Brown with complete enthusiasm . He has one or two faults . For example , he is not a very good governor of his state , and there is little reason to think he would be a good president , at least in any traditional sense . California , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worse nor much better off for the six years Brown has occupied what they like to call " the corner office . " As a candidate Brown made a virtue of promising disappointment and as a governor he has done the same with a policy of not governing . He is personally arrogant and often rude , whether or not it suits his interests . In fact , it was exceptional and quite striking to see him work the press bus , joking , patient , and engaged , on a recent trip to New Hampshire . It was more like him to be short and testy with a reporter from a major eastern paper who had a scheduled interview with him on the plane . Not because he would be just a terrific president ( I doubt anyone can be that for a while ) and not because he is so jolly to be with ( that 's hardly the standard to apply anyway ) , Jerry Brown 's campaign is important because , at least on the Democratic side , it is the only thing standing between us and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the campaigners share blame . Polls are the number-one political story in most media most of the time , followed by whatever cute nonsense comes along . For their part the major Democratic candidates are about to offer us the issue of " leadership , " for example , a piece of political cotton candy if there ever was one . Brown himself designed his first campaign for governor to be boring , avoiding issues and riding his famous name as far as possible . Last year , in his second gubernatorial campaign , a couple of weeks were devoted nearly exclusively to his handlers arguing with his opponent 's handlers about terms for a debate or two , a diverting issue but as pointless as , say , the president 's staff 's partying styles . But now , while Carter and Kennedy have little to gain by raising broad and maybe contentious arguments , Brown , the original candidate from Peopledrawing of Jerry Brown by David Schorr magazine , has hardly anything else to do . He has taken to describing himself as the " issues candidate , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work for him . The personality platform is preempted by the legatee of the most charismatic family in our political history ? against which Jerry Brown 's pop star girlfriend is not glamorous enough . President Carter gets to be the incumbent majesty and the underdog at the same time . Brown is left with one thing : he will be the only Democratic candidate , as things now stand , working to create a national agenda ? or at least one for his party ? that sounds like it was created for the end of the century instead of from the middle of it . Anyone 's list of things we had better deal with in a hurry includes energy . Actually energy is not an issue the way it is being dealt with by most candidates ; it is more an Important Subject , about which they can talk for 20 minutes sounding jingoistic and wise . It ought to be an issue , and one tailor-made for the outsider candidate since Washington is disgracing itself on the subject . Brown 's position , one he has maintained consistently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ? ative energy options ? sneered at as " wood chips and almond hulls " by his opponent in the 1978 gubernatorial election . On the campaign trail this year he is pushing " clean coal , solar , co-generation , geothermal , hydro , " not to mention " processed steam that just goes into the atmosphere and you could harness that steam . " At the outer limits he sometimes proposes a space platform that would beam power back to earth . " We 're spending $70 billion on paying our OPEC oil bill , " Brown says , " and a fraction of that on photovoltaic cells and solar collectors . " Well , it 's not wood chips and garbage but it does sometimes sound . . . visionary . Yet Brown 's audiences listen to this at least attentively and often enthusiastically , and almost anything that broadens the terms of political debate beyond shale oil and gasohol should be welcome . Brown is also the candidate most established as opposed to further development of nuclear power . " A Faustian bargain , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threatening the gene pool of the entire human species and it is n't morally right . It just is n't responsible . " Whether Brown can mobilize voters on the issue is questionable , but whether a strong anti-nuclear voice has a legitimate place in the political debate is not . Closely tied to Brown 's support for alternative energy development is his argument that now is the time for major efforts in mass transit . He believes that there is enough energy waste in the economy to equal all the power now generated by nuclear plants , and that people have become sensitive to our vulnerability to OPEC . They can see , he says , the wisdom of doing more of their traveling on public transit . In fact , substantial investments , public and private , in " the reindustrialization of the country , " with " productive technologies " such as transit systems ( except for the MX missile ) , alternative energy sources , and space exploration seem to be the foundations of Brown 's dream for the American economy . Oh yes , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surprise of many , Brown has stuck with his support for a constitutionally mandated balanced budget . He argues that this is " the only way we 're going to get it . " When Brown first joined the cry for a constitutional convention to pass such an amendment , at his second inaugural in January , jaws dropped in both parties . More nonsense from Crazy Jerry . " The flake stuff , " he said shortly afterward , " is that I want to end inflation and they want to have more of it . They say the balanced budget is flaky . I say they are . " And he did stick with it to the surprise of his allies in the cause and the dismay of many Democrats . Brown speaks of balancing the federal budget with what for him is passion and something like eloquence . " The balanced budget is a new discipline and part of the conventional wisdom of the 1980s , " he says . " People who do n't see the new principles that are going to guide our economy are perplexed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their howls of excoriation . " Brown 's proposal for a regionalized trading bloc , a kind of Fortress North America , has not touched the same nerves as the idea of balancing the federal budget . Brown says that a common market , based first on energy exchange among the United States , Canada , and Mexico " of such dimension that it will rival and exceed any other regional grouping of nations on this planet . " This generally gets applause in speeches , in spite of yawns of disinterest from our neighbors north and south . Like the balanced budget amendment , this is a position Brown shares with Ronald Reagan . Brown 's prophecy that our country is becoming effectively bi-cultural , Anglo-Hispanic , is , if true , extraordinary ; but the only attention it gets from the other candidates so far is that the president is appointing a lot of Hispanics to his administration and I 'm sure the rest will make speeches in stammering Spanish in Latin neighborhoods . It is not , however , only the Hispanics who need to be told of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rest of us . Brown combines other elements of his brand of futurist whimsy to argue that when the desperately poor of Central America are shown our fat and moderately happy selves on transcontinental television , it " is going to create a sense of illegitimacy about our democracy . " Since we have no position in government for seers , the role of candidate should include that function . But we have made the candidate something else , a horse judged on the strength of his legs and the ruthlessness of his trainers . Consequently , it is a rare event when a candidate can rise on the freshness of his dream or the clarity of his vision . We often entertain candidates for their rhetorical skills and sometimes for the extremity of their positions on some ideological spectrum , but not often because they are smart and interesting . This must be a mistake .                     