@@317026

Two separate and distinct political campaigns were under way in Washington last week . One , of course , was the gearing up of machinery that staffers hope will bring Gerald Ford a second term . The other was the President 's campaign to convince worried leaders of Pacific nations that despite the fall of South Viet Nam , the U.S. intends to remain a superpower in the region and that its commitments and promises can still be relied upon . <P> In rapid succession the President met with four Prime Ministers-New Zealand 's Wallace Rowling , Australia 's Gough Whitlam , Britain 's Harold Wilson and Singapore 's Lee Kuan Yew-all on their way from a British Commonwealth meeting in Jamaica . To each , Ford gave the same basic message : despite widely voiced doubts in Asia and Europe ( see story page 29 ) about America 's dependability as an ally , in the wake of Communist victories in Cambodia and South Viet Nam , those " setbacks in no way weakened U.S. resolve to stand by its allies and friends in Asia and elsewhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forcefully struck the same note , stressing that the U.S. " can move ahead even in the Pacific ... It 's my aim to tie more closely together South Korea and the U.S. , to reaffirm our commitment to Taiwan , to work more closely with Indonesia , with the Philippines and with other Pacific nations . " <P> Some of the Asian nations he cited nonetheless have valid reasons for fearing that the Communist victories have created not just ripples but potential shock waves . Laos is already feeling the impact ( see story page 28 ) ; Korea could be next , in the opinion of many South Koreans . " It is obvious that the Communists will attempt to create another Indochina situation in the Korean peninsula , " noted a resolution adopted last week by the South Korean Newspaper Association . North Korean Dictator Kim II Sung has done nothing to alleviate the South 's fears ; in Peking last month he warned that " we are prepared for war . We will not hesitate to launch even war for the revolution in South Korea . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is at least slightly exaggerated ; many experts expect Peking or Moscow ( or both ) to restrain Kim ( TIME , May 12 ) . Seoul , however , still has cause for concern . Communist victories in Indochina may so embolden North Korea that it will once again send its forces across the 38th parallel , perhaps gambling that South Korean President Park Chung Hee 's repressive regime ( TIME , April 28 ) has alienated the populace . Kim may also feel that the U.S. , which has a mutual defense treaty with South Korea ( backed by the presence of nearly 40,000 American soldiers ) , is temporarily so weakened in its foreign policy that it would not respond effectively on Seoul 's behalf . Undoubtedly , Pyongyang is aware of a recent U.S. poll that shows 65% of those questioned would oppose U.S. intervention in a new Korean war ; only 14% would back it .                     