@@313872

Not since the November 1965 power blackout has a single event affected so many people so personally and immediately as the subject of this week 's cover story : the mail strike . This time the effects are even broader , involving 12 states as we go to press , and possibly the entire nation within days . The story details the grievances of the messengers whose traditional loyalty to their rounds has been shattered in a bitter dispute over wages . It also recounts the unfortunate-occasionally amusing-effects of the walkout . Our correspondents from all over the country filed voluminous reports to Senior Editor Laurence Barrett , Writer Peter Stoler and Researcher Marion Pikul . In New York City , where the trouble began , Researchers Madeleine Berry , Patricia Beckert and Georgia Harbison were detailed to sound out the mood and reaction of the citizenry . Other correspondents covered angry strikers ' meetings , interviewed businessmen and bankers , Post Office , Government and union officials , letter carriers and clerks . Correspondent Rudolph Rauch had a special interest in the strike 's early settlement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it 's not over soon I may be out on the streets delivering letters myself . " - <P> Even in the best of times , communication of any sort tends to be a chancy matter in Southeast Asia . This week 's story of the coup in Cambodia posed its full share of problems for TIME 'S correspondents . By good fortune , we already had T.D . Allman , who is normally stationed in Laos , on the scene , but he was in Phnom-Penh , the Cambodian capital , in the wake of anti-Communist riots the week before . The problem was how to get his eyewitness report out of the country , since all communications were immediately cut . Allman solved that by giving his file to a messenger who somehow drove to Thailand . Later , Allman was able to telex and telephone his material-that is , when the gremlins were off the wires . In Saigon , Bureau Chief Marsh Clark , who coordinated the reports from Cambodia , Laos , Thailand and South Viet Nam , reported that telex communications even between such major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a time they looked like a drunken man 's version of the Rosetta stone . " Bangkok Bureau Chief David Greenway , who filed exhaustively on the political implications of the coup , reported the same trouble from his end , as did Correspondent Robert Anson , working on the story in Vientiane , Laos . At one point Anson noted that he had managed to set up a private minibureau for TIME in an abandoned airline office near his hotel . " It has a chair , a desk , a telephone and a rat , but we call it home . "                     