@@494908

An Era of Retrenchment The Ne ' York Effect by Robert Samuelson Some events acquire symbolic meaning beyond their intrinsic importance , and New York City 's financial crisis probably is such an event . As the Russian wheat deal in 1972 came to symbolize the end of an era of perpetual oversupply in American agriculture ; and as the Arab oil embargo crystallized the nation 's loss of energy independence . New York 's financial crisis may ultimately be seen as the decisive event that slowed the continual expansion of state and local governments ? an expansion that has been proceeding , with little interruption , at a rapid rate since the end of World War II . During most of this time state and local governments have been growing faster than the US economy . In 1950 state and local spending accounted for about seven percent of the Gross National Product ; in 1975 almost 12 percent . ( By contrast , the federal government has grown much more slowly . Between the mid- ' 50s and 1974 its spending fluctuated between 18 and Robert Samuelson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of GNP , depending in part on the state of the economy . ) The signs of a retrenchmen in state and local government are everywhere . New York 's crisis could easily be seized upon as the critical catalyst in promoting such a change . The city 's crisis would be seen as a sort of psychologic shock that inspired cautiousness and inaugurated a new era of conservatism . " New York is causing state and local government officials to get much more hard-nosed about their budgets , " says one federal official . " There will be much attention paid to ways of doing things more cheaply , rather than simply augmenting services . " The city 's trauma may indeed foster that kind of climate , but , witness Jerry Brown , there are other underlying factors that may explain the forces restraining further expansion of local government . The first is demographics . The last of the baby boom children are now passing from the status of students to workers ( many of them unemployed ) . The peak year of the boom was 1957 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ graduates , or new college freshmen . Meanwhile the eldest of the baby boom offspring are nearing 30 , and most of them are out of school . Because these young adults are marrying later and ( so far ) having fewer children than their parents , the demographic shift has meant that local governments are under far less pressure to spend more for schools ? the largest single item in most localities ' budgets . In fact enrollments at elementary schools have steadily declined for the last few years . The demographic shift has important ( and underappreciated ) political implications . As students these baby boom children were service consumers . Now they are service providers ? taxpayers and family heads . Generosity ( and generous political ideals ) come most easily when someone else 's money is at stake . Parents paid tuition , so children went to college . There was injustice and misery in the world , so government ought to attack these ills ; the taxes , naturally , were someone else 's . Now with increasing obligations of their own and the pithy realization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be far less inclined to support politicians who advocate programs that bite deeper into their incomes . That this transformation is occurring at a time when all families ' real incomes are being squeezed ? or reduced ? by inflation only compounds the effect . Against this background of changing demographics and economics , the well advertised disenchantment with government social programs may be as much a reflection of self-interest as a reaction against the experiments of the ' 60s . But the disenchantment , whatever its origins , has produced a major institutional change that , like the shift in the nation 's age profile , also tends to blunt the growth in state and local government spending . That change is the reduction in the number of new federal grant-in-aid programs and the shift to revenue sharing . The proliferation of grant-in-aid programs in the late ' 60s ? manpower programs , educational programs , housing programs ? caused a rapid rise in the percentage of state and local spending derived from federal aid . Federal aid , as a proportion of total state and local spending , rose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations . But most of the grant-in-aid programs also had the effect of stimulating additional state and local spending , a point emphasized in a new study by Hawley Hinrichs of the ACIR . To get a grant , the state had to put up matching funds . There was a lot of gamesmanship in this process ; matching funds could often be " in kind " services ? such as repaving a road in an urban renewal area ? that might have been provided anyway . But the point is that there was still that minimum pressure on states and localities to increase their own spending . The advent of revenue sharing changed the game . Revenue sharing requires no matching funds , and its13 very purpose was to allow local officials to do whatever they wished with the money . Often states , counties and cities used the funds to do things they probably would have done anyway . The extent of such substitution has been documented by a recent study of the Brookings Institution ( Monitoring Revenue Sharing ) that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially larger cities and states ? used most of their general revenue funds in this way . Now with state and local governments even more strapped for cash then they were in 1972 , substitution is even greater . Each of these forces ? the rise of revenue sharing , the squeeze on real incomes , and the change in demographics ? tends to restrain local spending . Now in addition to these underlying influences , come the recession and the impact of New York City . In some very obvious ways , the city 's touch-and-go dance with bankruptcy has changed the climate in which local government officials , voters and employee unions act . Things that were unthinkable ( or at least unthought ) 18 months ago are now thinkable because they have either happened or come close to happening : the city almost ran out of cash ; previously negotiated wage increases were nullified and replaced by a wage freeze ; large layoffs ( by government standards ) occurred ; employees were required to make larger contributions toward their pension funds ; and the complacent certainty that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trouble was destroyed . Taken together the new perceptions provided by these events seem likely to reinforce the depressing trends on local spending . The critical role of debt in New York 's crisis may result in fewer bond issues by local governments ? not simply because the bonds ca n't be sold , but because local voters wo n't approve them , and therefore fearing rejection , local politicians wo n't propose them . The rejection of most of the $7.2 billion in new bond proposals in November may be a harbinger of things to come . This , rather than the unwillingness of the market to accept the new issues , may be the critical limitation . Not that the tax-exempt bond market has n't been damaged by the New York experience . It has , but the extent of the damage is n't yet clear and it probably wo n't be for some months . The debt moratorium voted by the state legislature ? holders of some New York City notes were told they would n't be repaid on time and would have to accept new , longterm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet with all the uncertainty , as many new longterm tax-exempt bonds were sold in the first nine months of 1975 as in all of 1974 . Likewise New York City 's crisis appears to have hastened a shift in the bargaining relationships between local governments and their workers . As one union official puts it : " There 's a much tougher line on the part of officials than there ever was before . Many mayors and governors find that it 's a popular political line- to take a tough stand against public employee unions . Although the new attitude has , in part , stemmed from New York 's plight , the national recession itself has lent substance to the hostility . " When officials said there was n't any money before , we could always find some money somewhere , " this official says , " Now , often , there just is n't any more money . " Put all these factors together and a good case can be made that state and local governments will strugglesimply to hold their own in the next few years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the additional funds may be used to build surpluses , pay for capital improvements that otherwise might have been financed by borrowing , or end taxes imposed to eliminate recession-induced deficits . The political consequences of the persistence of such a squeeze are hard to foresee , but a new attempt ? by governors , mayors and public employee unions ? to have the federal government assume all welfare costs seems a good possibility .                     