@@487996

Without access to the sources , one can here hardly delve further into this question , save to note that Bernstein ( presumably ) did modify one of Oeser 's more notable solecisms , the concoction of a sequence of musical events at Carmen 's death that Bizet certainly never wrote ( although the final version of this passage seems to me arguably superior to any of the alternatives ) , and did some patching elsewhere . What can be considered , however , is the aesthetic effect of at least the substantive additions that the Ur-Carmen makes to the work we know . Most of these are in Act I , and most of them are on a par with the best of the score , for as we have long known , Bizet 's invention and sense of color are as evident in the smallest details as in the celebrated set pieces . I am delighted to have heard it all in context on the stage , and yet I eventually became acutely conscious of the length of this particular act ( at Bernstein 's tempos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Probably because most of the interpolations concern the general ambience rather than the affairs of the protagonists , a disparity develops between dramatic substance and elapsed time . And where the protagonists are involved , as in the extended presentation of the " Fate " music following the Habaiiera , the difficulties of staging an extended pantomime ( Carmen " exerting her wiles " on Jose ) within an essentially realistic production induced the director to lapse into an exceptional and unconvincing patch of expressionistic lighting . On the other hand , the troublesome duel duet in Act III has been salvaged by a considerable cut and effebtive direction . Happily , this Carmen production is in most respects a musically and theatrically admirable enterprise ; how much of its quality stems from the original conception of Goeran Gentele , the late general manager , can hardly be assessed by an outsider , but whether as transmitter or originator , Bodo Igesz , the stage director , deserves great praise for putting together a show that is generally first-rate drama and spectacle , in something like the appropriate proportions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McCracken ( Jose ) is especially skillful , for neither would seem to be endowed by nature for such roles , yet both emerged with considerable credit . The attempt to place Jose centrally in - the drama ( which included an opening tableau during the final part of the Prelude , showing him spotlighted on a darkened stage ) was less than successful , for McCracken was at a disadvantage in the relatively intimate encounters of the first two acts ; only later was he able to bring to bear the brute force that his bulk implies and the intensity that his voice can command . Miss Horne , on the other hand , surprised everyone with a canny portrayal that wisely sidestepped the usual seductress clich  --  s ; she gave us a saucy , salty , slightly vulgar , vivacious if net beautiful woman who had no qualms whatever about letting the world know what she enjoyed and with whom she would like to enjoy it . Alvin Ailey 's lively choreography in the tavern scene worked around her to splendid effect , and elsewhere she was content with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than all those fancy flamenco routines that past Carmens have labored so hard to master . And , most important , she really sang the music , cleanly and expressively , with particular finesse in handling all those little ornaments that give Carmen 's lines such character and fluency ; the lesson that the character is in the music , not in the singer 's physical endowment and flexibility , could not have been more clearly stated . Another valuable point was made by the scenery of Josef Svoboda and the costumes of David Walker ; in subdued grays , browns and blacks , they allowed the occasional dramatic use of color : the red rose that Carmen threw at Jose in Act I riveted the attention , for no other tone so intense was seen during the entire act . Only one set was a failure : the mountain pass , figured by a large carpet hanging down in a loop , on which was projected a " rocky " texture . A few visual details want further attention , perhaps : in the intense " Spanish sunlight " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mopping brows and fanning , but thereafter quite forgot their discomfort ; similarly , since cigarette smoke curls through the air so strikingly under such lighting , why was one soldier allowed to smoke during the opening chorus , instead of saving the effect for the cigarette girls ' chorus , which is all about smoke ? However , the contrast with the vulgar display of recent Met productions was nothing short of bracing .                     