@@282491

Terrestrial life exists in many unexpected places . One variety of tiny plant survives in hot sulfuric acid ; others flourish at 9F. below zero . One species of algae grows only among the hairs of the three-toed sloth ; another rides the backs of turtles . Now it appears that even clouds floating through the earth 's atmosphere provide a precarious home for tiny organisms . Microbiologist Bruce Parker of Virginia Polytechnic Institute , writing in Natural History , argues that tiny animals and plants are feeding , growing and even reproducing high in the sky . <P> Parker came upon his evidence quite by accident . To aid in a study of water pollution in St. Louis two years ago , he invented a device that could measure pollutants and nutrients in water . He set the instrument in his goldfish pond and found that after a rainfall , particularly after a thunderstorm , the amount of free nutrients ( vitamin B12 , for example ) in the water suddenly increased . Because such substances are normally associated with living organisms , Parker could not imagine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is something going on up there . " <P> To check whether life processes were indeed occurring above the earth , he used a chemical called TTC , which changes rapidly from pale yellow to pink when attacked by the enzymes produced in active , living cells . If spores and other dormant forms of life were the only inhabitants of clouds , as most scientists have assumed , they would not become active and respond to the test for at least an hour . But when Parker collected airborne and presumably dormant samples of bacteria , algae and fungi and doused them with TTC , the chemical began turning pink in only 15 to 20 minutes the time it usually takes active cells to react . As a double check , he placed some of the samples in containers of radioactively labeled carbon dioxide . When exposed to light , the algal cells immediately began taking up carbon dioxide , proof that photosynthesis was under way and that the plants were not dormant . <P> Thriving on Smog . How could minute plants live in a cloud ? Many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as nuclei for slowly condensing droplets of water-an essential ingredient for all earthly life . The tiny organisms also have an amazingly varied diet available even in unpolluted clouds : oxygen , nitrogen , carbon dioxide , ammonium , nitrogen oxides , sulfur dioxide , carbon monoxide , methane , butane and acetone . Such necessary minerals as potassium , phosphorus , calcium , iron and magnesium could be transported to the clouds in airborne soil and dust particles . <P> If life in the clouds is as widespread as Parker suspects , biologists will have whole new ecological possibilities to explore . Clouds may well spread disease , for example , by harboring harmful viruses or bacteria . On the other hand , organisms that thrive on the ingredients of smog and smoke could help in the fight against air pollution . Introduced into clouds , they would feed on the undesirable gases and particles , thus converting pollution into harmless cloud creatures .                     