@@491581

An anthropologist , educator and grandmother explains why continuity . stability and perhaps even our sanity depend on witnesses from the past Within anthropology we have developed several useful distinctions in discussing the questions of how grandparents do or do not play a role in the education of children in any given society , and particularly in our own . Within the context of this article I shall use the word education to include conscious teaching of any sort , whether of speech , manners , morals or skills , but include also the process of socialization , which occurs in all societies as children learn to restrain their impulses , postpone gratification , control their sphincters , walk , talk and participate in social life , and the process of enculturation , by which children learn a particular culture . In terms of the problem at hand , education will be used to cover all three activities . At the same time it is also useful to distinguish between those societies in which change is so slow that the child sees its own future as it observes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ societies in fairly rapid change in which a large proportion of children learn from their peers who are at the same stage of learning as themselves , which I have called cofigurative societies ; and societies like our own post-World War II world , in which the experience of children differs so markedly from that of their parents or grandparents that elders must learn also from the experience of the children , an experience to which they themselves have only secondary access , as immigrants in time into a world which has changed so drastically since they themselves grew up , I have called prefigurative societies . It is furthermore useful to distinguish among caretakers in any given type of society , as child nurses , servants , parents , grandparents or godparents , and to distinguish each of these as to sex and age . Child nurses , for example , are typically girls who may care for their own siblings or for related children . If there are no little girls in a society where there is great dependence on child nurses , boys may be required to care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond the immediate family . Nurses may be young or old ; the Russian nurse was typically an old woman although she entered service as a young girl . In Haiti the word for godmother and grandmother is the same . Eunuchs who cared for the children of royal harems presented another variant . Where parents are theprincipal caretakers , the child is likely to receive less exclusive attention and to be hurried toward self-reliance and efficacy . In considering the role that grandparents have played and might play in American society , these distinctions provide a background . It is also necessary to remember that the American cultural style is based upon immigration  --  of different degrees of voluntariness , typically of young adults who left their parents behind them ? and upon pioneering  --  settling new territory  --  to which new attachments as untainted as possible by homesickness had to be formed . Nostalgia , daydreaming and excessive loyalty to the past and to the parents left behind in the home country made adjustment in the new country and the new ecological settings less easy . As a precipitate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Erik Erikson has pointed out , the need to be willing to stay forever where you are born and the need to be ready to leave at a moment 's notice , a style which may also be called tentativeness . Within these patterns of movement , from one country to another , from East Coast to Middle West to Far West , from North to South and South to North , the presence or absence of grandparents has often been crucial in the ease with which new immigrants related to those around them , in the sense of continuity or rejection of the previous cultural styles of family life , food and religious observance , and in the way in which children were reared with a strong sense of place . In immigrant families the presence of grandparents often delayed or cushioned the process of acculturation ; in old settled portions of the United States , the grandparents remained the custodians of family style , especially in the upper classes , where a sense of lineage was strong , and among the poor , where grandmothers cared for the children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The absence of grandparents among the upwardly mobile , frequently moving more prosperous working and middle classes was equally important as it contributed to a shallowness of family style , the tendency to adopt the outer forms of the current residential area , the persistence of cofiguration among the children of parents who frequently changed residence and social position . Within these more uprooted families grandparents became a source of embarrassment , and the children whosegrandparents were not English-speaking might learn to understand their grandparents ' speech but typically refused to speak it . As parents had to be abandoned by the young immigrants who came to the United States in search of economic betterment , so also very often they had to be left behind , in danger of death , by the younger members of the family escaping from religious or political persecution . Where abandonment of parents was a component of the kind of activities which made the new life in America possible , it is less surprising that they were also left behind , in small villages and towns , or in the ethnic neighborhoods of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a better life elsewhere . The American home became a launching platform : The duty of parents was to educate their children so that they would be able to care for themselves , and the aim of adults , as their children grew up , was to remain independent and autonomous themselves . Where in old settled rural areas the children who continued to farm as adults and their farming parents remained in relatively close touch , urbanization , urban housing and high mobility all contributed to the separation between young parents and their parents . Increased longevity has , of course , also compounded the problem in the United States , as it has in the rest of the industrialized world where modern medical care is available . Three hundred years have now developed a style of family in which there is little expectation of much closeness , in residence or care , between grandparents and grandchildren  --  except in special ethnic groups . Among the black population working mothers still depend on their mothers , unless they too have been forced to leave their mothers behind them in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in cities like New York may still maintain large three-generation households . Wealthy families with several generations of affluence may maintain a summer home , where sets of children and grandchildren spend part of the summer ; but this has not become a lifestyle to which the middle class aspires . However , The generation gap has been widened by America 's cultural approach to the aged : grandmother 's house with its myriad lessons becomes granny 's condominium with vinyl furniture . vacation meetings between young families and the grandparents , where the young family or the grandparents motor long distances to visit each other , or the young family and the grandparents  --  if the grandfather is still alive and able to drive  --  may rendezvous at some summer vacation spot , are popular diversions . Studies of American recreational patterns in the 1960 's showed visiting relatives as the most common excuse which working- and the lower-middle-class families gave for taking a vacation away from home , while upper-middle-class families claimed that the vacation itself was their aim , but actually used vacation as a way of visiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generations ago , when the grandparents held the family together by relaying news from one child 's household to another ; and telephoning and sending small gifts , postcards and letters is still frequent between grandparents and grandchildren . As American children learn to telephone very early , reporting to grandparents on important events and acquisitions of skills should be counted as a continuing educational process . ( I have a letter from my grandmother which ended : " You are always in the thoughts of grandmother by the sea . P.S. Apartment is spelt with one P. " ) Meanwhile , there has grown up a series of folk images of grandparents ; in some instances a grandfather with homely skills like whittling and homely knowledge of the weather merges with the figures of the hired man of the Jonas in the Rollo books , Beachnut in the Franconia story , and the Raggedy Man of James Whitcomb Riley . The grandmother merges with the fairy godmother , or sometimes with the bad fairy whose curse sent the sleeping beauty to sleep for a hundred years . As children have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grandparents look younger every day , with parents of their own still alive , real grandmothers have entered a kind of limbo , women with lives of their own , working and professional women , women who have very little time for their grandchildren . Often separated by the width or length of the continent , there is only the telephone and an occasional visit too short for the children to build any sense of continuity . Perhaps even more serious than the separation between biological grandparents and their grandchildren is the lessening contact between surrogate grandparents and children . In schools in small towns and neighborhoods , there used to be teachers who taught two generations of children and mellowed in the process , there to remind the children that their parents had once been young , played hooky , and passed forbidden notes in school , and there to moderate the zeal and sustain the inexperience of young teachers . In such neighborhoods there were also other people 's grandmothers and grandfathers , even if a child 's own were dead , left behind in a foreign land , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grandmother went a long way with her stories , her store of old-fashioned songs , and her vanishing skills in making gingerbread men and cookies . With these pleasures children absorbed a sense of the past , could measure time in meaningful biological terms , when grandmother was young , when mother was young , when I was young . Dates became real instead of contentless numbers in a history book , and progress , measured by steamships , telegraph and automobiles , could be related to the pictures of grandmother and grandfather as bride and groom , or as paterfamilias with a parent and aunts and uncles in a family picture . But in addition to the way in which members of the grandparent  --  and great-grandparent  --  generations make the past real , as they describe something they actually saw , rode in , marched in or participated in , there is a further , and increasingly important , role for grandparents to play , a role which contrasts with their roles in the past . Up to this period of very rapid cultural change , the presence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grandparents in the educational process , has spelled conservatism . Among American Indian tribes , those tribes in which the grandparents had the greatest part in the education of children were the most resistant to change . During the settlement of America , and particularly settlement by immigrants from non-English-speaking countries , the presence of the grandparent , particularly a grandmother , was associated with clinging to foreign ways , foreign food , traditional religious customs . As the American Indians , who depended upon grandparental transmission of tradition , used to say , " I do n't know that . 1 had no grandparents , " so the children of European immigrants used to say , " We stopped doing that when my grandmother died . " But this association of grandparental influence with conservatism is no longer true . For the last hundred years it is the grandparents who have seen more change than any generation in the history of the world . When my grandmother died in 1928 at the age of eighty-two , she had seen the whole development of the horse-less carriage , the flying machine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , silent films . In my lifetime , I have lived through driving a horse and buggy , making butter , going to bed with a keroserve lamp , the appearance and disappearance of the great airships ; and because I have been able to go back and forth to the world of peoples still in the stone age , I have also been a participant in their leap into the modern world . Grandparents  --  and great-grand parents-have now become the living repositories of change , living evidence that human beings can adjust , can take in the enormous changes which separate the pre-1945 generation from those who were reared after the war . When , under simpler conditions , it was the parent-reared child who was more likely to accept change , participating as the child did in the active , young , unfinished lifeline of the parent , today the reverse is true . Today 's parents of young children were born into the world of TV , computers , space exploration , the bomb , and they have seen much less change than their parents and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only safe course , the only safety from being overwhelmed by the knowledge of their teachers , was simply to refuse to deal with history at all . This condition of living in a kind of timeless present has been exacerbated by the growth of suburbia , which has meant the isolation of each age and class and ethnic minority within its own zoned territory or strangled inner-city slum . If all of the adults in the community are in the same age group , have about the same income and are ethnically homogeneous , the children grow up to accept the small world in which they live as the only version of reality . When the Peace Corps began sending suburban-reared middle-class young people to remote parts of the world , a great deal was made of " culture shock , " a term invented by anthropologists to describe the impact of a genuinely foreign culture . But actually what got called culture shock was more accurately described as life shock to overprotected , middle-class youngsters who had never seen an open sore or a completely decrepit and disoriented person @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children of the slums see more of the seamy side of life , but their experience too is confined and limited . Often one of the barriers to employment is their lack of experience in traveling more than a few blocks from home . So the last decades have given us an increasingly present-bound generation , a generation who assume that the world is somehow finished , although possibly finished wrong . This same lack of belief in real change can be found in the doomsday approach of those who reject our present life on an endangered planet . Living in a world in which there is no one to represent the possibility of change , or even the conditions of the past , they find themselves unable to believe in the future . Early responses to the first satellites suggest that if the future is to be really accepted it must be anchored in a feeling for the past . Life in space must be balanced by attention to " inner space " and to life under the sea , at a point where astronauts and skin divers meet . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past and to rapid change is the presence of older people within their immediate community , if not their own grandparents , then someone else 's grandparents . But to provide such educational experiences for children , we need quite drastic changes in the organization of our towns and cities , so that there are the necessary arrangements for older people to live near younger people , with apartments which they can afford and manage , and within walking distance of young children . We have gone so far in building huge tracts of " homes " all the same size and price that the problem of converting a suburb into a real community , and of shaping new " developments " into multigenerational communities , is a massive one . Yet somehow we have to get the older people , grandparents , widows and widowers , spinsters and bachelors , back close to growing children if we are to restore a sense of community , a knowledge of the past and a sense of the future to today 's children . But while better proportioned communities are being built , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do . Older people , even if they have been segregated in some distant housing , can be brought into nursery schools , day-care centers and kindergartens , if only to sit in the sun , watch the children play and be ready to listen to a child 's questions and hopes and fears . In this way , children learn to relate to older people , to make allowances for their deafness and poor eyesight and failing memories , and this means they will be able to learn from older people all their lives and not recoil from them in horror when they meet old age for the first time later in life . In Thrice Shy , John Gwaltney has written a moving account of the Mexican villages of the blind where small children lead the blind , and in so doing learn the paths which they themselves will be able to traverse if they too , as they well may , become blind . An early habituation to such interrelationships with elderly people can thus be established for children who live in age-segregated areas . If children have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ older people , alert in mind and body , will not seem so old to them . A second important way in which the two-generational gap can be bridged constructively is by developing ways in which both parents and teachers , aftergraduating or retiring from their earlier responsibilities , can resume contact with the next generation of schoolchildren . At present , active workers in the PTA retire when their youngest child graduates from the local school system . And most of them are initially very glad to do so ; glad that there will be no more frantic calls just as dinner is ready to go on the table , no more frustrating committee meetings , no more scrambling about for the last few dollars needed for a project . But after that wonderful respite , many of those same once-active members will miss the organization that occupied so much of their thought and effort . Where the older members of a community can not afford to go away in winter , or can only go away for two or three months , there could be a new activity related @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first grandparents . When the first grandchild is born , although that grandchild may be on the other side of the world , the grandparents might form or join a new society of grandparents and school , and again assume responsibility for the well-being of the school their children entered two decades ago . This would not only prevent much of the alienation of the senior citizens on a fixed income who come to resent the school taxes that no longer seem to relate to anything they care about , but also provide a new pool of resourceful people , with time and energy to spare , to help the school . If arrangements were made to bring together the members with the schoolchildren , an automatic contact would be established , and the schoolchildren given an opportunity to meet with grandmothers , even if not their own . Parallel with the Grandparents and School association , but overlapping it because so many people today are both retired teachers and current grandparents , retired teachers should be brought back into closer relationships with schoolchildren , perhaps to the fifth grade they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fourth or sixth , to wonder at how much more the children know , or how their manners have again changed for the better , seen against the background of five or six years with no smell of chalk and no clamor of children 's voices . After a decent interval , they become lonely again and miss the children . But at present our institutions for bringing them back into the life of the school are poor . Retired teachers may be asked back to lunch once a year or for a single social evening . A boys ' club may give a lunch for the retired teachers . In some places retired teachers are participating actively in day-care programs for children of working mothers . But for the most part there is no continuity . The retired teacher may be smiled at and greeted wherever she goes , and her heart may be wrung when three of her former students join the highway patrol and themselves then yield to temptation and become thieves . But students do n't talk with her anymore . What is needed is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity for each to talk and each to listen . The older , retired teachers shy away because they feel that young people do n't like older people , and the young people , in turn , feel that older people do n't like them . Each act of hesitation increases the mutual shyness . It might be fun to have a " skip a generation night " with teenagers and retired teachers , but without the present teachers and principal . The teenagers would be responsible for finding the retirees and bringing them along to discuss how tricks have changed over twenty-five years . One of the great appeals of the grandchild-grandparent generation is , as someone has said , that " they have a common enemy . " The older generation 's talk about one 's own parents when they were children tends to reduce the tendency of adults to announce , " My father would never have permitted me to . . . " And the fury of the young middle-aged over disorders at the high school is somewhat reduced by their accounts of what might have happened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are still very limited in our capacity to keep older people well integrated and active in our midst . By isolating them , we make them into bores . In the talk of those for whom nothing ever happens , the same too well-remembered event or complaint or worn-out joke occurs again and again . Older people 's minds are kept fresh by encountering the changing and growing minds of the young , and the minds of the young are tempered in the process . One of the most original men I know used to be left as a very small child to care for his immobilized but alert grandfather , and they spent long hours talking together . Today , at sixty-five , he is one of the most inspired futurists I know . He learned how to think about the future from his grandfather , who , sitting helpless in a wheelchair , had time for endless speculative , entrancing conversations . And today young people swarm around him wherever he goes . So the felicity of a contact that occurred sixty-three years ago is carried on and recreated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years old , and visiting her is a terrific strain on my ability to keep up , as her mind leaps from a fire sixty years ago to a fire forty years ago to a fire eighty years ago to the Chicago fire which happened just before she was born . I am supposed to follow these leaps without a pause . But when I bring a child to see her , she tempers her conversation to his age and knowledge and never requires that he understand more than she knows he can . Many of those who try to separate young and old , or of those who as they become older withdraw from contact with the young , do so because they as adults have been tired by older members of their own family , forgetting that it is only the particular drain on familial memory that has tired them . In greeting new young minds , it is not the demand on compliant memory but the equally strong desire to respond to something new and fresh which might happen to come to the surface . In many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a student body where the students come from vastly different backgrounds , and it is hard for the teacher to bridge the gaps in experience and home background without embarrassment . This is particularly true of classes in family life . If , however , there is a recognition of how rapidly all our lives have changed and that all grandmothers , peasants from southern Europe , refugees from a war-torn world , sharecroppers from the Deep South , Japanese-Americans scattered during World War II , grew up in " old-fashioned ways , " students may be able to go home and interview their grandparents or their neighbors ' grandparents and report the memories of their youth without embarrassment , all bound together by the points that are in common with them , feeling unembarrassed by the differences that exist among them . One of the greatest challenges to contemporary education is how to impart a knowledge of the immediate past , ten years , twenty years , thirty years ago . The cry of the Fifties , just before the first generation born after the war reached college , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the children of affluence , " You 'll never understand the Depression , " separates old and young who have not talked enough together through the years . The difference between those of us whose first thought was of Lincoln when John Kennedy was shot and those who said , " That this should happen in America , " is very deep . The next twenty-five years are going to he demanding ones if growing chaos is to be ordered again upon a greener earth , now seen as one planet in a solar system where there is no other life . The strength that comes from a sense of continuity with the past and hope for the future is sorely needed . Our over-graded schools , our patterns of zoning which condemn people to live within narrow socioeconomic and age segments , all introduce dangerous discontinuities . We will need every institution we can find , or invent , to keep society from disintegrating along age lines , old teachers from young teachers , parents of adolescents from adolescents  --  for today all parents of adolescents are still on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are beginning to be many young teachers who are on the same side as their high school students . But if they make common cause against the older teachers , younger teachers , and students alike will all lose . Exercises in exchange of classrooms , in long conversations in small groups , in looking at old movies and new movies together can start up communication again and keep our social system , and our own minds , from cracking under the strain of very rapid change .                     