@@494718

Considering how unforeseen and unforeseeable events can play haVoc with political predictions , it would be premature to proclaim the end of the Cold War right here and now . But it is safe to say that the end of the Cold War is in sight . The agreements between the East Gernian government , on the one hand , and the government of West Germany and West Berlin , on the other , concerning traffic from West Germany to West Berlin , and from West Berlin to East Germany have just been initialed . These acts open the road for HANS J. MORGENTHAU 'S most recent book is Truth and Power . the ratification of the treaties between West Germany , on the one hand , and the Soviet Union and Poland on the other , concerning the eastern frontiers of Germany and the overall relations between the three nations , as well as of the treaty between the United States , the Soviet Union , Great Britain and France , concerning the status of West Berlin . These treaties and agreements contain the substance of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the distribution of military power at the end of the Second World War , into a legally recognized territorial status quo . In brief , what is generally done in the immediate aftermath of a war , that is , a territorial settlement subscribed to by all concerned , is being done 27 years after the end of the Second World War . That long interval has been filled with the Cold War . It was a condition of war because the United States and West Germany refused to recognize the legality of the East German state . They refused also to recognize Soviet and Polish control of formerly German territories , and they challenged that control . The war remained " Cold " because the challengers limited themselves to words and diplomatic measures and had no thought of changing the territorial status quo by force of arms . The war was fought with slogans like " roll back " and " liberation " and with diplomatic devices such as the Hallstein doctrine , according to which the West German government as the sole legitimate government of all of Germany would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German state . At stake were not ' only , not even primarily , German interests . The intra ? German controversies were the battlefield on which the contest of the two superpowers for the domination of Europe , if not of the world , was fought out . Neither the US nor the Soviet Union could allow all Germany to fall under the control of its adversary . Thus , after the chance of the neutralization of all of Germany , such as it was , had been missed , the military dispositions of 1945 became the pattern of political control . The line of military demarcation of 1945 became the political boundary between East and West . The existence of two ideologically antagonistic German states is , then , the function of the inability of the superpowers to agree upon a united Germany which would not have been a threat to the vital interests of one or the other of them . The focus of the conflict was the western military presence in West Germany . That presence symbolized the claim of the West German government to be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ west , and hence was experienced by the Soviet and East German governments as a threat to the status quo of a divided Germany . That threat took on the appearance of reality , not so much by what the West German government said or did , as by the past internal weakness of the East German government . The Berlin Wall is a monument to that weakness . Thus from Stalin 's blockade to Khrushchev 's ultimatum to sporadic harassment of traffic , the Soviet Union and East Germany have tried to whittle down the western presence , but did not challenge directly the status quo of West Berlin . The fifties and early sixties were the culmination of the Cold War and also its reductio ad absurdum , for it became obvious that neither containment nor revisionist rhetoric could move the Red Army back from the center of Europe , that the United States would not risk war in order to support liberation movements in Germany , Poland , and Hungary , that the Hallstein doctrine amounted in practice to the sacrifice of tangible political and economic interests for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West could not be moved out of West Berlin short of war . In consequence , both sides settled down to the implicit recognition of the durability of the territorial status quo . Both sides also recognized that the explicit acceptance of what could not be changed promised greater political and economic gains than continuation of the quixotic opposition to the status quo . Hence , the agreement concluded last week and the two treaties soon to be ratified . These agreements and treaties not only liquidate the heritage of the Second World War by performing the functions of a peace treaty never concluded , but they also open the door to new political , economic , and military developments . First of all , they serve to stabilize the Soviet Empire in eastern Europe . What West German authorities once used to call the " Soviet Zone ? of military occupation " in " Little Germany " is now recognized as another state within the German nation with which one must deal on the basis of equality , albeit short of diplomatic recognition . American passivity in the face of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the unopposed occupation of Czechoslovakia by the Red Army have demonstrated for all to see the stability of the European empire of the Soviet Union . Secondly , the normalization of relations with the Soviet bloc allows West Germany a freedom of diplomatic and economic maneuver which it never enjoyed before . For almost a quarter of a century it depended on the United States as the spearhead of a military alliance directed against the Soviet bloc . Now West Germany is able to realize the complementary interests it ? as one of the great exporting industrial powers of the world ? shares with the Soviet Union , still but partially developed both in primary and consumer industries . Since both blocs explicitly recognize that the territorial status quo in Europe can be changed only at unacceptable risks , and therefore can not be changed at all , it ought to be possible to relax the military posture on both sides of the divide . It is at this point that the new accords carry within themselves the seeds of new dissension . When the Soviet Union presses for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naturally - its own security , dressed up as a universal good which all peace-loving nations must support . Its security interests in Europe vis-a-vis the Western bloc , essentially comprise three objectives : the recognition of the East German State , now virtually achieved ; the disintegration of NATO and , more particularly , the isolation of West Germany ; and the exclusion of the United States from Europe . If the Soviet Union were to achieve these objectives , it would have made itself the master of Europe by the sheer weight of its political , military and economic power , without changing the territorial status quo . That power , especially if exercised . in conjunction with the two Germanys and no longer checked by a local counterweight , would be so enormous as to reduce the rest of Western Europe to the status of an oversized Scandinavia . Another byproduct , probably very much on the mind of the Soviet government , of the territorial settlement in Europe is the freedom of action that accrues to the Soviet Union elsewhere in the world . The Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the liquidation of the European colonial empire . Everywhere it pushes outward : in the Mediterranean , the Middle East , South Asia , the West Pacific . That push takes place in the shadow of the conflict with China , which for the Soviet Union is a matter of deadly seriousness . Considering the possibility , if not the inevitability , of a war with China and obsessed with the specter of a hostile SinoAmerican conspiracy , it has a vital interest in pacifying its western frontiers and securing its European empire . We have a tendency in our judgment on foreign policy to go from one extreme to another . A conflict tends to take on cataclysmic proportions , and a peaceful settlement appears to usher in the millennium . Thus we ought to beware of the illusion that the settlement of the territorial heritage of the Second World War has made an end to all conflicts of interest between the United States and the Soviet Union . It has settled one issue too long outstanding between them . By doing so , it has raised new issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with what has been achieved .                     