@@487958

Emergency powers . . . embrace every aspect of American life . Under the powers delegated by these statutes , the President may seize properties , mobilize ' produc- , tion , seize commodities , institute martial law , seize control of all transportation and communications , regulate private capital , restrict travel , and  --  in a host of particular and peculiar ways  --  control the activities of all American citizens . Sen. Frank Church , opening statement to the hear ' ings of the Senate Special Committee on the Termination of the National Emergency , April 11 , 1973 The potential for a dictatorship of the Executive predates Richard Nixon ; it is the product of forty-one years of " national emergency , " during which time the President has amassed enough power in the name of " national security " to make any dictator envious . The last four decades of crisis politics have armed the Presidency with the ability lawfully to make the country a totalitarian state . In January 1973 , a Senate resolution created the Special Committee on the Termination of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed that only the 1950 Korean state of emergency was in effect and little was knoyvn about ' ffie ' 1egal implications involved . One and a haff " years and'five , volumes of committee hearings and reseakch lateiWe learn that we have been in a con-tinuail-state . of national : emergency since 1933 . In fact , we are - Ow in four concurrent states of emergency-1933 , 1956 , 1970 " and 1971 ? with each promulgation the consequence of an arbitrary decision by the Chief Executive and all four states of emergency lacking a , date of termination . Moreover , the , committee staff , with the aid of computers , has located more than 470 significant statutes in the U.S. Code that surrender special powers to the President upon any emergency declaration . The vast majority of these 470-odd special powers , although triggered by these states of emergency , have yet to be used , but a number have become an integral part of the Presidency . A favorite , among Presidents is the 1917 Trading with the Enemy Act ( one of two emergency acts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gives the President broad controls over what is traded to whom in times of war or national emergency . Roosevelt 's 1933 emergency proclamation reactivated this wartime statute , and succeeding Presidents have frequently relied on the special pOwers . , Another example of the routinization of emergency statutes is 10 U.S.C. 712 , which " during war or national emergency " permits the President to send military personnel wherever " he . considers it advisable to assist in the interest of national defense . " The Defense Department , in response to a Special Committee query , stated that the application of this sweeping statute has been restricted to Latin America and limited to noncombatant advisers . One of the most infamous interpretations of emergency powers has been that of the " Feed and Forage " Act of 1861 . Originally designed to feed horses on the Western front during the ' Civil War , this Act has seen action during both the Berlin Airlift and ' the war in Indochina . Senator Church notes : this " law permits the Defense Department to make certain contracts and purchases in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tells how in 1972 " Defense Secretary Melvin Laird said that this Civil War statute could be used to assure the expenditure of funds in Indochina for use by U.S. forces despite Congressional prohibitions . " Similarly , the Korean emergency has served ' as a rationale for such diverse executive actions as a 1958 Executive Order ( #10789 ) authorizing special government contracting arrangements for national defense and a 1961 Executive Order ( #10976 ) suspending the eight-hour day in the National Aeronautics and Space Administration . While formally issued " Executive Orders " and " Presidential Proclamations " are published in the Federal Register , the Special Committee 's just released study , " Executive Orders in Times of War and National Emergency , " finds that the " decision whether to publish an executive decision is clearly a result of the President 's own discretion rather than any prescription of law . " Furthermore , Kennedy 's and Johnson 's National Security Action Memorandums and Nixon 's National Security Action Directives circumvent the Federal Register Act ( 1935 ) , which has no provision for handling such instructions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is no formal accountability for the most crucial - executive decisions affecting the lives of citizens and the freedom of individuals and institutions . " One need only be reminded of the 1969-70 secret bombing of Cambodia . An exchange of classified memos between Laird and Earle Wheeler , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , unleashed our bombers , although NixonM was later to take responsibility for this executive decision . And Nixon , in his April 30 , 1970 formal announcement of the invasion of Cambodia , told the American public that American policy " has been to scrupulously respect the neutrality of the Cambodian people . " Beginning with Korea , any formal declaration of war has become obsolete . Although the Steel Seizure case of 1952 is a famous example of the courts preventing executive excess , far too often executive actions go unchallenged . The Special Committee observes that " the courts have in the past been reluctant to intervene and determine what Congress did intend and to what extent the Executive had deviated from that intent . " In addition , the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would prevent the Executive from using classification to withhold information from Congress and the public . " Public acquiescence to " national emergency " as a fact of everyday life has only encouraged executive unaccountability . Despite the continued increase of executive decision making , the annual number of formal Presidential dictates has shrunk from several hundred to a scant seventy , and the Special- Committee has found a number of Executive Orders whose authority is no more specific than a vague reference to " the statutes . " Misuse of executive fiats has seriously abridged our , civil liberties . Frank Donner in " Hoover 's Legacy " ( The Nation , June 1 ) has traced the roots of the FBI 's domestic intelligence network to a misapplication of Roosevelt 's September 6 , 1939 Presidential directive concerning war-related intelligence . Without any statutory authority , the FBI justifies its authority for domestic " surveillance by an out-of-context interpretation of a number of executive ' directives issued in times of national stress . , Plais for emergency government also jeopardize civil liberties . Executive ' Orders , outlining the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplemented by detailed regulations from all executive departments and agencies . These regulations are to be published by the Office of the Federal Register as the " Code of Emergency Federal Regulations " ( CEFR ) . However , the Departments of Defense , State , Justice , Commerce and the office of the President are among those that have , never submitted emergency regulations for the CEFR . In addi- tion , the Senate Special Committee discovered regulations 4 that call for the censorship of international mail pursuant to an Executive Order . But neither the Post Office 's , regulations nor its executive directive cite any statutory authority for such censorship . The Special Committee concludes : " Although the censorship is presumably designed for use only during wartime , it is on its face designed for any emergency declared by the President and might indeed be thereby activated . " - Whereas there ? are no set criteria for a ' declaration of national emergency , the histories of the four active states of emergency share a common purpose  --  an attempt by the President to consolidate popular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Erwin Griswold testified before the Special ComMittee about the political climate surrounding Roosevelt 's March 1933 ( proclamation:My recollection of the situation in March 1933 was that President Roosevelt 's declaration of an emergency was primarily for psychological effect for the public , to galvanize the public , to make the people feel there were people in Washington who cared and were doing things to change the public morale . It was then followed by a succession of statutes which were proposed from the White House , and which , for the most part , Congress quickly enacted . Roosevelt 's economic package was jammed through Congress with only eight hours of debate and a sole copy of the bill on the floor . Truman 's 1950 emergency proclamation is of an even more questionable nature  --  especially if one considers that we were still technically in a state of war , six months of fighting had already passed , and Truman 's decision came only when his thrust into North Korea was turned back . Consider the testimony of Dr. Adrian Fisher , legal adviser to the State Department at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the December 16 , 1950 proclamation really was n't intended for the ' purpose of establishing legislative authority . They had gone through the hostility up until the rebuffs in December , or late November 1950 , without it . . . this was almost a fly-the-flag sort of proclamation . The language of Truman 's 1950 declaration ( " world conquest by the Communist imperialism is the goal of the forces of aggression that have been loosed upon the world " ) smacks of the Truman Doctrine , aimed at solidifying what Richard M. Freeland in his study The Truman Doctrine and the Origins of McCarthyism called the " Cold War consensus . " President Nixon 's two declarations of national emergency  --  that of March 23 , 1970 in , response to the ' postal strike , and his August 15 , 1971 statement in the face of the country 's worsening economic , condition , particularly in the area of international finance , have broa'd'ened the scope of national emergency to include any situation that a President deems troublesome . Surely , a postal strike will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposition of a 10 per cent surcharge on imports , pursuant to his August 15th declaration , was recently invalidated by a United States Customs Court . The three-judge court agreed that " neither need nor national emergency will justify the exercise of a power by the Executive not inherent in his office nor delegated by Congress . " Such unwarranted acts pose " the deadliest of blows to our Constitution . " Mr. , Nixon was also derelict in failing to hold consultations with the Justice Department prior to this latest state of emergency . Nonetheless , these four self-serving , rather nebulous states of emergency have set in motion statutes whose impact goes far beyond the realm of psychological uplift . Already , selected emergency powers have been integrated into the normal functionings of the Presidency , and the climate created by the public acceptarice of this crisis mentality has opened the door for a proliferation of executive fiats of which the most important are classified from public scrutiny . While the events of Vietnam and Watergate have begun to de-mystify the Presidency by revealing a large gap between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the institution of the Presidency still has the legal power to create the American equivalent of a totalitarian state . The Senate Special Committee has been considering a number of proposals which , at a minimum , should cancel the existing states of emergency and create a more responsive mode of " emergency " operation . The implementation of any such proposal is but a small step on a long road                     