@@487949

There are three truths , runs an old Chinese proverb : yours , mine and the truth . It is an apt description of Latin America these days because so many seem to have a monopoly on the truth  --  the generals in Chile , Castro in Cuba and the Peronistas ( all five versions of them ) in Argentina . But nowhere is the truth so elusive as in Peru , where a six-year-old military government claims to have started a non-capitalist , non-Communist revolution  --  a 360 claim hotly disputed by the Right , which describes theme revolution as Communist , and by the Left , which denounces the regime as Fascist . It could be that none of these terms relate to what is actually taking place in Peru or for that matter anywhere else in Latin America . What is meaningful , or truthful , in a European or U.S. context does not necessarily apply in Latin America , yet these foreign terms still are used to explain behavior here . Penny ' Lernoux is South American correspondent in Bogota for Copley News Service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contradiction . in Russian terms . Guatemala 's democracy is simply an excuse for a police state . In Peru , the military regime follows neither the traditional right-wing philosophy of the usual dictatorship , be it Greek or Brazilian , nor could it be used as a textbook example of revolUtion . i After six years in power , the military can point to several Irknajor reforms and some novel experiments in socialism , all carried out with a minimum of repression . Opponents are not lined up against a wall to be shot or dispatched to concentration camps ; instead , they are deported . Capitalists and Communists , aristocrats and middle-of-the-road labor unions continue to survive , and Peruvians have no qualms about criticizing the government in the presence of foreigners . There have been no mass purges , nor is there much mass enthusiasm . Yet for all that , the Peruvian experience is revolutionary , at least in the Peruvian context . For the first time since the Spaniards enslaved the Inca Indians , Peru has a government dedicated to up- grading the standard of living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's demise , it represents the lone surviving left-wing government on the continent , and because it is composed of generals , not civilians , that too is revolutionary in Latin American terms . Historically , the armed forces , with the Roman Cath- ' olic Church and the landed aristocracy , have formed the tripod supporting the status quo in Latin ' America . The Church is no longer the monolithic caretaker of conserva7 tive interests , having been deeply split by the theology of liberation that emerged from the Latin American bishops ' call for social justice at their ' historic meeting in Medellin , Colombia in 1968 . The remaining supports are firmly in place , however , with the armed forces wedded to the aristocracy in such former democracies as Uruguay and Chile , as well as the traditionally military nations of Paraguay , Bolivia and Ecuador . What makes the Peruvian volte-face so disconcerting is that , ever since independence from Spain , the armed forces have unquestioningly accepted their role as the " watchdog of the oligarchy . " For most of this century , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power of the large landowners and the coastal industrialists . There was the occasional maverick , of course , such as Pres. Jose Luis Bustamante y Rivero ( 1945-48 ) , but the military soon put an end to his ideas of modest reform . Whether civilian or military , it mattered little to the mass of Indian peasants who their President was : the government inevitably served the interests of a small , powerful clique , those tall , white aristocrats , , the " gente de bien . " , And how the government served them ! One per cent of the property owners controlled 80 per cent of the ' arable land on some of the largest haciendas in the world . One family alone , the Gildeineisters , owned 1.1 million acres . In contrast , one-third of the landowners had less than 5 acres apiece . Many of the Indian peasants , a majority of the highland population , were virtual serfs , receiving a furrow or two of land to plant in return for year-long servitude to the estate owner . Illiterate , undernourished and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the level of animals . Estates were sold with so many head of Indians , and the Indians themselves would identify their place of origin , not as a village or valley but by the name of the estate owner " to whom we belong . " Conditions in the mines and the fishing ports were only slightly better . Down the Andes Mountains , in the metropolis of Lima , that " City of Kings , " the slums spread southward across the gray sand hills , the illusory refuge of landless peasants in search of a better life . As on the estates , Lima 's poor provided an enormous pool of cheap labor , with many of the richer homes employing a dozen or more servants , chattels , really , to be passed along from one generation to the next . In Peru , as elsewhere in Latin America , it was the privilege of the rich to ignore the travails of the poverty-stricken majority . The trouble now is that the institution which for so long served their interests has been changing imperceptibly from aristocratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armed forces for lucrative sources of income in industry and agriculture . Consequently , when the military went out to do battle with the landowners ' enemies , in the 1962-65 Trotskyite peasant uprising in the Valley of La ConvenciOn , that was the last time it would serve as the oligarchy 's watchdog . What the colonels and the generals observed in those stark Andean hamlets forced them to ask themselves for the first time in Peruvian history whom they were serving  --  the wealthy of Lima or the peasant families from which their own fathers had come . If the rich were blind at the time , the middle class was no less so . Even today , when the former landowner can dispassionately discuss the reasons for the expropriation of . his hacienda , the middle-class schoolteacher or small businessman fails to comprehend that the 1968 military coup was just as much a product of middle-class politics as it was of the injustices witnessed in the feudal highlands . , ' Like most Latin American countries , Peru has a small but burgeoning middle class which has clawed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way , it has adopted many of the attitudes of the upper classes , particularly the disdain for the highland Indians , although 52 per cent of the 15 million population is racially mixed ( and that includes the middle class ) compared to the 46 per cent that is pure Indian . One of the tenets of racial discrimination in Latin America , which is alive and flourishing no matter what Brazil 's generals claim , is that the nonwhite , be he Negro or Indian , is incapable of making an intelligent political decision . There may be some truth in that , considering that most of the nonwhites have no access to education , are poorly fed and suffer a gamut of diseases from tuberculosis to smallpox . At the same time , , the middle class is the most vociferous defender of democracy  --  just so long as those Indians do n't get too close to the voting booth . Foreign political analysts often observe that many Latin American countries are not ready for democracy  --  not at any rate , as it is practiced in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President , Gen. Juan , Velasco Alvarado , could not agree more . ) Certainly , there is ample evidence that , in Peru at least , democracy was a charade dominated by the rich with ' the acquiescence of a middle class willing to sacrifice ideals for political and economic advancement . Such was the case with the American Revolutionary Popular Alliance ( APRA ) , one of the most influential Latin American political movements of this century . When it was founded in 1924 by a young intellectual , Victor Raid Haya de la Torre , APRA represented the first genuine attempt to apply Peruvian solutions to Peruvian problems . Nationalistic and left-of-Center , the movement emphasized collectivism for the highland Indians , in a latter-day attempt to copy Inca traditions , and an intensive education program for the workers to lay the foundations for a strong labor movement . Unlike the Communists , however , APRA wooed the middle classes in the coastal cities where economic power is concentrated . Such was its popularity among Indian peasants and factory workers in its early years that all efforts by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the cost of civil war , came to naught . Only electoral fraud and/or massacres by the military , such as occurred in 1931 , prevented APRA from taking power ' . From the seeds of the Peruvian movement . grew the Latin American democratic Left parties so favored by the Kennedy administration as a possible panacea for social injustice and , worse , Communist revolution . Most of the democratic Left has since fallen by the wayside ; only Venezuela and Costa Rica are governed by parties that still pay lip service to the old ideal 's , APRA , like most of the others , succumbed first to middle-age spread , then to the inevitable military coup . In the three-way Presidential race of 1962 , Haya de la Torre agreed to renounce his candidacy in favor of a retired general named Manuel Odria , a man who had ruled as absolute ; dictator between 1948-56 , who had kept Haya de la Torre imprisoned in the Colombian Embassy in Lima for nearly five years , and who stood for everything APRA originally had opposed , The price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congressman elected . APRA never collected because the military stepped in to annul the elections , perhaps not so much because their old enemies , the Apristas , would control Congress as because of their disappointment that the third candidate , Fernando Belaunde Terry , had failed to win . ( He lost by a narrow 13,000-vote margin , which the military later claimed was an Aprista fraud , ) Though few realized the implications , the traditionally reactionary military was here , actively supporting a candidate who promised change . Belaunde seemed to possess the basic , credentials of a genuine reformer . An architect with a real grasp of the country 's problems , he updated the old APRA platform to include agrarian reform , Inca socialism for the highlands and Western capitalism for the coast ; a pluralistic society in which the backward Indian , the city factory worker , middle and upper classes would somehow forge a bridge between , a feudal nation and a mote equitable society . Thus when B , elaunde 's Popular Action party won the ti elections held the following year under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one last opportunity to ' enact meaningful reforms . There was little doubt where the generals stood . Their experience in putting down the peasant uprising in La ConvenciOn had forced them to " ask ourselves what made them so brave , " as , one general recalled . " You ca n't win against the guerrillas unless you have the support a the people , " the military . decided .. Gen. Edgardo Mercado Jarrfn , now Peru 's Prime Minister , made the same point in 1967 when he was still head of the national war , college . Communism can not be defeated as long as there are political and economic injustices , he warned . There , fore , the , government must take steps to correct these7 imbalances to safeguard national security . The politicians made the mistake of assuming that such statements were nothing more than the usual rhetoric and that the military could be fobbed off with some new toys , say eighteen Mirages . In fact , the concern for national security grew out of the officers ' own experience of i poverty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Belaunde rightly surmised that the military considered agrarian reform a crucial test of his intentions . To weaken peasant support of the guerrillas , ' the military junta in 1962 had started a limited land-redistribution program in La ConvenciOn ; the armed forces hoped , Belaunde would expand the program throughout Peru . ? The large estate owners naturally opposed any change in the land-tenure system , but it was the middle-class Apristas in Congress who administered the coup de graCe by so emasculating Belaunde 's proposed agrarian reform that during his five years in power only 2,625 peasant families received any acreage , and that mostly the poorest land available . The majority of his other reforms suffered similar setbacks . When the military finally moved to unseat Belaunde in October 1968 , his downfall came as no surprise . Even with impatient military officers in the cabinet , the Belaunde government seemed unable to move , paralyzed as it was by a querulous Congress and corruption so blatant that the President made no attempt to deny stories of bribes . Indeed , the fuse that lit the coup @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sellout to Exxon 's subsidiary , the International Petroleum Co . ( IPC ) , in negotiations to resolve a long-standing dispute between the state and the company . When it was all over , Belaunde 's Finance Minister , Manuel Ulloa , admitted that the President had given in too easily to outside pressures , including the U.S. State Department 's lobby for IPC . If we had it to do over again , he said , we would expropriate the company . ' It was not just IPC , however . It was the whole system the oil company represented , a system which allowed forty families to shape the nation 's destiny and which , gave U.S. companies control over 65 per cent of the gross national product . It was a system , finally , that Overcame any of the idealisin that had originally existed in the political parties . By 1968 Haya de la Torre was an obese old man talking vaguely about the , Incas ' social theories ; Belaunde , a haggard shadow of his once dynamic ' self . APRA and Popular Action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the workers , and partisan politics had simply become an excuse for nepotism and corruption . Naturally , nobody believed the military 's revolutionary rhetoric in the first weeks following the coup , as it is de rigueur in Latin America for a new regime to proclaim its commitment to nationalism and the " people 's welfare . " Nor was there much consternation when the military expropriated IPC six days after the coup , since nationalizing an unpopular foreign company is also considered a good way to insure public support , at least until the generals have firm control over the situation . But the sweeping agrarian reform decreed on June 24 , 1969 came as a profound shock to the landed oligarchy which had for so long kept the watchdog chained . Unlike the politicians , the military refused to comprOmise or make exceptions , and all holdings greater than 375 acres , including the large coastal sugar plantations , were made subject to expropriation . The government also nationalized all water rights , thereby ending centuries - of feudal injustice . In one sweep the military broke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the same time it took over the sugar plantations , 65 per cent of which were owned by foreign interests , mostly U.S. Since that historic date , which has been named " Day of the Rural Laborer , " 175,000 peasant families have received 10.7 million acres of land . By 1975 , when the agrarian reform is supposed to be completed , some 25 million acres will have been expropriated , affecting 72 per cent of the arable land in Peru . As the estate owners predicted , the government 's reform program has run into a lot of snags . Nevertheless , if Peru 's agrarian reform is judged by the one yardstick accepted by all societies : capitalist or Communist , it has been a resounding success : agricultural production has not only not declined but has actually increased at an annual average of 1.6 per cent ( this year 's projection is for- 4 per cent ) . That the government has always emphasized social justice over economic considerations makes the peasants ' performance the more remarkable . ' Given the poor showings of other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Peruvian experiment shines as the - lone exception to Latin America 's otherwise dismal experience in land redistribution . ' In part , this is due to the military 's insistence that large , efficient estates not be broken up into small uneconomic holdings , or " mini ! tiridia , " but be run as cooperatives or agrarian communities , the only difference being that the workers , not an absentee landlord , own the land . The highland Indians ' pre-Columbian heritage of socialism has also helped to smooth over some of the dislocations . And of course the government has poured millions of dollars into rural infrastructure  --  education , technical supervision , credit and new strains of livestock and grains . Perhaps the most encouraging aspect of the Peruvian experience is its lack of rigidity , with techniques observed in Yugoslavia , Cuba , Israel and Spain being tried and applied wherever appropriate . Peru 's generals have had the sense to learn from the mistakes of other countries . Thus , privately owned farms exist beside cooperatives and colonies . The only condition is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exceed 375 acres . . For all the government 's success in making the reform stick , however , it can not decree what nature withheld : there simply is not enough arable land - to go around . Even if farm holdings were reduced to , half an acre per person , some 4.6 million peasants would remain landless . In one sense , therefore , the agrarian reform has divided the rural population into , different classes , the " haves " who have benefited from the reform and twenty-five times as many " have-nots " without a furrow to their name . The social implications of this economic discrimination are only now beginning to dawn on the generals , and they are appalled by what they see . On the showplace sugar plantations , for example , only workers who were employed full time before the expropriation are eligible to be members of the cooperative which owns the plantation , and to receive such benefits as free housing and year-end bonuses . The seasonal cane cutters and the neighboring peasant villagers together outnumber the co-op workers ; they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for they enjoy none of the cooperative 's benefits and are no longer entitled to rent a few acres from the plantation . ( Much of the communal land was illegally absorbed by the plantations , with the result that 26 per cent of the villages have titles but no land . There are endless land . disputes between cooperative and village . ) Not surprisingly , there have been armed clashes between the haves and have-nots , not only on the sugar plantations but also in such land-hungry areas as the northern Piura valleys , where small farmers have armed themselves against land invaders organized into Communist-led peasant leagues . The military is worried by the implications of such rural violence , but has yet to find . the solution to the problem  --  possibly because there is none in the immediate futnie . Programs are going ahead to absorb some of the landless masses . There are irrigation schemes to open up new areas to cultivation ; colonization projects in the Amazon jungle , which ' covers 62 per cent of Peru 's territory ; and Yugoslav-style " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private farms together to produce forage and livestock for dairy and processed-meat products . The complexes ' sausage , meat , poultry and milk factories will provide jobs for the unemployed , peasants and should eventually slow the migration to the cities . But such projects , take time and considerable investment , and do not provide short-term solutions . The government is already supplying 50 per cent of Peruvian capital investment . MeanWhile , the - land invasions continue , along with migrations to the already swollen cities , bringing more problems in their wake . In any case , no agricultural program , however ambitious , can provide the final answer to rural overpopulation . The revolution that began in the countryside must be completed in the cities where the industries and the jobs are . Possibly because so much attention was concentrated on the obvious injustices in the countryside , less thought was given to the urban areas , although the military admits that it is there that the revoltition will succeed or fail . On the purely administrative side , the government has scored a number of successes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fishmeal , to insure rational growth and economic stability . It has also encouraged new export industries , particularly for the six-nation Andean Group common market , and increased the manufacture of goods for local consumption . Because of sound management and the variety of exports , Peru 's balance of trade showed a $90 million surplus last year and the gross national product increased by 5.3 per cent . The initial shock of 1PC 's expropriation having passed , there has been a resurgence of foreign investment ( $55,6 million for 1972-74 ) , although most of it has ' gone into the mining and petroleum sector or as supply credits for the construction of infrastructure , including hydroelectric complexes and a giant new fishing port at Bayovar on the northern coast . But while some new jobs have been created , industry is not expanding fast enough to produce the , 130,000 jobs needed each year to accommodate new workers , much less absorb those already unemployed , who account for 30 per cent of the labor force . As with the agrarian reform , the government's- first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The industrial communities set up in 1970 are supposed to give the worker a progressive say in management , but in fact most of the workers are excluded as temporary help who do not qualify for co-op membership . Moreover , factory owners , in contrast to their rural cousins , have ' found infinite ways to circumvent the law . To date , the average industrial community owns 20 per cent of its compajy 's stock , but if the factory owners have anything to say about it , it will be a very long time before the percentage reaches the fifty-fifty mark . It all depends on whether the company shows a profit , and there are many ways to disguise that profit , such as an expensive advertising campaign placed with the new public relations agency of the owner 's brother . Or a plant may lease equipment from a member of the family will does not figure as a stockholder in an accounting subterfuge designed to reduce assets and profits .. , " Most of the workers at my father-in-law 's printing plant are too dumb to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Disappointed by , the " group egoism " so evident in the agrarian and industrial cooperatives , the military has brought forth a new brainchild that is supposed to form the foundation of Peru 's mixed economy . Known as Enterprise of Social Property ( EPS ) , this novel experiment in socialism - and capitalism , sets up wholly owned workers ' companies that are financed by a stock market , An EPS comes into being when a group of workers get together to make motorcycles or thermostats , for example , and their project is approved by a semi-autonomous commission , thereby making it eligible for financing by the state development corporation , COFIDE . Once the initial capital is repaid , the EPS must be self-financing , , primarily through a complicated system of stocks and bonds to be sold through the banks . The EPS commission ' claims that it has received 100 applications for projects and that COFIDE has earmarked $200 million to get them started . Theoretically , an EPS should be able to attract private investment if it perfOrms well . That is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that EPS firms will evolve into small parasites on the state-controlled basic industries , creating far fewer jobs than the government anticipates . Since the government controls the commission approving EPS projects and provides all the initial financing , the projects are open to charges of state paternalism . Even the most optimistic EPS supporters agree that it will take at least a decade to judge the success of the experiment . - Meanwhile , rural migration to the cities continues at the rate of 6 per cent per , year , inflation is spiraling toward an annual 30 per cent , unemployment is growing , and the majority of the poor have yet to taste any fruits of the revolution . The government has one ace to play , however , , and that is the income expected three to four years hence from Peru 's vast mineral and petroleum - riches . Seventeen U.S. companies are drilling in the eastern jungles , and construction of a 600-mile oil line over the Andes to the new Pacific port of Bayovar should be completed by 1977 . According to Occidental Petroleum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barrels a day , thereby becoming the third largest petroleum exporter in Latin America . Copper ; 0 too , is enriching the government treasury : it now provides  --  30 per cent of foreign exchange . The fourth largest producer in the world , Peru will increase its annual ' copper , output by 170,000 tons when the Southern Peru Copper Co. ( owned by Cerro Corp. , American Smelting and Refining Co. , Phelps-Dodge and Newmont Mining Co. ) completes a $500 million expansion program in the Andean ' highlands in 1976 . Unlike newly oil-rich Ecuador or Allende 's Chile , the military in Peru has offered attractive terms to foreign companies in order to encourage investment in certain sectors . That may seem strange for a nationalistic government , but it , too , is part of this unusual revolution . The regime has expropriated a number of U.S. companies , Out most were obvious targets , companies that " certainly would not have been allowed to operate in many Western democracies , " as a Canadian technician pointed out . So despised was IPC , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Lima petitioned the State Department , not to take punitive action against Peru . Having bought generations of government offiCials , IPC had no friends left when the coup came . , W.R. , Grace 's sugar plantations were the next to go , followed by a Chevron refinery , some paper and chemical companies , several U.S. firms caught up in the reorganization of the fishing industry and , last January , the giant , Cerro de Pasco copper holdings belonging to the New York-based Cerro Corp . Not wanting to push the Peruvians any farther left , Washington quietly let the IPC matter slide and eventually negotiated $76 million , financed by U.S. banks , to compensate the other companies . Cerro argued longest and hardest , but eventually gave in after considerable prodding in Lima and Washington . As part owners of the promising Southern Peru project , Cerro 's stockholders probably figured one-fifth of the pie was better than none . , , The United States is not exactly ecstatic about the military regime , although it does give the Peruvians high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it would prefer the more familiar trappings of - the old democracy , corrupt but comfortable . The military , however , has no intention of turning over the government to the civilians , not at least until deMocracy works at the bottom in factory cooperatives and agrarian communities , and nobody can guess when that will be . Despite its disdain for traditional politics , the government early created its own political movement ( though it would hardly describe it thus ) in the National System of Support for Social Mobilization ( SINAMOS ) , the initials of which spell " Without Masters " in Spanish . SINAMOS critics refer to the agency as SONAMOS , which means " We Dream " and that may be what the generals are doing . SINAMOS ' goals are to propagandize and provide training ; financial and juridical support and aid in building infrastructure to peasant , labor and youth groups , as well as cooperatives and community action programs . With such a broad mandate , SINAMOS ' 6,500 employees are naturally enough into ' everything  --  sugar cooperatives , highland agrarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions , the factories and the slums . They are supposed to cut through the red tape that has been proliferating with new state enterprises and to form a bridge " between the bottom and the top " ? all the while reducing the influence of such " class enemies " as the Apristas and the Communists . But more often than not , they do n't know what they are doing . Young leftists for the most part , SINAMOS agents are sent into the countryside and the slums to talk up the revolution , most of the rhetoric for which is Marxist , though what SINAMOS andthe generals really want , one is assured , is a pluralistic , non-capitalist , non-Communist , Christian society . The illiterate Indian peasant can hardly be blamed for being suspicious . How , for example , is he supposed to think for himself if everything depends on the state  --  the land he receives , the cooperative he is told he must join , or the fertilizer he needs for his crops ? To give SINAMOS its due , many of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one of the most important civilian executives , admits , " We do n't have enough trained people to interpret the revolution , " but adds that " this is natural in any revolution that is new . " Delgado also complains that the peasants continue to retain a " patron mentality . " Nevertheless , the same pamphlets that tell SINAMOS agents to encourage the peasants to think for themselves consistently feature pictures showing the agent lecturing and the Indians listening . " The generals obviously do not want to replace one form of paternalism with another , even if it is enlightened , " said an Israeli agronomist . " Unfortunately , their own training encourages them to treat the rest of the country as some enormous barracks . " Nor has the highly increased bureaucracy guaranteed that orders will be carried out by the sergeants and the noncoms . " There ? ' is a lot of idealistic talk in the ministries , but it is very different out in the boondocks , " said a U.S. priest who for two years supervised an agricultural cooperative . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their crops , it 's true , but after we sold the harvest , the bank always claimed there was nothing left over in profits for the peasants . So in effect the peasants on this cooperative are no better off than they were before the agrarian reform . " As the front line , for the revolution , SINAMOS usually bears the brunt of the population 's anger . The agency 's headquarters have been sacked or stoned in Chimbote , Cuzco and Piura , and in some areas , heavily populated by migrant workers , SINAMOS representatives are re ( terred to as " reactionary police agents . " The slum dwellers in Lima often take the same view , accusing SINAMOS of trying to drive them off the sand hills , most of which are private property , to herd them into government-controlled ghettos . , ? The military did not invent the slums ; some of the " young towns , " as the government has renamed them , date back seVeral decades . But the generals have prom- , ised a revolution and , what is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by ending the feudal land-tenure system . If the landless peasants and the slum dwellers feel it is their turn now , who can blame them ? SINAMOS certainly has not been able to explain what it 's all about . , If the revolution has a failing , it is this inability to reach out to the masses , but perhaps it could not be otherwise given the military 's limitatiOns and those of the people . Wary of the politicians who failed so frequently in the past , the generals have turned inward to their own institution , allowing only a few civilians into the magic circle of power . The give and take of civilian compromise has been replaced by the military 's blind allegiance to orders from above , with the result that there is a growing ( tendency to misinterpret constructive criticism for counterrevolutionary plotting . Much of the red tape seems to be designed to insure monolithic thinking . Thus , taxi drivers are now required to take four different examinations to qualify for a license , including a psychological test which presumably will weed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new oil wells and copper mines begin to produce and there is more ' money to spend , some of Peru 's myriad social problems can be solved ( the housing deficit alone , is 2 million units ) . Foreign and Peruvian economists agree that the revolution will be " over the hump " if the regime can hold out till then . Moreover , the revolution is expected to develop a more flexible approach when Velasco steps down in favor of his heir apparent , Gen. Francisco Moralez Bermudez , army chief of staff and a man respected and liked by the civilians as well as the military . It is what happens in the meantime that worries the generals . With no obvious targets to attack , no IPC to expropriate , no sugar plantations to seize and the oligarchy firmly chained in apartments instead of mansions , the challenge now is to produce better trained government officials for the countryside and the slums , who can help the revolution spread from the bottom instead of being imposed from the top . There is nothing dramatic about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a time of worrying consolidation . Inflation , unemployment and rural violence are ' part of the government 's preoccupations , but these problems in themselves are not sufficient to explain President Velasco 's sudden decision to deport Popular Action leaders and former ministers in the Belaunde government , nor the seizure of eight Lima newspapers , including El Comercio , which actively abetted the 1968 coup . Firmly chainedby a tough press law , the newspapers presented no more threat to the regime than did the discredited political parties . True , several of the newspapers spoke for conservative interests , but the papers at most could offer only muted criticism . By seizing the papers , the government alienated the middle class , too , and for the first time in the regime 's six years in power there were massive demonstrations in middle-class sectors of Lima . 97 , The move to silence the press stems in part from the military 's dislike of civilian criticism , a characteristic that explains SINAMOS ' failures . But the principal cause is the generals ' well-founded fear that if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolution will falter and be thrown back , just as it was in Chile , although here civilian and military roles are reversed . Hypersensitive they may be , but the Peruvians also understand geopolitical reality . Thus when Belaunde 's Finance Minister Manuel Ulloa strongly attacked the Peruvian Government in Brazil 's tightly controlled press , the Peruvians reacted by deporting Popular Action leaders and , later , by taking control of the Lima dailies . Whether LT1loa and other Peruvian exiles living in Brazil were part of a Brazilian plot against the military regime can be questioned . There is no doubt , however , of the existence of a militantly anti-Communist axis composed of Brazil , Uruguay , Paraguay , Chile and Bolivia , all of which are governed by traditional right-wing military regimes that would be delighted to see the heretics in Lima overthrown . In this , they are and were supported by Belaunde 's Popular Action and the conservative Lima press , if not by active plotting , at least by wishful thinking . It is the sort of thing that can upset a government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narrow ledge between capitalism and-Communism. ?                     