@@494824

are linked to such contamination . Some of these dis ? eases afflict workers at meat packing plants ( brucel ? losis for example ) as well as consumers . Even when US inspection is working without corruption , harass ? ment or apathy , the " US Inspected " stamp does not mean that there has been a bacteriological monitoring of the fresh meat and poultry from time of slaughter to retail sale . Although the products are scanned for disease , there is no effort to check bacteria levels . 2 . Chemical residues from the use of pesticides , nitrites , hormones , antibiotics and other chemicals are continually ignored by producers , processors and a passive government despite increasing health risks such as cancer and birth defects . Other long-term ad ? verse effects on health are uncharted and therefore assumed not to exist . The average consumer ingests about five pounds of chemical additives each year . Meat ? because it is at the end of the food chain and because drugs , preservatives and coloring agents are now a staple of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chemicals in the human diet . Consumers ingest more pesticides from the meat they eat than from any other commodity . Two lawsuits by environmental and consumer groups ask the gov ? ernment to ban the cosmetic uses of sodium nitrite in bacon , hot dogs , ham and other processed meat and prohibit all uses of the synthetic hormone and fat ? tener ? diethylstilbestrol ? in cattle . The elaborate details of these and other food strug ? gles are described in a new book , Sowing the Wind by my colleague Harrison Wellford . He also documents and evaluates the role of the US Department of Agri ? culture in setting standards which supposedly deter ? mine the amount of water allowed in hams and poultry , the level of fat in hamburger , hot dogs and corned beef , even the number of hairs and insect remains in canned meat . The influence over these standards by industry lobbyists and lawyers is great . The consumer 's interests are little represented . Who is to watch out for the food industry 's manipu ? lation of standards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added to meat products ? Who is to monitor the debasement of the concept of whole ? someness ? e.g. , whether cattle with cancerous eyes or chicken wings with small tumors are government approved or not ? Michigan tried to answer a few of these questions by passing tougher standards than those put out by USDA for greater nutrition and less adulteration of the hot dog . The big meat companies sued Michigan to block the standard . Hormel , Armour and Wilson and Company won the latest round in the federal appeals court which ruled that the federal standard preempts the Michigan law even though " it has the effect of reducing an ingredient requirement that may result in higher nutritional value for a meat food product . " Consumers should begin asking more searching questions about the meat and poultry they buy or they will continue to pay more for less roasts and chicken and more water , fat , cereal , filler , drugs and chemicals . The charade with which the President chose to begin the transition to his second term continued into Thanksgiving week . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Florida home on Key Biscayne , he flew back to Washington for one night at the White House and then withdrew into even more complete isolation , so far as the press and public were con ? cerned , for a stay of unprecedented length at Camp David , the retreat maintained by the army for Presi ? dents since Franklin Roosevelt 's day in the Maryland mountains an hour 's ride by car and 15 minutes by helicopter from Washington . " Charade " has to be qualified . It was all for public effect : the initial forecasts of staff and departmental reorganization , at the White House and throughout the federal government ; the daily procession of Cabi ? net members , agency heads and favored White House assistants to Camp David for an hour or so of conver ? sation with the President ; Press Secretary Ronald Ziegler 's cautions to reporters , in briefings conducted in a huge trailer installed for the purpose at the guarded entrance to Camp David , that they must n't assume from his and the President 's talk of shaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about to roll . As I have written , it was the only way the President could think of ? and a rather feeble way ? to create an impression that his second term is going to be , on the domestic front , much more than a mere and sterile extension of the first term . Because the President had ruled out most of the possibilities for positive advance and innovation in domestic policy , unless the demolition and contraction of pres ? ent programs can be called advance and innovation , a show of determination to shrink and tighten up the administrative structure was all he had to offer . In Mr. Nixon 's view , however , that is a great deal . It 's serious business , to be taken as seriously by the public and by the federal bureaucracy as he takes it . He 's had this thing about staffing and structure ever since he be ? came President , and never mind that in dramatizing his intention to begin the process of administrative reduction and reform with his own structure at the White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let it get to be the biggest in presidential history . DECEMBER 2 , 1972 The transition performance provided some interest ? ing glimpses of Richard Nixon at work on his people . Camp David is a cluster of quasi-rustic cottages buried in the woods , an informal place where you might ex ? pect a President to slip into casual clothing for his conversations with his appointees . Not this President . In the cottage that he has had transformed from living into office quarters , he greeted his callers in the same business suits that he wears at the White House . The talk at the meetings was at once easy and grave , tinged in some cases by the strain of people telling the Presi ? dent everything he wanted to know about their wishes and learning little or nothing from him about his in ? tentions . He had said in advance of the visits that he was giving himself until December 15 to announce his personnel decisions , and in rnost instances his callers were still awaiting December 15 when they left him at Camp David @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his intention to resign at the end of the first term , told an associate after his session that he did n't know whom the President had in mind to succeed him and what , if any , replacements Mr. Nixon planned to make at lower reaches of the department . Secretary of State William P. Rogers , the President 's oldest and closest friend in the administration ; ap ? peared to his subordinates to be in somewhat better shape after his Camp David conversation . He spoke with seeming assurance of future plans for the depart ? ment and his own activities as Secretary , including a probable visit to Europe with the President next Feb ? ruary . Although Secretary Rogers was saying until a year ago that one term would be enough for him , he has been indicating since then that he 'd like to remain well into the second term . His demeanor just before and after he met with the President at Camp David suggested that the rumors of his being replaced by John B. Connally , the Texas Nixocrat and former Secre ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shakeout of the State Department and Foreign Service bureaucracies , are groundless nonsense . But the Sec ? retary 's associates wo n't know for sure that he knows for sure until the President announces his new Cab ? inet lineup . The assumption at the State Department , not ques ? tioned by Rogers , is that Henry Kissinger will stay on as the President 's assistant for national security affairs . Kissinger has been saying since early 1972 that he will know when it 's time to go and that he intends to do so before the second term is far along . If the Presi ? dent has read and thoroughly absorbed an incredibly vainglorious and imperious interview that Kissinger gave a lady journalist from Italy on November 4 , re ? plete with suggestions that he alone is responsible for the approach to a settlement in Vietnam and accommo ? dation with Communist China , among other Nixon achievements in foreign policy , the departure , could occur sooner than Kissinger contemplates . Secretive11 by habit and preoccupied as he has been with making his announcement that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Kissinger has said nothing about his plans to his numerous National Security Council staff . The Kissinger staff has been immune from the general call at the White House for resignations that the President can ignore or accept as he pleases . At an unannounced meeting on November 13 , one of the few that Kissinger has ever taken the trouble and time to have with his entire staff , the subject of resignations and reorgani ? zation did n't come up . This , contrary to the claim that everybody on the Nixon staff is on the White House payroll , is partly because key members of the NSC staff are seconded to it from the career Foreign Service and are on the State Department payroll . One of the few resignations demanded with the declared intention of accepting it was that of the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh , chairman of the US Commis ? sion on Civil Rights and the only remaining one of the five members originally appointed to the commission in 1957 by Mr. Nixon 's late patron , President Eisen ? hower . In a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pub ? licly thanked Father Hesburgh , the president of Notre Dame University , for his stand against campus dis ? order . Since then , Father Hesburgh and the commis ? sion have been outspoken in their criticism of the Nixon civil rights performance and , most recently , in their denunciation of the President 's inflammatory use and distortion of the school busing issue . Mr. Nixon lacked the grace to tell Father Hesburgh that his resignation was wanted , or even to have a re ? sponsible assistant do it . While the commission was meeting in Washington on November 13 , a secretary to Fred Malek , the President 's chief recruiter , tele ? phoned the demand to John Buggs , the commission 's staff director , who passed it to the chairman . Father Hesburgh replied as follows on November 16 : " Dear Mr. Nixon : In compliance with your request , trans ? mitted by Mr. Frederic Malek of the White House staff , I hereby submit my resignation as chairman and member of the United States Commission on Civil Rights . Best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Stephen Horn , the commission vice chairman , dined on the 13th with Leonard Garment , the President 's special consultant on minority prob ? lems and sensibilities . It is said to have been a pleasant dinner , unmarred by mention of , the crude and cow ? ardly way in which this particular bit of reform was accomplished . Len Garment is one of several White House assist ? ants who intended to quit but are staying on , after exposure to Mr. Nixon 's persuasive talk that he wants and needs them . Another may be Harry Dent , the White House specialist in southern politics , who an ? nounced his decision to resign last July and was all set to go back to Columbia , SC , when the President sweet-talked him at Camp David . At this writing , Dent is trying to brace himself to tell the President that he still intends to quit . Patrick Buchanan , a senior speech writer who hoped to replace Frank Shakespeare , the departing director of the US Information Agency , was told he could n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the White House . So he 's staying , and glad to do it . The White House is a hard place to leave and the President knows it . In bygone days , when General Motors ' good was said to be the nation 's and " ecology " was only a word on science tests , West Virginia was called " the Switzer ? land of America . " A sign bearing this sobriquet was hanging on the Silver Bridge at Point Pleasant five years ago when it collapsed into the Ohio River , kill ? ing 47 people . Since then , West Virginia has witnessed the Farmington mine disaster of 1968 , in which 74 miners died , and the Buffalo Creek flood of this past February that claimed 125 . Recurrent disasters are one of the differences between West Virginia and Switzer ? land . Another is that West Virginia is notorious not for the money it gets but for the money that corporations take out of it . In 1972 , for the first time in the state 's history , a candidate for governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rockefeller IV argued that strip-mining is detrimental to the best interests of West Virginians and should be abolished . He pledged long overdue enforcement of coal mine health and safety laws . He promised to curb the manifold environmen ? tal abuses long perpetrated by king coal . These were not his prime issues ; throughout most of the cam ? paign , he concentrated on the need for jobs and roads . But the coal interests were not to be denied ? not even by a Rockefeller . It is ironic that Rockefeller ( no anti ? capitalist he ) was tagged as an " outsider " who was using the state for personal reasons whereas , in truth , his principal opposition ( and his adversary 's chief support ) came from corporations which for the most part are owned and directed by out of state interests that have for so long exploited the state and its people . In the past , coal has enjoyed the favor of both candi dates for governor of West Virginia . In return , both parties usually receive large campaign donations from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? didate asserted in effect that he was prepared to deal at arm 's length with the industry , that he could finance his own campaign and that king coal , under his ad ? ministration , would be expected to obey the law like anyone else , without favor or preferential treatment . Rockefeller was roundly defeated . The state has 55 counties , about 1.8 million people . The nine southernmost counties account for approxi ? mately 30 percent of the population and produce about 70 percent of the coal . Nine corporations own more than one-third of the land in these counties , and the top 25 landowners control more than half . Of the nine dominant corporations , only one is a West Virginia company doing business principally within the state . The others are Pocahontas Land Corporation , a wholly owned subsidiary of the Norfolk and Western Rail ? road ; Georgia-Pacific , a timber company headquar ? tered in Oregon ; Western Pocahontas Corporation , a wholly owned subsidiary of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad ; Island Creek Coal Company , a wholly owned subsidiary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holding huge tracts of land ; Union Carbide , one of the world 's largest chemical companies ; Beaver Coal Corporation ; and Bethlehem Steel . Let 's take a closer look at the ownership of one of the nine counties ? McDowell ? which is the largest coal-producing county in the nation . Two-thirds of the miners are employed by out-of-state corporations , seven of which own 76 percent of the land . Six of these corporations ? US Steel , Eastern Gas and Fuel Asso ? ciates , Hawley Coal , Olga Coal , Consolidation Coal ( a Continental Oil subsidiary ) , and the Semet-Solvay                     