@@488025

Mr. Berger has just returned from his nineteenth visit to China . In the early days of the United Nations , he was a senior official at the Secretariat , concerned primarily with technical assistance to developing countries . After 1952 , he became a trade consultant , and in that capacity , has made almost annual visits to China . He made eight trips there during the period of the Cultural Revolution , and in the spring of 1953 spent three months in the country , preparing a special study of the Great Leap Forward . The flood of foreign visitors pouring in and out of China today is a sardonic reminder that less than two years ago the commentators were telling the world that " China is isolated . " Anything less like isolation than the Peking scene of recent months could hardly be imagined . An Australian friendship delegation had just departed as a twenty-two-man trade group from the Philippine Chamber of Commerce came up from Kwangchow ( Canton ) , where 1,500 Japanese had attended the Spring Commodities Fair . The Philippines were followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Princess Fatemah Pahlavi of Iran and Leila Hoveyda , wife of the Prime Minister , were touring in south China ; in addition , a delegation from the Palestine Liberation Front was to be seen moving about in Peking . Corridors of the Peking Hotel , which one week were ringing with the gay laughter of diminutive but obviously tough " model " soldiers from Laos , were the next echoing to the boisterous loquacity of seventy-six silk-suited Italian businessmen , led by their Minister of Foreign Trade . Academicians from France , technicians from Albania , two American professors up from Hanoi , various specialist delegations from Vietnam followed one after the other . A little later , a large government cum party delegation arrived from Romania ; then came a powerful Canadian economic mission , with the Minister of Foreign Trade at its head , and this was followed by a delegation from Australia , led by the head of the Opposition Party . And later still ? Kissinger . Had Peking become , the Mecca of the 1970s ? What brought them all here ? It seemed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differing points of view , all these groups and individuals felt that in this country of 750 million people and with one of the oldest of civilizations , something essentially new , indeed unprecedented , was arising . Old notions had been under scrutiny , new ideas were being put into practice , fresh concepts of social relationships were being tried , radical changes taking place in education , factory management , in the relations between town and country  --  all adding up to a totally new quality of life for the Chinese , who less than twenty-five years ago had been living in degradation and squalor ? impoverished , illiterate , ridden with superstition and torn asunder by warlordism and civil strife . In the words , recently , of an English commentator , China is " beckoning a ' new generation . " Most of the visitors returned to Peking from their travels in different parts of the country with descriptions of booming industry and flourishing agriculture which I was able to confirm from my own recents visits to factories and communes in four provinces : Kwangtung , Hopei @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visits made on different occasions since 1953 . The figures of national output announced by Chou Enlai last autumn had already revealed a fast pace of economic growth . More recently , the Chinese Premier remarked to American visitors that these production statistics , given earlier to Edgar Snow , if anything understated the position . Certainly the reports of agricultural and industrial production which have come through from thirteen of the twenty-six provinces in the past few months suggest a definite leap in the Chinese economy during 1970 . Hupeh , for example , in Central China , recorded a 50 per cent increase in industrial production and a grain harvest up 20 per cent from 1969 . This province of 32 - million includes Wuhan with its large iron and steel conaplex , heavy machine tool factories , a shipyard on the Yangtse and chemical , cement and textile plants . An increase on this scale from ' an already developed industrial base is no small achievement . Another province , Honan ( population 50 million ) , claims to have raised industrial output 84 per cent from 1965 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent from 1969 to 1970 . If that is so , it bespeaks a very healthy situation in the basic food sector , for Honan is one of China 's biggest wheat producers . ? A new attitude of the workers to production rather than a massive program to build new big factories is one cause of thege dramatic increases . It may seem paradoxical in the West , but the acceleration of productivity follows a nationwide attack on material inducements and the elimination during the Cultural Revolution of piece rates and bonus systems . The motivation in Chinese industry today is largely social ( " Serve the People " ) and political ( " Produce for the revolution and international commitments " ) . This orientation has zagendered a dynamic in the factories Which not only is resulting in higher per-man output but has also induced a wave of technical innovations to get more out of existing machines by adaptations and improvements that are discussed by three-in-one combinations of workers , technicians and officials and then put into effect on the spot and without bureaucratic interference . But perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of growth is the countrywide effort to develop medium and small industries , usually from scratch and based on local resources , material and human . To take Hupeh again as an example , the province in 1970 opened 2,000 small local factories to manufacture , among other things , agricultural implements , tractors , diesel engines and small hydroelectric equipment . Twenty-two local chemical fertilizer factories were commissioned , and during the year construction started on a further thirty-three . In 1956 the province had only three such plants . To study these developments at first hand I spent five days of my recent visit in the Tunghua County of Hopei Province , 250 kilOmeters froth Peking . This county of 485,000 population ( it is one of 2,000 in the whole of China ) has responded to the call for " self-reliance " in the building of local industry in what was previously a totally agricultural area . Since the spring of 1969 , thirty-one medium and small factories have started up ; they use raw materials available locally and call , upon underemployed and seasonally available labor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The progressive mechanization of commune farming should insure a steady supply of labor as the number of these factories increases . In Tunghua an iron and steel plant is producing 3,000 tons of iron and 1,700 tons of steel annually from locally mined ore . The county operates its own coal mine ; a liquid ammonia plant for fertilizer production ; a miscellaneous engineering factory ( 207 workers ) that makes compressors , electric motors and bearings ; a cement works ; a repair shop for farm machinery which previously had to be sent to the district center of Tangshan ; a small metal factory ( eighty-four workers ) for wire drawing - and straightening and the production of nails ; a ceramic plant producing pipes for irrigation and insulators . Light industrial enterprises include a cotton mill , a paper factory ( 600 tons a year ) , a tire reconditioning shop , factories producing knitwear , medicines for animal and human use , mostly from locally collected herbs , and fruit bottling . The peasants , who can call for geological advice when they need it , have combed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at which minerals of various kinds can be extracted , including small but workable deposits of chrome and gold . Most of these materials will be processed by the local industry . These local factories are practical examples of the self-reliance that has always been a tenet of Mao Tsetung 's political and economic policy , its importance being underscored by the withdrawal of the Soviet technicians and the cancellation of contracted deliveries in July 1960 . The value of these local industries in limiting burdens on the infrastructure , particularly in reducing transport costs and absorbing Any underemployed labor , will be obvious , The Chinese see them , moreover , as serving a social as well as economic purpose , in that they help to lower the barriers between industry and agriculture , while developing local skills and stimulating workers unaccustomed to industrial processes to find simple technological solutions . p Perhaps most important , in explaining the rapid grovith rates , is the speed of commissioning and the quick return on investment made possible by the relative simplicity of construction and of the equipment utiliied . Frequently , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obsolete by the big factories are reconditioned and adapted by the local workers . ? An indication of the significance of these local efforts for the total economy can be gauged by statistics of cement and fertilizer production : in 1970 local industries , ? accounted for 40 and 43 per cent of national output . Before this latest leap China had come through the ? shortages of the " difficult years " ( 1959-61 ) without inflation , and had by 1965 settled all outstanding internal and external debts . It had chalked up nine successive good harvests . The result has been a steady improvement in the food situation , with a national grain reserve , according to Chou En-lai , of 40 million tons and with , ) most commune brigades and teams as well as many individual households having significant reserves . To illustrate with a grass-roots example from my recent , A : visit . Shahshiyu in Tunghua County , whose accomplish-ments at industrialization I have described , is a barren , rocky hillside , its rainfall concentrated in a few weeks of the year . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' to have a name . In June , I saw how the lower slopes there had been transformed by the sheer task of tearing out the rocks and fashioning them into walls for terracing , . then filling in with earth brought up in baskets on-shoulder poles from the valley 5 kilometers away . It became a point of honor that no brigade member would return to the village without some earth=even the children brought a pocketful . Apple , date and walnut trees , inter -- planted with wheat and millet , are now growing on this reclaimed land . The ' result is that the commune brigade has a reserve of 37 tons- of grain , with another 15 tons .4 - held as reserves by the 130 individual families . At the same time , the higher and more intractable land has been planted with pines and cypresses to stem erosion and eventually ' to be used as timber . " In no small measure , " said Dean Acheson in August 1949 , " the predicament in which the National Chiang Kai-shek Government finds itself today is due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He tadded that " a large part of the Chinese Communists ' propaganda consists of promises that they will solve the land problem . " Nixon , when he visits China , will see for himself that these were no paper promises . The progress is , not only quantitative ; the quality and variety of foodstuffs has also enormously improved . As a result of the , creation from 1958 onward , also by local . effort , of fruit and yegetable communes around all cities of any size , the diets of the townspeople have changed out of all , , recognition . A wide range of good quality , low-priced consumer goods is on sale in the department stores of all cities , but also in well-stocked village shops managed by the commune brigades . During my last trip I saw in many cities what , to me , was a new development  --  department stores that offered only consumer goods manufactured within the province , in addition to the stores that sell nationally distributed goods . Prices of food and consumer durables are stable , tending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago , the prices of the more commonly used drugs were slashed , in some cases by as much as 30 per cent ; in recent months internal air fares have come down 25 per cent . The health organizations , while still recording lin- , portant breakthroughs in the more sophisticated techniques of surgery , are now focusing attention ' on improved services for the countryside . Whereas prior to the Cultural Revolution attempts to integrate traditional Chinese medicine ( acupuncture , herb alism , etc. ) with Western methods were more formal than actual in medical training , today a practical and living integration is arising out of the growth of cooperative medical services organized by the communes at the grass roots . These health cooperatives embrace the work of peagant " barefoot doctors " who , after elementary training , can deal with simple ailments , take responsibility for education in family planning and social hygiene and lead the campaign against diseases such as schistosomiasis , where local sanitation and the eradication of pests are critical . These peasant doctors provide a valuable source of recruits for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people , " and particularly the 80 per cent of the people who live in the rural areas . Foreign diplomats based in Peking who toured China this spring returned impressed by a chest surgery operation using acupuncture as anaesthetic , the patient conscious and chatting with the surgeon throughout . On the international front China has every reason to be satisfied with the progress of its diplomatic relations in the past eighteen months . In the course of the Cultural Revolution it concentrated on certain basic and vital questions of domestic policies . Ambassadors were recalled to ? participate in the rethinking and reorientation process . During this lime , foreign policy was doing little more than " ticking over , " and because of the fluid internal situation ' there were moments when elements hostile to Mao Tse-tung and the principles on which China 's foreign relations were founded were able to spring diversions of one kind or another . Chinese friends explained to me that , while the burning down of foreign diplomatic missions and similar behavior may have had some appeal to adventurist elements , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only give comfort to China 's enemies . Such excursions into ultra-leftism were temporary and accidental . They . did not imply any departure or deviation from the basic foreign policy embodied in the five principles enunciated by Mao Tse-tung on June 15 , 1949 : We are willing to discuss , with any foreign government the establishment of diplomatic relations on the basis of the principles of equality , mutual benefit mid mutual respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty , provided it is willing to sever relations with the Chinese reactionaries , stops conspiring with them or helping them , and adopts an attitude of genuine , and not hypocritical , friendship toward People 's China . The , Chinese people wish to have friendly cooperation with the people of all countries and to resume and expand international trade in order to develop production and promote economic prosperity . These principles have governed and , it seems , will continue to govern China 's relations with other states , be they capitalist , Socialist or newly liberated and independent . Two other forms complete the total matrix of China 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These three , as the Chinese see them , are both distinct as well as interacting and interpenetrating . A high point in Chinese subtlety and finesse is manifested in maintaining a correct balance among all three . The invitation to the American table-tennis team was a clear case of people-to-people 's relationships reacting on state relations . Contact between the American and Chinese people , said a Peking friend , had been interrupted in recent years . The US. administration imposed passport regulations forbidding its citizens to visit China . This has now changed , he said , but so has the international situation . In particular , the American people 's dissatisfaction with ' its government 's war policy and its hostile stance toward China have become more manifest . Distortions and misrepresentations by the mass media and by official propaganda have failed to deflect the people 's wish to have friendlier relations with China . " After all , " said my friend , " the people decide everything . " At the same time , the international prestige of the United States has seriously declined , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and its economic situation , to say the least , is precarious . Some visitors to China in recent years have interpreted the children 's war games  --  taking potshots at effigies of Johnson and Nixon  --  as evidence of an anti-American attitude , but ' the Chinese always insisted that they , including the youngsters , distinguished between the American people and the leaders of U.S. imperialism responsible for the war in Vietnath and other horrors . The reception given to the American table-tennis team by the ordinary Chinese people suggests that the Chinese explanation was nearer the mark . Following the announcement of Nixon 's visit to Peking , some European and American commentators have suggested that China is now entering the ranks of the superpowers . From talks at many different levels and in many different parts of the country and judging from official pronouncements , I would consider this a total misreading of the situation . China is without doubt a great and proud nation , but there is nothing in recent developments to suggest that it has gone back on earlier declarations that " at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither today nor in the future . " Chou En-lai , as late as last July 2 , reaffirmed this policy : " While we develop ourselves we will absolutely not become a superpower . I say this openly to all of You and ; to the correspondents , as well . We will never be a superpower . " " We should draw a lesson from the Soviet Union , " I was told , " which has confused state and party relations , sacrificing the latter for the sake of the former . We will never sacrifice principle for expediency . China is part of the world revolution and must support it , otherwise it is not a Socialist country . " Certainly in dispensing aid China seems to have scrupulously avoided the superpower role . Again , to quote my Chinese friend : " Any assistance which China gives is based on the principle of equality , independence and self-reliance and is not intended to control or interfere in the affairs of other countries . When the Vietnamese thank us for the aid we have given , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacrifices they have made and for their contribution in resisting imperialism . " When I remarked to another Chinese friend , one responsible for an important sector of international relations , that in the factories , communes ' and schools I had found a marked emphasis by ordinary workers , peasants and students on China 's international responsibilities , he replied that " the people of the world must support one another . " He went on : " Mao Tse-tung teaches us to oppose great-nation chauvinism . We are a big country rich in natural resources . As we develop and give more foreign aid , future generations of Chinese could make mistakes if we do not take steps now to prevent the growth of a superpower mentality . " Commenting on Ceausescu 's recent visit to China , The Financial Times remarked ( June 24 ) : While Moscow failed to give any discernible aid after last year 's catastrophe in Romania , and even used it as a lever to exert pressure upon a troublesome neighbor , China accorded Romania significant help , followed last March by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It must be patently clear to the U.S. Administration from the ambassadorial discussions in Warsaw , " said the Chinese to me , " that we will never trade away our principles . " At the time of my visit ( before Kissinger arrived for his discussions with Chou En-lai on July 9 ) , the Chinese still remained to be-convinced that Nixon 's China ? or anti-China  --  policy had basically changed . His gestures on passports and trade relaxations were seen as concessions made largely to placate the domestic protest movement and as a reflection of divisions within American ruling circles , rather than as a radical policy switch . The Chinese , however , give full weight to the political and economic pressures on the Nixon Administration caused by military failure in Indochina and high in Asia , with the resultant inflation , high unemployment and weakening of the dollar . For the Chinese , the central question in China-U.S. relations is the issue of Taiwan ? " a province of China . " " How can relations improve while the forcible occupation of Taiwan continues and until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " remarked Chinese friends . China 's seat in the United Nations is obviously another important issue , but , with one country after another having declared its intention not to support the two-thirds majority , " important question " resolution at the present General Assembly , the options left to Washington are narrowing week by week . The rebuff to Chiang Kai-shek implied in Mr. Nixon 's announced visit to Peking can only accelerate this plocess . Rogers ' proposed formula , which is nothing but a variation on the " two Chinas " theme , has been dismissed out of hand by the Chinese as " maladroit trickery . " How to give " tit for tat " depends on the situation . Sometimes not going to negotiations is tit for tat ; and sometimes going to negotiations is also lit for tat . ? Mao Tse-tung , October 17 , 1945 Most Chinese will find in the Nixon visit close similarities with the Chungking negotiations with Chiang Kai-shek in 1945 . Those over 40 will remember the events , having lived through them , and those under will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from which the above quotation is taken . The Chinese people are , therefore , not apt to be as confused by the recent turn of events or as passive in response to them as some commentators would suggest . One can be sure that Mao 's two 1945 articles are now being discussed in the thousands of study groups in factories , communes and schools throughout the country , and that analogies will be drawn between the America of today and the situation of the Kuomintang in 1945 which Mao described as : " riddled with a thousand gaping wounds , torn by innumerable inner contractions and beset with great difficulties . " " We did not refuse to negotiate with Marshall or Chiang Kai-shek , " I was told . " After World War II Chiang Kai-shek said he wanted to have peace , and Mao Tse-tung did not hesitate to go to Chungking to see him . But as Mao said : ' They were totally unprepared , and we had to make all the proposals . ' In fact , those talks showed that Chiang had no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the negotiations , more and more people came to understand his true position and he lost even the little support he had previously enjoyed . " Having made the overtures , Nixon will now have to work his passage if he is not to suffer a similar experience . We do not know what tentative suggestions Kissinger may have made during his twenty-hour discussions in Peking , ' but Nixon will certainly have to come forward with tangible proposals for changes in the American policy toward China if he is not to find that the popular support for his journey has turned into disappointment and anger . For once , Joseph Alsop has judged one aspect of the situation correctly ; " this is a situation in which any derailment would be infinitely damaging to President Nixon . " " Infinitely damaging " is strong language , but it does not exaggerate the extent of the President 's commitment to produce significant results . Does this mean that Nixon , if and when he gets to Peking , will come up against a blank wall ; that the Chinese will make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give the clue to what Nixon can expect : We on our side are prepared to make such conces-sions as are necessary and as do not damage the funda-mental interests of the people . Without such conces-sions , we can not explode the Kuomintang 's civil war plot , can not gain the political initiative , can not win the sympathy of world public opinion . . . and can not ob-tain in exchange . . . a state of peace But there are limits to such concessions ; the principle is that they must not damage the fundamental interests of the people . ? Mao Tse-tung , August 26 , - 1945 From the first invitation to the table-tennis players , the choice of timing and method has rested with the Chinese , whatever claims Nixon may make for having engineered the pending encounter . His Visit is an open acknowledgment to the world that the anti-China policy of his and earlier administrations has backfired . Dean Acheson , when presenting the China White Paper ( August 1949 ) , had to admit that " the American people would not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enable the Nationalists to destroy the Communists . Today , again , the rejection by the American people of its government 's aggression in Asia has been a major element in forcing the change . The timing of the visit leaves Nixon little area for maneuver . With the General Assembly in session , a deadline of May 1972 for the Peking visit , and the Presidential election on the ' horizon , he is ' shackled by certain imperatives . Failure to improve on Rogers ' proposals as to China 's U.N . seat could only prejudice the Visit on which Nixon has staked so much . Assuming that this hurdle can be cleared , he has then to find a formula for the Taiwan and Taiwan Straits issue , or the visit is doomed in advance . And shadowing all the steps leading up to the eventual visit is the question of , withdrawing American troops from the whole of Indochina on which the Chinese position has been and remains unequivocal . It has been suggested that agreement to the Peking visit implies that Peking is putting the screws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's other Asian friends look askance at the latest moves . Such an interpretation ignores the trend of China 's relations with its neighbors , particularly since the Cambodian events of spring 1970 . In their discuSsions with me , Chinese friends made frequent references to the existence of " a ' strong front from Korea through to Indochina  --  five countries and six sides , " the five countries being Korea , China , Vietnam , Laos and Cambodia , and North and South Vietnam being the two sides . The Western press jumped to the conclusion that an editorial in the Hanoi newspaper , Nhan Dan , carried a criticism of China 's recent policies , but a closer reading makes it clear that Peking would find little to quarrel with in Hanoi 's analysis , which reaffirms Vietnam 's independence ( a cardinal principle of China 's policy ) and argues that one of Nixon 's motives is to split the anti-imperialist alliance ( which is as obvious to the Chinese as to the rest of the world ) . To suggest important differences between Hanoi and Peking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Cambodian intervention was quickly followed by the Indochina summit meeting in south China of the Nationalist leaders of South and North Vietnam , Laos and Cambodia . From this point a new quality can be observed in China 's ' relations with its allies to the south . The Laos adventure brought the North Vietnamese and Chinese still closer together , as the joint communiqu ? of Chou En-lai and Pham Van Dong made abundantly clear . The speed with which China came out in support of Madame Binh 's seven-point proposal , to which the United States has yet to respond , suggests that China had been fully consulted before it was advanced . For those with short memories or ulterior motives , Chou En-lai explained in his interview with the fifteen-member group of Concerned Asian Scholars that a complete withdrawal of U , S. forCes from Indochina must take priority over the search for improved Sino-American relations . It might also be said that this demand is even stronger than the demand to restOre the relations between the Chinese and American peoples , because the people of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American people in this dirty war . Chou En-lai 's visit to Pyongyang in April 1970 and the signing of a joint communiqu ? by the two ' governments marked a new turn toward a closer relationship between China and North Korea . The recent tenth anniversary celebrations of the Sino-Korean Treaty of Friendship , Co-operation and Mutual Assistance , which involved government , party and people 's exchanges  --  with delegations visiting between the two countries at the provincial level  --  ivere evidence enough that relations have never been firmer . Scotching any possible doubts , Marshall Kim II-Sung has come out categorically in support of the Nixon visit , which he asserts " will not be a march of a victor but a trip of the defeated . " Prince Sihanouk of Cambodia was one of the first to respOnd positively td the visit . By any realistic assessment of the situation it seems apparent that , if the President is pinning any hopes on the assumption that his Peking visit will create divisions among China 's Asian allies , he is sadly off beam . America 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can have no such comforting thoughts , Nixon having now pulled away the plank which earlier was the main justification for the bilateral alliances and SEATO to meet the " China threat . " Insofar as it indicates China 's growing international prestige and world influence , and particularly its role in Asia , the proposal to visit Peking has made its impact , even if Nixon should never reach Peking . It is a depth charge under Chiang Kai-shek and a time bomb under Sato . China 's people-to-people policy has nowhere met with more success than in Japan , for obvious cultural and historical reasons . Thousands of Japanese  --  businessmen , delegations from political parties , cultural groups and so forth  --  have been visiting China for many years , and on their return home have added to the pressure for a new China policy . The Diet Members League for Establishment of Diplomatic Relations with China boasts 379 members , an important section of them being members of Sato 's Liberal Democratic Party . The Nixon proposal has obviously added fuel to this fire , coming as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their lowest ebb since the war . The clash of economic interests between the two countries becomes if anything sharper as the decline of the U.S. economy and the weakening of the dollar continue . A balance of trade consistently in Japan 's favor , import restrictions on electronic computers and other sensitive items , a tough Japanese attitude to foreign investment and a strong resistance to Mr. Nixon 's pressure to revalue the yen , keep economic tempers frayed . On the other side , protectionist lobbies representing the textile and automobile sectors seem determined to use the I , - Okinawa reversion to extort economic advantages of one sort or another . On top of all this , Nixon 's proposed visit has added strength to the pro-China lobby and created for Sato a dilemma which , says the Financial Times , " could reach crisis proportions . " Even before Kissinger 's July visit to Peking , Premier Thanom Kittikachorn of Thailand was making friendly noises in the direction of Peking . He had ordered all government radio stations in both internal and overseas programs to cease their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Khoman , spoke of a narrowing of differences with China , adding that there had been " too much war for too long in Southeast Asia . It is time for the people of this region to enjoy peace and stability . " In Thailand , too , economic problems play a part in the shifts of policy . The weak international market for Thailand 's rice exports and the cuts in U.S. military aid , the reduction of bases , etc. , were major factors in the economic downturn which in 1969 produced the country 's first balance of payments deficit in years . An even larger deficit followed in 1970 . Nixon 's visit will hardly reassure South Korea , whose economy has become so dependent on the United States , which takes half of its exports , a large part of them textiles . And protectionist noises in Washington reverberate alarmingly in Seoul . Thus , a combination of political and economic body blows is seriously disorienting America 's Asian allies . How long will America 's friends in Asia be prepared to take up the cudgels against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagin  --  ry than real ? " Any move Nixon makes in any of these situations sends shockwaves through all the others , " commented William Shannon recently in the International Herald Tribune . Indeed , in their disarray following Nixon 's announcement , America 's Far Eastern allies seem all too like the troops in Macaulay 's poem where : " Those behind cried ' Forward ! ' And those before cried ' Back ! ' " One wonders whether , faced with this situation , Nixon stands by his policy statement of February 1970 : The United States will keep all its treaty commit- , ments . We shall provide a shield if a nuclear power threatens the freedom of a ' nation allied with us , or of a nation whose survival we consider vital to our security and the security of the region as a whole . In cases involving other types of aggression we shall furnish military and economic assistance when requested and as appropriate . This drew from Earl C. Ravenal , former director of the Asian Division of the U.S. Office of the Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ root problem of the Nixon doctrine is its abiding commitment to the containment of China . " How does Nixon propose to reconcile his Asian commitments'with his attempts to improve Sino-U.S . relations ? In view of its patent failure , is he now prepared to abandon the " containment of China " policy ? This " root problem " remains a cardinal question for the American people , for the peoples of Asia , and for the rest of the world .                     