@@251292

U.S. bombing of the Hanoi-Haiphong area in retribution for the North Vietnamese invasion provoked fresh editorial skirmishing between Administration critics and supporters . While the differences were as sharp as in the late ' 60s , hawkish editors and columnists seemed scarcer than before . Generally the hawks backed bombing as the means to hasten the U.S. pullout from Viet Nam , while doves dwelt on the dangers of deeper involvement in the fighting and confrontation with Moscow . <P> What was " an exercise in folly and futility " to the New York Times seemed " a courageous , nonpolitical act " to the San Diego Union . The Los Angeles Times warned that " B-52s over Haiphong can not buy victory , " while the Arizona Republic said that " bombs should continue to fall north of the Red River . " The New York Daily News praised the re-escalated bombing as " a forceful reminder " of U.S. determination , but two other papers of the parent Tribune Co. took a softer line . The flagship Chicago Tribune simply noted with satisfaction that " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He has reacted as he said he would . " The afternoon paper , Chicago Today , raised mildly skeptical questions about Nixon 's tactics . <P> Many editors seemed worried that an old policy might lead to a new entrapment for the U.S. " The notion of bombing Hanoi to the conference table , " said the Minneapolis Tribune , " is so old , shopworn and discredited that it would be ludicrous if it were not so tragic in its present application . " The South has been the region most sympathetic to the war and the military . Now many papers are sounding a disillusioned refrain of the bombing blues . The Birmingham News was among the few to give President Nixon unrestrained backing : " Let the voices denounce Hanoi 's aggression before they decry America 's support of South Viet Nam 's resistance . " More common were the views of the Nashville Tennessean ( " Another package of dashed hopes and empty promises " ) and the Raleigh News and Observer ( Nixon " owes the people an explanation of his intentions " ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helped to clear things up for the columnists , who could not seem to agree on what to make of the re-escalation . Where Joseph Kraft had Nixon " courting confrontation " with Moscow , James Reston spoke of a " temporary expression of presidential frustration and anger rather than a calculated plan to force a showdown . " Victor Zorza , the London-based Kremlinologist , saw the bombing strategy as " a deep game designed to exploit the differences between the hawks and the doves in the Kremlin in order to maneuver Moscow into bringing about a peace settlement in Viet Nam . " The New York Post 's James Wechsler pooh-poohed any pretense of preplanning : " What often seemed a calculated strategy of surprise actually reflects the infirmity of deep insecurity . " Responding to Nixon 's critics , William F. Buckley Jr . chortled : " The best that can be said about them is that they have been rendered incoherent . "                     