@@282782

The break was executed with all the attention to detail and derring-do of a commando raid . Early one evening last week , two well-dressed young men called at the home of Billy Rial Castillo , 30 , a Mormon missionary who lives across the street from Montevideo 's Punta Carreta federal prison . " We are Tupamaros , " said the men as they pulled out pistols and identified themselves as members of the urban guerrilla group that has served as a model for terrorists in many of the world 's major cities . " We need this house for an operation . " The operation was a massive jail break by 106 Tupamaros-self-styled Robin Hood revolutionaries who take their name from Tpac Amaru , an 18th century Inca chief who led a revolt against Spain . <P> The two intruders applied a medical stethoscope to the living-room floor ; when they detected sounds below , they broke a hole in it . Next door , meanwhile , a Volkswagen van drew up and unloaded half a dozen more Tupamaros , who quickly commandeered the house and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , arms , false papers and money . <P> All Quiet . Equally thorough preparations were being made inside the prison by other Tupamaros , who were confined in cells on the third floor . These cells had already been clandestinely connected by chipping away the mortar so that bricks could be removed and replaced with ease . Holes had also been drilled in the end cells on each floor , allowing the Tupamaros to move from their third-floor cells to the second and first floors on makeshift ladders of blankets and wood . By the time the break took place , a tunnel had already been dug leading from a ground-floor cell and under the prison wall to the Rial house . Prison officials , who later discovered picks , shovels and heavy-duty drills , said that some of the dirt had been stored in pillowcases and mattresses . But most of the estimated ten tons of earth brought out from the 130-ft. tunnel ( about 2 ft. high by 2 ft. wide ) had been shoveled into an intersecting tunnel that was used for a 1931 prison break and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rig a plastic and cardboard bellows to provide air to the diggers . <P> The first of the 111 escapees-the 106 guerrillas plus five other prisoners with no link to the Tupamaros-surfaced through the Rial living-room floor at 3 a.m. next day . They quickly changed into new clothes . Small signs directed them to the house next door , where they picked up arms and identification papers . An hour later , trucks whisked them away into the morning darkness . When Rial phoned the police to report the break , they said that " all is quiet " at the prison . When he phoned back , they grudgingly checked the cells and again insisted that all was normal . Not until a half-hour after Rial 's first call did the guards finally discover that a truly monumental escape had taken place . Next day the prison director resigned .                     