@@493671

these " dumping " charges and punishing the dumpers . The American companies maintain that the current system is ponderous and slow . Now the Carter administration has taken that criticism to heart . Solomon told the press that it takes on the average 13 months to settle a dumping complaint today , but that when the issue is resolved , it can have tremendous impact on the business . Only one of the 19 complaints filed since 1975 has been resolved , and that one was decided in favor of the Americans . That ruling , according to Solomon , created such a feeling of uncertainty in the steel business that buyers have postponed making purchases . To speed up the process and to lend support to the American companies , the Treasury Department will now try to resolve all dumping claims in 60 to 90 days . The mechanism to be used is essentially a price floor . The Treasury has decided that Japan is the most efficient steel producer in the world , and therefore in the next few weeks Solomon will try to negotiate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ product sold in the US . Those prices , though arrived at through political bargaining , in theory will represent the true cost of producing steel in Japan . Any foreigner who sells steel in the US for less automatically will become the subject of a 60- to 90-day dumping investigation . Because the Treasury also intends to increase the penalties for dumping , Solomon 's solution will effectively stop all imports that fall below the minimum price . Everything depends on where the price is set . This solution is not a clean one : it diminishes the freedom of international trade and competition . Politics will now play a more important part in the steel business than it has in the past . But the Carter administration could not have done much less . Inaction in this case might have led to a destructive trade war between Japan and the US ? not to mention further antipathy to President Carter on the part of the workers and bosses of the steel industry . President Carter concluded his August 4 announce ? ment of his plans to reorganize the Central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Security Agency , the National Reconnaisance Office and other elements of the colossus known as " the intelligence community " with the confident promise that " these decisions will be embodied in a new executive order ... as an interim measure until appropriate charter legislation can be introduced and enacted by Congress . " He and others involved expected then that the executive order would be issued within a fortnight or so . After four months of drafting , redrafting and conflict between interested parties , principally among them Vice President Walter Mon-dale , Director of Central Intelligence Stansfield Turner , and Secretary of Defense Harold Brown , the order was under final review on December 7 by the President 's deputy assistant for national security affairs , David Aaron , and just about ready for submission to Carter . Its history , like that of other items to be noted in this report , provides some insight into the way the Carter White House works in specific and often difficult situations . Listing Mondale among the intelligence combatants may be a slight distortion . His first concern in the early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jurisdictional conflict between Admiral Turner , to whom Carter in principle had granted authority over budgeting and resource allocation for all of the major intelligence agencies , civilian and military and of course including his own CIA , and Secretary Brown , to whom Carter left operational control of the military agencies . Turner and Harold Brown , who got his early Pentagon training under Robert McNamara when McNamara was teaching everybody within his reach , including Presidents John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson , what civilian control of the military by a strong Secretary of Defense really meant , are implacable defenders and expanders of their respective turfs . During the preparation of the President 's August statement and , even more fiercely , during the battle over the order that would implement the statement , Turner fought to maximize and Brown to minimize the grant of money power to Turner as DCI . Once that struggle was over , and it appears to have been resolved amicably , Mondale concerned himself mostly with sharpening , tightening and clarifying the executive order 's restrictions upon what the various agencies might and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation and other activities that all too often had disgraced " the community " and abused basic rights . This inevitably brought him into some conflict with both Turner and Brown and their insistence , not upon freedom to be dirty , but upon their operational discretion . The Vice President had the assistance of two former associates and collaborators : David Aaron and Frederick A.O. Schwarz , Jr. , who had been on the staff of Senator Frank Church 's intelligence investigating committee when Senator Mondale was a ranking Democratic member and , during Church 's abortive bid for the 1976 presidential nomination , the effective chairman . Schwarz , who returned to a New York law practice , has donated a lot of his time and expertise to Mondale . Aaron 's immediate superior , national security assistant Zbigniew Brzezinski , oversaw a preliminary National Security Council study of the intelligence system for Carter and has sat with the President , Mondale and Turner at a weekly White House review of the whole foreign intelligence operation . But he delegated NSC oversight of the intelligence executive order largely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least one other matter so completely to Aaron that Brzezinski did n't know what was going on in his own back yard . All the while the permanent successor to the Church-Mondale committee , the Senate Committee on Intelligence under Daniel K. Inouye of Hawaii , and a subcommittee under Walter Huddleston of Kentucky , were working out legislation that to a considerable extent will eventually supersede the executive order . Carter 's August division of authority between Turner and Brown was a fundamental change , cleared in advance with the Huddleston subcommittee , and the legislation yet to come from the whole committee probably will leave it pretty much intact . The crucial question is to what extent the pending executive order and the final legislation , as written by the Inouye committee and put through the Senate-House grinder , will complement each other and to what extent the legislation will preserve , negate or neutralize the oversight control so prayerfully nurtured by Mondale . Apart from the reallocation of top authority and the tightened controls , in fact , the Carter package actually constitutes a lot of tinkering and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gerald Ford on February 17 , 197b . Much of the hassling over the executive order amounts to more tinkering . Carter , never one to understate the changes he proposes and brings about , wo n't be emphasizing this aspect of the business , that 's for sure Another complicated organizational imbroglio has brought Secretary Brown into direct conflict with the presidency and , in some degree , with Carter himself . Brown has largely won . But the President and his instrument in the affair , his cherished Reorganization Project in the Office of Management and Budget , ca n't be said to have lost , either . This has to do with three studies of defense resource management , the entire Defense Department management structure including the office of the Secretary , and the national military command structure headed up and dominated since the passage of the 1047 National Security Act by the Joint Chiefs of Staff . Most of the little media attention accorded the matter has gone to the suggestion , which is brutally explicit in " issue papers " prepared by the President 's people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army , Air Force , Navy and Marines should n't also comprise the Joint Chiefs of Staff as such . It 's an important question , there are good arguments on both sides and it has aroused passions within the Pentagon and throughout the country . But the significant issue , insofar as the working of the Presidency goes , is who runs the studies . They were proposed by three of the President 's men at OMB ? reorganization director Harrison Wellford ; his deputy , a professional student of policy processes and writer about the same , Peter Szan ton ; and former OMB Director Bert Lance , who has gone from the OMB though not from the intimacy and confidence of Jimmy Carter . Carter told Brown in a memo dated September 20 and sent to the Secretary after weeks of infighting that he was to direct the DOD studies but that the master plan for them " should be consistent with the government-wide reorganization effort . . . and should provide for the participation of my Reorganization Project staff throughout the review . " As soon as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan , Carter said , " 1 will make a public announcement of the study . " Carter did not announce the study . Brown did , simultaneously making public the OMB " issue papers " that Wellford and Szanton had expected to remain private documents . It was Brown 's way of shoving the White House and OMB as far away as possible , which was n't nearly as far away as he would have liked . Brown in his announcement did n't mention the fact that Brzezinski had quietly seen to it that NSC staffers should also participate in and watch over the DOD studies . The issue papers are so simply worded as to seem downright childish , a circumstance that added to their abrasive effect upon Brown and the DOD military . Their simplicity was intended . They were modelled on the issue papers that Carter demanded and prized when he was Governor of Georgia . He likes simple definitions of problems and , within attainable limits , simple solutions . Wellford and Szanton discussed the final Carter memo with the President and Deputy Secretary Charles W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ couple of staff assistants discussed the choices of people to head the three studies with Duncan and found them all to be not only acceptable but excellent . At this writing , peace is said to reign . What Carter proudly calls " my Reorganization " is quite an operation . In early December 129 full-tune employees , including 40 people recruited from outside government for the project , and between 150 and 175 detailees from various departments and agencies ? the number varies with need from week to week ? were at work on 27 projects under Wellford , Szanton and Associate OMB Director Wayne Granquist , a Norwalk , Connecticut banker who joined OMB last April . There were 1000 applications for the 40 new jobs . Szanton and his assistants specialize in organizations and structure , Granquist in methodology and manage ? ment . In addition , a small staff under Richard Pet ? tigrew , a former Florida legislator and Carter campaign supporter who relishes the title of Assistant to the President for Reorganization , promotes the operation with Congress , with various interest groups and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not intended to reflect upon Pettigrew , who is pleasant and is said to be an able fellow , but it is funny . Pettigrew 's title , plus widespread ignorance about the whole subject among the media , nourishes the notion that he runs the operation . Articles in the current Atlantic Monthly and in a recent Washington Post solemnly and lengthily perpetuate this error . Somebody at the top of Carter 's senior White House staff recruited Pettgrew under the mistaken impression that he was to run it . Lance , Wellford and Szanton ran it when Pettigrew joined up ; WeIlford , Szanton and Acting OMB Director lames T. McIntyre , Jr. , a Georgian ( naturally ) whom Carter would name permanent director if he had the sense he is supposed to have , run the Reorganization Project ? period . Pettigrew , who will never be accused of a lack of enthusiasm , has sent thousands of letters to state and local governments , labor and civic and other " interest groups , " and the chief executives of 1200 corporations , asking them to lend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' expense ) for from three to six months . Lance was originally supposed to sign the letters , but by the time they were mailed he was ceasing to be considered an asset . The letters were sent partly to meet an agreed need , partly to generate interest in and support for Reorganization . One gathers , however , that WeIlford , Szanton , Granquist and Pettigrew himself would be appalled if anywhere near the number of solicited outfits responded with volunteers . About 500 of the corporations have said sorry , no thanks . The expectation is that about 20 percent of all the solicited organizations will come up with one or more bodies . Some of them will be let down when they discover , as they do n't seem to have been told , that what is sought is a pool of potential short-time helpers rather than people with spots awaiting them . That , I regret to report , is about par for the Carter personnel operation , partly because the Presi ? dent simply refuses to grant anybody adequate authority over it . Let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Szanton has been looking and looking for somebody to head up his study of foreign policy and national security organization , including the NSC . A.D. Frazier , Ir. , an Atlanta banker who proved to be extremely proficient at the head of Carter 's first reorganization study ? of his own Executive Office ? had been picked to head the foreign policy-national security study , a project which Brzezinski had technically approved but let David Aaron " sign off " on . Brzezinski learned that the study would include his NSC system only after a reporter brought the fact to his attention . Frazier returned to Atlanta banking when his friend Bert Lance resigned under duress . That 's by the way . The indicative circumstance is that Szanton in his search for a replacement for Frazier has found that there is what Szanton calls " a missing generation " of young , talented defense and foreign policy analysts . The 1960s , it appears to him , simply did n't breed them , if you exclude brassheads and rightwing kooks of a sort he abhors . Szanton admits that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even so , at this writing he has n't found anybody who suits him for a three-year assignment ? the present and future studies will last at least that long ? that ought to excite and attract youngish specialists , at salaries that in today 's government and White House can run over $40,000 and even $50,000 . The new director of the Presidential personnel office is Jim Gamrnill , age 24 , Harvard ' 75 , present salary around $37,000 , due to rise toward the $51,000 paid his predecessor , an old wreck in his early 30s . We conclude with my periodic essay upon the situation and mood at the top of the White House staff . The mood in essence is one of belief that some fairly important changes ought to be made , not in personnel but in organization , and a forlorn near-certainty that Carter is not going to make the changes that some ( by no means all ) of his senior people think would improve the presidential performance . I could be mistaken about this , of course . But it seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to confuse what a few Carter assistants think should be done with what Carter is minded to do . They do n't perceive that very , very few of this very private President 's assistants and associates have the foggiest notion of how his mind is really running and what he really intends . Charles Kirbo of Atlanta , Carter 's long ? time friend , in a sense his original discoverer as a politician , and the person who probably is closer to the President than any other human being excepting Rosalynn Carter , should have laid the rumors of impending substantial change to rest the other day with his flat statement to a group of Washington reporters that Carter is not going to have a chief of staff and is not going to disperse or dilute the flock of Georgians who surround him and dominate his White House to the limited extent that anybody other than Jimmy Carter dominates it . A favored notion is that Hamilton Jordan , the nearest equivalent to a staff chief ( nearer , as I 've written , than is generally realized ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's capable of being a real chief of staff and looks forward to being replaced by Robert Strauss , a talented self-promoter and politician who beyond doubt is high in Carter 's esteem . Strauss brings to Carter 's service a Washington and political experience that none of Carter 's other intimates offer and that Carter does n't offer himself . Jordan likes his job and anybody who endangered it would be in serious personal and career danger . Jordan also is certain that he could he a masterful chief of staff if Carter wanted a chief of staff . Strauss , a former Democratic National Committee treasurer and chairman from Texas who was on many Carterites ' pre-election dump list , is not above preten ? ding to knock down rumors that he hopes are correct . In this instance , though , he knows Jimmy Carter and the Carter White House well enough to know that the speculation about his coming in as chief of staff is utter rot . He 's headed up in this administration , but not in that direction . Note : Zbigniew Brzezinski takes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ using the White House tennis court when Zbiggy wants to play . But he does n't always check personally with Carter , as I recently reported in error . The border has never been invisible . The first frightened farmers crawling out of Kansas could feel it there ahead of them even before it broke the horizon , a vast chilling presence that would mark the end of the worn contours they left behind . They starved and murdered and literally ate one another to get across it . And the Rocky Mountains remain one of history 's indelible boundaries . All the rustic debates about what is east and west in America eventually splinter against the mountains . On the surface the two sides of the frontier are stamped with the same relentless mass conformity ; and both the plains and the south , spongy yet proud buffer zones , cling to some folk identity . But it is the mountains , rising in Canada and heaved south to the Mexican border , that still wall off palpable differences of life and power in this country . Few borders at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alarm and ignorance by both literature and journalism . When John Updike 's sexually feral New England clergyman is punished in A Month of Sundays , he is banished to one of those western states ( what worse ? ) which is recognizably " large and square and holds one refugee asthmatic and three drunken Indians in a Ford pickup per square mile . " When E.L . Doctorow evokes the eastern corporate madness of the Rosenberg affair in The Book of Daniel , he provides an even more sinister and contemporary portrait for the other side of the Continent : a macrocephalic , " totalitarian " Disneyland , where " the problems of mass ingress and egress seem to have been solved . . . to adegree that would light admiration in the eyes of an SS transport officer . " The revulsion is not eastern provincial . Malibu 's own Joan Didion produces novels and columns for Esquire reassuring even the most exhausted easterners that the Coast is still a soulless wasteland populated mainly by hallucinating women between the ages of 30 and 35 . And as for educating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ing that Denver has tall buildings , or Evans and Novak canvassing Marin County housewives who sound suspiciously like those in Falls Church or Scarsdale . Among both the brilliant and the banal purveyors of American imagery , the west often looms as a distant , bleak , imitative province , generally to be avoided for all but cigarette ads and Secretaries of the Interior . For years , the west 's only revenge was to export back across the border the native hedonism symbolized by southern California . Western " lifestyle " has always been more fashionable than living in the west . Witness now the " new " New York Times and The Washington Post/Star as they strain to gratify their otherwise beleaguered readers with how-to manuals on the good life ? the bland middle class lusts for food and flowers and station wagon fun that have long been the staples of Sunset and the Los Angeles Times in more compatible climes . And lately , of course , California has taken the lead in statistics as well as suburban tastes . It is not only the wealthiest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the power of the west in national terms is more subtle than some balance of money and people , and the potential political clash of the two cultures is more important than differences in garden growing seasons . The hedonism and esthetic desolation of the west are real enough . Though there are stark contrasts within the area beyond the Rockies , money rules there as wastefully and tastelessly as anywhere else . From New Mexico to Oregon , the poorer , less populous states resist becoming quaint local replicas of California 's sprawl , but the pressures of " development " are relentless , and probably inexorable . It may matter less what the west is or becomes , however , than how it sees itself . The distinction begins with the geography . The                     