@@276199

In the five years since he led a colonels ' coup against Greece 's last elected government , George Papadopoulos , 52 , has become a poly titled politician . He is Prime Minister , Foreign Minister , Defense Minister and Minister of Government Policy . Indeed , he holds so many titles that Greeks have begun to joke about it : Papadopoulos is sitting alone at his desk , resting his head in his hands , when first one aide , then another , finally a third bursts in . " Ca n't you leave me in peace ? " Papadopoulos screams in anger . " Ca n't you people see that I 'm holding a Cabinet meeting ? " <P> Last week the poly-Papadopoulos added another title . He brusquely de posed General George Zoitakis , who had been Regent and acting head of state since King Constantine fled the country following an unsuccessful countercoup . The ouster of Zoitakis was voted unanimously by Greece 's 17-member rubber-stamp Cabinet last week , ostensibly because the Regent had refused to approve a new law increasing personnel in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an hour Papadopoulos had been " requested " to succeed the general as Regent . Under pictures of Constantine and his Danish-born Queen Anne-Marie , Greece 's undisputed strongman took an oath upon a gold-embossed Bible to uphold King , constitution and country . While a surprised Zoitakis was being notified of his dismissal , Papadopoulos accepted congratulations from the Cabinet . " Incidentally , " he informed them , " you can still call me Mr. Prime Minister . " <P> Mr. P.M. 's moves and reasons baffled Greeks . The official justification for Zoitakis ' dismissal was ludicrous . It was far more likely that he was dumped because he had criticized Papadopoulos for failing to curb Cyprus ' Archbishop Makarios ( TIME , March 13 ) , and because he had become a magnet for younger officers disillusioned over the ravenous Papadopoulos reach for power . Another reason , insiders whispered , was that Papadopoulos-despite his oath last week-intends to dethrone Constantine completely and cut off the generous allowance that permits the handsome King to live comfortably in Rome . Sooner or later , it is believed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by creating a new republic with himself as President and by writing a new constitution that would restore " disciplined democracy " - without a King or freewheeling anti-Papadopoulos parties . <P> Last month pro-regime newspapers , in an obvious attempt to measure Constantine 's popularity , inexplicably published editorials calling for a review of " crown democracy " and even for abolishing the crown . Technically , such talk is treasonous , but no legal action was taken against the newspapers . New drachmas have been minted carrying the King 's image ; but in place of his coat of arms , the obverse side of the coin depicts the phoenix emblem of the revolution . The word royal has been dropped from military designations and the titles of almost all civil institutions . The next step , many Greeks predict , is for Papadopoulos to decree the monarchy dead .                     