@@314064

WITH a new if not precisely fresh face as its leader , Poland last week struggled to recover from the week of bloody riots that tumbled Wladyslaw Gomulka from power after 14 years as First Secretary of his nation 's Communist Party . From comrades on all levels , fraternal messages of support poured into Warsaw for his successor : Edward Gierek , 57 , the tall , burly boss of the Silesian mining area . Russia 's Leonid Brezhnev hailed his new opposite number in Poland as " a sincere friend of the Soviet Union and a staunch international Communist . " Germany 's gruff old Walter Ulbricht , who has opposed recent Polish efforts at dtente , proposed " close comradely ties . " From all parts of Poland-and from almost all sectors of its party structure-came telegrams of felicitation and support . Politely , none of the encomiums touched on the most relevant fact of the revolt : that workers , in a so-called workers ' state , had toppled an entrenched but cumbersome and unresponsive Communist government , deriding it as a " Red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' extent were still seeping out of Poland , there was strong evidence that the death toll probably exceeded 300 - far more than the figure " in the teens " officially admitted during the protests . The sudden replacement of Gomulka by Gierek after hasty meetings of the Politburo and the Central Committee clearly indicated how worried the party was by the sweeping nature of the revolt , as did Gierek 's initial , conciliatory moves . He ended the state of emergency , under which police and the army had been sent into the riot zones along the Baltic seacoast with orders to shoot to kill . As cities quieted , dusk-to-dawn curfews were lifted in time for pious Poles to attend Christmas Eve midnight Mass . Air , road and telephone services were restored , breaking the cocoon of isolation that Gomulka had imposed to limit the demonstrations . <P> Lemons and Oranges . Gierek also ordered a series of special dispensations designed to restore worker morale . Shiploads of imported lemons and oranges were distributed for holiday feasting . Double allotments of bread were made available to stores @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took place , workers at the rebellious Warski Shipyards were informed that they could get Christmas advances on wages . <P> Considering the explosive quality of the revolts , it was all but inevitable that the party structure would undergo a drastic purge ; few Western observers , however , expected that it would be so soon or so severe . In addition to Gomulka , who ostensibly resigned his post for reasons of health ( in fact , he has long had a heart condition ) , four of his close associates were dropped from Poland 's twelve-man Politburo . President Marian Spychalski , 64 , felt so completely disgraced that he never even appeared before the Sejm ( Poland 's rubber-stamp parliament ) to resign from office in person .                     