@@487962

On September 4 , I watched more than 800,000 Chileans parade past the Presidential palace , enthusiastically cheering President SalVador Allende . One week later President Allende was dead , the palace lay a burned-out shambles , the ' streets of Santiago echoed to the boots of soldiers and the rattling of machine guns . Chilean reforms and democracy fell victims to the middle class 's frantic desire to regain ' power at any price . The world little understood the magnitude of the tragedy and scant news reports obscured rather than clarified the situation in what was once South America 's most democratic nation . In rationalizing the violent demise of Chilean democracy , most commentators seem content to point out that Allende was , after all , a President elected by a minority . At best those observations evince an ignorance of Chilean political history . True , Allende entered office in NovemE . Bradford Burns , professor of Latin American history at , UCLA and author of Nationalism in Brazil ( Praeger ) and A History of . Brazil ( Columbia University Press ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ber 1970 with 37 per cent of the popular vote , but Congress overwhelmingly elected him to the Pregdency . He was the constitutional President , selected through a rigorously democratic process in which there was no charge of corruption , no hint of irregularities . For comparison , in the United States in 1972 , when the President was elected by 35 per cent of the eligible voters , both Mr. Nixon and the press hailed the election as a personal mandate and a landslide victory . Because of the plurality of parties in the former Chilean democracy , governments commonly received less than a popular majority . Jorge Alessandri , candidate of the Right , was installed in the Presidency in 1958 for a six-year term with only 32 per cent of the vote , but no cry rang from the international news media that Chile had a minority President . In short , what has been intimated as exceptional in the Allende election was really more the rule in Chilean politics . Between 1970 and 1973 , the Unidad Popular ( Popular Unity ) ? the coalition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growing popularity which in itself casts some doubt on the widely spread tales of economic disaster wrought by the government . In the last significant election , a fierce electoral battle for Congress in March 1973 , the Unidad Popular increased its share of the vote to 44 per cent . The rest of the vote was split among the several other parties , which at that time functioned freely and openly in the Chilean tradition . The 800,000 who greeted the President on September 4 constituted nearly one-tenth of the national population , the largest political rally ever held in Chile . To appreciate the size of the demonstration , one must realize that to enjoy ' a ' similar success in Washington , Mr. Nixon would have to mass more than 21 million cheering- fans . Evidence seems to indicate that , as his administration progressed , President Allende enjoyed ' greater approval . Indeed , the highly visible proof of that mounting support on September 4 may have contributed to the decision of the military and political leaders of the Right to act at once to depose him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ernment by the less privileged classes , which constitute -a , clear majority in Chile as they . do throughout Latin America , are not difficult to find . Allende and his Unidad Popular favored , them . The new government sought to restructure society in order to distribute the national wealth more , equally , a prospect as welcome to the neglected urban labor classes and peasants as it was repugnant to the comfortable middle andupper classes . In an apparent campaign to discredit the thrust of the new government , the news media have emphasized the failures of the Allende government . They were many . Any society changing from capitalism to socialism will be under stress , and Chile certainly was . Yet the Popular Unity government achieved some , remarkable successes , and to neglect them is to blur any attempt to understand the undeniable popularity of Allende among many sectors of Chilean society . Regardless of their political views , all Chileans welcomed Allende 's nationalization of the foreign-owned copper inthistry , Chile 's most important industry , since copperprovided three-quarters of the value of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had during the late 1960s set in motion the machinery for nationalization of the industry ; Allende simply completed irr July 1971 what had already been begun , and both houses of the opposition-dominated Congress unanimously approved his action . Chile paid no indemnity ; quite the contrary , the government sought payments from the former foreign owners , claiming they had made illegal profits in the past . According to the figures of the government economists , U.S. copper companies " had parlayed an original investment of $30 million into $4.5 billion in profits . " Needless to add , Chile 's boldness angered Washington and the international business community . Public opinion was more divided over the nationalization of banking and credit , but still the act elicited favor-able comments from many sectors beyond the Popular Unity . Allende , also moved to nationalize key industries , and that profoundly disturbed the middle and upper classes . During his first year of office , he nationalized ninety-one basic industries , using as authorization laws dating back to 1932 . The workers cheered . In some cases when they felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industries themselves , Despite the mounting inflation , the working class saw its buying power increase markedly under the Allende government . Their children drank milk daily for the first time ; their- consumption of meat increased ; consumer items such as bicyCles , radios , television sets and stoves , long thought a luxury , became commonplace in working-class homes . The government turned shanties and shacks into decent housing by emphasizing construction and giving preference to building for the poor . While a crisis mounted in middle-class housing , the less privileged were living better than ever before . Labor pledged its support to Allende and the Popular Unity and in return enjoyed material and psychological benefits . President Allende promulgated and enforced an ' am= bitious land reform . Chile , like almost every Latin Amer- ' ican ' nation , imported a high percentage of its food ' ( it , always had ) , not because the country could not produce ' its own food but rather because landowners held land for speculation rather than production ( see " Latin America 's Tragedy : Illusions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ October 15 ) . Fertile land lay fallow while expensive food imports ate into the hard-currency foreign-exchange reserves which could have been spent more prOfitably on capital machinery . During the 1964-70 period , the Christian Democrats had promised a ' land reform , but they dawdled and delayed , compromising with the inefficient landowning class . In his first year of office , Allende distributed more land , 5.5 million acres , than his Christian Democratic predecessor had in six , years . The , landless rural proletariat appreciated Allende 's actions , which were in strong contrast to the grandiose promises of former governments . Opponents of the Popular Unity government , as well as the foreign press , have emphasized Chile 's economic difficulties during the Allende years . Their views neglect two considerations , and that prevents a fair assessment of the period . First , Chile has always had economic problems . The economy depended for decades on the sale of copper abroad , and since foreigners both set the price of copper and owned the mines , Chile has had great difficulty in feeding itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at least in the . period since World War II . As late as the 1960s , sociologists classified 60 per cent of the families as impoverished . The infant mortality rate in Chile was triple that of the United States . In short , Allende inherited serious economic problems . Second , the economic achievements of the Popular Unity government generally were ignored or received less attention than the failures . A fuller range of statistics and other interpretations must be taken into account in order to reach a balanced understanding of Chile 's experiment with socialism . Last August , the government 's statistical office ( Estadistica y Analisis de la Gerencia de PlanificaciOn de la CorporaciOn de Fomento de la ProducciOn ) released figures showing that many important industries ( a few examples would be condensed milk , cement , poultry products , phonograph records and pork products ) were producing more than at any previous time . Addressing the nation on September 4 , President Allende pointed with pride to the facts that in a year farmers had doubled the number of acres under cultivation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the largest and most important in the nation ) had broken all production records in the month of August , and that the international price of copper was rising swiftly . Surely in an economy dominated by copper production the output and price of that one product assumes a disproportionate importance . Chile has no control over the price and must depend on the whims of the international market . Low prices in 1971-72 dealt a cruel blow to the nation 's economy , but the rising prices in 1973 were ' a welcome relief to economic planners . On the other hand , Chile of course does control its production and that rose during the Allende years . Chile Economic News ( March 15 ) ccalculated copper output as 571.3 thousands of metric tons in 1970 and 593.0 in 1972 , a rise despite the strikes of managerial and white-collar personnel at the mines . Even so harsh a critic , of the Allende government as William Buckley , Jr . recognized a significant rise in copper production in 1971 . The economic successes of the Allende government do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those transition years when Chile attempted to move from capitalism to socialism . The successes are mentioned here because they tend to be neglected , and no final judgment of Allende can be made , without considering them . A rather backhanded acknowledgment that the Popular Unity government achieved some increased production came from no other source than Admiral Jos ? Toribio Merino , member of the military junta which overthrew Allende : " Chile is bankrupt and destroyed and not because it has n't been producing . It 's bLkrupt because its production was plundered and stolen by thieves . " In that conclusion the admiral hardly provides a scientific explanation of the new system of distribution of goods instituted by the Allende government , but at least he doesnot rely on the oft-repeated and questionable charge that all production fell during the Allende years . Instead of complaining of dwindling production , the middle and upper classes might have come closer to reality if they had complained of distribution , for the goods were no longer flowing uninterruptedly into the homes of the privileged . They were having to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They never became accustomed to that new distribution and whined incessantly of the hardships that Chile ( read , the middle and upper classes ) suffered . The international press repeated their complaints , seldom bothering to verify them . Meanwhile , greater numbers of Chileans at the bottom of the economic scale enjoyed the benefits of the new distribution system , but their voices of gratitude never reached the foreign press media . See " Reporting on Chile : What the Press Leaves Out " by John Pollock , ' The Nation , January 29 . More than economics can explain the strong support Allende received . He opened the doors of government to the participation of the less advantaged groups . They identified with their President and for the first time felt themselves part of the governing process . Allende initiated a vigorously independent foreign policy , one often at odds with Latin America 's patron , the United States . As one of his first acts in office , he established diplomatic relations with Cuba . Castro paid an extended visit to Chile in late 1971 . Quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That foreign policy struck a new note of independence for Chile , one pleasing to the nationalists . Allende 's achievements are all the more impressive when one realizes the bitter opposition of the middle and upper classes , a combined group which composed no more than 30 per cent of the population , but a potent minority , since it , monopolized the professions as well as the high technical and bureaucratic jobs , and was thus in a strategic position to sabotage the efforts of the Socialist government . Allende 's foes wielded their potent weapon effectively . A vocal group , they took advantage of their extensive international contacts . Their opinions always found sympathy among the international , media , there being a , worldwide bond among middle classes haunted by the specter of social change . Those privileged groups called on the military to intervene in order ? to halt Chile 's democratic march ' toward socialism . Presidential elections were too far away for them to wait , and anyway there was always the recurrent and very real fear they might again lose at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act for them . Called into action and disregarding forty years of tradition , the military bombed its own capital , killed its own President , and shot its fellow citizens . It could not have done that in the name of democracy ; it could not have done so in the name of the constitution . More likely it was carried out in the name of fear , fear of change . The question inevitably arises as to the role , if any , of the United States in those tragic events . Washington , following standard practice , disclaims any involvement in Chile , although it never attempted to disguise its dis- r like of Allende . Yet a pattern of U.S. behavior , has emerged , as starkly evident in Chile , 1970-73 , as it was in , Brazil , 1961-64 . While bringing pressure to bear on the economy , the United States wooed and won the military . Financial aid to Chile stopped after Allende took , office . Further , under wessure from the United States , the World Bank , the Export-Import Bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chileans . Simultaneously , the huge multinational corporations harassed the Allende government through such tactics as bringing suits against Chile in European courts to prevent or delay the unloading and sale , of Chilean ex-ports , principally copper . Those pressures , governmental ' and private , severely strained the Chilean economy . However , U.S. aid to the Chilean armed forces never abated . Military hardware and technicians continued to flow in . The top brass visited the United States and the Panama Canal Zone for training . Those junkets exposed key military leaders to ideas which had little or nothing to do with Chilean realities . The ideology of Fort Leavenworth , Kan. and in the counterinsurgency and guerrilla warfare schools in the Panama Canal Zone clouded their vision of Latin American needs and desires . They learned there to understand the U.S. struggle to thwart communism much more than the need for change in their own country . In fact , through some twisted logic , change and ' communism become synonymous . Sadly , to the degree the officer class becomes internationally minded they also become anti-national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? the bloody coup and the events leading , up to it is relevant , it actually becomes secondary  --  the principal military leaders had already equated , their nation 's interests with those of the United States . It blasted the constitutional and democratic government out of office , and implanted yet one more military dictatorship in Latin America . Gen. Augusto Pinochet who took command of the military , junta fits into a familiar mold : , he has been several times to ' the ' U.S. Southern Command schools in the Panama Canal Zone and has served as , military attache in Washington. , The U.S. press lauded him as an intellectual ( he had written a geography book ) , a quiet , nonpolitical general , a family ' man , a devout Roman Catholic . ( Thoe with good memories will recall that this is exactly what the press said in 1964 about Gen. Humberto Castelo Branco , the military dictator who replaced Brazil 's constitutional President . ) But a deeper look into the biography of this religious , intellectual , nonpolitical , family general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which toppled Chilean democracy . General ? Pinochet was a member of , the so-called ' Nazi cell of the Chilean Army . He commanded the troops which , fired on  --  and killed  --  striking workers in 1967 . He is the general who warned , " The army 's duty is to kill . " He is directly culpable for the death of the President of Chile , Salvador Allende . He broke his sacred oath to uphold the government and constitution of Chile . ' Such is the man who claims to be concerned with the development of Chile and the restoration of the democracy he has just destroyed . The military , uprising in Chile on September 11 is the most significant event to occur in Latin America since 425 Fide/ Castro entered Havana in 1959 . Those concerned with Latino America 's perennial problems of dependency , monoculture , latifundias , underdevelopment and poverty closely watched Chile 's democratic efforts to solve them . In Latin America 's struggle for change , modernization and developthent , Allende 's program offered reforin as the viable alternative to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the necessary changes to solve Latin America 's problems . By blocking the road to reform , the Chilean military , in alliance with the frightened middle and upper classes , proved that at least on this occasion it could not , and the depressing conclusion that one might draw from this sad lesson is that in Latin America change by reform is impossible . Henceforth , those who advocate reform as the means of change will find their arguments weakened , if not untenable . And to the degree that the case for reform becomes discredited , revolution emerges as Latin America 's most viable road to change . Democracy , freedom and reform in Latin America suffered a staggering blow on September 11 in Chile . ' The repercussions will be felt throughout the next generation . IE                     