@@493952

titre tout a fait politique ; je n'aime ni la femme ni le jeu " ? " I am a completely political being ; I like neither women nor sport " ? and he too ended in thinking of humans as just cannon fodder . But even I had no conception of the depths of evil , or the extent , Hitler would go to in the mass murder of whole peoples : Jews , gypsies , Slays . The anti-Semitism was obsessional madness , but it was widespread in Germany and Austria ; Hitler was infected with it in his youth in Vienna . The widow of the poet Edwin Muir , in her remarkable auto ? biography , comments on the wicked nonsense talked about the Jews in those interwar years in Austria and Bavaria . That was one terrible victory Hitler won at least ? and how much to Germany 's loss ! Haffner points out one result of the loss of her scientists : Germany did not get the atomic bomb . Hitler would have had no hesitation about dropping it . The appetite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will to power grew with all the triumphs handed to him on a platter by the feebleness of his op ? ponents . But the emphasis on will ? as against common-sense empiricism ? is deeply embedded in German phil ? osophy , that mirror of the German soul , so penetratingly analyzed in San ? tayana 's Egotism and German Philosophy , one of the symptomatic books of our time . Hitler displayed that abnormal concentration on will as against reason , the reliance on and appeal to the unconscious ? hence his intuitive powers . " I move forward with the certainty of a somnambulist , " he said ? until he walked over the edge of the precipice , his whole people with him . The value of Haffner 's analysis con ? sists not . only in new information and insights , but in the questions he raises , the pros and cons of Hitler 's enormous decisions , the opportunities he missed . After all , he came so very near to winning the game in Europe . In 1940 , after the fall of France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would have isolated Britain and made it difficult for her to continue the war . Or if he had not attacked Russia ? Or , even if he had conciliated Britain after Munich , he might have gotten Danzig for nothing and neutralized Poland . He was , in the end , after his appalling career of trickery , lies , and murder , cheated of victory by the British guarantee to Poland ; the Foreign Office called it " catching the last bus . " Henceforward he never could free himself from the entanglement of Britain . But the results of it ! The appalling impact on our time ! Haffner is very penetrating in reckoning them up , including the result for Germany , deprived of a quarter of her territory and divided from top to bottom . Churchill always called the war " an unnecessary war " : Hitler could have been stopped in his tracks , only he had such feeble opponents to deal with inside Germany as well as in Chamberlain and the appeasers . I have a heretical thought , put to me by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe could not live with a Almost a century ago , James Bonar opened his biography of Malthus with the statement that he was the " best abused man of his age . " It is a claim that is all too easily documented , Carlyle , Coleridge , Hazlitt , Dickens , Disraeli , Marx , and assorted other contem ? poraries agreeing on little save their hearty detestation of " Parson Malthus " and of his infamous doctrine ? " a repulsive blasphemy , " as Engels put it , " against man and nature . " The present biographer of Malthus , the eminent demographer and sociologist , William Petersen , describes some of the " minor quibbles and gross misunderstandings " to which Malthus was subject , correcting such blatant errors of fact as Marx 's assertion that the author of the theory of population had taken the " monastic vow of celibacy , " or the more common charge that the parson who denied to the poor the blessings of a family had himself sired an unconscionable number of children-11 girls , according to a recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than a parson by vocation , and the father of only three children . ) The bulk of Petersen 's defense , however ? and his book is avowedly that ? lies in a careful analysis of Malthus 's work , his theory of population especially but also his economic principles . He has succeed ? ed so admirably in this task that one can hardly understand why contemporaries were so exercised , why they so willfully misinterpreted and vilified a doctrineunited Germany . Perhaps the war , which may have been historically necessary to reduce her to size , was more winnable against a megalomaniac , an evil genius who made such colossal mistakes , than it would have been against the professionals of the German General Staff . Petersen rightly points out , for exam ? ple , that much of the misinformation came from a confusion between the first edition of the Essay on Population , pub ? lished in 1798 , and the revised edition of 1803 . And he deplores the fact that critics have persisted in focusing their attention on that first edition ? quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were to be judged by his master 's thesis rather than the revised product of his mature years . The first edition had been intended , in part , as a refutation of Godwin , Con ? dorcet , and others who predicted the inevitable progress of mankind toward a state of near-perfectibility . That sanguine prospect was belied , Malthus said , by the " law of population " : the tendency of population to increase geometrically while the food supply increased only arithmetically . What kept the population in balance with sub ? sistence was a series of checks : " positive checks " ( starvation , disease , war , infan ? ticide ) , which reduced the population after it came into existence , and " preventive checks " ( delay of marriage , restraint of passion , and forms of sexual intercourse that did not result in procreation ) , which inhibited the in ? crease of population before it occurred . The effect of both was " misery and vice , " vice in cases of infanticide or promiscuity , misery in cases of starva @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curb the sexual passion . This ineluctable combination of mis ? ery and vice made illusory not only the perfectibilist doctrine of Godwin and Condorcet but also the more modest idea of progress advanced by Adam Smith . An essential part of Smith 's doctrine , Malthus pointed out , was the " connection " between the " wealth of nations " and the " happiness and comfort of the lower orders of society . " But that connection was dubious , especially under the conditions posited by Smith . To the extent to which the wealth of nations depended on industrialism , as Smith had claimed , it had an adverse effect on the lower classes , since it encouraged the growth of population without a commensurate increase in the food supply . The second edition of the Essay was less deterministic and , by the same token , less pessimistic . Three times the length of the first , it contained much new material ? " empirical " studies , as we would now say , of various primitive and modern societies ? as well as a significant revision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on popula ? tion : " moral restraint . " Unlike the restraint described in the first edition , moral restraint was a delay of marriage " not followed by irregular gratifi ? cations " and thus not attended by misery or vice . The inclusion of this new check made it possible to contemplate the possibility of some measure of improvement in the condition of the lower classes , some " mitigation of the evils " ( as the revised title put it ) which would otherwise result from the law of population . Concentrating as he does on this revised edition , Petersen can justly claim that Malthus was not the reductivist , determinist , and catastrophist he is ( and was at the time ) made out to be . Where the first edition had man responding , in animal fashion , only to the two biological drives of food and sex , the revised edition , with the introduction of moral restraint , gave him an ethical and social dimension , making him a free , moral agent and thus the instrument of his own redemption . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ porary criticism of Malthus derived not from the law of population itself , which in its revised form was entirely plausi ? ble , but from the social policies that he took to be the logical corollaries of that law ? most notably his proposal to abolish the poor laws . Poor relief , Malthus argued , by enabling the poor to marry and have children even if they had no independent means of support , and doing so without increasing the supply of food did a disservice not only to those receiving relief but to the entire body of poor . Since the same amount of food had to be distributed among that increased population , the share of every individual was diminished ? and most unjustly diminished in the case of those who worked long and hard for a living . Malthus 's announcement that " depen ? dent poverty ought to be held dis ? graceful " came as a shock to a generation accustomed to think , with William Pitt ( who was , incidentally , a disciple of Adam Smith ) , that relief was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his views on relief , Malthus was unquestionably , as Petersen makes clear , a far more serious and complicated thinker than is often thought ? nothing like the conventional image of the laissez-faireist . Like Smith ( himself a not altogether conventional proponent of laissez-faire ) , he advocated a state-supported system of education for the lower classes ; unlike Smith he favored the retention of the corn laws , largely because he regarded agriculture as more important than industry in mitigating the effects of the law of population ; he recommended extending suffrage to give the people that " respectability and importance " that came from " equal laws and the possession of some influence in the framing of them " ; and he supported legislation outlawing child labor in factories . If any labels will do for him , Petersen 's " Liberal-Conservative " is probably as close as one can get to characterizing a thinker who in fact defied all labels . ( That " liberal " and " conservative " are anachronistic is , paradoxically , helpful , for it serves to remind us how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is missing from this scholarly , thoughtful , and lucid study ? some explanation of the extraordinary passion generated by Malthus 's Essay . In trying to account for this passion one is driven back to that first edition . Petersen admits that Malthus never entirely resolved the differences between the editions , that there were " loose ends " in the theory in its revised form that stemmed from his original thesis . But it may be argued that there was something more seriously amiss than loose ends , that to the extent to which the revised theory allowed for the operation of " moral restraint , " the theory itself ceased to be either compel ? ling or novel , and that contemporaries ( and therefore historians ) were justified in reading into that revised version the hidden agenda , so to speak , of the first edition . Walter Bagehot put it well : " In its first form the Essay on Population was conclusive as an argument , only it was based on untrue facts ; in its second form it was based on true facts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is so , one must take more seriously the fact that Malthus 's quarrel was not only with such utopians as Godwin and Condorcet , but also , and more importantly , with Adam Smith . By 1798 , when the first edition appeared , utopianism was no longer in vogue , so that it could not have been the refuta ? tion of that mode of thought that attracted attention . What was then in favor was the doctrine of Adam Smith , a doctrine which made the welfare of the lower classes a condition of the wealth of nations ? of economic growth , as we would now say . Today it is fashionable to make much of the few passages in the Wealth of Nations suggesting that factory workers would suffer some intellectual and moral deterioration as a result of the mechanical nature of their work ( which was why Smith was so insistent upon the need for education ) . But at the time Smith was read ( and properly so , considering the main thrust of his work ) as a meliorist and progressive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Malthus disputed ? explicitly and in both editions . The law of population , as Malthus understood it , told as effective ? ly against Smith 's theory of improve ? ment as against Godwin 's theory of perfectibility . ( It is also significant that while Malthus wanted to abolish the poor laws , Smith wanted only to abolish the corn laws ; his only objection to the poor laws was the law of settlement which tied the laborer to the parish of his birth . ) " If only Malthus , " Keynes wrote , " instead of Ricardo , had been the parent stem from which nineteenth-century economics proceeded , what a much wiser and richer place the world would be today ! " That statement was made about Malthus 's Principles of Political Economy . But it was the Essay on Population October 1979 marked the confluence of two of the most notable anniversaries in the history of modern America , the 50th of the great Wall Street crash and the 100th of the invention of the electric light . There is a relationship of conse ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edison 's feats in developing not only the light bulb but the accompanying power plants and delivery systems brought American homes , businesses , and factories into the electrical age . By 1929 , at the time of the heralded 50th anniversary , the country was also on the threshhold of the electronic age . Radio was a reality in millions of homes , and experimenters that made Malthus not only the best abused but also the most influential thinker of his age . The idea of a " surplus population " condemned , by the im ? mutable laws of nature , to misery and vice gripped the imagination of contem ? poraries , creating a climate of opinion receptive to Ricardo 's " iron laws " and the " dismal science . " One is tempted to paraphrase Keynes : " If only Smith , instead of Malthus , had been the parent stem from which 19th-century eco ? nomics ( and social thought ) proceeded , what a much wiser and richer place the world would be today ! " Gertrude Himmelfarb Gertrude Himmelfarb teaches history at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the author , recently , of On Liberty and Liberalism ( Knopf ) . that year successfully transmitted television across the continent . The burgeoning technological civiliza ? tion that the Edison celebration marked created glittering expectations . The future of technology and the economy seemed limitless . These expectations helped fuel the spectacular boom of the stock market in 1928 and 1929 . Then came the inevitable crash . It was an indication that while America had advanced at breathtaking speed in technology , its political economy was still that of an earlier age , inadequate to counter the maladjustments of the modern industrial order . Now , 50 years later , the excitement over the Edison commemoration and the technical advances it symbolized has long since been forgotten . The great crash remains a vivid memory only for senior citizens , but has made such an impression upon ensuing generations that it is one of the enduring traumas in our national heritage . The exhilaration and tragedy of the boom and the bust have taken on the aura of myth , with behind them the persistent question , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ books now appear ? ing ( or reappearing ) on the phenomena of 1929 gives any searching forecast , nor is that the purpose . Rather , two are entertaining narrative social histories , and the third is a new edition of a classic analysis . The Day the Bubble Burst by Gordon Thomas and Max Morgan-Witts is a large-scale study by two of the most successful producers of books about disasters . They have gathered some 14.5 million words of materials , spanning books , contemporary writings , manuscript collections , and numerous interviews , through the labors of a sizable staff plus the international facilities of Readers ' Digest . In the familiar form of the disaster genre they cut back and forth among sketches of their numerous protagonists until at length they all come together in common calamity at the end of October 1929 . The cast is so large that readers will have trouble keeping it straight , but the effect is powerful as they tell the stories of some small victims , but primarily of an elite preoccupied with ever intensifying speculation . Most of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had made large fortunes in the market and were restlessly , cease ? lessly seeking still greater gains . Typical of this number was William Crapo Durant , who with his millions from General Motors ( he was its founder ) , made still more money in a pool that drove up RCA stock and creamed off the profits at the expense of latecomers , mostly small speculators . Yet Durant firmly believed in the durability of the boom , and even paid an unexpected visit to President Hoover to try to prevent him from putting a damper on it . By 1929 numbers of small investors had caught the Wall Street fever . Some of them even came in person to gawk and become rich . Among the well-to-do the market became an obsession . The fever spread to Europe and East Asia . When Edith Stone visited Paris and Berlin in the summer of 1929 she found                     