@@493580

Booted from Britain London Home Secretary Merlyn Rees reluctantly rose in the House of Commons recently to explain why he had made an unprecedented decision to deport summarily two American writers from Great Britain . Rees read an evasive statement that contained no facts because of " security reasons . " Furious Labour MPs shouted and jumped to their feet despite repeated threats of removal from the Speaker of the House . One Labour MP went so far as to withdraw his vote from the government 's slim majority . Rees was forced to endure the approval of contented Conservative MPs who had consistently criticized his liberal policies during his two years as secretary of state for Northern Ireland . The Tories seemed to enjoy the fighting on the other side of the chamber as they mumbled sotto voce " hear-hear ! " Rees ' statement did say that the departure of the two Americans , Phillip Agee , the ex-CIA agent and author of Inside the Company : CIA Diary , and Mark Hosenball , a reporter for a London daily and a contributor to the Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The Home Secretary had invoked a section of the Immigration Act of 1971 in expelling the two journalists . A clause in the act allows him to deport any non-patrial without giving any excuse beyond " security reasons . " There is no trial or formal hearing involved ( despite the fact that trials concerning sensitive material can be conducted in camera in Britain ) ; no enumeration of charges whatsoever , no confrontation by an accuser ; no right of cross examination ; no right to appeal . The journalists will never be told why they are being banished from the country in which they had both chosen to live . The relevant clause of the Immigration Act was used only once before , two years ago when an Italian worker was held in jail without charges for five weeks before public pressure forced the government to release him . At the age of 25 , Ohio-born Mark Hosenball has been recognized in London as a professional investigative journalist , something that is quite difficult to achieve in Great Britain for some of the same reasons that lie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information is hard to come by in Britain . Secrecy is the rule . It is not surprising that there are relatively few investigative reporters on London papers , or that many of the more notable members of this group are foreign-born . A foreign-born journalist can be more effective in many areas in Britain because he is ostensibly classless and is invariably endowed with a large reserve o Americans in particular tend not to be haunted by the atavistic respect for secrecy that makes a law like the Immigration Act plausible . Since Agee and Hosenball 's crimes are not known , the press here has filled the vacuum with a plethora of countervailing theories . Some say that it had to do with collaboration between the two men to expose British secret agents . This theory has been fueled by the fact that naming agents is Agee 's business , and by confirmation from an editor of Counterspy magazine in Washington that Hosenball was indeed " one of their English group . " Both men say that they have n't worked together . Hosenball does not work for Counterspy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations . The most logical theory to date , especially concerning Hosenball , seems to be that it was all an ill-timed and monumental blunder . Many believe that the deportations are the result of directives from Washington , but whether the move was prompted by the CIA or was simply a Kafkaesque bureaucratic error should not obscure the sad meaning of the whole affair for the United Kingdom . It is indicative of the defensiveness and loss of self-confidence that afflicts the country . Britain is a nation under seige ? from IRA terrorists , IMF eggheads , international currency brokers , militant trade unionists , right-wing agitators on race , shadowy Labour politicians with menacingly left-wing tendencies and even the two-boat Icelandic navy . It all seems to be weighing heavily on the mood in the country and upon James Callaghan 's government . The resulting insecurity has insidiously magnified the role of security services . Though security operations have continually made themselves felt in Northern Ireland , now occupied by a 15,000-man force , the ramifications of the paranoia had not been so dramatic before the deportation notices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nature of their work ? not from an emerging nation or from a totalitarian one ? but from the bastion of liberal democracy . It is unbelievable thatthe large American journalistic community in England has remained silent while the British press has , from many quarters and from no identifiable political position , rallied to help Agee and Hosenball and expressed outrage at this affront . Bernard Nossiter , the London correspondent of The Washington Post , is something of a resident trans-Atlantic pundit here . The Post 's mantle lends him a pontifical standing with the British press and public . He often appears on television to comment on American affairs . Nossiter is also president of the Association of American Correspondents in London , a group with 173 members representing 40 major US publications . It seemed logical that Nossiter , of all the American journalists in London , would have been eager to stand up for his colleagues . At the beginning of this year , he caused a minor fury himself over his publication in the Post of information concerning the Secret Intelligence Service , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nossiter made sweeping observations , including one that " a remarkable number of British journalists abroad are reputed to be SIS Secret Intelligence Service officers . " He was attacked in the British press for endangering the lives of foreign correspondents while failing to provide any proof or further identification . Nossiter also contended in a London weekly that the SIS " stage manages coups , burgles safes and blackmails the vulnerable . " If one assumes that Nossiter did have proof and corroboration of his allegations , then it is safe to assume further that he was conducting research in as sensitive an area as that in which Agee and Hosenball are assumed to have trespassed . As president of the Association of American Correspondents , Nossiter was asked if the organization planned to circulate a petition supporting his colleagues . He replied that the organization had never taken a political stand and that its function was mainly social . The organization is politically powerful , however , in that it is taken quite seriously by the British political leaders who address the group at its monthly meetings . Nossiter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sound out their feelings . Two days after the deportation notices had been served , he said , " I have canvassed our executive committee and various other senior types , and the overwhelming view is no , it 's not something we want to get involved in . " He went on to divulge his " inside " story on why Hosenball and Agee were to be deported . " Incidentally , " he said at the end of the conversation , " I do n't expect to see any of this in The New Republic . " In fact , the executive committee in London was not canvassed . Of the 11 people listed as members of the executive committee or as officers , three had been transferred to other countries , four were out of town at the time on assignment , and the four other journalists were not contacted by Nossiter . The deportations in Britain represent only one threat to the nature and efficacy of overseas news reporting . The attendant silence on the part of influential American journalists in London is another . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World countries have been pushing proposals to legitimize government control of the press . Western delegations have been outraged . But in the birthplace of civil freedoms , censorship by deportation may accomplish similar goals .                     