@@479529

SCIENCE IS THE INTELLECTUAL FATHER figure of our age , answering our deepest yearnings for justice and authority . Science complements democracy , for the scientific truth is forbidden to be aristocratic and private . A statement not verifiable in the parliament of the laboratory is without rank or influence , a mere subjective opinion , a disenfranchised effusion of a dream . Until recently science had no time for the kind of truth that gave itself only to a favored few . People who subjected themselves to the disciplines of Yoga , Zen , or transcendental meditation , or attempted to stimulate ESP and other psi phenomena , people who wistfully , sometimes fanatically , studied black or white magic , shamanism , astrology , the tarot , spirit healing , reincarnation all these were barely taken seri-ously by orthodox scientists . But in the past few years , as the numbers of these people grew and their claims became more insistent , science with an impatient sigh moved to take note . Psychics and physicists now collaborate in attaching EEG devices to the earlobes of Yogins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ festoon the flesh of healers and mediums ; the etheric aura , which used to hover shyly around the shadier fringes of occultism , is now stalked by a method developed in Russia . Kirlian photography . Can you trap a ghost with a machine ? And if you ca n't , what does this say about ghosts ? Ormachines ? Having demythologized the world . are we now in the process of remythologizing it ? If we satisfy ourselves that plants can feel , and there are tremors of consciousness even in rocks , will science have smuggled God back into matter like contraband cargo ? Or is this all a subtle Oriental revenge for the Western technological takeover of the East : meteorology replaces the shaman , and in reprisal Tibetan Buddhism infiltrates Detroit , gnawing away at materialism like a psychic termite . Volt SOME YEARS NOW , a husband-and-wife 1 ' pair of researchers , R.E.L. Masters and Dr. Jean Houston , supported by grants from a variety of foundations , have been pursuing a line of investigation that provokes these questions in a particularly sensitive way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a large house set in rambling grounds about forty miles outside the city , they have undertaken a wide-ranging program of research into those experiences that have been variously called " trances , " " subjective realities , " and " altered states of consciousness . " While others explore one area of this field at a time -- biofeedback and voluntary control of involuntary processes , perhaps , or healing powers ? Masters and Houston are exploring a whole spectrum of potential human capacities , making a contemporary chart of the microcosm like psychic Copernicans. 68 I am expanding , expanding . . . and I can read secrets of the universe and glimpse the forms of things . . . beautiful forms , mathematical forms .... This is the source of forms , the world of divine ideas , the creative source . . . . It is as if my mind were united with the mind of God . . . These words were taken down from a professor of theology while he was in what Masters and Houston call their " Altered States of Consciousness Induction Device , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ page ) . Ensconced in the cradle , subjects drift into trance in anywhere between two and twenty minutes . The trance is sometimes induced or deepened by suggestions , helped along by a presession talk from Jean Houston or RobThe Altered States of Consciousness Induction Device The ASCID , or " cradle , " was created by Robert Masters from clues gleaned from the history of witchcraft and possession states . Something very like it has been found by anthropologists in Dutch Guiana , where shamans take a symbolic journey as part of their initiation , suspended on a free-swinging platform . Masters ' platform is a triangular piece of metal , on which the subject stands , his back supported by a sheet of canvas stretched between two rods . Wide bands , adapted from car seat belts , clasp him around his chest , waist , thighs , and ankles . The whole contraption is suspended by a single link from the apex of a pyramid formed by four metal poles , which allows the platform to swing free about six inches above the ground . Every slight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twitch , sets the platform and its cargo twirling , rocking , and swaying . Goggles , padded around the edges for comfort , render him totally blind . As you watch a subject in trance in the cradle , you first notice his feet . A slight curling of the toes inside the shoes lifts the soles upward . The contraption sways . There is another movement , more pronounced . from the knees . They sag a little , but the straps support him . Suddenly he draws in his breath , a sharp hissing intake of air . Inside the restraining straps , his body tries to arch backward . He seems to be in pain . When he speaks , however , his tone is even . Later , he says there was nothing painful about it . He merely felt this sensation of energy , which was forcing its way through his body to his mind , where it would crystallize into an image . That was the moment when he arched backward , a moment of anticipation . ert Masters , preparing the subjects for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They may see galleries of vivid abstract shapes , or an endless vista of galaxies and universes ; they may revisit places on earth they went to long ago , or take off for lands that exist only in their fantasies . These experiences , when their subjects first related what happened in the cradle , immediately reminded Masters and Houston of the effects of psychotropic drugs . on which they had done some of the earliest research . The findings of that work are distilled in a book , Varieties of Psychedelic Experience , one of the standard texts on the subject and now in its fourteenth paperback printing . ) But there is an important difference . Whereas the chemical was its own master , creating kaleidoscopic effects as and when it willed , the cradle-induced experiences seemed to be more accessible to conscious guidance , more ordered ? in other words , more available for scientific study . The creative trance M ANY OF MASTERS ' AND HOUSTON 'S first sub- jects were artists . In one experiment they invited a woman , the writer of several popular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the cradle . She entered a trance state and was then told that she would experience a great variety of different things in a very short space of clock time . ( This condition is sometimes called AMP , or Accelerated Mental Process . A great deal of pioneering work on it was done in the Fifties by Linn Cooper and Milton Erickson . ) The subject was instructed to see a street . She was to walk down it slowly taking in all the noises , sights , and smells . After a while she would feel tired , and go into a little cabaret . There , while she was sitting at her table sipping a drink , a singer would come out and perform a few songs . She was to listen as long as she liked , commit some of the songs to memory , then leave . After a little less than two minutes of elapsed clock time , the subject raised her head , opened her eyes , and said , " Do you want to hear the songs ? " The songs she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Masters and Houston thought that perhaps she had already composed them , preconsciously , so they tried another experiment in which the writer went to a far country and listened to some primitive chanting . This time the song she brought back was quite unlike anything she had composed before . After these and several other experiments , she said , " I feel a little guilty , as if I 've been eavesdropping and did n't really create anything . But if I did n't create that music , who did ? " Ever since the ancient Greeks played to the Muses , artists have recorded their feelings of 69 being a channel for the words or sounds or shapes they create . When their Muse abandons them they are helpless , bereft , victims of a " block . " Masters and Houston asked a novelist who had been stuck for some months on the final chapter of a book to enter the cradle and imagine that he saw , unreeling before him like a movie , the end to his novel . He would hear the characters speak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to interfere ? merely to observe . He did so , and in the course of a series of experiments he observed four separate endings , one of which he incorporated into his book and delivered to his publishers . Among the most alluring and elusive states attained under the influence of psychedelic drugs is the experience of mystical union with the world soul , described by saints and prophets as salon : ? at-oneness with God . One of the subjects with whom Masters and Houston have worked ? without drugs ? is the theology professor whose words were quoted earlier . His special field was medieval mysticism , and in the course of his exploration of the worlds opened up by the trances he found himself entering the states of consciousness of those mystics and visionaries whose texts he was studying as a scholar . He applied the insights to his work . Recently , ' summing up what eventually became a program of research spread over three years , he commented ; " I think the people who wrotethese texts were in ecstatic states , and I think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this because I was reproducing the altered states of consciousness of the people who wrote the originals . . . . I feel that with the cradle experience I am actually doing research into the universal structures of consciousness . " Masters and Houston call these experiences " subjective realities , " and their cradle an " enabling device . " Other ages and other cultures have employed their own enabling devices ? mushrooms , fermented juices , chanting , whirling , dancing , fasting , exposure ? enabling one to do what , though ? I N ONE SENSE , ANYTHING that the mind has the power to conceive may become a subjective reality . " I believe , therefore it is . " One of the commonest experiences associated with intense subjective realities is for the perceptions to become sharper , more highly tuned . ( In these cases , says Masters , " we do n't know whether we 're heightening the image component of sensation , or the sensitivity of the sense organs themselves . It 's impossible to say in any sensing of reality what part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ) Synesthesia takes place ? people hearing colors , seeing sounds . Mental processes accelerate ; the subject feels he can learn faster , concentrate for longer periods . Time , as in the experiment with the composer , becomes relativized . Mythical figures resembling Jungian archetypes such as the Wise Old Man or the Shadow or the Anima float into view . Subjects may feel that they can leave their bodies and visit distant places , or other dimensions , as in the occultists ' claims of astral projection . Shamanistic and mediumistic powers may be experienced or ? as with the theology professor ? religious and mystical visions . The simplest of all enabling devices is the spoken word . More and more , as their research continued , Masters and Houston came to rely on verbal inductions . These have proved just as effective as the cradle or audio-visual environments in leading the subjects into the worlds of subjective realities . As time went on , Masters and Houston developed a variety of enabling " games . " Some of these games are their own invention ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general area ; a few are taken almost intact from the exercises of esoteric orders in other cultures . All have one feature ' in common ? they require no mechani cal devices , only words . Ideally , the games are meant to be played in peaceful surroundings , in a group of about ten people , one of whom acts as Guide . The Guide , whose role may rotate among the players , provides the inductions ( and reentries ) , directs or assists players , assigns tasks . Playing sessions last anywhere from a couple of hours to a week . In the experimental stages , Masters and Houston , themselves acting as Guides , would start with the simplest possible forms of altered states of consciousness ? the reliving of a childhood dream or a vivid pleasant experience from the past ; from there they would take the players on extended field trips into the phenomenology of subjective realities . E VENTI1ALLY MASTERS AND HOUSTON ar-ranged the games in a series , starting with the simplest and gradually reaching an advanced level at which the players @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elementary exercise might involve the Guide playing a piece of music and suggesting to the players that they will respond to it through all their senses in an integrated , orchestrated way . After playing this game one player reported feeling the music as something liquid and glowing , very cold , as if it were spilling from her head to her toes . " Then I felt as though it became a part of my blood , as though I were just a sea of color , every color under the sun . " For Masters and Houston , such play is a way of allowing people to exercise a part of their minds that is usually untouched by ordinary education ? the image-producing. creative side , the side that goes beyond the obvious " logical " solution to a problem and contains , perhaps , potentials for self-healing , for intensified pleasure , for heightened intuition . But over and above their educational or therapeutic application , the games raise some delicate social and ethical questions . If an alternate world is available to anyone by the simple expedient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , what becomes of the world we find so enthralling that it consumes all our time and energies , our " real " life ? If these are games , what is serious ? Asked whether these games could tune people out and leave them buzzing like flies in the webs of their own fantasies , Jean Houston says no . On the contrary , she sees them enhancing the lives that people live most of the time , and even transforming them . Nevertheless , " there is a dramatic necessity for man to have quite a new image of himself if he is to survive . " She shares a concern of many scientists and economists : infinite growth into a finite world wo n't go . Meanwhile , the majority of people in the West live in a state of enchantment with material objects . The disenchanted few are considered freaks . Therefore , any impulse , movement , or collective idea that shifts this imbalance is , in an evolutionary sense , adaptive . The earth has limits ; the mind , apparently , does not . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psyche than in the planet 's pathetically thin crust . I Y THE LOGIC OF THIS POSITION , the work at ni the Foundation for Mind Research shades inevitably into something much more didactic . In the past two years , Masters and Houston , aided by a large new grant , have begun what is really a training program for a new type of being , a microcosmic teaching system in which they are trying to find out whether it is possible to do more than pay occasional visits to the world of subjective realities . Can people live there ? Can they combine them with the realities of life in the other , so-called " real " or consensual world ? In moving to answer such questions , Jean Houston has reduced the number of her subjects to nine . Their ages range from thirty-three to fifty-three , and they are people of some eminence in their respective professions ? a doctor , a psychiatrist , a science writer and editor , several people in the academic world . Masters has reduced his subjects even more drastically ? to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ potentials of the people involved ? to find out , for example , whether a person could choose a state of consciousness most conducive for a particular goal , or whether work produced in trance differs significantly from work produced in a " normal " state . Masters puts his subjects into long trances , sometimes for days at a time . Over that time , the depth of the trance will vary , partly as a result of suggestions from Masters , partly by the subject 's own choice . For Masters , a great deal of the work consists in sitting with people , paying total attention to them for hours at a time , watching every move of their bodies and every flicker of expression . ( In these states of intense concentration , a rapport which parapsychologists would call telepathic often grows between observer and subject . Masters is interested but cautious . He feels everyone in their field has an obligation to do a certain amount of psi research , whether they believe in the phenomenon or not . But it is a very small part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work . ) The subject who has spent the longest period in trance thus far is a young woman in her mid-twenties , an artist by profession , who has been sending back a series of dispatches from her trance world for many months . These seem to describe a lengthy initiation process , in which the woman is being instructed in a symbol system whose components are apparently suggested by her background as a religion major , and include deities of ancient Egypt . A statuette of the Egyptian goddess Sekhmet , which Masters and Houston own , makes many entrances into the psychic drama the subject is living through . Since she is an artist , she can reproduce what she sees , and so her reports are illustrated with a portfolio of line drawings showing her " instructors " in manifold forms , sometimes with tails , or with flames issuing from their mouths , with spiny protuberances or dorsal fins . Each of the subjects who spends a day , sometimes two or three days at a stretch , every week with either Robert Masters or Jean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same , the results they report echo each other remarkably . " A cleansing of the senses " is how the science writer puts it ; according to the psychiatrist , it is a " heightened apperception " ; for others it is " veils falling away . " One of the subjects . a dancer and actress , has been exploring the physical expression of energy and the way physical images can be used to communicate . She has been encouraged to witness , in trance , scenarios of extended dances and she has found herself being led into experiences similar to those of the dervishes , whose whirling dances are said to induce sensations of magical flight . Thoughts beyond words HE PSYCHI4TRIST trained as a classical Freudian , has been confronted with symbols that never made an appearance in his six-year training analysis , symbols which he believes are close to Jungian archetypes and which haVe a numinous quality for him . He regards the work he is doing as a very long project , still nascent , but with ultimate application to the training of psychiatrists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mind of their patients . In his own work , he has adapted the techniques of Jean Houston to his special needs , so he can put himself into an altered state ( though he points out that since we do not , strictly speaking , know what consciousness is , it is hard to say what its altered state would he ) . For him an altered state means , on the simplest level , an increase in sensitivity that enables him to pick up a greater range of nuances in the way his patients speak and behave . The science editor and writer , as he describes the inner theater that unfolds before him during his sessions , feels himself opened out , his options increased , able to construct new models of scientific thinking for himself . Always the subjects return to the importance of images , the way in which thoughts or ideas present themselves in nonlinear , nonrational forms , as composite and mythlike fantasy scenes , collaborating with each other to form drama or rituals whose meaning is multidimensional and ill-suited to words . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even more inchoate . " I 've heard repeatedly from subjects in trance , " says Masters , " that the next form of communication will be an exchange of energy , that thinking with energy is a much higher thought process than thinking with words or pictures . " The body , in other words , is the antenna for new ideas before they reach consciousness . " Energy " is , of course , a blank-check word , to be filled in and cashed for something more exact when the psychic events it purports to describe are better understood . Meanwhile , Masters and Houston are as tongue-tied as the chess grand masters who are asked to describe the mental processes , bypassing logic , that permit them to complete their staggeringly complicated calculations : these chess players can only speak of " something happening " in a certain area of the board , a feeling of energy out there . It seems that , faced with such experiences , the mind must resort to kinesthetic imagery in order to convey its obscure transactions . Do only good spirits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give access ? Where are the demons and monsters that waylay travelers on similar journeys in legend and psychoanalysis ? Are there no nightmares ? Masters and Houston attribute the comparative rarity of negative or menacing images in the reports of their subjects to the precautions they take to screen people : as far as possible , they look for healthy individuals who neither need nor are looking for therapy . The subjects have good expectations of the experiences before they embark on them , and they are convinced that no hidden danger , no Cyclops or Fafnir , lies in wait for them . This is not to say that psychic depths hold no terrors , but that under certain circumstances , given a sufficiently experienced guide and a well-prepared subject , the techniques developed by Masters and Houston can be used to enhance rather than upset a person 's psychic equilibrium . Masters and Houston have no idea , at this stage , whether what they are doing changes the functioning of the brain in any way . What is more likely to change , they feel , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of something in the person that Jean Houston refers to as his entelechy . " " Entelechy " is a word that connotes the perfect realization of what is latent . Its mirror image is the Hindu concept of dharrna , the idea that for each individual there is only one way leading to perfection ? his way . To seek for self-realization by the wrong way is as frustrating and disastrous as never to seek at all . Ultimately one is justified only in aspiring to an ideal that conforms to one 's own inner reality . T IS THAT INNER REALITY postulated by entele- Ichy that many people find so hard to come to grips with today . For its sake the rich go to analysts and the poor change jobs , the young ransack the treasures of the East while the middle-aged take up the latest therapy . Some find their way ; most do n't . But in the trance-evoked dream worlds , say Masters and Houston , the entelechy finds a natural environment in which to express itself . The myth or symbol system that forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychic amniotic fluid for the embryonic self , The specific nature of that world is not important ? it can be ancient Egypt , space fiction , or modern China ; what is important is that this system establish itself . When that happens , a person can revisit this private world and learn its customs , as Swedenborg returned to his Christian heaven to discourse with angels . And meanwhile something is growing or evolving in the chrysalis of that alternate world , something that may eventually help the person realize in practice what he has a capacity to be . The concept of entelechy allows an individual to ask what the meaning of his life is ? a question that positivist philosophy declares metaphysical and therefore illegitimate . Science , by itself , does not dispose of the problem of meaning . It does not even pose it , for , according to the classical scientific view , the cosmos is explicable without resort to notions of final cause or purposive design . If the cosmos is a machine , it has no meaning except to be . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an enthralling metaphor that may blind us to the fact that it answers only the question " How ? " and never the question " Why ? " If the universe is a machine and no more , the universe is absurd . Machines are made by somebody , for a purpose . Even toys are created to please . A machine that exists for no purpose is not even a toy ? unless we are to assume that the universe exists to amuse man , an echo of the Old Testament view , with the difference that man , as the only consciousness in a mechanistic universe , now sits on the throne previously reserved for God . The corollary of this idea is the gleeful realization that if the world is a toy , then it can be smashed like any other plaything . Objectivity , by reducing the world to the Other , finally turns the world into a garbage can , a wasteland . Samuel Beckett and T. S. Eliot , long before the admen , saw the possibilities of a disposable planet . From one , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mind of most people in Western society is already one of trance , but an extremely limited and self-defeating trance that shuts out all those other states that have traditionally been regarded as fruitful and beneficial for human growth . The numbing monotony of much of modern life , creating in people an unfeeling parody of the machines that were meant to liberate them , may well engender a need for another life , a separate reality , a need as fierce as any biological craving . Whether that craving manifests as a desperate search for God , as an anti-intellectual embrace of the frailest superstitions and the wispiest spiritual doctrines , or as orgiastic violence , its demands will not be satisfied until man wakes up from the cultural trance in which he lies , the best of his faculties dormant , dreaming that he is awake . In the fantasies of their subjects , which they feel are the precursors of new artistic images that will in turn actualize themselves as another form of being , Masters and Houston see a new hero figure constantly recurring . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand faces , " the individualist who suffers , dies , and is reborn , slaughtering and conquering along the way . Instead , he is Protean , capable of infinite changes in appearance and style , a magician , a Balthazar bringing gifts . He ruptures categories and confuses the senses , and in doing so he holds out the promise of fusion on a higher level . If such a hero were to become the model for the approaching age , he would probably not be the founder of a mass movement or the god of a new religion . He would be more elusive , more changeful than his predecessors . He would he a sorcerer who treats the external world and the internal world on equal terms , giving spirit to the former and flesh to the latter . He would be a master of paradox and a player of games , speaking a new language . His one prayer might be the lines of Blake :                     