@@487937

Earl Butz , U.S. Secretary of Agriculture , is about to take off for Rome as h'ead of the ; U.S. delegation to the World Food Conference . In his three years as Secretary , Butz has had to deal with the chronic American farm problem of st4us production and low farm income . In the same shortliaee years , he has been confronted with food shortages , soaring prices and complaints of the consuming public . Violent changes in world market demands for food crops , exacerbated by worldwide inflation , short grain crops in several large producing countries and the par lyzing effect of scandals in the Nixon administration ha made the conduct of agricultural policy like trying to pi a tent in a hurricane . arl Butz is a doctor of philosophy in agricultural economics , a Purdue University professor and dean , a former Assistant Secretary of Agriculture in the Eisenhower administration . He has a farming background and wide experience in agricultural affairs over the last forty years . He has close associations with agribusiness companies . On paper , he is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the job  --  assuming that the Secretary should be the advocUte of commercial farming in the government , as the Secretary of Labor is for union labor . Unfortunately for Butz , he has been called to serve in a time wh.n. the consumer and general public interests are weighing more and more heavily in agricultural decisions . From looking at his curriculum vitae , you might , also think he would be the most professional of Secretaries of Agriculture  --  concerned with facts and economic reasoning , undertaking careful research and analysis before making policy decisions . In practice , he has been the most politically partisan of Secretaries of Agriculture . 1 When Butz came into office in late 1971 , the prices of principal farm products were low . The 1971 giain harvests had been abundant , despite the withholding from production of about 60 million acres of cropland . The 1972 election was coming up and signs of discontent in important agricultural areas , were worrying President Nixon and Congresgonal Republicans . Secretary Butz charged onto the scene , proclaiming-4 that his main job was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rumor at the time that Butz volunteered himself to Nixon , claiming that he could win the farm vote for re-election of the President , in 1972 , and thereby pushed out his mild-mannered friend and former academic associate , Clifford Hardin , The rumor may not be true , but the sense of the story certainly is , and Butz made no bones about it . He said he would " fight like a steer " to raise farm prices , would " spend money like ' a drunken sailor " to boost farmers ' incomes . The year 1972 will be remembered for the most corrupting and disrupting Presidential campaign in almost two centuries of American political history . Butz pitched into it like a good GOP soldier . So far as is known , the i k-Department of Agriculture was not involved in ' Watergate ' related crimes and corruptions , but it was oriented toward the re-election operation as it never had been before . The drive to raise , farm prices and incomes was a major factor in the huge sale of grain to Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agricultural and food policies . Also , President Nixon was ( proudly displaying his d  --  tente with Russia as a reason for his re-electicn . Butz and his associates no doubt thought a big grain deal with Russia was good for the country , because it was good for the election of Richard Nixon . In fact , the Soviet grain deal turned out to be bad for the United States , because it depleted U.S. granaries at a time of rising food prices and reduced the ability of this country to help needy countries with food aid . It could have been a disaster if the 1973 grain crops had not set new records . ' More than 400 Million bushels of wheat were committed to Russia out of the supply available in 1972 ? almost a third of the national production . If the sale had been on a strictly commercial basis , with the Russians bidding up prices against the rest of the world , an argument could be made that it was justified . At least , Secretary Butz would justify it on the basis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actually was made in secret , with large subsidies , totaling about $300 ' million , to grain export companies , enabling them to provide the grain to Russia at less than world prices . Moreover , the sale was financed with the help of U.S. Government loans . Butz and his associates claimed that they had no idea that the Russians were buying that much grain . However , the Secretary and some of the top officials of his depaitment , including Clarence Palmby , the mainspring of export transactions for the USDA at that time , both traveled to Russia in early 1972 . They had inklings of the short Russian harvests coming ' up . Reports from USDA representatives in Russia also indicated in the spring of 1972 that the Russians would be looking for grain and buying - heavily in the world market . This information was not transmitted immediately to the public , although there are indications that some of . the information was passed on to the grain companies . In any case , the big export firms had good estimates of their own . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is probably true that Butz and his * people did not know the exact total amount involved until late in the year . But they certainly should have known enough about the situation to have called off the subsidies and taken other steps to reduce the outflow of wheat . Palmby , at this time , was negotiating with Continental : Grain Corp . for the job he later took . ' Continental was the biggest single participant in the sale to Russia . Butz said he did n't ' know about this and would n't have sent Palmby if he had known . But he thought there was no real Conflict of interest . The sad part of that remark is that it is a genuine statement of belief . The fraternity of USDA leadership and the grain trade , as well as other agribusiness corporations , is so close that no thought of conflict arises among the people involved . They switch back and forth from government to private business as do Defense Department officials with Lockheed and General Dynamics . Following that 1972 operation and under pressure from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Since then , several bills have been introduced in Congress , and are still pending , to establish a national grain reserve program , including requirements for daily reporting of export transactions . The recent cancellations of a large sale of grain ( 91 million bushels of corn and 34 million of wheat ) to Russia by Continental Grain Corp . and Cook Industries , on request of President Ford , makes clear that mandatory requirements for export reporting are needed . Butz , to his credit , admitted that he had not been , " firm enough " in telling grain companies and the Russians that there would be limits on big grain export deals this year . If the United States is to meet its commitments on foreign food aid and supply its regular overseas customers , it can not permit the state-trading Russians to buy all the grain they want , grain they might resell or donate to India , for example . The " free market " does not exist in this situation . The Soviet Union is very secretive about its own grain supply situation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ t Butz is a dogmatic believer in free markets , absence of government controls and particularly export controls . Yet he did not hesitate to employ subsidies and government financing to get rid of what he regarded as a burdensome surplus of grain to the Russians . In the next year , when soybean supplies became short , he installed export ' limitations , causing alarm among Europeans and the Japanese that , they would be unable to buy oil seeds and oil-seed products from the United States . Now Butz has had to go along with export control , at least so far as the Russians are concerned . Butz prides himself on being a political operator . He has bragged about his method of trying to influence Congressmen : " Find the Congressman 's financial angel . That is the way I worked to beat a bill raising price supportS 25 per cent . I called up one chap and started to explain the bill . He said , ' Hell , do n't bother . I 'll just tell the Congressman I do n't want it . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Melcher ( D. , Mont. ) told Butz that " your tactics are of the true political spirit of the times , " meaning Watergate times . Butz replied , " Thank you , sir , I appreciate that . " ' ( That was early in the exposure of crime and corruption . ) Of all the Cabinet members , Butz was the most steadfast in supporting his Chief . He tended to pooh-pooh the Watergate situation as something worked up by the Democrats and the press that opposed the administration , His ' line was that everybody does that sort of thing . Butz himself has been charged with various irregularities in trying to influence elections . He met with officials of the Federal Trade Commission before the 1972 election and asked them to drop or delay an investigation into the 1969 acquisition by Heublein , Inc. of the California winegrowers cooperative , United Vintners , Inc . United Vintners is the second biggest California wine producer . The FTC Bureau of Competition recommended that the acquisition constituted an illegal restraint of trade and should be formally challenged . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because , " California is a critical state . " , - An attempt to influence , obstruct or impede a lawful federal investigation for improper reasons is a federal crime , and this matter was being investigated by Special Watergate Prosecutor Archibald Cox before he was fired . The Justice- Department has said that the Butz involvement in the FTC probe is still being investigated , but nothing has been heard about it for a year . It is not just election politics that has contributed to mismanagement of U.S. farm policies in the last three years . Butz is the perfect example of the agribusiness , commercial-farming , agricultural-education establishment man . When dean of agriculture at Purdue University , he also sat on the boards of directors of the Ralston-Purina Co. , the J.I. Case Co. , International Minerals and Chemicals Corp. , Stokely-Van Camp Co. and Standard Life Insurance Co. of Indiana . Clifford Hardin , former chancellor of the University of Nebraska , Butz 's predecessor as Secretary of Agriculture , became vice chairman of Ralston-Purina after leaving the Cabinet . Butz and Hardin typify the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies which sell to and buy from farmers  --  and contribute large sums for agricultural research , 4-H Clubs , etc . The land-grant system of education and research in cooperation with the U.S. Department of Agriculture was one of America 's great social inventions , when these institutions were founded in 1862 . They were aimed , along with the Homestead Act , at distributing land ownership to benefit the common people  --  farmers and mechan ical workers . Thus land-grant colleges , originally were called colleges of agriculture and mechanic arts . Over the last forty years , these institutions have tended to become general universities and agencies of the Nell-to-do , the upper crust of agriculture and of the companies that buy farm products , process them and distribute them , as well as the industries that furnish the increasingly complex materials and machines for modern agriculture . As public funds have waned , relatively , university administrations have been inclined to seek greater corporate support . The doctrine of this agricultural establishment is bigness , technology and more production u per man , Those who will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ die . Small farmers , hired farm laborers and rural communities tend to be ignored in the drive for bigness and more technology . The food consumer , has been the beneficiary , though it would be hard to convince people of that today . The worst failure of recent times in agricultural policy is the by-passing of poverty in rural areas . Butz is not unique . He is just the epitome , to the point of caricature , of the land-grant man who has perpetuated such policies , which are a corruption of the original aims of the land-grant system  --  that is , equality of income and of opportunity . The blunders of policy on grain and exports and pricing in recent years under Butz are glaring and symptomatic . But they are insignificant in the long run compared with the failure of the land grant-USDA system to consider the needs of all the people in rural communities . In his early , reformist period as President , Richard Nixon proposed a reorganization of the federal government , including a breakup of the USDA conglomerate . That move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was a good idea , and one of these days it will be put forward again , to remove rural development , consumer interests and regulatory activities from the commercial agriculture establishment . -                     