@@493700

The McCarthy Decade It was said of Adlai Stevenson in I Qb0 : " He has stood off the guerrilla attacks of his enemies and the sniping attacks of those who should have been his friends . " The speaker was Eugene McCarthy and the words can be applied also to him ? a prophet without honor in his own party . Ten years ago this month , at a Chicago conference of anti-war Democrats , McCarthy launched and launched himself into the effort Robert Lowell defined as a battle against " so little faith that anyone ever makes anything better . " This conscien ? tiously rash act of challenging a sitting President was not for McCarthy a smart wager on his own destiny . The odds were clear all the time When Robert Kennedy declined to go ? and the more so when he changed his mind ? it was not mere evidence but proof . After the symbolic victory in New Hampshire , the victory over LW 's forfeit in Massachusetts , the stunning victories in Wisconsin and Oregon , the awful murder in California @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polls said he 'd be the strongest nominee against any Republican , it always seemed more likely than not that McCarthy would turn out the loser , at best to be accorded the accolades due an heroic fool . Those little blue and white McCarthy daisies of our youth and earlier middle age have disappeared , less from the erosion of sentiment and sentimentality than as a result of the planned obsolescence of automobiles . But with memory and resentment by now quite remote , on this anniversary it probably would not be hard to get even McCarthy 's adversaries to concede that he changed the landscape of American politics . The McCarthy campaign seeded the political system with men and women schooled in dissent . Though many of them have long since accommodated themselves to the worst rules of the game ? cant , diversion , evasion ? they retain a streak of unpredictable idealism . That , at least , makes them harder to please and keeps the powers uncertain of their cooperative silence . This is true , of course , not only of actual McCarthy veterans but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics through various activities that emerged in the wake or shadow of the McCarthy campaign , sharing its open and refreshing ethos . To recall the issues of the McCarthy campaign is to realize how far we have come since that cold New England winter of-1 ' 467-68 . Therein also lies a paradox . For the real command posts of the nation are not at all occupied by former outsiders . As McCarthy wrote in one of those poems that drove his detractors bananas , stubbornne : ; ; hoid thr agell above mr . And their lieutenants continue to inherit as though the certitudes of primogeniture still hold . So the changes of the past decade reflect the newly freed convictions of the people altering the received wisdom of entrenched elders . The most obvious postscript to the McCarthy campaign was the ending of the Vietnam war . In defeat , he and his cohort established a consensus on the need to end that war . What they did not succeed in doing , not even in the Democratic party , was to effect an understanding of how the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is , the death and suffering dragged on through more than six years of Republican ministrations while the opposition party finally desert ? ed the war it had created in a way that just about guaranteed the brutal peace that accompanies defeat . In contrast to those who proposed peremptory deadlines on which the war would terminate , McCar ? thy insisted , when it was still possible , that the correct , albeit hazardous aim was to seek a coalition govern ? ment among the warring parties in South Vietnam . What horrors might have been averted , before 1975 and after , if the savvy politicians and pundits had not disdained the complicated arguments for a genuine political settlement in favor of the simplistic ones for any way out of Indochina . This is not historical self-indulgence or nitpicking . The distinction addresses itself not only to the particular issue of Vietnam , but beyond , to the conduct of politics itself . What McCarthy brought to the national scene was his sense of measure expressed in a vernacular that is both taut and graceful . That is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an ethical politics that knew its limits . But this enraged those who wanted politics to be magic , curing , consoling , inspiring , solving , dissolving . Again McCarthy was himself true to the image he had projected of Stevenson : We need the virtues of tolerance . forebearance . . . of patience and understanding . " Thus , it is not surprising that in the postwar revulsion against Vietnam , McCarthy did not join the chorus chanting for an indiscriminate reduction of American commitments and freely rendered obligations here , there , every ? where . McCarthy understood , unlike other politicians who appealed to the constituency that had first crystallized about him , that greatness implies responsi ? bility and that responsibility implies power , Some earnest camp followers thought McCarthy was betray ? ing them when they discovered that he valued American troops in Europe , would not abandon an American role in Asia and thought detente possible without carving up the world to sate the appetite of the Soviets . Media politics made it nearly impossible for McCar ? thy to communicate the important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wider context which , among other factors , measured means against ends and ends against their pretensions . What did come across was that McCarthy 's stand against the war was more than a sudden and convenient conversion . McCarthy 's re ? sponsibility for turning the tide against our Vietnam adventure was so evident that even the Kennedy candidacy could not seize the issue from him . As John Kenneth Galbraith told a BBC audience recently , Gene McCarthy is the man who deserves more credit than anybody else for bringing our involvement in the war to an end . " ( On the same program McCarthy asserted that " the war would have ended just the way it did even if we had not made our protest in 1%6.1 This caused the British journalist Anthony Howard to observe , accurately : " That 's Gene McCarthy for you : he does n't in the least mind being a martyr , but he 's damned if he 's going to allow anyone to make him a hero . " Whatever modesty McCarthy insists on in this regard , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he can carry on a war unaffected by the moral judgment of the people . There was one issue where the intensity of McCar ? thy 's commitment to justice somehow seemed to pale beside that of the designated Kennedy heir . The issue was civil rights , but was extended in a vague and deliberately unanalytical fashion to the condition and prospects of the American poor . On some calculus of compassion ? despite his special stewardship in the House and Senate of migrant workers , the mentally ill , alleged security risks ? McCarthy was found wanting . The problem surely was not one of record : no imagined failing of McCarthy 's could possibly equal the serious ? ness of Attorney General Kennedy 's refusal to provide US marshal protection for civil rights activists in the South . But the record was of little avail : to blacks and many white liberals , McCarthy was just not up to the racial crisis , did n't understand its urgency and could n't speak the language that lifted the victims from despair to hope . It was whispered about that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on middle class suburban voters . The campaign even endured some defections . And at the chicest parties in Beverly Hills and Cambridge , on Park Avenue and along the streets of Georgetown , McCarthy was said to have " copped out " on the crucial domestic moral confrontation of our time . ( This , of course , did not keep the opposition from accusing him on the eve of the California primary , and with the desired electoral impact , of planning to dump 10,000 blacks from Watts into Orange County . ) In retrospect , of course , it all looks rather different . What many stigmatized then as cynical may in fact have been the most honorable stand in one very honorable ( rontrin ? if on pagr politician 's career . McCarthy had made both an intellectual and an ethical judgment . He believed that the confinements of race and racial hatred could best be broken by an economic program to relieve and finally to eliminate the poverty of all . Ilistory and a vision of American possibilities had taught him that appeals to sectarian interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to be divisive and self-defeating . And even to the extent that those sectarian struggles were won , they would turn out to be pyrrhic , or at best misleading . Politicians routinely dispense hope , but never more freely and irresponsibly than they did in the late 19o0s and early 1970s . It was something McCarthy was reluctant to do , and especially on the subject of race . On this , he argued , unrealistic hopes guaranteed disillu ? sionment and frustration ? certainly given the limited vision , limited program , limited public agreement on what further should be done . Everywhere there were heated-up emotions , exaggerated promises , colossal expectations ? and also irrational phobias on all sides , " the fire next time . " Was McCarthy wrong to try to calm that environment of imminent salvation or imminent catastrophe ? Was he wrong to refuse to add his eloquence to the prevalent demagoguery ? And as For those who faulted him for insufficient solidarity with the rising of blacks in the streets : where is their solidarity now ? That solidarity , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solidarity even with the poor , black and white . What sympathy remains is focused at last and happily on the issue of a guaranteed income . By 1%0 , when it was common to hear that McCarthy had " dropped out , " he was waging an unprecedented battle in the Senate for precisely such a policy . In . t ? 72 George McGovern , the man who reaped McCarthy 's harvest , grabbed the notion and ran with it as a $1000 universal giveaway ; it became a landmark of the greatest liberal political disaster in 20th-century America . That 's what seems to happen to a lot of McCarthy 's ideas : others make them their own and destroy them . The same is true for the efforts McCarthy inspired at reform of presidential nominating procedures . It had become evident in 1Po8 that a President could not be held accountable in his own party . So the reformers aimed at opening up caucuses , ending winner-take-all primaries and bringing unrepresented Democrats into the critical work of their party . But what started out as an effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an attempt to reflect the patchwork crazyquilt image of America by requiring that precise percentages of population sections be represented at the conven ? tions . By now it has gone far beyond that . Congress has put severe constraints on the real rights of people to engage in politics , particularly in insurgent politics , and has institutionalized the two major parties as the only possible vehicles for protest and change . McCarthy wasonl E ' again the t first to perceive these obstacles , to challenge them through the courts , and to demonstrate with his own quixotic efforts in 1976 just how closed the processes actually are . And if the Carter White House has its way the Democratic party itself will reinstate some of the old obstacles to dissident challenges against an incumbent President . See " According to Hoyle , " TNR , Sept. 3 ) . The media themselves are only interested in what they define as the main event . So the dissenter is hobbled under a 11 V circumstances . McCarthy 's triumph was that , with the passions of Vietnam , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of institutional excess nearly as inimical to freedom as the war was to peace . Almost alone in the Senate , McCarthy had warned about flagrant CIA violations of its already quite broad prerogatives ; in 1%8 , McCarthy made these a focus of nearly everyone 's concern . And in that same campaign he called for greater controls on the FBI and for the early retirement of I. Edgar Hoover . Robert Kennedy thought that suggestion was " irresponsible , " but even so the totem never again stood so erect and confident as before . Supervision of the intelligence apparatus and national police machinery is now a popular theme of our politics ? perhaps too indiscrimi ? nately , McCarthy might think . But it was his daring in the face of ridicule by the sage arbiters of what was within bounds that broke the silence . McCarthy 's temperament is philosophical and reflec ? tive . But he is as much a practical liberal as a visionary . While campaigning in the Indiana primary , he gave a speech about the automobile ? the large and powerful American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways also socially destructive . The audience did not much take to the speech . It was strange , even foreign , certainly too abstract , perhaps subversive . But it too was prophetic . Friends of McCarthy may be tempted to SAY that , notwithstand ? ing the defeats and indignities he suffered , the last decade is his . It is not quite so , for our politics is still politics as usual , moving aimlessly from real crisis to imagined one and back , unguided by a generalized conception of the public good . 