@@487960

DEAR SIRS : George Woodcock 's " The Evergreen Maple Leaf " ( The Nation , Oct. 1 ) may have been disappointing only because I expect , Canadians to have a better grasp 01 the concept of being citizens of the world . What does it matter what one calls Who 's Who ? . . . The important thing is not that Americans are exploiting Canada 's resources4 So are rich Canadians . And rich Americans are exploiting the States . If it were not for greedy Canadians willing to sell their beautiful country to the highest bidder there would be no problem . Witness : the Montana rancher who refuses to sell his land to exploiters of any nationality . After serving in both the Canadian and American Armies , I can assure Mr. Woodcock there is no real difference between , us . Any one who tries to puff up nationalism for any nation is planting a seed of destruction , as the new African and Asian nations are proving so tragically . The difference is not between Canadian and American but between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . William M. Wilkerson prophet 's honor Los Angeles , Calif . DEAR SIRS : Edward McConville 's " The Prophetic Voice of C.P. Ellis " ( The Nation , Oct. 15 ) is a deeply moving biographical article of a man enduring the torments of socio-economic changes which portends the possibility of grass-roots black and white unity in the Smith . . . . The article also reveals the sensitive insight of the author . I hope he has a book forthcoming on C.P. Ellis and Ann Atwater . We need such positive publications on social change in face of the Nixon-Agnew-Watergate morbid effect on our democratic processes . Mark Keats Roslyn Heights N.Y . DEAR SIRS : In thirty-five years of regularly reading The Nation , I rank Edward McConville 's article as one of the most remarkable pieces you have ever published . Ellis gives hope that a recognition of mutual economic interests between the races may break barriers that neither the Bill of Rights nor ) ordinary human decency has been able to eliminate . K.J. Rawson still flourishing New York City DEAR SIRS : When in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trials against politicians , soldiers , journalists , writers , et al. , indicted for war crimes and crimes against humanity , I did my work , though I knew death sentences are inhuman , because I believed that the horrors of the Nazi era were unprecedented in history and I hoped , after the culprits got their punishment , that legal executions could be outlawed everywhere . Since those years I have written much about the crimes of fascism , Nazism , anti-Semitism , but I am not sure any more that those crimes were unique . Genocide was and is still flourishing ? Indochina , Indonesia , Algeria , Madagascar , Vietnam , Laos , Cambodia , Brazil  --  and the many dictatorships in four continents are , though not yet as efficient yet morally no better , than was national socialism . In one respect  --  as I wrote once in The New York Times  --  most of them are perhaps even worse : Hitler was more frank ; he did not pretend to defend the " free world " and serve peace . And now when I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paraguay , I must say that Nazi politicians and propagandists were less hypocritical than those in the United States . The latter and their journals are so preoccupied with the fate of Soviet dissidents ( who are not killed any more ) that they have no time to deplore and decry the massacres in Chile , Paraguay , Guatemala , Brazil and elsewhere . . . . Robert Major EDITORIALS Nixon 's Wheel Horse Once again President Nixon has placed his immediate personal political interests above the welfare of the nation . Aside from experience in the House as a Republican wheel horse , Gerald Ford has none of the qualifications which the people have a right to look for in a man who just might succeed to the Presidency . The name of Gerald Ford is not a household word , nor was that of Spiro T. Agnew . Both were selected by Nixon for the second highest office in the land for reasons wholly unrelated to their qualifications to hold it . But Agnew was at least elected and then re-elected . Ford is an unelected Vice President who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have moved the President to choose a man known to the public and possessing qualifications that would have inspired their confidence . Like Agnew , Ford is a mediocrity . Agnew turned out to be fairly bright , but the same is unlikely to happen with Ford . He is ' a partisan politician whose lack of intellectual distinction worries even some of his GOP colleagues . " Jerry 's a great guy , " a House Republican told The Wall Street Journal , " but he 's no intellectual heavyweight . " Not only does he think in clich  --  s , he believes them . He is a loyal , plodding type of whom the late Lyndon Johnson once said that he could n't chew gum and walk at the same time and , on another occasion , sadly observed that Ford had played football at Michigan in the days before players wore , padded helmets . Unkind comments , but they vividly suggest Ford 's lack of distinction . He will be readily confirmed ; ' he is personally well ' liked in Congress ; he is obviously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not seek the Presidency in 1976 ) ; and his selection lessens the chances that Congress might be drawn into the ordeal of impeachment proceedings against the President . For Nixon , Ford was an easy selection . He is loyal to the President . He will not make Nixon feel uneasy nor , will he overshadow him , as Connally or Rockefeller might have done . The President always likes to keep possible rivals at a comfortable distance . Ford stands well with both parties in Congress and his selection will not kick up any feuding in the Republican Party . Reagan , Connally and Rockefeller may be disappointed , but they must endorse Ford 's nomination . And , like Congress , the President doubtless hoped that the thought of Ford succeeding him would silence any talk of impeachment . But it does not follow that the President is now home free . A few hours before his grotesque efforts to make a festive occasion of the announcement and thereby turn , the public 's mind from the " obsessions of the past " ( read : Watergate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a restrained but firm reminder that , while he was re-elected by a national ballot , he does not embody the nation 's sovereignty . So the issue of the tapes hangs over him . Also his personal finances , his handling of unspent 1968 campaign contributions , his curious tax returns , the activities of Bebe Rebozo and other pending anxieties , will keep a shadow on the White House .                     