@@251884

One drastic way to practice birth control is by means of sterilization . The surgeon 's knife is now being sought by increasing numbers of Americans , both men and women , who want to be sure that they will have no more babies . Few doctors or patients are willing to talk about it , but the Association for Voluntary Sterilization , Inc. estimates that such operations have been performed on at least 2,000,000 Americans . <P> The number of voluntary sterilizations was limited in the past by two ill-founded fears . One was that the operations were illegal . In fact , they are legal in every state although Utah still requires that they be done " for medical reasons only . " The other deterrent to the operation-especially among males-was the popular confusion between sterilization and castration . Another reason for fresh male acceptance of sterilization is the spirited espousal of the practice by Stanford University Biologist Paul Ehrlich , who publicly called attention to his own vasectomy in 1964 . <P> In the Pipeline . Sterilization operations for men and women are based on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sex cells on their paths toward junction and conception . In the woman , the Fallopian tubes-through which the egg cells travel from the ovaries toward the uterus-are hidden in the pelvic cavity of the lower abdomen . Before recent technical advances they were relatively difficult for the surgeon to reach . In the man , a tube called the vas deferens ( literally , the " carrying-away vessel " ) arises from each testicle to carry the spermatozoa to the prostate gland where the seminal fluid is finally compounded for ejaculation through the urethra . Near its origin in the scrotum , the vas deferens is readily accessible to the surgeon 's scalpel . <P> Because of these anatomical differences , the male operation is the simpler . After injecting a local anesthetic , the surgeon makes an incision about half an inch long on one side of the scrotum , draws out one vas , and cuts out a section up to an inch long . He usually cauterizes the remaining stumps of the vas and ties them shut with nonabsorbable thread . The surgeon then sutures the small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <P> Because patients have some discomfort for two or three days after a vasectomy , the Margaret Sanger Research Bureau in Manhattan schedules all such operations on Fridays ; thus the patient will be able to return to work on Monday . The vasectomy patient undergoes no hormonal changes , and if he has fully understood the operation beforehand he should have no emotional problems . His capacity for sexual relations may even be increased , because he no longer fears conception . His sperm , trapped in the testicles , are reabsorbed , and eventually his body manufactures fewer of them . However , some sperm are left " in the pipeline " at the time of operation , so for the next six to twelve acts of coitus a contraceptive must be used . Most surgeons require that their patients return after four to twelve months and leave a semen sample for analysis to make sure that neither vas deferens has joined itself up again .                     