@@276187

THE intricate , Rube Goldbergian system of primary elections clanked through its first three stages without doing fatal damage to any of the major Democratic candidates , though some were seriously hurt . How the American people were going to survive the endless spring-with 20 more primaries to go-was another question . Almost weekly , it seemed , with hurdy-gurdy and bugles , politicians were " front-running " and " slumping , " buried one Tuesday to be disinterred the next week in the costly , chaotic exercise of democracy . The spectacle was beginning to give some point to Arizona Representative Morris Udall 's suggestion that primaries be held only on three fixed dates , with the choice of date left to each state . <P> Next week 's contest in Wisconsin , with twelve candidates on the ballot in a large state that is in many ways a microcosm of the U.S. , will be the first real bloodletting of the year , the first primary in which candidates risk being eliminated . Rural and industrial , populated by blue-collar workers , farmers , ethnic minorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sophisticated and erratic voting behavior ; it was the home of Senator Joe McCarthy , but also of Robert LaFollette . John Kennedy undercut Humphrey there in 1960 , and it was on the eve of the 1968 Wisconsin primary that Lyndon Johnson withdrew from the race , just before Eugene McCarthy swept the state . <P> The voters ' mood in Wisconsin this year remains unpredictable , oddly disengaged . " There is something sleeping , something going on under the surface in this state , and the candidates have not captured it yet , " muses Harold Rohr , a painters ' - union official in Madison . It is not apathy , reports TIME 'S Gregory Wierzynski , " but something bordering on despair . People seem to suspect that the candidates are mere shadows-that if elected , they could not do much to change the rising prices , unemployment and heavy taxes . " Says Mrs. Marguerite Wiegand , an Appleton housewife : " I watch television with a book in my hand , and when a political commercial comes along , I shut it off . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economy . Says Mrs. Marion Guslek , a housewife in Milwaukee : " Last week I paid 49 for salad dressing ; this week it 's up to 53 . You do n't know when you go to the grocery store whether you are going to have enough money . " Old people complain about the dwindling buying power of their Social Security checks . Except on university campuses , Viet Nam is discussed not in terms of morality but of its costs . Says Carolyn Root , a Sheboygan sales clerk : " Lord knows how many kids we could send through school if we just cut out a few of those B-52 raids . "                     