@@479949

IS IT TRUE that the United States now follows a policy of appeasement or isolationism in world affairs ? There are those who say so . But they are wrong . Since Pearl Harbor there has not been any significant isolationist sentiment in America . As for appeasement , that has never at any time in our history been a characteristic American response to threats or dangers . During the past decade , however , in large part as a result of the American foreign-policy failure in Vietnam , warnings of a revival of prewar isolationism have become rampant . Thus , the American withdrawal from an overextension of power has been confused with generalized weakness and " a failure of nerve , " " a loss of political will . " Will to do what is never quite made clear . To engage in an arms race with the Soviet Union ? Yet this is what the United States has been doing for the past generation . To take over the oil fields of the Persian Gulf ? Such a policy is more likely to benefit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is true that America no longer holds sway as she once did . The Soviet Union is no longer in a position of marked strategic inferiority to the United States 's military capability . New power centers have arisen in the Third World and in the Far East to further challenge or inhibit the use of American power . In dealing with the Soviet Union , whose global reach is something we have never previously had to contend with , critics have ferreted out signs of appeasement ? as though the United States could slow down or prevent the Soviet military buildup except perhaps by seeking arms-control agreements , which is exactly what the past three administrations have tried to do . America is often spoken of these days as a helpless giant . The reality is quite different . To understand the true nature of America 's power , these two misperceptions about American foreign policy isolationism and appeasement -- should be exorcised once and for all . T HE SO-CALLED appeasers were largely confined to Britain and France in the 1930s , but the specter of appeasement in American political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the United States is " soft on Communism " or , more specifically , unwilling to confront the Soviet Union 's real or apparent policy of expansion . Isolationism was undoubtedly a powerful force during the interwar period as Americans believed that , having fought the first world war to make the world " safe for democracy " and for self-determination , they had seen Europe once again fall into the wicked ways of power politics . Having failed to ratify the League of Nations agreement , and leaving Britain and France to face the possibility of revived German militarism , the American government embarked on a policy of signing unenforceable peace pacts to outlaw war . The romantic idea that America 's unique destiny lay in distancing herself from the corruptions of Europe gave added weight to the notion of isolation from European quarrels after Versailles . Though American policy in the Western Hemisphere could hardly be termed isolationist , our previous history of interventionism was ignored . In fact , a closer look at the interwar period reveals that . as Walter Lippmann pointed out , we were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we were without understanding what we were saying . An isolationist would have pulled back our defense perimeter to our own shores and undertaken to defend only ourselves . But America , instead , drew a line in 1898 in the Western Pacific , on the far side of the Philippines , at what was for all practical purposes the frontier of Japan . What we mistakenly called " isolationism " was our policy of not seeking allies to help us defend this great ocean 's domain , which our own armed forces were inadequate to defend by themselves . The mistake of the interwar United States policy , then , was to think that isolationism meant having no foreign allies . But isolationism in fact means having no foreign corn-46 mitments . The tragic failure of pre-World War II America was in not knowing the difference . As World War H loomed , however , Franklin Roosevelt was prepared to seek allies while guarding against firm foreign commitments . Though FDR vowed that " we will not send our men to take part in European wars , " he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of democracy , " giving the tools so that others could finish the job of fighting Hitler . Thus , a form of limited involvement or modified isolationism ( depending on how you look at it ) characterized U.S. policy as FDR began his third term . As for appeasement , the United States , by its very policy of distancing itself from European rivalries in the 1930s , allowed Americans the luxury of moral virtue divorced from moral responsibility . Had the British and French not been willing to appease Hitler by , for example , not sending in troops to oppose Germany 's reoccupation of the Rhineland in 1936 , the Nazis might have been stopped in their tracks . The policy of appeasement was a popular one , practiced largely as a response to the devastating horrors of World War I ( and not , as some have suggested , by the lack of political will of the British " ruling class " ) . Broad American neutralism toward European affairs left the French and British , themselves hardly recovered from the consequences of their diminished economic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Pearl Harbor put an end to any further illusions that America could remain on the periphery of world politics , and by 1942 , when it seemed the tide had been turned , American statesmen began planning for the postwar era . Like generals who too often plan how to fight the last war , statesmen are likely to plan for the next peace by assuming they have correctly interpreted lessons of history . Thus , FDR and his advisers expected an initial postwar recession and a wave of neo-isolationism to sweep the country . And so plans were made to counter these dangers : the United States was instrumental in creating international organizations such as the World Bank , the International Monetary Fund , and , most important , the United Nations , precisely in order to provide guarantees against a new American withdrawal from affairs outside our own hemisphere . Exactly the opposite of what FDR had feared took place . Instead of a recession , there was a period of economic expansion ? the postwar " boom " that brought prosperity not only to the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was , in fact , American global involvement that fueled the world economy , most notably through the Marshall Plan . Enlightened self-interest , idealism tempered by realism ? these were the hallmarks of the immediate postwar era . Moreover , the historical " lessons " of the 1930s were not lost on the new generation of American policymakers . First of all , there was the lesson of appeasement . Had there been no appeasement , Nazi Germany would have been unable to expand . As a consequence , the axiom arose of " no more Munichs , " i.e. , the allotment of territory to an expansionist power in the belief that the hunger of the tiger could be sated . A corollary of this axiom was " no more isolationism , " for , had America provided the military guarantees which France and Britain had expected in 1920 , the rise of Germany might have been controlled , and a pacific Germany might have rejoined the European comity of nations . As a result , in the view of American policy-makers , the role of the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behavior in the interwar period . The perception of the Soviet Union shared by most informed Americans during this period was of a Russia that refused to allow territories contiguous to her own ? with the notable exception of Finland ? to install governments that were anything but totally subservient to the dictates of Moscow . The mere possession of the atomic bomb by Washington did not inhibit Soviet foreign-policy aims ; indeed , the Soviets exploded their own nuclear device sooner than most Americans expected . What , then , were we to do in the face of a perceived Soviet threat in Europe and the Near East , an area considered to be in the Western ( or British ) sphere of influence ? Strategic superiority T HIRTY YEARS AGO , containment seemed to be the answer . Writing in Foreign Affairs under the pseudonym " Mr. X , " the distinguished foreign-service officer George Kennan discussed the sources of Soviet conduct and proposed a method of dealing with it . In laying out a broad program to counter the menace of Soviet expansionism , he seemed to suggest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a " longterm , patient but firm and vigilant containment of Russian expansive tendencies , " be went on to explain that " Soviet pressure against the free institutions of the Western world is something that can be contained by the adroit and vigilant application of counterforce at a series of constantly shifting geographical and political points , corresponding to the shifts and manoeuvres of Soviet policy . " This was interpreted as requiring a policy of global military containment . Kennan himself claimed in his memoirs that he had envisioned something quite different ? " not the containment by military means of a military threat , but the political containment of a political threat . " Commonly used in the 1950s to mean the military obstruction of Soviet ' expansion wherever it might occur , the policy , as Kennan saw it , was not only political in intent , but was also confined to spheres of U.S. influence , which in the late 1940s and 1950s meant Europe and adjacent areas . It certainly was not meant to provide the underpinnings of a global crusade against Communism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phrasing which assumed that the United States could play the role of world policeman by imposing a latter-day Pax Britannica . Even the victory of the Chinese Communists in mainland China in 1949 was generally viewed not as the triumph of a nationalist movement with international affiliations but as a conquest made possible by the Sino-Soviet alliance . It was a world in which Moscow was the apparent puppeteer , and so it was relatively easy to equate Communism wherever it appeared with an extension of Soviet imperialism . In fact , the Soviet Union was not a global power with a global reach . It possessed no such military capability . True , its nuclear armory contributed to the balance of terror that prevailed , so that neither superpower was prepared to wage war against the other . But its capacity to project its military power throughout the 1960s was severely limited . The United States enjoyed a distinct strategic superiority in the number and range of its missiles . It was the American Navy ? certainly not the Russian Navy ? that controlled the high seas . Nothing demonstrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By attempting to insert missiles in a land so far from its borders ( and so close to ours ) , the Soviet Union found itself exposed far beyond the safe limits of its own ability to project power . Its backdown before American conventional as well as nuclear strength demonstrated conclusively that the Soviet Union was not a power of great magnitude . We were practicing containment against a power which remained very much a Eurasian power , one that would soon find itself challenged on its East Asian flank by a nationalistic Communist China . Moscow drew its own conclusions from its humiliation over Cuba in 1962 . It accelerated the program that was to give it ten years later a global reach it had never previously pos. sessed . During this same period the United States also became aware of the limits to its own power when it found itself perilously overextended in Southeast Asia . Understanding our limitations and correcting our mistakes , however , does not indicate weakness . By cutting our losses in Indochina , we have taken firm steps toward restoring a 11. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial , military , and moral reserves to an area whose strategic importance to the United States has always been marginal ; yet we remain a global power . While both superpowers are limited in their ability to get their own way on every occasion , they are also engaged as never before on a truly global scale . This is a new reality of the post-Cold War world . 1 T Is IN THE context of this global U.S. ? Russia n engagement that the charges of appeasement and isolationism have been leveled at American policy . But have we actually acted or reacted in such a fashion in the face of the Soviet challenge ? In becoming a truly global power in the decade-and-a-half since the Cuban missile crisis , the Soviet Union has continued to pursue an ideological competition with the United States while seeking at the same time a relaxation of tensions and limited agreements , most notably in arms control . This policy , christened detente during the Kissinger years , has been perceived by some critics as a form of appeasement . For the Soviets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a policy enunciated in the late 1950s . Such a policy was designed by Moscow to ease tensions , and , more precisely , to avoid the possibility of nuclear war white allowing the pursuit of Soviet ideological and political interests whenever the occasion presented itself . How , then , did the Nixon-Ford policy of detente differ from the Soviet theory of peaceful coexistence ? The main difference was that detente was too often presented to the American people as a concept that embraced strategic , economic , and political goals . As such , it was to be more than a series of agreements between Moscow and Washington that suited the national interest of both countries . It was to involve linkages between the strategic , economic , and ideological levels on which the two superpowers were engaged . Yet while the Soviet Union found it useful to 48 seek agreements on strategic-arms limitations ( SALT ) and on closer economic ties , political or ideological conflict continued . Leonid Brezhnev set forth Russia 's qualifications to detente as follows : " Detente does not in the slightest abolish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .... We make no secret of the fact that we see detente as a way to create more favorable conditions for peaceful socialist and Communist construction . " But it was precisely the Soviet intention to create these conditions in a " peaceful " manner that has come into question . The Soviets encouraged Hanoi 's belligerency in the period following the Paris accords , supported the Portuguese Communist party 's assault on constitutionalism after the overthrow of Salazar , aided and abetted Egypt 's surprise attack that started the 1973 Yom Kippur war . and , most recently , assisted the MPLA liberation group in Angola by , among other things , airlifting Cuban soldiers to Africa . The Soviet Union has thus continued to exercise a policy of pursuing its national interest in military , economic , or political terms , as the situation demands , without apparent regard for the restraints of detente . But in fact what has failed to work is not the policy of detente as such , only our exaggerated notion of what it implies . As an overarching agreement with the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy of a much more limited nature , one that consists in reaching specific and precise agreements with the Soviet Union in order to minimize tensions , the policy need not result in our giving the Russians more than we get in return . Detente , properly defined , is a wise policy . It can help us to control the arms race . It can draw the Soviet Union into a web of economic relationships with the West that not only can prove to be of financial benefit to us but also can provide the Soviet Union with a stake in stability and world order . Ideological competition , on the other hand , has no end in sight . That is something we will simply have to learn to live with . President Carter , in fact , has taken up the challenge of ideological competition with enthusiasm by injecting a high degree of moral appeal into his dealings with other nations . But what about the military competition ? Are we letting down our guard ? To me it seems that we are not . The United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategic weapons . Moreover , in testimony before the House Joint Economic Committee last June , the director of the Defense Intelligence Agency declared that the United States still maintained a substantialtechnological lead over the Russians . Attention is being paid to conventional forces as well . The New York Times has reported that President Carter recently issued a secret directive that envisaged America 's increasing its defense spending and improving the combat ability of U.S. forces in Europe , and planned for light , mobile , and flexible forces to meet threats in the Middle East , the Persian Gulf , and East Asia . Territory and influence A LTHOUGH THE Carter Administration is negotiating with the Soviet Union from strength , the Administration 's foreign policy has come under attack for being less than tough in its posture toward the Soviets . Writing in Commentary , in March 1977 , Edward Luttwak concluded his analysis of the " massive and broadly based strategic buildup that has been underway in the Soviet Union since the mid-1960s " by questioning the will and understanding of the Administration to frame a purposeful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Norman Podhoretz in his Harper 's article of October 1977 , " The Culture of Appeasement . " He maintained that the current Administration is " denying the realities of the Soviet buildup , " or " acknowledges that this buildup is real , but regards it as a development to be welcomed by the United States rather than feared . " He attributes these feelings in part to " a rise in pacifist sentiment ... inevitable in the wake of any war , especially a war that ends as Vietnam did , in humiliation and defeat . " Thus . " we seem to be moving beyond our new freedom from the in President Carter 's words ' inordinate ' fear of Communism to an even headier freedom from any fear of Communism at all . " Such questioners of the Administration 's will to counter the new Soviet global reach warn of a growing pacifism , the return of neoisolationism , and ? the final result ? the politics of appeasement . These explanations would appear to be very wide of the mark . Not only has the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cruise missile and the new giant and mobile MX missile , but in an obvious case where the Soviet global thrust has been evident ? in southern Africa ? we are pursuing a foreign policy that is not only based on humanitarian impulses but also results from an attempt to contain Soviet expansion . As Secretary of State Cyrus Vance explained last July , we are trying to pursue " affirmative policies " in Africa rather than being " reactive to what other powers do . " At the same time Vance pointed out that the United States can not ignore the increase in Soviet arms and Cuban personnel in Africa . Not long after Vance 's speech , the New York Times reported that the United States would offer arms to Africans in order " to challenge the Soviet Union in a strategically important part of the world and thereby avoid giving the impression that it was passively watching the Russians make inroads there . " What this activity indicates is that a form of containment ( and I am deliberately using the word in its broadest possible definition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . Today , when the Soviet Union does possess a global reach that it lacked in the 1950s and 1960s , with Soviet strategic nuclear power increasing roughly fivefold since 1964 , the United States is responding fully to this new Soviet thrust . The global containment put forth as a policy during the Cold War era was , in fact , directed at a power that did not possess a global thrust , Moscow 's view of detente , coupled with the military buildup that allows it to project power far beyond its borders , is , in the words of the Sovietologist Robert Legvold , writing in the October issue of Foreign Affairs , a way of " sanctifying the Soviet Union 's status as a global power , coequal with the United States ( that there may be , in Andrei Gromyko 's words , ' no question of any significance which can be decided without the Soviet Union or in opposition to it ' ) . " Generally , Legvold points out , " the notion of a Soviet global thrust has less to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it does with status and access ( derived from power ) . " If this reading is correct , what we are witnessing is not a form of crude expansionism but a more complex evolution of Soviet power into what Legvold has called that country 's " global vocation . " In a sense , both superpowers are demanding access to any part of the globe , with the proviso that each superpower 's sphere of influence is not to be directly challenged by any other power . Yet , as another Soviet specialist , Marshall Shulman , now an adviser to the Carter Administration , put it some time ago , the access both the United States and the Soviet Union should be seeking is to compete " not for the control of territory but for ... political influence . " If both superpowers engage in this kind of political rivalry , a continuing competition is in store for us , but one that may relieve us from preoccupation with Soviet military conquest , pOSSESSING ENORMOUS military strength , we have chosen not to be the policeman of the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the protagonist of action . And in this role we are more comfortable , or at least more habituated to it , than we sometimes imagine . Most public-opinion polls reveal not growing isolationism but remarkably strong support for internationalist behavior . In the year Jimmy Carter was elected , polls taken by Potomac Associates showed a level of concern for international issues that approached the level reached during the Cold War atmosphere of 1964 . For example , of those polled , 83 percent in 1964 felt it was important to keep our military and defense forces strong ; 81 percent felt this way a year ago , hardly a growing sentiment for isolationism or appeasement . The study concluded that polls during the last election year demonstrated that " a major U.S. role in the world , with the activism that it implies , is acceptable to ? even desired by ? most Americans . " The danger in our activist role is the temptation to meddle . It is all well and good to show a concern for human rights , as we have most particularly toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latin America . It is also laudable for the Carter Administration to express a keen interest in a settlement in Northern Ireland and say that if Roman Catholics and Protestants compose their differences , the U.S. will help to encourage new financial investments there . But we must beware that pressures do not drive us into taking positions that would endanger the President 's essential condition , i.e. , peace , in return for U.S. aid . In short , while we need a foreign policy with a very strong moral component , we must be equally careful to distinguish between expressions of moral concern that are useful and those that are not . And so , just a year after the President was elected , we see a nation that pursues a highly activist foreign policy , as have all previous administrations since the outbreak of World War II . The test of its maturity as a world power , however , will come in its ability to avoid hollow rhetoric , to try to bring its commitments and capabilities into balance , and , without quixotic gestures , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may change ; tactics may vary ; new power centers may arise , others decline . Yet the United States , far from retreating into neo-isolationist positions , far from showing any disposition toward appeasement of real or presumed threats to its security or power , eagerly seeks to play the leading role upon the global stage .                     