@@277882

" We have been maligned , " declared the Pakistani armed forces intelligence chief , Major General Mohammad Akbar Khan . The general 's complaint , delivered to half a dozen foreign journalists in Karachi , concerned the widespread reports of army brutality in the effort to crush the seven-week-old Bengali rebellion in East Pakistan . Incensed by what it describes as " concocted items put out by foreign press and radio , " the government staged a series of briefings and a fast four-day helicopter tour of the East to get the " correct " story across . <P> Peace Committee . The West Pakistani government has good reason to fret about its image . Since the crackdown on the breakaway state of Bangla Desh began late in March , at least 200,000 have died-almost all of them Bengalis . In addition , more than 1,500,000 Bengalis have fled to India , and those who have stayed behind are threatened with an approaching famine that the government does not seem anxious to combat . Most outside observers have laid the responsibility for the East Pakistani tragedy to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( meaning " red hot " ) Khan . The West Pakistani-dominated government insists that the army has " saved the country , " not destroyed it . The new official line : Bengali rebels , acting " in high conspiracy with India , " were tearing through East Pakistan with " tactics reminiscent of Nazi storm troopers , " and the army was forced to step in to prevent a bloodbath . <P> The journalists ' tour was carefully staged to make the government 's improbable tale at least look convincing . Army escorts for the six newsmen spared no effort to clean up , screen off or simply avoid shell-pocked buildings , burned-out Bengali settlements left by Tikka Khan 's jets and tanks . On the other hand , the Pakistanis lost no opportunity to show off evidence of brutality by the Bengalis . At Natore , a town northwest of Dacca , the reporters were greeted by a " peace committee , " as the army-organized pacification teams are known . The committee led the way to a nearby village where , they said , 700 of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feature attraction was a well that was choked with human skeletons and reeked of decomposing flesh . Said one peace committeeman : " You have never seen such atrocities ! " <P> The army was not at all eager , however , to let the journalists look around on their own . While walking through Natore , TIME Correspondent Louis Kraar reported last week , " a bearded peace committeeman kept interrupting every time anyone spoke to me . Finally , I escaped him-and found myself in the Hindu section of town . It was totally destroyed , a pile of rubble and ashes . As I walked , a young Bengali pressed close and explained that he was a student . ' We are living in terror of the army , ' he told me . ' Until today , when you came , they have been killing people . ' "                     