@@493643

Britain pulls peace out of a hat , if you believe in magic . Voila ! Zimbabwe The arrival of Lord Christopher Soames in Salisbury as Britain 's new governor for Zimbabwe crowns a stunning diplomatic performance by the Thatcher government . Assuming no last minute snags , it could mean an end to the costly war that started modestly 12 years ago and began to get serious in 1972 . Soames 's arrival also marks the end of a 14-year rebellion against the Crown by a Salisbury government dominated until last June by the white community of under 240,000 people . If London gets its way , the next three months will see a cease-fire , an election , the installation of a " legitimate " black government , and the granting of sovereign independence from Britain . The majority rule that Zimbabwe has enjoyed since last June when Bishop Abel Muzorewa gained power under the internal settlement will be replaced by a new , internationally recognized , and presumably preferable form of majority rule under a new constitution . This is a bold adventure in latter-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also means the end of a largely futile effort by distant outsiders to compel change using the blunt tool of economic sanctions . Whatever the British now give birth to in southern Africa is likely at least to be blessed with global legitimacy . This is one of the few things Rhodesia has lacked these past 14 years . In the 90 years of Rhodesia 's existence , Britain has never before ruled it directly as a colony . Rhodesia has existed in a constitutional twilight zone ; there was charter company rule , followed by self-governing status near to that of a Dominion under the old Commonwealth . The ambiguities were understood only by those with a need to know , typically a handful of civil servants in both capitals . This arrangement reflected London 's wish , until the 1960s , to devolve rather than acquire authority in southern Africa . The Zimbabweans , black and white , have a richly deserved reputation for wasting opportunities . Twenty years of factional splits in the black nationalist movement have allowed white politicians to maneuver around the question of majority rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chances for real progress ; more recently , whites developed a habit of agreeing belatedly to yesterday 's black demands . Today is the first really good opportunity Zimbabweans have had since the early 1960s when election boycotts , British ineptitude , and the politics of fear led directly to the impasse of 1964-65 and Ian Smith 's Unilateral Declaration of Independence . What brought it about ? British diplomacy that is a model to the West , plus the fact that all parties to the conflict are weak and have run out of options . At Lusaka last August , when the Commonwealth leaders authorized Britain to lead another round of settlement talks , it was a tacit acknowledgment that the Patriotic Front guerrillas were going nowhere militarily , while the war was ruining the economies of neighboring states . Salisbury 's quick acceptance of the new British initiative was an acknowledgment that its military options also led nowhere . Politically , Muzorewa 's government has been dependent on South African support and British diplomacy because no one else was prepared to support it . However diminished it may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ key to the future of all Zimbabweans . Her decision to relive the empire even for a brief moment in southern Africa is their golden opportunity . Thatcher 's initiative also let the Carter administration off the hook of an incomprehensible policy known in 1977-78 as the Anglo-American plan . The official American stance of seizing the high moral ground without influencing anyone in particular competed for attention with more shrill American voices favoring one set of ideological abstractions or another . But someone had to knock heads , threaten real pressure against all parties to the conflict , force them to proclaimpublicly their determination to do a deal , and then go in and implement it . Washington right now lacks the will , the diplomatic skills , or the domestic support for such an undertaking . And , after all , it is Britain 's problem . South Africa also was incapable of dealing effectively with the Rhodesian tangle . Pretoria 's strength would have been adequate to assure the indefinite survival of a friendly black pariah government in Salisbury . But it lacks the diplomatic and political capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frontline states ? Zambia , Angola , Mozambique , Botswana , and Tanzania ? for 14 years they have been eager for London to flex whatever muscle it could on the Rhodesian problem . For them , a continuation of the war posed three threats . First , there was the increasing disruption of their economies as Salisbury used its superior forces against rail lines , bridges , fuel depots , and other economic targets that are crucial to the modern sectors of these countries . Second , there was the latent threat of internal destabilization . More people have become disenchanted with supporting the Patriotic Front ; and more armed men ( guerrillas , government troops , or the lawbreakers who profit from insecurity ) have become an established part of the political climate . Third , continued military humiliation by Salisbury and Pretoria might have pressured frontline governments into inviting greater Soviet and Cuban participation in the war ? something that none of them except possibly Angola is enthusiastic about . It is not obvious that the Soviets and Cubans want an expanded combat role in Zimbabwe 's agony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support for Muzorewa would trigger communist intervention , but there is little reason to believe that . Zimbabwe is not yet ripe for Angolan-style creation of new " political facts " by means of communist arms . Militarily , the Soviets and their friends have lots to do already in Africa , and they will not rush into a head-on clash with Pretoria that could result from direct combat intervention in Zimbabwe . But the current opportunity for diplomacy in Zimbabwe is brief and fragile . A thousand things could go wrong , and Britain controls only a few of the levers . It is not going to occupy Rhodesia militarily , except symbolically . Its role as temporary administering power comes by courtesy of the Salisbury government , whose official apparatus will be loaned to London for this purpose . Everything depends on a minimal level of trust among Britain , the Muzorewa-Smith regime , and the Patriotic Front . The first task is to establish a more or less comprehensive cease-fire , and an end to military border crossings both into and out of Zimbabwe . Then the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , prepare the elections themselves , and prepare the return to Zimbabwe of as many as possible of the 250,000 or more refugees living in neighboring countries . If the process works , London will grant legal independence to the country and transfer power " to whatever leaders are chosen by the people of Rhodesia . " If it does n't , Britain explicitly has committed itself not to transfer power to " any party which has not won it in elections . " In other words , Thatcher apparently intends to run the place until a democratic process can be launched . Soames will operate on instructions from London , and he will assume all executive and legislative authority from the Muzorewa government and the parliament in Salisbury . There will be a 1200-man cease-fire monitoring force of Australians , New Zealanders , Fijians , Kenyans , and a majority of British troops , organized under British command . The force will have weapons only for their " personal protection . " The new governor will be supported by a deputy , military and police advisers , legal and political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps several hundred . These provisions of the London agreements indicate the extent of Muzorewa 's concessions : gone are his cabinet , parliament , and constitution ; new elections will test his claim to popularity . But Patriotic Front leaders Joshua Nkomo and Robert Mugabe also have made fundamental concessions . " In the day-to-day administration of the country , " the agreements provide , the governor " will work through the existing public service " ? a term that includes the civil service and executive departments , the police , and the defense forces . Patriotic Front forces are expected to " comply with the directions of the governor , " but this is a sop designed to compensate for a clearly disparate relationship . The maintenance of law and order will be entrusted to the existing British South Africa Police , a paramilitary force whose jurisdiction covers a wide range of functions . Inevitably , it will work with the 1200-man cease-fire monitoring force . In the event of security breakdowns that can not be handled by a tripartite cease-fire commission , the governor will decide " what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which have accepted his authority . " In practice , this arrangement makes the British heavily dependent on the permanent government apparatus in Salisbury . It also places enormous pressure on the Patriotic Front to control its own people , lest London use Salisbury 's forces against them . Patriotic Front control over its men in the bush will be sorely tested . Patriotic Front guerrillas outside the country will be permitted to enter Zimbabwe to vote only if they are unarmed . The Thatcher government will need a generous mixture of grit and fair play to pull this off . For example , it is expected that all forces will have disengaged within seven days of " cease-fire day " ( yet to be announced ) . The governor will have to decide how much troublemaking to tolerate , and who is causing it : Muzorewa 's auxiliaries , the ZIPRA-Nkomo wing , the ZANLA-Mugabe wing , the army , the police , the home guards who protect Salisbury 's rural protected villages , or just plain bandits and cattle rustlers who have spread into the vacuum of rural insecurity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The ranch of former prime minister Garfield Todd has elements of three distinct armies camped on its periphery . Who disengages first ? Border security will present continuing nightmares for the British , who have " invited " neighboring governments to establish liaison arrangements to prevent ( Toss-border movements by armed guerrillas . Political issues also will abound . Who will decide the ages of would-be voters who have not lived in their home areas for years ? Who is to say what the actual population is in electoral districts when there has been no census for a decade ? Since black voters will choose their representatives by district , how does one count the 500,000 ( or maybe one million ) displaced persons uprooted by war and the urban drift of recent years ? The trickiest task will be simultaneously monitoring the cease-fire and the election period to prevent disruptions , intimidation of voters , and other irregularities . But let 's assume it all takes place more or less on schedule . The stake is control of an independent Zimbabwe . Will the losers accept their fate ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevented ? Would Muzorewa , the white politicians and civil servants , and South Africa accept the election of Mugabe , the man widely seen throughout white southern Africa as the " Marxist threat " ? And how long will the marriage of convenience known as the Patriotic Front stick together if it wins on a joint ticket ? There are some reasons for hope . All Zimbabweans are getting tired of war and impatient with politicians whose actions prolong it . Racial animosity is not a striking feature of today 's Rhodesia . One of Africa 's strongest economies and administrative systems can survive the transition to black rule . The new government will not have to start out at square one . Its ranks could include a relatively well educated black elite . Mugabe , Muzorewa , and Nkomo could each capture a substantial vote in the election , leaving 20 white seats and 10-15 black seats in the hands of minority parties . The result could be a shaky coalition , the last thing Zimbabwe needs if it is to restore civil government in the countryside and resist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Though they do not need to become an issue , white land ownership , pension rights , and other protected interests could be used by insecure politicians . Ultimately the task of the new government will be to compete with wartime conditions by offering a better life to more people . This might seem easy . But tens of thousands of young Zimbabweans have done well in today 's militarized environment , enjoying security force salaries and living off the countryside . Yet a shaky coalition may be the most democratic outcome in a country divided by ethnic group , race , region , and the memory of war . Will Zimbabweans vote ethnically or ideologically ? Will they vote their preferences for men and programs or will they vote for the people who most credibly convey the " winner " image ? The whole process could break down in fear if Britain 's bold stroke is perceived to be nothing more than a quick fix . Britain 's readiness to support the new government after the transfer of power , and to orchestrate substantial aid for it , must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , vaguely proffered at a key stage of the recent negotiations , will be an essential part of the package . Both the West and democracy are being tested in Africa . Zimbabwe offers the best chance either has had for years to prove its relevance . For this reason , it is sad to hear fervent expressions of hope in London that the whole thing can be gotten over with as fast as possible . Washington 's dismal record of notbacking its rhetoric with action and resources is also dispiriting . Zimbabwe 's neighbors can also mess things up . Now is the time for South Africa , especially , to choose between fueling the ample potential for strife in post-Soames Zimbabwe and dealing pragmatically as it has in Mozambique . There is no basis for optimism about Zimbabwe . But there is less reason for pessimism than we were entitled to expect three months ago . 