@@250791

As they emerged from a conference room in Geneva 's Palais des Nations , Soviet Ambassador Aleksei Roshchin and U.S. Ambassador James Leonard made no effort to conceal their delight . They had just agreed on a draft treaty banning the development , production and stockpiling of biological weapons , and pledged to negotiate another treaty forbidding chemical weapons . Said Leonard : " We are particularly pleased that we are now engaged in applying real disarmament measures as opposed to earlier agreements that dealt with preventive measures against rearming . " <P> The agreement came after nearly two years of deadlock at the 25-nation Geneva Disarmament Conference . In March , Moscow abandoned its earlier position that biological and chemical weapons had to be covered in one treaty . Washington had insisted that chemical weapons be negotiated separately on the grounds that more stringent inspection would be required . There was also the complication that the U.S. was using chemical weapons , notably tear gases and herbicides , in Viet Nam . <P> The present draft treaty , which will eventually go to the U.N . General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but violations may be brought before the Security Council . The Russians have never admitted to having any biological weapons , though intelligence sources say that Russia does have vast stockpiles . The U.S. , which reportedly has a billion lethal doses of nerve gas alone , has already started destroying its stockpiles . <P> The draft treaty mentions " the important significance " of the 1925 Geneva Protocol banning the use of gases and bacteriological agents . As it happens , the U.S. never ratified that treaty . The Nixon Administration resubmitted the protocol to the Senate in late 1969 , but stated that it did not interpret it to include irritant gases and herbicides . Since this directly contradicted a 1969 United Nations resolution , the Senate Foreign Relations Committee earlier this year asked the Administration to restudy the herbicide and tear gas question . There the matter rests .                     