@@291255

Michigan residents were increasingly alarmed over the past three years as officials quarantined more than 500 farms and ordered the destruction of thousands of cows , swine , sheep and chickens ( TIME , May 10 ) . These animals - and such farm products as cheese and eggs-had been contaminated by a fire retardant containing polybrominated biphenyls , or PBBs , that had accidentally been mixed with feed . But after examining farm families exposed to PBBs , the Michigan Department of Health announced that it had found no evidence that the chemicals had caused ill effects in humans . That reassuring conclusion was apparently premature . A medical study released last week indicates that PBBs caused some illness in as many as one-third of a group of Michiganders exposed to them . <P> Swollen Joints . Conducted by a team headed by Dr. Irving Selikoff of New York 's Mount Sinai Medical Center , the study examined a total of 1,029 people , 638 of whom were randomly selected from both quarantined and unquarantined farms or had eaten food produced on them . The remainder were employees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referred by doctors or checked at their own request . Among the randomly selected group , 37% had such neurological symptoms as loss of memory , muscular weakness , coordination problems and headaches ; 27% suffered from painful or swollen joints . One in five suffered from a form of acne known to be caused by chemicals closely related to PBBs ; 16% complained of gastrointestinal problems , such as abdominal pain and diarrhea . <P> Selikoff stressed that his conclusions are preliminary and do not necessarily apply to the millions of people in the state who may have consumed PBB-contaminated farm products . But convinced by the study that the chemicals were harmful to humans , Governor William Milliken and Bobby D. Crim , speaker of the state 's house of representatives , immediately urged that the levels of PBBs permitted in food by state regulations be drastically reduced .                     