@@493679

natural mystery of the region does not lie in some primeval attachment to the earth , so much of it barren in its abundance and beauty . What possesses the farmers ' heirs on the other side of the mountain border is the sky . Flying east from Denver , the towns then cities thicken like toadstools with a diminishing sense of place and control . Yet behind the Rockies there is suddenly a fresh awareness of horizons , and an almost primitive confidence at having settled and subdued a largely forbidding landscape . Even southern California , in its gaudy concrete , exists on borrowed water from the Colorado River that is a bold if temporary defiance of the desert . Against that sky , on the receiving end of such majestic engineering ? as Democratic politicians have rarely fathomed ? it is still possible to have faith in the soured theologies of initiative and growth . And it is that faith , or illusion , that suggests the deeper political difference between east and west . Whether because of regional ideology or some more ordinary Darwinism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refuge from the grip of organization . Corporate power is in evidence everywhere , of course , from the energy-booming slopes of Colorado to the Pacific , but somehow it has not yet fastened the same hold so evident in the east . As no other Americans , westerners remain doggedly entrepreneurial . Los Angeles , the capital of the region 's wealth and politics , is uniquely a city of individual fixers , a legion who cut deals by phone from home offices and small suites . The beckoning myth of individualism is still alive too in the already enormous power California wields in music and television , the endless stream of lyrics and scripts which mindlessly celebrate fantasies of private power for a nation that has lost it . If the west 's force once lay in a national yearning for tepid weather and easy money , its new appeal may be to the old , surrendered dream of running one 's own life . In a sense , that is why the image of Berkeley ? for so many in the eastern elite the only known terrain of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the west 's great university borrowed both its corporate vices and its anxious radicalism from the east , and meanwhile sent back across the border a jaded generation of scholars and journalists who missed what was at once vulgar and different and perhaps promising about the vast region on whose edge they had lived . Inevitably , the west 's new wealth and political power have been wed to its old animus against the governance of the organization men of New York and Washington . The real drive for national power will come not with rootless derelicts like Nixon or Reagan , but with far more skilled , homegrown pretenders like Jerry Brown , who understand that they must play the organization game at least long enough to seize both party and office . The interesting question is whether the west 's comparative freedom from the corporate ethic would then shape a new kind of government ? an authentic new populism in the White House ? or merely genuinedemagoguery . Both prospects are implicit in the bravado and impatience and power of the west . It is a region awaiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fascination and resentment at the current regime . Once in Washington , the confident California and mountain fixers could well discover that the power was too handy to dismantle , the bureaucracies of Congress and the executive already immune to fresh faiths , let alone the necessary purge . But then what if in a naive moment with rowdy new westerners who believe they built their own world , the old-boy government of safety , routine and parochial interest were suddenly lifted ? What if policy were bounded only by a brash sense of what we could do with the desert landscape of our national politics ? Sooner or later , it seems clear , the west will have its chance , if not with Jerry Brown then with some other politician who will spring the crouching power of the region . They will arrive in Washington ? fresh , self-assured , perhaps a final chance to come to terms with what we have become . In any case , we will soon wish we knew more than angry or flimsy stereotypes about the other side of our mountain border . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of establishing a guaranteed minimum income For families . During the 1970 hearings on President Nixon 's proposal to scrap the welfare system and substitute a guaranteed minimum income , Long seemed more concerned about finding workers for low-paying jobs . " / ca n't get anybody to iron my shirts , " he shouted to a witness at one point . Then as now , Long was chairman of the Senate Finance Committee , which considers welfare legislation . This year , knowing the importance of Long 's support , President Carter 's assistants at HEW and the Labor Department tried to accommodate Senator Long when they drafted a new welfare reform program . At Long 's insistence , Carter 's plan includes a tough work requirement that even applies to mothers with children as young as six . Yet Long is still skeptical . He has decided that the Carter program , which is now before a special House Subcommittee on Welfare Reform , needs testing . Like Nixon , Carter wants a guaranteed income and man ? datory work requirements , but he also would add 1.4 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income will increase people 's dependence on welfare , will reduce the incentive to work and will cause costs to skyrocket beyond the administration 's estimates . And he is wary about the possibility of fraud in allowing poor people to report their incomes on a monthly form as Carter proposes , instead of the current system requiring semi-annual or quarterly interviews with welfare administrators . Consequently Long has proposed that a demonstration project be run for a few years before Congress decides whether to enact the Carter plan nationwide . Most liberals see demonstration projects as a delaying tactic . But Long points to medicaid and social security disability insurance as examples of programs whose costs and problems have exploded since their inception . Given the unexpected difficulties of these and other recent programs , the idea of testing a new welfare system makes sense . But in fact the govern ? ment has been testing welfare reform plans similar to Carter 's for nine years , and most of the results are now in Since 1968 , HEW and the Office of Economic Opportunity have spent $90 million on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Passaic and Jersey City , New Jersey ; Scranton , Penn ? sylvania ; Gary , Indiana ; Seattle , Denver , rural Iowa , and rural North Carolina . In each experiment , the procedures were about the same . Several hundred randomly selected , low-income families were enrolled in a guaranteed minimum income plan for three years ( in a few cases , for five years ) . Many families had both a husband and a wife present , but were still poor . If the family 's monthly income fell below a certain level , the government made up the difference . And if a family member went to work , the government took away less than a dollar in benefits for each dollar earned , leaving the family with a net gain from working . In addition , a control group of several hundred other families were followed but were given no new benefits . The experimental system closely resembled the Carter proposal , except that there was no mandatory work requirement and there were no public service jobs available . The experiments were run by social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor families a guaranteed income . Do workers quit their jobs and live off the dole ? Do unemployed people take the time and trouble to look for a new job ? According to the experiments , the answer is that even with a guaranteed income , poor people worked nearly as hard as ever . Husbands reduced their work effort by only a few percentage points , as did women heading one-parent families . Wives in two-parent families reduced their work efforts somewhat more ? by perhaps 10 to 30 percent . Overall , the message of the experiments is that poor people want to work , and they will continue to want to work even with a guaranteed income . According to the experiments , a guaranteed income , like the one Carteris proposing , wo n't significantly increase welfare dependency . And those who are concerned about the supply of low-wage labor need n't worry ? there still will be plenty of people available to iron Senator Long 's shirts . The experiments also showed that another part of the Carter proposal , monthly self-reporting of income , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income reports and received monthly checks . Tests showed that instead of increasing fraud , this procedure caused families to report income more accurately than under the present method of semi ? annual or quarterly interviews . Presumably , the monthly reports are more accurate because family members do n't have to remember as far back . And the self-report method seems to cost no more to administer than the present method , even with audits of suspicious and randomly selected statements . In addition , the experiments had some social benefits . Teenagers in experimental families in New jersey and Gary stayed in school longer , and younger children in the North Carolina families did better in school . Some of the families maintained more nutritious diets , and women in high-risk pregnancies ? those who smoke , teenagers , older women ? gave birth to healthier babies . Other families moved to better apartments or purchased homes . In Gary , the families said they preferred the guaranteed income plan to the current welfare system by a two-to-one margin . On the other hand , the experiments showed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intact ? probably will not materialize . Under the present rules , a father usually must leave his family in order for his wife and children to be eligible for welfare . The President 's proposal would make intact two-parent families eligible for payments . But the experimental families in Seattle and Denver , where two-parent families could receive aid , had even higher rates of divorce and separation than the control families . The reason is that the guaranteed income plan , like the present system , gives wives an indepen ? dent source of income . If their marriages turn sour , wives can leave and take part of their payments with them . No welfare reform plan is likely to reduce marital break-up among the poor until the poor husbands are better able to find jobs to provide for their families . Which brings us to the only part of the President 's plan which has n't been tested ? public service jobs . The administration 's proposal would require the main wage earner in each family to work . And if he or she could n't find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take one of the 1.4 million public service jobs the government would create . After a year of public service work and job training , workers would be sent back to the job market for another look . As an incentive to find a job , payments would be set in such a way that workers in private-sector jobs always would earn more than those in public service jobs . None of the experiments included public service jobs , so no one knows how well this scheme will work . Given the government 's mixed record in job training and creation , many people are unsure of our ability to create so many jobs so fast . Here , then , is one area in which a pilot program still might be warranted . But the administration 's welfare reform bill allows time for this . As it is now written , the bill provides for three years between passage of the legislation and full implementation , provided that Congress acts in 1078 . That should be plenty of time for the federal govern ? ment and the states to assess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ad ? ministrative procedures . The Department of Labor already is designing tests for this interim . As for the other provisions of the bill , they have been tested enough for Congress to proceed . After nine years and $90 million of experiments , the guaranteed income idea hardly can be called untried . We know from the welfare experiments that a welfare system based on a guaranteed income is manageable , that it will improve the lives of many poor families , and that it wo n't disrupt our economy . If we believe that this system is an improvement over the present one , then we should go ahead , without a Long delay . More clearly than ever before , the battle line between white and black has been drawn in South Africa . The overwhelming white vote in the November 30 election for Prime Minister John Vorster 's National Party ensures this . A color line always has been there , of course . Since the coming of whites in 1652 , racial division and conflict have existed . That is what South Africa is all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the estrangement could be ended , that the color line would not become a battle line but could be crossed so that an interracial future for all South Africans could be brought about . For many years the black-white issue was obscured by what became known as the Boer-Brit conflict ? the struggle for supremacy among the whites between the Afrikaners , of Dutch descent , and those of English-speaking stock , chiefly of British descent . This began atthe start of the 19th century when England took occupation of the cape at the southern edge of South Africa . It received fresh momentum and passion with the British defeat of the Afrikaners in the Anglo-Boer war at the start of the 20th century . The Afrikaners doggedly went on , and finally came to political power in 1948 . Since then , Afrikaners also have breached the economic hold of the English speakers . November 30 saw a major step toward blurring the traditional line between the Boers and the Brits . Vorster 's election triumph-134 out of 164 parliamen ? tary seats ? was only possible because many English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place because the Nationalists wanted it so . For much of their 29 years in office , the Nationalists went their own Afrikaner way , consolidating the 1948 election victory and indeed deliberately seeking to perpetuate their group " purity " by insisting on greater separation between Afrikaans- and English-speaking children at schools , stressing the use of the Afrikaans language and applying exclusivist policies wherever possible . Only in recent years has this begun to change and the Nationalists ceased keeping English-speakers at arm 's length . At first , the change in attitude was seen in tokens such as one English speaker in the cabinet . Then , finally , in this election , there was an all-out campaign to woo the English . The Nationalists have done this because they feel strong enough to do it : they are totally in command of the government , the civil service , the police , the army , the educational system and the radio and television network ; and they exercise considerable control over the economy . They no longer fear losing their identity to the English-speaking population . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their appeal to the English because of the smallness of their numbers : they form 00 percent of the four-and-a-half million whites . Even before the election they were being pushed toward this by South Africa 's internal stresses and the developing threat , to whites , of black demands . Now they can not help themselves ? not with the greater-than-ever pressures from the world and with worse obviously to come . " National unity " is therefore now the cry . Stand together . The world is asking us to commit racial suicide . They want our destruction . Resist . Tell them to go to hell . Many English speakers have gone along with this . They have never felt more insecure than they do now , more worried , about being able to maintain their privileged position as whites . Together with Afrikaners , the English are responding to the internal and external pressures with a mixture of bravado , fear , smugness , anxiety and snarling truculence . Not all the English , however , have succumbed . Among some , dislike and distrust of Afrikanerdom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the professional and business people , reject the entire Nationalist creed and want to see progress towards a                     