@@284391

The stalemate that has held southern Africa in black-white deadlock for more than a decade is beginning to break up at last . Last week Prime Minister Ian Smith of Rhodesia , the bastion of white-settler power that broke free of British rule in 1965 , announced that he had agreed to attend a constitutional conference that could lead to a settlement with Britain-and , eventually , to black-majority rule in Britain 's breakaway colony . Smith also told his startled countrymen in a televised speech that the African independence movements that have waged a sporadic terrorist campaign against Rhodesia for the past nine years have agreed to a ceasefire . In return , Smith declared , he had ordered the release of all political prisoners , estimated at more than 300 black leaders , held by his regime . <P> Lost Buffer . This sequence of events would have seemed unthinkable as recently as nine or ten months ago . Smith 's concession-and the whole process of rapprochement that is underway in southern Africa-stems directly from the coup d ' tat in Lisbon last April and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Mozambique next year and to Angola not long thereafter . Faced with the loss of the Portuguese colonies as buffer states , South African Prime Minister John Vorster pressed forward with a plan to achieve a dtente between black-and white-ruled Africa . In this effort he was joined , though with quite different motives , by one of black Africa 's most responsible leaders , Zambian President Kenneth Kaunda . <P> Last October Kaunda sent a truce offer to Pretoria . His terms : that Vorster pressure Smith into holding a new constitutional conference aimed at obtaining African majority rule in Rhodesia ; and that South Africa itself accept majority ( meaning black ) rule in South West Africa ( Namibia ) , the U.N . territory South Africa has run since 1920 . Kaunda wants aid and more trade with South Africa , and wants South African grain not only for Zambia but for other Central African states that currently suffer from a serious food shortage . <P> Kaunda did not go so far as to ask South Africa to abandon its own racist policies . In fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ edges of apartheid-by easing the job restrictions on nonwhites , for instance - thereby making his policies somewhat less objectionable to his black neighbors . Though South Africa was voted out of the U.N . General Assembly last month , Vorster vowed at the time that South Africa 's critics would be surprised " at where the country will stand in six to twelve months . " In the meantime , according to diplomatic observers , Vorst laid it on the line to Ian Smith : unless Smith would work actively toward achieving a Rhodesian settlement South Africa would consider withdrawing its antiguerrilla police , who help the Rhodesians maintain order along the Zambezi River boundary between Rhodesia and Zambia .                     