@@480021

to the changes of atmospheric density . " This conditioning is ignored , usually , both by those inside a profession and by those outside . A profession is an institution , and as such it cuts a figure in public that may or may not match the prevailing habits and merits of the practitioners . The insiders genuinely believe in that figure ; they live by it in more ways than one , and they can hardly help thinking of The Profession as going on forever in the same glorious way , altering itself only as it improves performance by new skill . Then , suddenly , it comes to grief through the outsiders ' dissatisfaction , expressed in various unpleasant ways . Physicians have seen their brethren buffeted by malpractice suits , charged and convicted of fraud in handling federal and local health moneys ; accused of mismanaging hospitals and clinics both medically and financially . With the mistrust has come the belief that doctors care only for money and make too much ; that they cover up one another 's homicidal mistakes ; and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advent of a much improved national health . The parallel grievances about lawyers include , besides exorbitant fees , total disregard of the interests of society , mutual protection through the bar associations ' connivance at error and fraud , and calculated deception of the public through the use of purposely mystifying language . As for teachers in school and college , the grumbling is still diffuse , in part because the work they do or bungle is not observable case by case and is not paid for directly . Academic incompetence , indifference , misdirection of effort may be known or suspected , as they widely are today , but clear-cut instances of malpractice are hard to prove , and so far the few lawsuits against schools generally have failed . The rights and wrongs of the charges will continue to be argued ? as they should be ? but what is of greater moment to the nation is the present state of disaffection from what used to be considered not only the best brains in the country , but also the most dedicated and self-sacrificing . It is true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to join the ancient professions ; they continue to hope for one of the too few places of training . But if , as one hears , the competition sometimes goes on by corrupt means , it would seem that little idealism enters into the search for admission . Or it . At any rate , even those who are close to the training ground express disenchantment with their own kind . A recent writer to the New York Times who is an affirmative-action officer at an Eastern university asserts flatly that we are " so controlled by the professionals , so passive to our own interests , " that danger threatens . And she explains the " rising popular discontent with the so-called truths of all disciplines and the so-called standard accepted practices of all professions " by the " limited vision of those who control these areas of human thought and endeavor . " Long ago , Bernard Shaw made a somewhat terser charge . " Every profession , " he said , " is a conspiracy against the laity . " The epigram should not be dismissed as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the word conspiracy , which implies a secret purpose to overreach the public . Yet it is that very imputation of making the most of closely held secrets that becomes the common man 's idea of a profession when it begins to lose the public 's faith and regard . And there lies the danger . For the obvious next idea that occurs to the aroused critics is to demand strong supervision from outside . The affirmative-action officer wants the professions and disciplines to represent all groups in the community ? that is , become democratic associations " controlling all aspects of a particular area of human concern . " In various forms , this same idea is being urged as the remedy for the unsatisfactory state of affairs . Meanwhile leagues and individuals publish guidelines for outwitting or defeating professional malice , even in dentists . To go in pain or anxiety and ask for expert help with a bludgeon up one 's sleeve has something so topsy-turvy about it that the scene would be high comedy if issues of life and well-being were not involved . Better relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can hardly be brought about in mutual suspicion and hostility . Nor can there be improvement through collective bargaining . The essence of those relations is individual , from which it follows that some clearer idea of what a profession is must once again become common property among insiders and outsiders both . According to Dr. Abraham Flexner , the famous critic and reformer of medical education fifty years ago , to be medically trained implies " the possession of certain portions of many sciences arranged and organized with a distinct practical purpose in view . That is what makes it a ' profession ' . " The key words here are : " a distinct practical purpose in view , " for which " special training is required . " Since the laity , by definition , has no such purposes and lacks special training , a profession is necessarily a monopoly . In modern societies this monopoly is made legal by a license to practice ; but the professions have always managed to form a guild , a trade union , claiming the exclusive right to practice the art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the days of Hippocrates and to those now certified by the National Boards , no secret has been made of this exclusion , this separation of the profession from the rest of the people . Rather , it is a source of pride to the professionals ; and they justify the monopoly by calling it essential to the safety of the public . But between monopoly and conspiracy the line of demarcation is hard to fix and easy to step over . The upshot is that a profession is by nature a vulnerable institution . It makes claims ; it demands unique privileges ; and it has to perform . But " it " of course does not exist as a single entity ; it is a dozen or a few hundred or many thousands of individuals , who differ as widely as all other human beings , yet who , as professionals , are expected to act in a standard manner and to be invariably successful in their art . At this point one might conclude that a profession was not merely vulnerablebut naturally unstable , a scheme beyond human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all kinds have existed for thousands of years , and it is this apparent conti-nuity that gives them the illusion of immortality . What every professional should bear in mind is the distinction between a pro-fession and a function . The function may well be eternal ; but the profession , which is the cluster of practices and relationships arising from the function at a given time and place , can be destroyed ? or can destroy itself ? very rapidly . The priest-physician is gone , like the priest-astrologer ? two plausible combinations of roles . The town crier has disappeared . The broadcaster of news and advertising carries out the same function in a totally different form . The coachman has vanished and given place to the bus or engine driver and the airplane pilot . The miller is now a set of steel rollers and other machinery close to automatic ; yet we still get our flour , and so much more white and pure that no living pest wants to touch it . Even the professions that look ancient and continuous have radically changed , and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schoolteacher or university professor differs from Plato as well as from Abelard , and even more perhaps from the academic trained as a minister , who until recently lectured on six different subjects , all with the aid of the ancient classics . The modern tax and corporation lawyer does not work in the manner of Demosthenes or Cicero , nor do physicians dress or behave or talk Latin like those faithfully represented in the comedies of Moliere . These changes , both external and intrinsic , are linked to the influences that Oliver Wendell Holmes listed , and it would seem reasonable that in a time of public suspicion and outcry , the many professions would examine themselves in the light of these influences ? political , social , religious , and philosophical . This should be done not just through the associations ' committees , which are likely to deal in whitewash , but individually and silently , which is the only way to reawaken a sense of fact narcotized by habit . To do so with honesty and lucidity , it is important to look back through time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by saying that the ancestral jokes that ridicule the stereotypes of each calling can be disregarded : the clergyman is holier-than-thou and hypocritical ; the professor is dry-as-dust and lives in an ivory tower ? lucky man ! ; the lawyer thrives on complicating simple things and drags out the case to swallow up the estate in costs . These cliches go back thousands of years . Plato says : " The surest sign of bad government and social anarchy is to find many judges and many physicians . " Four hundred years ago , Montaigne wrote that " lawyers and physicians are a bad provision for a country . " The professionals themselves have occasionally turned on their own kind . Dr. Benjamin Rush , the famous physician of the American Revolution , wrote to a doctor friend : " Oh , that I were a member of any other profession , that I might not call physicians my brethren ! " And Chekhov , who was a doctor as well as a playwright , makes one of his intelligent characters say , " Lawyers merely rob you ; doctors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have counterparts outside the professions : the plumber always forgets his tools so as to increase the bill , and ? in the Middle Ages ? the miller adulterates the flour after taking more than his share for grinding it . The complaints only express the public 's desire for workmanship and accountability ; and obviously , the more advanced the profession , the less the public can judge of either . But , however stupidly put , these demands by the laity should remind all professionals of the permanent clash of cross-purposes between even the best practitioner and his customer . In teaching , the professor 's tendency is to expound the truth in all the particulars of interest to him . The student wants to be interested in another sense , besides learning what will get him past the examination and certified for his line of work . In the law , it is true , both client and advocate want to win , but the lawyer is trained to exercise caution amid confusion and often takes pleasure in a nice point of law . Both attitudes then seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and money . In medicine also , the case may claim the physician 's absorption in the disease rather than in the patient , who will judge his comfort neglected or even his life endangered for the sake , presumably , of medicine in the abstract . The rule of diversity HIS TENSION OF OPPOSITES is inevitable ; its ever-present reality should be a constant warning to the professional . It is his duty to reduce the difference as far as possible , and in any case not imagine that the human being he is serving ought to be grateful for whatever he gets . On the contrary , as Nicholas Pevsner , the great authority on architecture , has pointed out , many modern buildings are bad because the customer did not make enough demands , letting the architect follow his own professional bent . This is but another way of saying , with Abraham Flexner , that a profession has a practical purpose in view , which is to satisfy a precise human need . The profession does not exist for itself , as a game , or as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pure science , philosophy , art , or mathematics . In this regard , a rereading of Moliere 's comedies about doctors and other professionals yields a healthy lesson . The plays show how , in order to daunt the patient , the doctors of the time dressed in black robes and pointed hats and talked a barbarous Latin , in which they argued whether the patient was suffering or dying according to the rules of the faculty . The treatment that followed was an automatic routine . From other sources we learn that in Moliere 's day there were about 100 doctors in Paris and only four new ones admitted each year . The cost of training was high , and by habitual nepotism the profession was practically hereditary . Surgery was of course rigidly prohibited as being a low manual trade . It was carried on , as we can see in the Marriage of Figaro a century later , by the barber , often an itinerant , who was expert in sharp instruments if in nothing else . All this , no doubt , sounds remote from present-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from parallels . Traits connected with monopoly practice recur in altered guise . More than one modern specialist has in effect asked a patient : " Have you got my disease ? " ? ? which is not far from the Moliere model of making the customer fit the rules . As for automatic treatment , what of the temptation to prescribe the current antibiotic , formerly the sulfa drugs ? The present complaint that surgery is resorted to too readily and too often needlessly again suggests treatment without forethought . Modern practice also shows that since Mohere 's day the surgeon has been admitted to the profession . but the prejudice against manual work subsists in the still invidious position of the dentist . In these and other ways , the professions exhibit their fatal tendency toward routine . Routine relieves the mind of the effort of thought , and it is protected by the secret and the monopoly of the art . Among public-school teachers , " methods " play the same role and , paradoxically , it is no less routine when the fad changes and new gimmicks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too , " the faculty " can turn in on itself and its back on the job . During the great demand for academic talent twenty years ago , its central duty of teaching was openly neglected , explicitly downgraded ; it was left to those who could not devise a project or obtain a nonteaching university post . The student troubles of the next decade no doubt had additional causes , but not a better excuse . Now there are stirrings to put an end to academic tenure and to limit academic freedom so that it does not permit the use of one 's specialty to lighten one 's student load . Accountability has become a watchword throughout the world of education , and all this has come about without the aid of a great satirist like Moliere . If one existed and our subject engaged his mind , he would have a harder time making his point . In the seventeenth century , uniformity and small numbers made the target unmistakable . Today , diversity is the rule among physicians and other professionals . Their training , work arrangements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The tendency of an egalitarian age to turn every occupation into a profession has complicated the substance of ethics . What is right or wrong for a journalist , a marriage counselor , an optometrist all now under distrustful scrutiny ? Like their elder guilds , these new mysteries get little support from outside their numbers . Especially in cities , the public can not readily tell the competent from the incompetent ; there is no local opinion , and the mutual judgment of laity and professionals that used to be exercised easily within a small community is a thing of the past . The professional does not know how the client lives , whether he is honest and conscientious , and what he can understand . This information has relevance beyond the single case , for in the present outcry against the professions one must not forget the repeated proofs that the public , too , can be charged with corruption : shoplifting , bilking , padding accounts , cheating employers or examiners or the government are no longer specialties in the hands of dedicated crooks ; they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the high-school graduate claiming entrance to college ? words , titles , grades , symbols , and diplomas no longer mean what they say . This confusion , moreover , is occurring at a moment when the nation wants a huge supply of first-class services evenly distributed . Leaving aside the question of costs , there is little chance that the requisite number of able and devoted professionals can be found . Here again we must stop and think what a profession as institution is for . It is to turn people who are not born teachers , born builders , born advocates , or born healers into a good imitation of the real thing . Easier said than done . The decline of the public schools since the 1920s is patently due to the enormously enlarged demand for teachers , in keeping with the increase in population . There are not enough true teachers to go around , and the imitation ones , owing to the normally wretched training , are largely useless . In other words , it is not true that with increasing numbers of people you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many other opportunities disperse and absorb that talent ; and even apart from this fact , the supply is unpredictable . The country can not say that now it has four times as many writers of the first rank as it had 100 years ago . Criticism from without and within A S A WHOLE , EVERY PROFESSION is always horribly average , mediocre . By definition it can not be anything else . But the public expectation aims much higher than mediocrity , so that in a time of reckoning , when the laity is hot about its rights , general dismay and recrimination are inevitable . What is more , although any art should be judged by its best results , a democratic nation , bent on equality in all things , is sure to judge a profession by its worst exemplars . That is the condition we are in now . Consider the malpractice suits . From one point of view it is just that a patient ? or his heirs ? should recover damages for careless or ignorant treatment . From another point of view it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cause of coin-plaint . Yet a customer can not tell whether he has had the best . He always judges by gross results ? kill or cure and wants the reasons plain . On such points the public intelligence is weak . Certain groups have voiced demands that show they expect from the professions nothing less than divination and infallibility . Again the requirement , now enacted here and there , that the fairly exact language of the law be reduced to the common tongue foolishly ignores both the potential litigation over loose terms and the appalling prose now being written by laymen and professionals . Thus do carelessness and indifference on one side beget angry utopian claims on the other . The subtleties of the predicament are even dearer in education , where the failure to " educate " a particular student is evident in the student , yet assigning blame is beyond human wit . Nor can our modern system follow the example of the old-time college president who said to the indignant parent : " Madam , we guarantee results ? or we return the boy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results ? a cure , a good education , winning the lawsuit ? that for centuries it has seemed best to let the professions police themselves . The assumption is that inside the shop merit and demerit are correctly judged . That is by and large true , and lately in medicine Professional Standards Review Organizations , which are local committees of physicians , have been set up to pass upon the performance of fellow practitioners . It is too soon to say whether this is doing the profession any good , but on general principles one may doubt it . Anyone who has seen at first hand the evaluation of educational institutions by committees of colleagues knows that except for cases that could have been decided at sight by a sensible bricklayer , the reports have been pointless and false . The criteria are mechanical ( e.g. , equipment , number of books ) or else abstract , hence remote from what goes on day by day . How can practice be judged otherwise than in prac-tice ? If policing passes from a local committee of peers to a government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between printed paper and real life is even wider . Through their own routines , regulatory agencies lag behind the facts . They also protect featherbedding , prevent innovation , and give inspectors a power that may invite and spread corruption . But this generally true verdict is incomplete . The regulation of business came about because business did not regulate itself . It exploited labor and the buyer , under the motto " The public be damned . " An alert professional today has the uneasy feeling that the professions are at the juncture where the same motto , unspoken on their part , is being imputed to them by a public ready to clamor for regulation . There are other signs of a gradual demoting of the professions to the level of ordinary trades and businesses . The right of lawyers and physicians to advertise , so as to reintroduce money competition and break down the " standard practices , " is being granted . Architects are being allowed to act as contractors . Teachers have been unionized . Laymen demand the right to sit on various professional bodies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representation " may be argued for , on the ground that internal management is unable to serve the public fairly without supervision . The great force of government money works to the same end , for bureaucracy follows the funds and while directing their use is bound to control the user . And where government does not intrude , unionism will . Such moves , whether viewed as threats or as reforms , signify one thing : the modern professions have enjoyed their monopoly for so long that they have forgotten that it is a privilege given in exchange for a public benefit . The myth of the profession as an immortal being , forever young and strong , fills their minds . The example of the scientist , till lately unchallenged as oracle and servant of mankind , has persuaded the professional man that expertise in itself is a sufficient raison d'etre . Occasional complaints are interpreted as envy or misunderstanding , instead of what they have turned out to be ? suspicion . resentment at breach of faith , contempt of complacency . Forgetting the great principle of reciprocity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the menace when they too loudly claimed complete autonomy from social judgment . Nor can the workaday professions be saved when only a faithful remnant performs well and behaves ethically . An institution exists for use , not to be an object of wonder . It may be , of course , that we are witnessing the evolution some have predicted the drive toward a society collectivized through and through , that is , in which groups interlock in mutual control                     