@@281882

It was hailed as an architectural masterpiece when it opened in 1963 , yet today Architect Paul Rudolph 's prize-winning School of Art and Architecture Building at Yale University stands half empty and virtually unrestored , although nine months have passed since it was gutted by fire . The cause of the fire has never been determined , but the reason for the long delay in rebuilding is clear : students and teachers feel that the building simply did not work . <P> As director of the school , Rudolph presumably knew better than anyone else what sort of building was needed . And many praised its boldly massed forms , rough concrete surfaces and unconventionally playful use of space . Yet from the start Rudolph 's design drew criticism . British Architectural Critic Nikolas Pevsner doubted that such an idiosyncratic and personal building could meet the changing needs of new directors and new educational goals . Yale students went even farther . " The building was a nice visual experience , " says one , " but from the start it was functionally inadequate . " Student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days , found the studios too small to accommodate their works . Owing to the fact that money ran out before air conditioning could be installed , unshaded south-facing rooms were unbearably hot , and the basement graphics workshops occasionally filled up with chemical fumes . The vast , multilevel architectural drafting loft , designed without partitions to encourage communication between students in different classes , made private consultations with teachers difficult . <P> Architect Rudolph , who left Yale five years ago to concentrate on private practice , refuses to answer his critics in detail . " There are answers , " he says , " but you ca n't please everyone or foresee everything . I 'll stand on my building as I built it . " To plan the necessary reconstruction ( the top half of the building is currently unusable ) , Yale hired a former Rudolph student , Edwin W. deCossy , who admires the master 's work yet concedes the difficulty of adapting it . " The building is a personal statement by Rudolph , " he says , " and it overawes a student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal statement . " An informal student-faculty study group has also been meeting for the past six months to work out better deployment of its interior spaces , and Dean Howard S. Weaver of the School of Art predicts that the building will be ready for full use again by September . <P> To date , however , no plans for reconstruction have been approved , and students are working in temporary quarters scattered throughout New Haven . Some of them enjoy the diaspora . Says one : " There 's something romantic about setting up a studio in an abandoned store front-at least at first . " But teachers and students alike miss the central meeting place and facilities that only a functioning school building can provide - and Rudolph 's much-lauded building continues to baffle its users .                     