@@282492

Borrowing the concept of the classic American drugstore the French transmogrified it into a near-erotic experience . Over the past dozen years , several versions of Le Drugstore have appeared in Paris : multimedia bazaars featuring bizarre decor , intimate bars , lavish food and smart boutiques . The phenomenon bore only a dreamlike resemblance to the drug supermarkets of , say , Cedar Rapids , Iowa . Now , by way of cultural reexport , not to say retaliation , the metamorphosed drugstore has returned to the U.S. <P> In Manhattan last week more than a thousand guests thronged to opening night at Le Drugstore , gaping at its chic decorations , examining the wares in its boutiques and sampling the wines and food in its three restaurants . They gulped champagne by the Jeroboam at the most popular attraction : a mahogany and ostrich-leather bar . ' That bar is soft and sensuous , " explained soft and sensuous Caroline Solovei. 27 , the wealthy beauty who is Le Drugstore 's president . " It 's just like everything else here . It sums up our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of corridors and 14 shops , customers can purchase an infinite variety of far-out clothing-from wild lingerie to see-through shirts to sexy pants and fancy wigs . There are cigarettes from India and Japan and France , newspapers and magazines from Paris , Parisian cosmetics , chic boots , bags and belts . A delicatessen offers the usual fare-along with bouillabaisse , ris de veau and lobster en crote . The bookshop stocks current bestsellers , as well as a discreet selection of high-class pornography and perceptive sampling of the overseas and underground press . <P> Talk Show . In addition to the delicatessen , the three restaurants-a small mirror-lined hall with booths for twosomes , a large jungle-motif dining area with waiters and waitresses in safari suits , and a plushy retreat opposite the bar-offer a wide-ranging mixture of French and American food . There are hamburgers and hot dogs-and quiche Lorraine and hifsteck tartare as well : Mot et Chandon champagne and Coca-Cola are both on the menu . Empty seats are interdit . " We want Le Drugstore to be a meeting place , ' ' Caroline Solovei @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ table , we 'll shoehorn another couple-or a single-in . It 's terribly easy to strike up a conversation . ' ' Caroline , who partially financed the venture with family funds , is an integral part of Le Drugstore 's scene , providing still another attraction for customers . <P> The total ambience apparently stimulates the instinct to buy . George Stuart , who , with designer wife Lyn , operates the women 's boutique , claims : " We 've had to restock the shop four times a day every day so far . " Other retailers are doing almost as well . For some customers , however , Manhattan 's newest divertissement will never quite replace Rexalls or Walgreens . Because of a New York State law that prevents their sale in an establishment that serves alcohol , no drugs are available in Le Drugstore.                     