@@288557

FICTION Daniel Martin by John Fowles . With little of the narrative trickery that embellished The Magus , the author sends a Hollywood screenwriter on an engrossing psychological pilgrimage that undermines contemporary modish despair . Falconer by John Cheever . The loneliness of prison and memories is the theme of this deeply emotional novel . The Honourable Schoolboy by John le Carr . The further adventures of George Smiley , Britain 's unlikeliest superspy , as well as a pitiless dissection of contemporary moral dilemmas . The Professor of Desire by Philip Roth . In presenting yet another of his Jewish intellectual heroes wrestling with sex and guilt , Roth enhances his reputation as one of the most consistently readable authors now at work . Song of Solomon by Toni Morrison . In her third and best novel , the author weaves a complex fable of power and magic to portray a young black man 's reconciliation with his past . <P> NONFICTION Chinese Shadows by Simon Leys . A Belgian-born Sinologist argues persuasively that China , far from being a classless society , is a tyranny ruled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the Country by John McPhee . Three lengthy bulletins on Alaska , handcrafted out of diligent reporting and a supple style , magically transform this vast , nearly unspoiled area into a state of mind . The Diaries of Evelyn Waugh edited by Michael Davie . One of the century 's great novelists discloses incidents in his life ( among them the death of a child and a crucial stint as a public school teacher ) that he put to brilliant use in his fiction . Dispatches by Michael Herr . Combat reports from Viet Nam , circa 1967 , fused with afterthoughts ten years in the collecting , conspire to make the war and its aftermath unforgettable . The Feminization of American Culture by Ann Douglas . A provocative , tightly reasoned study that locates the roots of American mass consumerism among housewives and the liberal clergy of the 19th century .                     