@@491387

My father 's tremendous feeling for the West began in 1919 while he was working on Emerson Hough 's Traveling the Old Trails stories . There were other authors writing about the opening of the great West , and W.H.D.K. wanted to understand and paint those years of development of our nation . He realized there could be no mistakes , historically or otherwise , in his work as an illustrator . Therefore , he was determined to see for himself the West and the people there . In 1922 , Koerner was commissioned to paint the illustrations for Hal G. Evarts ' Tumbleweeds , which told the change of Oklahoma from open range to quarter section with the homesteaders ' dash to stake their claims when the Cherokee Strip was opened . This story renewed Koerner 's desire to research the history of that territory and to learn more about the Indian tribes . He spent long and laborious hours in the New York Public Library 's rare-book room ; he searched the files in the Museum of Natural History for photographs of wagons , Indians , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of clippings which he had accumulated since 1900 . His Tumbleweeds paintings were free and powerful , for he had caught the terrific impact of the opening of the Cherokee Strip . After the story appeared in the Saturday Evening Post and in book form , Tumbleweeds was made into a movie with William S. Hart playing the lead . When we turn the pages of a book or magazine and look at the illustrations , it is impossible to realize all of the artist 's work that goes into painting them . It means years of drawing , study of drawing , many and long hours of research in library and museum  --  all this before the artist lays one stroke of color on the canvas . My father was continually sketching and painting . His oils and paint box with a stretched canvas inside , his Reuben crayons and watercolors , and the book in which he drew compositions for his illustrations , were always with him , ready for notes , sketches , or drawings of the miners who wanted to pose . Gene Underwood , an Indian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illustrations were true , and his log cabin was lined with Koerner 's magazine illustrations , especially the prints from The Covered Wagon that were tacked on the old logs . He begged my father to make a painting of his cabin . Gene stood around watching and while Koerner sketched , Gene opened his cabin door and put his gun beside it , then disappeared into the cabin . He followed Koerner wherever he went and swore his approval , swore so loud that the two Park Rangers who had come to meet Koerner removed Gene , one on each side , toward the General Store . Gene was one of the men who turned the ox on the spit at the Old-Timer 's Fish Fry and spat in the ashes meanwhile . The towns of Bozeman , Livingston , Billings , Sheridan , Cody were full of characters and color to an artist who came for the rodeo . The cowboys such as George Putnam and Paddy Ryan would hear that Koerner , the artist from the Saturday Evening Post , was there and they would scout him out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could watch the action and , as he often said , " soak in " the activity of the men around the chutes , then hang on for dear life when the bronc would break forth in all his fury trying to undo the rider . It was almost more than Mother , Bill , and I could follow  --  but not so to Koerner and the cowboys that gathered around him filling the air with suitable verbal punches . This was no " rodeo stock " but wild and free horses ridden for the first time . The steers and calves were fresh off the range . This was for real . In different sections of the West are found different types of characters and Indians , breeds of cattle and of horses . The whole appearance of the country changes ; an artist must fit the time , the scene , and be true to fact in the smallest detail . My father felt the strong urge to see its color : adobe earth , the pueblos , the dress of the different Indians with each change so important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough to sketch , his camera filled his need . Today remains his collection of photos taken of the Crow Indians at their own Fourth of July rodeo outside of Lodge Grass  --  the bucks on their pinto ponies and the squaws in their elktooth-trimmed dresses worn just for the celebration . The fence for their all-Indian rodeo turned out to be the ranchers ' cars and the Indian wagons . This crude circle meant nothing to the rearing bronc as he broke through the open spaces with the Indian rider still scratching and the wild yell from the crowd . The cowboys , the ranch women , the Indians , all recognized my father 's talent and were always interested in him , for they knew that if they gave him information he would preserve it in his paintings of the West . They took every opportunity to include W.H.D.K. in their activities and none were staged for his benefit . Koerner saw the West as it really was ! We were standing in the doorway of our log cabin , watching a man and his two pack horses start @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short , rough-looking man walked briskly toward us . His eyes were keen , his hair shaggy , and his skin was hardened by years spent in the open . He stopped abruptly . " Is it true , " he asked our mother , " that your man is Koerner of the Post ? " Mother smiled assent . " Say , lady , maybe you do n't know it , but yer married to a great painter . I 've said it myself many 's the time , sitting o ' nights lookin ' at them pictures he done of the West . I 've got ' em hung up in my cabin . I 've lived them days . Say , tell me , does your man know he tells the truth in his pictures ? " And that , I think , sums up my father 's work . He tells the truth in his pictures . M                     