@@491658

A new tomorrow rumbles in the restlessness of today . Like a long-delayed tide , crests of its waves appear far off shore . The spokesman of this new world is a salty , seafaring , seventyseven-year-young R. Buckminster Fuller , affectionately known by old and young alike as " Bucky . " His life , lived with such grace and gusto , has been , to use his language , " at the crest of the wave . " Never a toe-testing wader dabbling in the shallows of the shore , Bucky has been wrestling with the big scene , the giant waves , the deep-sea thinking from which one comes up " with bloodshot eyes " as Conrad has described so graphically . This oceanic sense is appropriate to his thoughts , which move in " waves , " as he insists all nature does , never in straight lines . The youth and " young-at-heart " of all nations hear and herald the coming of this new world . In Thoreau 's words , they seem out of step only because the distant drummer to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crowd . The measured throb of the sound of its sea of stirring forces can be heard by all but the deaf . Only fear-ridden prophets of doom and those clinging desperately to forms and functions already outmoded by a dynamic present fear its increasingly widespread presence . It is a rejuvenating sound of sensitivity , integrity , growth , and harmony , combined with the most efficient use of our natural and human resources . Sensed by the young , as with the innocence of the child in " The Emperor 's New Clothes , " this new consciousness is penetrating the moral nakedness of our time . It prophesies a new world . It is no accident that the editors of The Whole Earth Catalog , prophetic publication of this creative generation of students on " how to build a world , " should have chosen Bucky 's writings as a major base . From his grasp of nature 's elemental economy and integrity in the " eternal triangle , " base of his world-famous geodesic dome designs that now dot the world from the polar Eskimo to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planetary AT TIME CREST continued from page 73 " more with less " as prophetic of the tide of our time . He illustrates how this " synergistic " ( more-with-less ) system , at work in nature and supremely in persons , revolutionizes our time , makes it possible not only to contemplate but also to deliver a higher quality of life for every person on our planet at diminishing cost . ( His geodesic domes represent 3 percent the weight and resource utilization , but six times the strength and life ! ) It is good news to a weary world , and contagious to a generation sick of bombs and bulldozers scarring the face of the world and our souls as well . Such a man , swimming free , or better , surfing the crest of the tide ( Bucky would argue that he is doing very little ; he says that the universe is doing marvelous things through him , and would through others if we were open to its design ! ) can not he pigeonholed nor easily organized . He flows , floats on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confident of its roll and direction . This energy , cosmic benevolence , symbolized by the sun , radiates in his life and work . Yet , it too has to be translated , integrated into this life , and channeled to be constructive . So bright a flame , sooner or later , invites a supportive structure . With Bucky it was not easy , this suggestion of a supporting frame for so free a flame . His simple code has been : go only where you are invited ; speak only as asked ; and do not seek funds , favors , or friends , but let them come as naturally and unattended as the rain . Still , the sheer momentum of the man , crescendoing across the world in ever wider ripples these last dozen years , would inundate a whole community , much less a solitary individual . Carrying his ever widening staff , mounting archives , global correspondence and commuting , blazing frontiers across a dozen disciplines , he defies our foreseeing how all this might continue if he were to stop . Even tireless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Friends , students , and colleagues across the world , with mounting urgency began to ask : What can he done to sustain and magnify this authentic voice , this architect of tomorrow ? In short , how could R. Buckminster Fuller with his elflike individuality and irresistible insulation from organization , bureaucracy , and the " system of this world " be sustained by some wider range of support , insurance in multiplying the escalating archives of his ideas , inventions , and instruction for the future , and institutional facilitation for implementing the fertility of so cosmic a life ' ? Long germinating with those who cared , the idea finally came of age , with Bucky 's blessing , to establish the International Design Science Institute , a nonprofit institution , to sup-port , foster , and multiply those ideas and influences central to the design science revolution at work in the world for human betterment and inspired by the thought and life of this remarkable man . Launched in midsummer , the Institute , described by the New York Times ' full-page spread as promoter of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fuller 's so gentle yet global a life . Nor had its formal forging come too soon . Despite the tides of tomorrow sweeping through the overwhelming response of youth everywhere to his relevant design for recycling energy , restoring nature 's balance and resources , remaking the human habitat and global environment , and creating new no-nonsense substitutes for violence for a dramatically shrinking and domesticated world , the old Malthusian myths of inevitable scarcity and doomsday detailing of the end of man persist . Fed by strategies of fear , denominationalism , inverted logic , and inward-looking strategies of security , the current scene of hardened arteries of hope invites a kind of cultural heart failure at precisely the time we need the key ingredients for economic , social , and human development : confidence and trust in our world and ourselves to make it ! It is to this climate , nurtured by the fear of our successes , suspicion of our hell-bent technology and heedless exploitation of our world , with its mounting gap between the rich and poor , the haves and the have-nots , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cynicism is dependable knowledge , a knowledge rooted in a true grasp of the real design of our world-so prolific in promise , so generous in energy , yet so demanding in its use . This informational base , linked intrinsically to the necessity to share , to wisely and practically " tool up " for doing " more with less , " is at the heart of Bucky 's wisdom , writings , and work . With telling adaptation it anticipates the world 's urgent agenda , and lays a theoretical and practical plan for meeting these needs now  --  concerning production and distribution of energy , housing , transport , space and the seas , population , production , education , and the deepest hunger of all  --  the hunger for cosmic meaning . Yet this profusion of ideas and resources , in the full product of Bucky 's lifetime , trails like a meteor in the wake of his energetic and mobile life . These resources will he brought together , conserved and catalogued , enriched by the current capture in film , television , and tape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educate and serve a widening global interest . This is the Continued on page 142 continued from page 132 first task of the Institute , informational and educational . Like a silver thread , stringing pearls of wisdom gathered from a surging sea , is the central concept of t he Institute and Bucky 's thought : DESIGN . It is the world 's essential nature , grasped by thought , in dependable simplicity . Design lays bare the basic building blocks of the universe in their relatedness . Design mirrors the constituent principles that portray the order and performance of our world . Design illustrates the pattern of permanence in the midst of all our change . It gives integrity and dependability to our " spinning spaceship , " to use Bucky 's happy phrase . Design is the cosmic cement holding our world together , inviting imitation , and adaptation to new forms , and more promising support for all the people of the whole world . The world 's design ? Bucky never tires of saying  --  and therefore the key to human evolution , is in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ love . " These essential concepts lie close to the Institute 's perspective and potential . " Synergy " describes the inexhaustible surprise of the universe , where the whole is never predicted by the behavior of its parts . Like a pebble dropped in a pool , action and events make multiple ripples in all directions , altering the surface and ultimate impact of the farthest shore . Not only is no man an island , sufficient to himself ; but no feature of life or the world lives in isolation . As the poet Thompson remarked , Touch a flower , and you stir a star . This web of life , this multiplier effect creates the need for the comprehensivist approach to our problems . Viewed from this planetary perspective , the creative expanse of energy and thought , the living links in the " care and maintenance of a very small planet , " contemporary problems , as grasped by Bucky 's thought , take on a new and manageable form . The Institute will seek , through appropriate research and adaptation , to extend the impact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonpolluting energy of the wind and tide , the self-cycling windmill and adaptation of the tide lift of Fundy ; the transformation of the fuel-consuming engine  --  only 15 percent efficient to 85 percent efficient ; the shared energy grids of the hemispheres in alternating use both day and night ; the dry pressed toilet refusing to flush and ruining fifty gallons of otherwise good water a day ; the floating city , already projected for Tokyo Bay , economizing land and using and recycling the water as a living environment ; the replacement of human drudgery with newfound energy slaves , new concepts of work , property , and disposable and recycled modular housing , transport . and a transformed human habitat ; all these and more sustained bythe multiplying synergy of the human mind in wiser use of resources shared to enhance the world invite emulation and support . These ideas are not pipe dreams , spun in fantasy by a fool . They have " integrity . " They spring from that design at the heart of things ; and , like a child coming on its first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irrepressible . The universe works for us , and with us , with incredible dependability . Our problems root in our pride or folly in ignoring or breaking the design , seeking to claim , confine , or pervert its pattern . The universe , and even our present state of evolution , does not pervert the plan , Its integrity is expressed in its benevolence , its outpouring energy , its giving  --  which Bucky calls " love . " It is not sentimental , this design of the whole , and that part of the process we are . It is . Its flow we see in the energy of the sun , only a small fraction of which we have been able clumsily to transform into life-sustaining food and forces of the plant , and up the food chain toward man . Understand the process , break the cosmic code , adapt intelligence to a higher technology , and there is enough and more to sustain the world beyond our present belief , and at a level not yet dreamed of , We have begun , Bucky with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world was 39 percent animal power , 56 percent man power , and only S percent machine power . In a short 100 years later , it had converted to 3 percent animal power , .8 percent man power and 96.2 percent machine power . We have lifted the level of life in reduced work and enhanced quality in that time for nearly 40 percent of the people of the world . With comparable adaptation , in the future , it is possible for the other 60 percent . Bucky is a realist ; he knows it can be done , but human habits are deep set . It may not be done . It calls for radically altered habits of mind , attitudes toward resources , toward others , toward our world  --  a reverence for life , a willingness to " let go and let live , " a tough-minded discipline toward resources , technology , and the quantum leap . The Institute , matching this maturity with measured methods , will address these alternatives  --  to change , or perish . This seasoned realism and the quantum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council : Jonas E. Salk , breakthrough scientist in the vaccine for polio ; Constantinos A. Doxiadis , designer of new cities and human habitats ; U Thant , bridge-building former Secretary General of the United Nations ; Walter J. Hickel , early architect of an ecological ethic and steward of the environment ; Margaret Mead , brilliant analyst of human communities , their past and future ; Arthur C. Clarke , author of 2001 : A Space Continued on page 149 continued from page 142 Odyssey , space scientist , and visionary of the future ; Jerome Wiesner , former science advisor to the President and head of MIT . The Institute 's Board reflects the practical relevance and outreach of its intent : Fritz Close , recently retired Chairman of the Board of Alcoa ; Norman Cousins , Editor and founder of Saturday Review and now World : Gerald Dickler , distinguished legal counsel ; Charles Haar , Harvard professor ; Neva Kaiser , young writer and creative catalyst ; Martin Meyerson , city planner and President of the University of Pennsylvania ; Glenn A. Olds , former U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State University ; John S. Rendleman , President of Southern Illinois University ; M. W. Whitlow long-time friend of Bucky 's and Iowa banker ; and William M. Wolf , president of a computer corporation in Massachusetts . The convergence of this company , and the initial phase of organization of the Institute , comes at a propitious time . Bucky 's World Game , designed to demonstrate the opposite of strategic war games , how one can do more with less , can design a world where no one loses , where resources can be multiplied through use , caring , and sharing , and where success can be global , is ready to be played . His archives and analyses gathered over a lifetime constitute a most promising start . In keeping with Bucky 's life-style and deepest conviction , the Institute will be open to the wide range of spontaneous support to " see these things happen . " It will not coerce , arm-twist or intimidate . The wellworn ten dollar bills from modest students have already begun to come in supporting its initial and modest work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and will be encouraged to contribute so these ideas can come of age . Like mustard seeds , and gently opening minds , these small beginnings will mature with time . Friends of the earth and the human spirit , far and wide , are finding worthy of support Bucky 's practical guidelines to understanding and enhancing " the whole earth . " The office , modestly opened at 3700 Massachusetts Avenue , N.W. , in Washington this fall , is aflood with inquiries , proposals , and tokens of support . But the Institute is not a place . Like Bucky , it is a verb , an action in support and extension of his ideas . Like his life , it is not for profit , but made to serve , insuring the future through fresh adaptation of Design Science to our unsolved planetary problems . It thrives in suggested solutions , carried forward as Bucky 's life has been lived , " at the crest of the wave . " It is sustained by a lovely line in Bucky 's guest book in his beloved Bear Island , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sea . It was written by a nine-year-old , tuned in to Bucky . He said , " I 've learned a lot here about ldving people  --  and a little bit about steering a boat ! " The right order ! Sustained by that cosmic design in ourselves and the stars  --  mathematical and moral -- that holds the world and ourselves together , and invites imitation and innovation in this wider sea of space , in our spaceship earth ! This , the child in all of us may see yet  --  and save us . The Institute aims to help Bear Island was really where Fuller 's " system " was launched . And it is , for anyone who has been there , one of the most cosmic spots in creation . From the time he was five , he has spent summers there with his family , in touch with the elements and the currents  --  and he isstill skinny-dipping in the freezing water . Today , representatives of the militant left and the conservative right , of business and government , are liable to drop in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know that Fuller is , in addition to being good counsel , good copy . Everyone , whether they go skinny-dipping or not , finds himself immediately immersed in an all-encompassing mind . The plunge is piercing ; complacencies and preconceptions are washed away ; Fuller leaves you , if gently , with an awareness of what you really know , and with the determination to organize that knowledge in some constructive direction . There is no place to hide on Bear Island . Especially from yourself . Years ago , Fuller decided that what you really counts , and that what you really know can only be what you really experience . He has never accepted anything secondhand and , for that reason , has been called the empirical pioneer of the century , His discoveries , his inventions  --  all are based on a sustained study of trends ; not just of what people say , but of what they actually have done , and are doing . He regards the universe as the aggregate of all experience , in all time . The universe is his minimum consideration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a gently flapping sail , wafted by principles which interweave the strands . Sharing these principles is his minimum objective . " You are n't going to follow me unless you realize I talk comprehensive , " he 'll say . You sort of bristle with disbelief as he proceeds to tell you how he personally disbanded self-doubt and the torture of merely earning a living , and set out , in his words , to make sense , not money . " I 'm very used to something in                     