@@494819

Is He the Man for the Job ? The FBI 's Gray Days by Walter Pincus On May 14 , 1968 , by a vote of 72-0 , the United States Senate approved an amendment to the Omnibus Crime Control Act , requiring that future directors of the Federal Bureau of Investigation be confirmed by the Senate . Senator George Murphy of California , a chief sponsor of the legislation , summed up the sentiment of his colleagues at the moment : " It is much too important a position to be included in a classification where Congress has no voice in his selection . " Added Senator Harry Byrd of Virginia , " I doubt that there is any more important position in our government . I doubt that any office in our government can have such a great effect on the lives of individual citizens as that of the FBI Director . " It is good to recall the words of these conservative gentlemen as we await Mr. Nixon 's final selection of J. Edgar Hoover 's successor . For hardly a voice has been heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mr. Nixon 's friend and " acting director , " J. Patrick Gray III . The silence is not because the legislators know all about Mr. Gray and are satisfied . Little is known of his background and most of that has come from Gray 's own mouth . As for his seven-month performance as " acting director , " only those inside the FBI could factually testify to that ? and it is hard to believe that an agent , inspector or assistant bureau director would come forward to oppose Gray ? no matter what the merits ? were his name to be sent to the Senate by the President . But a memo of complaints against Gray has been put together from within the bureau . It represents in part the biased and shortsighted views of old-time Hoover aides who would be put off by any successor chosen from outside their ranks . Nevertheless the two-page memo must seriously be considered , by the President initially and by the Senate Judiciary Committee eventually as they ponder replacing a man who ran his agency for almost 50 years with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " the memo begins , " is at an all-time low point . " It notes that some of Hoover 's top aides have already resigned and that " a large percentage have indicated they will retire shortly after the first of the year . ( It is advantageous both tax-wise and retirement-wise to delay until after January 1973 . ) " " Chief opposition to Gray , " the memo continues , " grows out of his handling of personnel matters involving three special agents in charge and an assistant director . " Under Hoover , agent transfers , demotions and promotions were ruthlessly effected , yet the director in almost every case kept the information within the family . It was the agent involved who went to the press . In the minds of these old Hoover men , Gray broke a sacred rule when he gave newsmen the backgrounds of transfers of his Honolulu , Los Angeles and Washington special agents . Present and past FBI agents who support Gray say they are bothered by the way he handled the matter in public . " In each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaked details to the press . . . giving the official no chance to respond . This airing of linen has resulted in strong resentment on the part of agents throughout the organization . . . . They also resent his arrogance in thinking he could leak these stories without the agents or the public being aware he was the source ? at the very least his actions demonstrate naivete and non-professionalism . " The nonprofessionalism charge is picked up in a discussion of Gray 's personal staff ? " three young law-yers he brought with him from the Department of Justice . None have had law enforcement or investigative experience and know absolutely nothing re intelligence work . " It was one of Gray 's assistants , David D. Kinley , who set in motion a 14-city request for bureau agents to suggest material for use in President Nixon 's campaign speeches in response to a memo from White . House assistant John Ehrlichman . That was considered an unheard-of use of the bureau for partisan ends . An official who worked closely with Gray during 1969 when Gray was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength there was the care with which he organized Finch 's time and , through associates within the department , kept Finch fully informed of what was going on . " Each night he would take into Finch a list of 13 or more items that had come up during the day . It was priceless information to a busy cabinet secretary . " The same individual says Gray 's own staff seems incapable of performing that same role for him . " A deep distrust exists , " the memo states , " between Gray 's personal group and the professional staff ? their sole aim is to advance Gray personally , no matter what the cost to the organization . It is inevitable that the Bureau organization will make every effort to prevent a continuance of Gray 's tenure . " In a slightly different vein , the memo alleges , " Most unfortunately , Gray has become completely obsessed with the appurtenances of power and authority left by J. Edgar Hoover . " It goes on to note Gray has kept Hoover 's three Cadillacs and added two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposedly a former Navy mess boy ) to prepare lunches in the new kitchen built off his office ; and has flown around the country using an air force jet , often starting or ending the trip at his Stonington , Conn. home . He has visited all but a few of the bureau 's 59 field offices , accompanied by his wife where , says the memo , " he gives the same speech in each office . " During the political campaign he used the visits to make public speeches to local Rotary or other service clubs in which he mentioned the benefits of the Nixon administration . As for organization , the memo criticizes " his complete lack of management experience . . . . Committees abound , endless inane discussions but no decisions . . . . His frenetic schedule is aimless and has resulted in no significant accomplishments . " Gray disagrees with the latter point . He has put together , and shown to newsmen , his own list of changes made since he took over the bureau . High on the list are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity office staffed by a black and a white agent , easing of the tight haircut and dress rules . Even construction of his office kitchen is listed . Who is correct about Gray 's performance ? And if he is nominated how can the Senate committee get at the root of the old agents ' complaints ? And is it enough to DECEMBER 9 , 1972 examine Gray 's seven months on the job ? What about his background ? From the files of the New London Day ? Gray 's hometown newspaper ? we can begin to piece together his past . An item on January 10 , 1961 announced that Louis Patrick Gray III , " a member of Vice President Nixon 's campaign staff " and resident of New London for five years had joined the law firm of Suisman , Shapiro and Wool as an associate . The biography that followed noted his education at the Naval Academy , service aboard a submarine during World War H , law school as a navy postgraduate student at George Washington University ( graduated with honors , law review @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as executive officer of a sub tender stationed in New London and final navy duty in Washington in the late 1950s as military law assistant to the chairman of the joint chiefs and aide to Secretaries of Defense McElroy and Gates for congressional presentations . Gray resigned from the navy in June 1960 to work as " special assistant to ( then Vice President ) Nixon handling matters involving national defense , the national economy and campaign organization . " According to a New London lawyer who was well acquainted with Gray at the time , the Suisman firm was and is " very prosperous . " Gray 's role was mostly that of " in-office law , " real estate , business , wills and trusts , including a great deal of work with nearby navy personnel but little actual court work . News stories over the next few years in the Day focussed on Gray in Republican politics and as a small business entrepreneur . On March 29 , 1961 , the paper announced he had been appointed to a voluntary public relations committee being established by Connecticut Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than one month later he was appointed New London city chairman for the Mobilization of Republican Enterprise , an effort to recruit and train party workers in each of the state 's voting districts . A year later , he made the paper again , this time as chairman of the Mariani for governor campaign committee . Peter Mariani , the local state senator from Groton ran unsuccessfully in 1962 for the Republican gubernatorial nomination . During the campaign Gray was quoted as saying the state GOP " is fighting hard against bossism , bureaucracy and Baileyism , " a reference to the then-Democratic national chairman , John Bailey , who controlled the party in Connecticut . In 1963 Gray attended a political workshop in Hershey , Pennsylvania sponsored by the national Republican citizens committee and was named chairman of the GOP Finance Committee in New London . From 1964 onward , Gray 's involvement in local politics took a backseat to his business activities . In 1961 , when he left Washington and joined the firm , he had been instrumental in establishing Pequot Capital Corp. , a small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substantially by the members of the law firm . Initially , Gray was executive vice president of Pequot , but in 1964 he became president . Like other SBICs , Pequot was established with private capital ( $150,000 ) and under relatively new legislation additional capital from the Small Business Administration . The aim of SBICs such as Pequot was to invest venture money through loans or stock purchase in small businesses . Pequot was apparently quite successful . By 1967 when it merged into another SBICCapital for Technology Corp . ? people were referring to it as a $2 million operation and Pat Gray was the merged company 's vice president , general counsel and its moving force . In 1968 Gray was named to the board of directors of the national small business investment company association . The 1968 campaign came along and Gray again joined the Nixon organization , writing position papers . In an interview with the New London paper on the night of Nixon 's ' 68 victory , Gray said he thought he would get a position in the administration , " somewhere in defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his personal staff . " He ended up as Robert Finch 's executive assistant at HEW , and although the post did n't appear to be as high as he had hoped , Gray described it to a newspaper interviewer as sitting in the " focal point " of the Nixon administration . " In official Washington , " he said , " when anyone wants to see the secretary ? except the undersecretary ? he has to go through me . And in the absence of the secretary , I do the same thing for the undersecretary . " A year later , Gray quit " for personal and business reasons " and returned to New London and his law firm . His father and brother had died and this meant increasing responsibilities . During the following year he did some chores for the President 's Cabinet committee on school integration ? a job which , took him to the South to set up committees ' of community leaders to sponsor court-ordered school desegregation . Throughout 1970 , he made a number of speeches to public groups on subjects ranging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He served on the board of Capital for Technology and was named to the advisory board of Hartford National Bank &; Trust Company , an honor reserved for local blue-chip businessmen . In December he was back in Washington as assistant attorney general in charge of the Justice Department 's Civil Division . Gray described the job to his local paper as running the " largest of the nine divisions " within Justice . The position he said , was " the most challenging an attorney could ask for . " In that same interview he picked up a theme he replayed after being named to the FBI post : " I never considered myself a politician , " and termed the Justice Department " apolitical " in nature . Before taking up his new post in Justice , however , Gray found time to help the newly elected Republican governor of Connecticut , Thomas Meskill , set up his administration . On August 19 , 1971 , Gray told the New London paper how he was about to become one of the most powerful men in the country : he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief watchdog during the wage-price freeze . " One week later , as he began a two-week vacation , he gave another interview on the economy ( " I just do n't think we 're ever going back to the laissez-faire situation before the President 's message . " ) . Gray is said to have become impatient with the civil division post , and in January 1972 , Connecticut Senator Lowell Weicker , after consultation with Gray , recommended him for a vacancy on the second circuit court of appeals . Shortly thereafter , his career took another turn . John Mitchell moved over to run the Nixon campaign , Richard Kleindienst moved up to attorney general and Pat Gray was named deputy attorney general , the number two job in Justice . His appearance on February 23 , 1972 before the Judiciary Committee took less than 20 minutes . In answer to a question from Senator Hruska about his private practice , Gray stressed that he " tried very few cases in civilian courts in the state of Connecticut . I primarily ' devoted my attention to corporate law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Before Gray could be sworn in , Hoover had died and Gray was named " acting director " of the FBI . On that first May weekend after moving over to the bureau , Gray was back in Stonington and came down to the New London newspaper 's offices for questioning by three reporters . According to those present he was elated over his new job . He had had a long Saturday lunch with his former law partners and was feeling what the old agent memo termed the " power and authority " of his post . He described his return to Connecticut in Hoover 's bullet-proof Cadillac and said he had called Washington from the New Jersey Turnpike to get information on two airplane hijackings . The reporters put that anecdote in the lead of their story only to have Gray call their office after publication and ask that a retraction be printed saying he had returned home in his own car and only used the Cadillac for security reasons in Washington . Not true , the reporters present still say , but their paper , sympathetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in response to criticism that he was an administrator with no law experience other than civil , " that 's not correct , the bulk of my experience has been in criminal law . " His statement two months earlier to Senator Hruska had been filed and forgotten . In response to a suggestion that he got the FBI job because of his relationship with Mr. Nixon he said : " No , I have no close personal relationship with the President . It 's because of our close professional relationship over the years . " Finally , as for his being a political person in a nonpolitical job , Gray replied that since leaving the navy he had " shtlnned local and state politics , " a statement flatly contradicted in earlier stories on Gray carried by the same newspaper . Last May Gray told the hometowners he was confident he would be named director of the FBI after the election . His run-in with the airline pilots may have eliminated him . Some friends say his refusal to bow to White House pressure on the FBI Watergate investigation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation and the question of whether he can meet the physical demands of the job . Gray himself recently told friends he does n't think he will be nominated . What the bureau needs at the top is a person of national repute , capable of working effectively at the highest levels of government , and symbolic to the public and the bureau alike of the nonpolitical character of the post . He need not be expert in criminal justice , security or intelligence , though he should be a man of unquestioned integrity and have the administrative and leadership qualities to rebuild bureau morale that began to fail during Hoover 's later years . At the same time , he must , in conjunction with Congress , review bureau activities to determine what new personnel and operational priorities should be established . Though he certainly must bring in outside assistance , he must include the top Hoover men already there in such a review . In short , he must gain the confidence and support of those trained under Hoover while also questioning and perhaps revising the fixed old procedures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsive to proper direction from the White House and the Department of Justice , at the same time recognizing and establishing his and his agency 's independence . Such a man would not need or desire publicity ? and thus would not have to spend time with the press . The public wants to have confidence in the FBI ; that sense comes not from superficial public statements by its director but rather from the bureau 's performance . One man who fits the qualifications is Supreme Court Justice Byron White . Even former Illinois Governor Richard Ogilvie , despite his political background , would be an improvement over Gray .                     