@@479236

ONE MORNING LAST WINTER , a member of the White House staff shared with a visitor an analysis of the midterm elections almost as black as the coffee he sipped . The assault on the " radiclibs " had failed to divert the voters from their money worries , and the claim that the new Senate would contain a reliable " ideological majority " seemed to be wishful thinking . But the sudden switch from a Republican to a Democratic majority of the nation 's governorships was the source of the aide 's mournful and premonitory gloom . " It 's all even for ' 72 , and maybe trending uphill if we do n't deliver on the economy and inflation , " he said , gesturing toward the charts and tables spread on his desk . " We 're in trouble in the ten largest states , and in some of them the situation wo n't get any better . The ones that really matter are Texas and California . Without them , you can forget it in ' 72 . " Like others on the staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the obstacles to the arithmetic of his reelection . The telephone buzzed three times , announcing a call from the Oval Office . A great many members of the huge Nixon staff , the largest in White House history , go for months at a time without exchanging a word with him in person , but he does call them occasionally , usually to compliment their work . In this instance . the President also had a piece of news to impart . During the brief , one-sided conversation , the aide said almost nothing : his reaction showed in his expression , which changed from surprise to astonishment to utter disbelief . As he put down the receiver , he slowly settled back in his chair . " The Old Man 's decided to do something about the Texas situation , " he said , shaking his head . " And you wo n't believe who he 's got to help him do it . " Richard Nixon 's sense of privacy is well known . Less well known is the delight he takes , after making a solitary decision , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gives him a nice , preliminary lift before confronting the press and public . On this occasion , he enjoyed a bonus . Earlier that morning , the White House operator had placed a call to the LBJ Ranch . Accustomed to receiving courtesy briefings from Nixon and Henry Kissinger , Lyndon Johnson suspected nothing . After the customary pleasantries , the President said in a casual way that he was calling to introduce his new Secretary of the Treasury ? " an old friend of yours . " While Johnson waited for the telephone to be passed from hand to hand in Washington , he may have run down a mental list of old and deserving friends whose elevation to the Nixon Cabinet would do him no harm at all , none at all . Then he heard the voice of a very old friend indeed , one who had addressed him , over the past thirty years , in every tone from a conspiratorial whisper to an angry bellow . It was , unbelievably , John Bowden Connally . Johnson 's onetime protege proceeded to inform him of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the very long-distance call ended . ( Several months later , with an ambiguous smile and considerable understatement , Connally recalled : " Johnson was miffed. and I do n't really blame him . " ) By nightfall , the news of Connally 's appointment had heads shaking from Wall Street to Zurich to Tokyo . The President-watchers in Washington , who supposed they had Nixon figured for a methodical percentage player , were paralyzed with amazement . Known to the world beyond Texas chiefly as the survivor of Dallas . Connally had none of the credentials expected of a Secretary of the Treasury in a professedly sound-money Republican government . To be sure , he v , as a senior partner in a prestigious Houston law firm , a director of a couple of banks , and a self-made millionaire ? his fortune deriving mostly from his work in the Fifties as lawyer , business manager , and , ultimately , coexecutor for Fort Worth oilman Sid W. Richardson . ( His fee for helping settle the $105 million Richardson estate amounted to $750,000 . ) But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " ) grew out of the undeniable fact that , millionaire or not , he was n't a businessman or banker . His profession was politics . Having practiced it in Texas , under LI3J 's tutelage , with the oil and gas industry 's patronage , he seemed a more than normally suspect provincial . Operating on the apparent theory that anyone with that kind of background had to be guilty of something , the New York Times dredged up an old conflict-of-interest charge , stemming from Connally 's deferred payments from the Richardson estate while governor . By the third day , the story had sunk back into the muck without a trace . Meanwhile , in Washington , surprise and consternation gave way , inevitably , to Rive Gauche , seldom encountering a real-live Republican whom they know well enough to talk to , already had written the script . Connally , three times governor of Texas this last majority , in 1966 , was a resounding 72 per cent ) , boss of the solidly entrenched state Democratic establishment , and presumed owner of twenty-six critically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professional in the White House . Connally received a seat in the Cabinet , Nixon a clear shot at the state he had to have to be reelected : and both men , so the instant analysis ran , saw the logic of sealing the bargain by getting together on the 1972 Republican ticket . Surprisingly , in the unchic places where Nixon men tend to eat and drink when not fleeing to the suburbs before dark , they were telling a parallel " inside " story and congratulating themselves on Nixon 's cunning . No one went so far as to say that Agnew . the spear-carrier of the fall campaign . was as good as dumped with Connally coming on board , but the sly winks and smiles suggested it . In the eyes of his admirers , the Old Man had pulled off a beautiful triple play . He had repaired his relations with a hostile Congress ; gained at least the appearance of bipartisan support for his economic policies , and an articulate advocate to promote their success ; and ? most important ? put Texas within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cabinet by all these former governors , " said a middle-ranking White House aide impressed by the sheer practicality of it all , " and nobody seems to be able to deliver his state in an election . The Boss is willing to make a bargain with Connally because he may be able to deliver . " On Capitol Hill , a world apart from the George . town sophisticates and the Nixon squares , the truly practical pots who run their own show regardless of the transients in the White House were inclined to credit Nixon 's shrewdness . A Texas Democrat spoke with new respect for the President 's ruthlessness . " You have to admit that Nixon is one mean son of a bitch . The Republicans in Texas could n't produce in ' 68 and they could n't produce this time when they had a good man Congressman George Bush . defeated in the Senate race by Connally'sfriend and ally , Lloyd Bentsen and the President 's personal intervention . So he 's written them off . If he wants a good Southern conservative , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Of course , these men who knew Connally allowed , the President might have just a little difficulty making the deal stick . " Nixon sees the key to the South , " said a Southern Republican Congressman , " if Connally does n't betray him . " An odds-maker in the Administration rated the chance of a Connally double cross at about one in five . The only flaw in the knowing consensus was the assumption that Nixon and Connally had made a deal . They had n't . Instead , the two men had entered into a subtle , flexible arrangement based on the noncommittal sharing of immediate satisfactions . The most interesting relationship in American politics , and one that could influence the fortunes of both parties next year , rests on considerations of power , but it still has not turned these into a mutually rewarding power transaction : yours plus mine equals ours . Those who initially underestimated Connally as a hick wheeler-dealer elbow ing his way into the big league have had second thoughts in the face of his spectacular acceptance by Congress and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Administration 's councils . But the gross overestimate of Nixon 's bargaining strength has been subject to much slower correction , for the myth of Presidential leverage in all trading situations dies hard . The reality that Connally had the advantage , and that he joined the Nixon Administration much as a receiver joins a bankrupt enterprise ? entirely on his own terms , to see what could be done about holding off the creditors and salvaging the business , perhaps for his own account ? this reality challenges the conventional awe of the Presidency . in truth , it cost Connally next to nothing to come to Nixon 's Washington and very little more to command the city 's dulled imagination . At least through early 1972 , he enjoys an unprecedented can't-lose proposition . For Nixon , the supposed risk of Connally 's treachery is the least of his worries . Nixon took his big gamble at the outset of his Administration when , after condemning Johnson 's " gradualism " in Asia , he imitated it at home . So-called game-plan economic policy has severely taxed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recession to anticipated recovery . Unless the flush but frightened consumer begins to spend freely , Nixon wo n't be in a strong position to deal with Connally for the simple reason that he wo n't have much of a chance of being reelected . How not to handle Congress LONGER OBSERVERS HAVE BEEN in Washing- ' ton , the harder it has been for them to comprehend the strangers who arrived in their midst in January 1969 . On the Hill , at the Press Club bar , and in the K Street offices of lawyers and lobbyists , puzzled men exchange bits and pieces of information like CIA agents studying satellite photographs of Siberia . It is not merely the culture shock of Republicanism ? judged by the standards of the Eisenhower era , this is not a very Republican Administration . No , the confusion has to do with the way the Nixon men go about the business of governing . They seem oddly disinterested in the bureaucratic machinery they nominally control and almost oblivious to the legislative machinery they do n't control . The Nixon Administration gives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President proclaimed " the new American revolution , " Congress still had not received the legislative proposals to effect Nixon 's " six great goals . " Johnson , to be sure , was also a supersalesman. but the great difference was that he had his foot in the door ? and often on a lawmaker 's neck ? the day after making his pitch . The lack of follow-through on the part of the new people suggests a novel , baffling lack of seriousness . The disinterest extends to fellow Republicans . Some months ago , Congressman William J. Scherle , a third-term conservative Republican from Iowa , received a letter from the White House . Presidential aide Harry S. Flemming informed Scherle that , " in view of the large number of highly qualified applicants in comparison to the relatively few positions to be filled , we are unable to offer you encouragement at this time .... Your file , although inactive , has been placed with a selected group in our talent bank . If in the future your file is activated you will be notified . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a comfortable margin and named to the powerful House Appropriations Committee , was not amused . Like an irate depositor attempting to argue with his bank 's errant computer , he wrote a testy reply : " It is incomprehensible that a letter such as this would go out over the signature of a supposedly responsible White House official to a member of Congress .... " The incident , sadly , is all too typical of the way the Nixon White House regards the world beyond the iron gates . John Connally belongs to that world and practices the traditional political art , which calls for deference to members of the House Appropriations Committee . His entry into the highest circles of the Nixon Administration thus involved much more than merely crossing party lines . Like a modern Marco Polo . he has come upon an inward-looking , walled place , the Great Within of a most unlikely Kubla Khan . Many have remarked on the monarchical tendencies of the American Presidency . The Nixon White House has brought them to the surface in all their dubious glor ? down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Court is organized to perpetuate in the Presidency the rigorously controlled environment ? almost , it seemed , the soundproof , shockproof bubble ? within which Nixon glided to victory in 1968 . The Emperor 's environmental engineer is chiefof-staff Bob Haldeman. one of the most influential and least-known White House assistants ever to gain access to Presidential power without benefit of election , Haldeman for eight years ran the Los Angeles office of J. Walter Thompson , and managed such accounts as Walt Disney , 7-Up , and Black Flag insect spray . The client that really mattered , however , was Richard Nixon , whom he began serving in 1956 . He managed Nixon 's 1962 campaign for the California governorship and directed his personal staff in 1968 , demonstrating the cardinal virtues of neatness , efficiency . and loyalty . " Basically , " says Haldeman , " I 'm a perfectionist . " With his skintight crew cut , mechanical smile , and brusque manner , he looks the part he plays : absolute disciplinarian of the flow of people and paper between the Oval Office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first man to see Nixon officially each morning and the last to see him each evening ; he stands ready to perform any task from fetching a sandwich to firing a Cabinet officer . Haldeman is a risen advance man , and so is his college roommate ( UCLA ) and close friend , John Ehrlichman , Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs . It was at Haldeman 's suggestion that domestic policy-making was reorganized around Ehrlichman , which eliminated at a stroke the countervailing influence of such Presidential counselors as Pat Moynihan , Arthur Burns , and 13ryce Harlow . Haldeman and Ehrlichman. known within the White House as " the Germans , " have surrounded themselves with scurrying squads of ex-advance men , who have proved themselves fit to govern by releasing the balloons precisely at the moment Nixon 's arms shoot skyward in a V. The ascendancy of these narrowly skilled technicians reflects the triumph of the one-dimensional spot-and-slogan politics of the media age . Governing is seen as an extension of campaigning . The name of the game is to manipulate the market , those remote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not inside the White House and subject to its peculiar discipline and ideology of nonideology ( " We 're for what works for us , " says an up-and-coming young German ) is an outsider and therefore a subject for manipulation , though he may be a Cabinet member , a would-be supporter in Congress , or a generous campaign contributor . The marketing managers of Nixon , Inc. , working in their willed atmosphere of isolation , often reveal almost an adversary attitude toward the rest of the Nixon Administration . Presi ? dential vetoes are announced without warning to the heads of affected departments , legislative sig. nals are switched without consulting Congressional leaders , and people at every level of the party , who supposed they were part of the game , discover , like Congressman Scherle. that no one inside ever heard of them . " It 's a crime , " a senior Republican Congressman laments , " the number of times important people up here , or out in the country , call the White House and wind up talking with Dwight Chapin. " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Haldeman , recruited from J. Walter Thompson . ) In his closed domain , nobody is important unless Haldeman says so ; and Haldeman is too busy to be bothered with anything but serving a President who does n't wish to be disturbed . " Can you call me back later , Senator ? I/ I 'm tied up , my assistant 's name is . . " Like the inhabitants of the imperial city of Kaifeng on whom Marco Polo was the first Westerner to gaze , the Nixon courtiers are skilled in exotic crafts that their opponents imitate badly or not at all . But they are themselves innocent of the ways of the Great Outside : pressing flesh , hearing petty concerns patiently , conferring , consulting . cajoling , and persuading ? the whole art of reaching out , man-to-man , eyeball-to-eyeball , for sympathy , support , and votes in the mysterious Congress . Happily , these are the ways of Connally , the traveler from the West , and his mastery inspires wonder among his new colleagues . Getting by the palace guard A T @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came like bees drawn to the honey-pot . John Connally looks like a President ; indeed , he looks and sounds too much like a recent President for his own good . But there is Mary McGrory , buzzing about him , attracted professionally ? who else is there to write about in this Administration ? ? and , from all outward appearances , personally as well . So what if his politics are not smart-Left ? At least he has politics . He is alive , this six-foot-two , blue-eyed , silver-haired Texan , and behind that strong smile and courtly-folksy manner , he is thinking , scheming , calculating two responses ahead of his soft , easy drawl . In a town that turns on power and its pursuit , Connally has it , and shows the appetite and capacity for more , for all there is . He is at ease at the center . His performance at his confirmation hearing last winter before the Senate Committee on Finance was something to write home about ? and , in fact , more than one marked-up copy of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find the Congressional Record a most satisfactory source of news . The elders behind the elevated , curved desk in the high-ceilinged chamber were not Connally 's inquisitors , but his friendly interlocu ? tors , concerned with helping their fellow Democrat make a properly impressive entrance . Georgia 's Senator Herman Talmadge , who had heard disturbing reports on the way matters were organized at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue , offered some advice in the form of a little lecture . " It would be demeaning to the stature of your office as Secretary of the Treasury to report to a staff member in 32 the White House rather than directly to the President , " said Talmadge , with the air of a man who knew whereof he spoke . " As Secretary of the Treasury , I hope you will undertake to fulfill your responsibilities in accordance with the duties of your office and not in accordance with the dictates of a White House staff member , and I hope that the flow of power will be down from the President rather than up from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diplomacy , responded to the cautionary counsel by declaring himself " new in this town , at least on this visit , " and therefore unable to confirm what the Senator told him . After expressing his desire to cooperate with everyone , he put Talmadge at ease and the White House staff and any other trespassers on notice . " I think , without in any sense appearing to be arrogant , Senator Talmadge , that you can be sure that so long as I am Secretary of the Treasury , I shall be Secretary of the Treasury .... 5/ Not long afterward , the first test of strength occurred . Connally had addressed a memorandum to the President , and was astounded to find it back on his desk , undelivered and accompanied by a curt note . One of the paper-controllers at the White House wanted to know why the Secretary wished to raise this particular subject with the President . Connally 's predecessor , the self-effacing Chicago banker David Kennedy , would have dutifully explained himself , perhaps apologizing for the inconvenience he had caused . Connally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , and flew into a splendid rage . ( By all accounts , he does not have a bad temper ? he has a magnificently bad temper . ) He composed an indignant memorandum to the White House aide , demanding a written explanation for this intolerable interference in his personal communications with the President . The following day he had it , complete with an apology . Quite plainly , the Nixon courtiers , used to dismissing the likes of Wally Hickel , had met a titled gentleman sure of his ground and fiercely determined to defend it . ( A Treasury official , delighted with the new boss 's style , muses on the difference between amateurs and professionals . " I really believe that Connally had a long talk with the President about how the game would be played and that the two of them agreed upon the rules . Some Cabinet members came into this Administration without attaching any strings or laying down any rules . They were amateurs , and they had their tongues hanging out for the big jobs and titles . " Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substance of power , only the ego-inflating appearance of it . They wanted not the fact of authority , but the prerogatives of office , however empty . " Nixon could say to them : ' Go and see the staff . ' They were shocked . They were naive enough to assume that they would automatically see the President . You can be damned sure that Connally is n't na ? ve . " ( Just as sure is Connally 's perception of uncertainty masked by arrogant presumption : Presidential staff men do not know what private understanding " the Boss " has reached with Connally and he knows they know they challenge him at their peril . ) With Connally 's arrival , the ascendancy of the giddily risen advance men halted where he is concerned ; and as the ambit of that concern expands , their control weakens . Nixon , who shuns so many would-be companions and counselors , seeks Connally 's company and advice . He calls him frequently , summons him to play host at White House dinner briefings , and shows open delight at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an observer high up in the Treasury assesses Connally 's position , gained with astonishing ease : " There 's nobody around town , with the pos. sible exception of John Mitchell , in whom the President has so much trust and whose wisdom he so respects . " Another President-watcher oilers this explanation : " Connally is the kind of physically impressive and commanding guy who inspires a certain awe in Nixon . He sees great strength in him , the same as he does in Mitchell . " What Nixon may see in these pragmatic , self-assured men is the strength of success . Both have taken the world as they found it , and bent it to their own ends . Such tributes to Connally are doubtless merited , yet they recall the sovereignty of the one-eyed man in the land of the blind . So out of place is a poised , gifted politician in the upper reaches of Nixon 's Washington that even the formerly wary join the chorus of praise . At the Federal Reserve Board , which viewed with apprehension the takeover of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declares : " He 's a big , bright star in a dreary setting . " Even within the White House , where the effect of Connally 's presence is to reduce the power of the jealous insiders , a kind of dazzled gratitude prevails . A Presidential aide speaks of Connally 's " great understanding of what motivates people " as though describing a miraculous quality , rather than a commonplace attribute of an accomplished politician . The first outsider admitted all the way inside the Nixon sanctuary , Connally , like the thirteenth-century Venetian , astonishes simply by being himself . To those who toil inside the bubble , untouched and untouching , his access to reality , his intimate familiarity with the men shaping it ? he calls them by their first names ? seems almost magical . Why , he can call Wilbur Mills " Wilbur . " " Who is going to pay ? " URING THE WEEK after Connally 's appointment 1/was announced , the top assistants at the Treasury heard nothing from him , but received calls from friends outside the government reporting that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowed some tempers to cool and resignations to be reconsidered . When Connally finally showed up , he overwhelmed the staff with his charm , intelligence , and obviously diligent homework . He has continued his education through prolonged question-and-answer sessions at the daily 8:45 A.m , staff meetings . " He 's very emphatic and direct , and he does n't waste any time getting to the point of what he wants to know , " says one exposed to his interrogation . " If he does n't like what he hears , he can really blow his cork . " Connally established two rules : he expected loyalty first and last , and he expected to be kept informed of everything his people were doing . The senior staff , a group of unusually able professionals , found they liked the discipline . " The Treasury is a vital force again , " a pleased Assistant Secretary said . " It 's great to be part of something that matters . " Significantly , the Administration 's new super-lobbyist spent seven of his first ten days in office testifying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator William Proxmire yielded to the subtle flattery implicit in the Secretary 's preparation and informed answers . Connally did n't relax in the witness chair , but sat straight on the edge of his seat for hours at a stretch , all business , alert , respectful , performing a ritual with due regard for the rank of the men facing him . He made them feel important . When Proxmire remarked on how glad he was to see the Treasury restored to " strong hands , " it was a compliment from one guardian of an institution 's integrity to another . On the legislative track , Connally starts from several laps behind as the result of the Administration 's disregard of the realities of power in the hostile Congress . Democrats such as Chairman Wilbur Mills of the House Ways and Means Committee owe a Republican President precisely nothing , but they are willing to get along with someone who shows proper appreciation of their role and influence . Instead , the Nixon men systematically neglected and thus affronted the proud barons of the Hill , who , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Administration 's most important legislative proposals , relating to welfare reform and revenue-sharing , can be ransomed from Mills ' committee only by paying whatever price he demands in the way of amendment . In effect , Mills is writing the program on which Nixon will campaign for reelection , evidence of Presidential impotence which the Democrats will keep before the voters . Mills himself will be making the point loud and clear from the stump : for the Arkansas veteran , seeing the chance to round up a bloc of Southern delegates in his party 's state of leaderless confusion , is an unannounced Presidential candidate . But the habit of getting along , confirmed by more than three decades in the House , is stronger in Mills than his lately displayed partisan instinct , and he has received Connally with the polite respect he accords a suitable emissary . ( " It 's the first shrewd move Nixon 's made , " Mills was heard to remark privately after Connally 's appointment . " He wo n't let those twerps stand between him andthe President . " ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outset that the Treasury simply had to have all the relief it was seeking in a hill to lift the interest-rate ceiling on long-term financing . There could be no compromise . Several hours later , at the close of the hearing , Mills held out a compromise and Connally , adroitly stating it in the most acceptable form , took it ? a pattern likely to be repeated often this year , A Treasury assistant describes the thought process behind the pattern : " Connally realizes that if Mills is against you , you 've got a problem . But he also realizes that Mills will be realistic . They 'll not only talk , they 'll comprehend each other and work out an accommodation ? something for Mills and something for the President . " One might suppose that Connally would be tied down by the chore of acting as human bridge between the White House and the Hill . Not so . He is as independent here as in his broader arrangement with the President . In late spring , immediately following the dollar-exchange-rate crisis in Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting of international bankers in Munich . The telephone rang . Mills wanted the Secretary as the lead-off witness on revenue-sharing . The Secretary was sorry , but he was going to Munich . The telephone rang again . Senator Fulbright wanted the Secretary as a witness for hearings he was holding . Sorry . Munich came first . Again the telephone rang . Ehrlichman said the President was expecting the Secretary to testify for the Administration 's revenue-sharing proposal . The Secretary told him what he had told Mills . When Ehrlichman called back , Connally refused the call . He was going to Munich , by God , and he did . Nixon . Mills , and Fulbright waited while Connally , correctly assessing the priorities , told off the Europeans and Japanese , demanding that they pay their fair share of defense costs and lower their trade barriers against American goods . " It is n't a question of cutting the number of troops in Europe , " he told a reporter on the trip . " It 's a question of who the hell is going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ LAIN , TOUGH TALK IS IN SHORT SUPPLY within I ' the Nixon Administration , which prefers the cotton-wrapped vocabulary of public relations . The Vice President 's rhetoric is a special case ; it is addressed principally to the wavering party faithful , network executives , and Washington Post editorial writers ; its impact on the political process is nil . ) Hard , attentive listening is equally uncommon . Of the resulting communications gaps , perhaps the most surprising is the one separating Nixon men from their seemingly natural constituency , the corporate business community . Here . no less than on Capitol Hill , Connally has succeeded by recognizing and repairing a failure of politics . Any administration that brought on near-panic by making money tourniquet-tight ( together with a desperate profit squeeze by planning a recession that did little to slow wage and cost inflation ) would be unloved by corporate business , but it would not necessarily be hated . Businessmen , on the whole , are willing to listen to a plausible political hard-luck story , especially from a Republican administration , if someone in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in return . This the Nixon Administration has strangely failed to do . One finds an almost stunning ill will among Republican big businessmen , a bitter feeling of betrayal and exclusion . The people who paid for the bubble have been shut out , left to press their noses against the plastic facade . " Businessmen simply feel lost when they come down here , " the Washington representative of a major manufacturing company said not long ago . " Nobody at the White House seems to have any clout . If they ca n't get through to John Mitchell , and they usually ca n't , they 're out ? and as far as they 're concerned , the Democrats might as well be in , " Assistant to the President Peter Flanigan is the White House aide responsible for receiving businessmen , seemingly an ideal role for a former vice-president of the investment banking firm of Dillon , Read &; Company , and the wealthiest member of the Nixon staff . But Flanigan 's blue-chip background does not seem to facilitate talking and listening . Businessmen go away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down to Washington again and be pushed around by Peter Flanigan , " runs a New York executive 's not untypical complaint . Flanigan is well intentioned and briskly industrious . but his entire political experience has been confined to Nixon campaigns . An official who has watched Flanigan closely diagnoses a severe case of congenital campaignitis . " Peter wants to lecture the people who call on him . He uses his meetings to propagandize them , and they resent it . He thinks he 's got to make votes . But he has their votes . What he needs is their trust and support . If he would only listen to their problems and agree with them w hen they 're right .. . " What businessmen have been searching for in Nixon 's Washington is , as one describes it , " a good , helpful address . " They 've found it at Connally 's Treasury . This was not the case when Dave Kennedy , a member of the banking fraternity , was Secretary . Even if he understood the message of his callers , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what to do about it . The Republicanism of corporate business is a very long way from what it used to be in the days of the Liberty League . Sewell Avery , and even George Humphrey . The difference was dramatically apparent when Barry Goldwater , that robust champion of unfettered enterprise , failed to command big-business support for the excellent reason that he scared nonproprietorial managers out of their wits . Not so much with the Bomb , it should be noted , aswith the specter of instability . He threatened to upset the system which , for all its imperfections , was familiar and comfortably endurable . The complaint against " creeping socialism " died when businessmen accepted society 's leftward creep as the predictable trend , on the basis of which they made long-term plans and commitments . In the heyday of the Great Society , when Johnson combined respectable leftism with soaring profits , businessmen flocked to Washington , many of them still Republicans at heart . but happy to jump into the pocket of the attentive President . What such businessmen demand of the - Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still less , the practice ) of free and competitive enterprise . What is demanded is soothing rhetoric and first-name clubbiness , but even more the same deal the Democrats provided . Businessmen want competent , gentlemanly socialism for themselves up to the established standard . They want the federal government to do less where their interests would be adversely affected ( for example , in consumer protection 1 and a great deal more where their interests supposedly merge with a " public interest " requiring subsidy by the taxpayers . Capitalists and their anxious bankers are now unembarrassed to approach the government as the banker of last resort and to press for public money in support of insolvent private ventures . To be sure , such selective socialism , entailing nationalization of losses while profits remain private , involves a bit of ideological backpedaling. but businessmen have before them Nixon 's exemplary declaration : " 1 am a Keynesian , " meaning We 're all Democrats now , boys . Connally 's popularity with the business community , as well as his standing at the White House , stems from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treasury and how to provide it . He demonstrated the soundness of his doctrine in his approach to the possible bankruptcy of the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation . the nation 's largest defense contractor ( and , incidentally , a major California employer . ) In May he laid before Congress proposed legislation authorizing emergency loan guarantees to " major business enterprises , " which are defined as those whose failure would cause severe economic distress and unemployment , failure of suppliers and customers , increased costs to the government resulting from contract termination , and reduction of " competition " and productive capacity within important industries . The entire $250 million loan guarantee requested would be committed to Lockheed , so that some 30,000 employees might continue with production of the L1011 Tristar airbus . This might very well be just the beginning , not only for Lockheed ( independent estimates of the cash needed to complete the L1011 program range well above $250 million ) , but also for other strapped companies . ( By voting down the SST , Congress demonstrated its indifference to the problems of the aerospace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his reputation as a political miracle worker on Capitol Hill . ) To accomplish Lockheed 's rescue , Connally may be obliged to build a much more spacious federal lifeboat , with seats for almost everybody who has a frightened banker and an influential friend in Washington . No matter what happens to Lockheed , the proposed Emergency Loan Guarantee Act of 1971 could be the modest framework for establishing an updated version of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , the New Deal 's instrument of state capitalism that became at once the biggest bank in the country and the largest single investor in the U.S. economy . Connally approaches his new task with an asset singularly lacking in this born-yesterday Administration ? a historical memory . He 's not only read the minutes of the last meeting ; as secretary to that gawky young New Dealer , Congressman Lyndon Johnson , he kept some of the minutes . Teddy White 's Making of the President 1960 was the indispensable primer for new Nixon men ; if they now want to discover what the original RFC was , and who ran it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coming of the New Deal . He describes another Texan , Jesse H. Jones of Houston , the RFC 's czar , in terms that apply equally well to Connally : " He ... loved power , was indifferent to ideology , never read books , had no sentimental illusions about the underdog , and kept his word . He could do business with anybody .. ? . " As a young newcomer to Washington , Connally watched Jones operate and recalls him as " a large man , very dignified looking , with great poise and bearing . He did n't know me , but I stood in considerable awe of him . He had an awareness of the interplay between business and politics that was rare for those days . " Connally possesses a keen awareness of those same interconnections , which accounts for a good part of his influence within the Nixon Administration . He sees with perfect clarity , for example , that the old RFC 's practice of direct investment in ailing companies and banks is un ? necessary as well as unfeasible . He appreciates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cash outlay , and therefore with minimal impact on the budget , the Treasury may underwrite a great many private loans . The old RFC was an independent agency ; a new RFC-type function built into the Treasury would reverse the process of the past generation and shift responsibility for management of the economy from the White House to the Treasury . Connally 's face is expressionless , his tone matter-of-fact as he discusses the possibility of reviving the RFC ( " Many business concerns have reached the size where the financial community ca n't meet their needs in time of stress " . He anticipates events and positions himself accordingly , noting that the time to lay plans is when " you 're not under stress . " He will be ready if and when power seeks him out . Businessmen sense this foresight and respond to it . When he addresses them at their watering places , proclaiming the Administration 's line onthe economy , they applaud with newfound enthusiasm . If the cheerful forecast is in error , as many suspect , they believe he will be ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him to say , in effect , " You 're the only one we trust . " While Connally professes to notice no increase in limousine traffic to the Treasury 's door , his assistants report with satisfaction that " everybody and his brother " has been coming around for get-acquainted chats . " Businessmen have been bothered by a confusion of voices , " Connally remarks . " There 's been no single spokesman for economic policy . " His manner leaves no doubt that that spokesman now resides in the Treasury . Boredom in Texas T HE OR/GINS OF THE NIXON-CONNALLY arrangement go further back than many suppose . During the 1968 campaign . when Nixon spoke of bringing a Democrat into his Cabinet , he had Connally in mind as a likely Secretary of Defense . In return for such consideration , the retiring governor of Texas was expected to adopt an attitude of benign neutrality toward the Nixon-Humphrey contest ? " to go in the woods , " as conservative Texas Democrats have regularly done in Presidential years . Until well along in the campaign , Connally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advice , encouraging contributions from individuals , and even recommending a friend as chairman of Citizens for Nixon . But the cement holding the arrangement together was , of course , Nixon 's apparent strength in Texas and in the country at large . As his lead in the polls melted away , so also did the arrangement with Connally . At the eleventh hour . the Governor campaigned hard for Humphrey , hard enough , some Nixon men judged , to tip the state narrowly to the Democrats . " When the votes were counted in Texas , " one of them recalls . " we suspected , as always in Texas , that they were n't being counted quite right . If Connally had felt sure that Nixon would win , he might have passed the word around the courthouses and prevented that from happening . But it was too close for him to take a chance , and so he let them count the votes in the usual way . " Nixon , who blamed everyone but himself for the loss of Texas , did not hold Connally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he may have respected him for guessing right and protecting his base . in any event , there were no lasting hard feelings . When Connally visited Washington early in 1969 and told White House political operatives that he had done " all he could " for Nixon , the friendly signal brought a response in kind . The President appointed Connally to his Advisory Council on Executive Organization , headed by industrialist Roy Ash . Later , as an additional mark of favor , Nixon named the Texan to the Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board . 38 A prominent Democrat who recommended Connally to Ash says : " When the council presented its final report to the President , Connally dominated the meeting . He explained in a very articulate , confident , and forceful way the reasoni-g behind the recommendations . That meeting lasted more than three hours , and Nixon came away very impressed . " Evidently he was . The Ash council repotted to the President in the fall of 1970 . A couple of days later Connally received a call from the White House reminding him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And , by the way , the President would like to see him privately while he was in Washington . Not long before , Treasury Secretary Kennedy had tendered his resignation and offered himself to Nixon as the preelection sacrificial goat for the economy 's stagnation . Nixon postponed the offer and held up the announcement of Kennedy 's departure , but he had the resignation on his desk when he sat down with Connally . When they talked around Thanksgiving , the President told Connally that he wanted him in the Cabinet and that the Treasury position was available , a significant order of priority : the man , not the function , for once mattered to Nixon , who usually tends to " slot " people like parts of a machine . Connally asked for a few days to think it over . When he returned to his suite at the Madison late that Thursday afternoon , however , a message was waiting . The President wished to see him at breakfast the following Monday . Connally is as susceptible as the next man to that sort of flattering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accept the offer . An important factor , say friends in Texas , was the fiftyfour-year-old Connally 's boredom with the good , fat life of a rich lawyer and rancher . " After you 've spent most of your adult life at the head table , it 's a helluva letdown to be just another citizen . " There were no more political worlds left to conquer in Texas . Over the horizon lay the important prizes , but there was no apparent way of moving toward them within the Democratic party . And then there was Lyndon Johnson , whose return to Texas made even the wide open spaces a bit crowded for a friend whose unfulfilled ambitions were national . Connally needed more room to position himself . He made his decision without consulting Johnson , he explains . " because I did n't feel that I was at liberty to tell him ? the President had asked me not to talk about it with anyone . " The Connally-Johnson connection is extremely complex , characterized by the strain of opposing emotions . Through the years , Connally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed , but more than any other member of the Johnson inner circle , he remained his own man , with his own firmly held convictions . Johnson simultaneously valued and resented this independence . He refers to Connally as " a big man , " a term of praise , but he sometimes found him a formidable critic for just that reason . One day in the spring of 1960 , Johnson , Connally , and House Speaker Sam Rayburn were driving along Pennsylvania Avenue in the then Senate Majority Leader 's car . An argument was in progress : Connally and Rayburn were telling Johnson that he could not both run the Senate and run for President , and that if he had any idea of heading off Jack Kennedy , he 'd goddamned well better get moving . Johnson was unwilling to commit himself . The argument grew louder and the profanity more explicit . Finally Connally lost all patience . " Stop this goddamned car , " he shouted at the startled driver . " I 'm getting out . " Rayburn , in spite of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fuming . Rayburn caught Connally , reasoned with him , and brought him back to the car : the three rode on to the Capitol . arms folded and silent . Over lunch on Kennedy 's Inaugural Day , a friend remembers , Connally showed more than a trace of displeasure with the man who had settled for second place . " Want to know what 's wrong with Lyndon ? " he said . " He 's ashamed of being a Texan , and I 'm not . " Contrary to the impression current at the time . Johnson did not promote Connally 's appointment as Secretary of the Navy . " Speaker Rayburn initiated it , " says Connally , crisply setting the record straight . In spite of much speculation which he has done nothing to discourage ) , Johnson does not figure in the Nixon-Connally arrangement . At first , the former President showed his pique at being left out by threatening to oppose both Nixon and Connally in 1972 if his faithless friend joined the GOP ticket . More recently , Johnson , being Johnson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the one who got John the job . One of the capital 's many malicious habits is the reordering of history to accord with present realities of power , and so Washingtonians are heard repeating the quip that " Connally was never Johnson 's protege ? it was the other way around . " It was n't , of course , but the fiction accurately depicts Connally 's prospects . When he arrived at the Treasury , Democrats in Congress ? and elsewhere ? frankly expressed their intense curiosity as to where he stood , for that would guide their relations with him and the Administration . At Connally 's confirmation hearing , Senator Russell Long brushed aside the customary question of financial conflict and raised the intriguing question of " potential political conflict . " Recalling that he and Connally had campaigned for the Kennedy-Johnson ticket in 1960 , Long drawled , " I think if you and I had stayed home , President Nixon might have been in the Presidency eight years sooner . How do you explain being here under the present circumstances ? " Connally drawled in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that I could contribute something to his Administration and thus to the welfare of this country .... And I suppose I was vain enough to believe it and silly enough to try it . " The printed record does not show that the chairman and the witness exchanged winks , but they might as well have done so ? it was a well-played scene . the kind that makes Congress the best theater in Washington . In this instance , Long received the assurance he was looking for : Connally was public-spirited , vain , and still a Democrat . " No man , " Connally declared in an interview , " should serve in the Cabinet with the idea of building his own future . " He confesses to " a strong feeling " that the President should have a claim on the services of anyone who can afford to take the job offered . From this expression of respect for the institution of the Presidency , he passes smoothly to praise for the incumbent . ( A Treasury staff member calls the Secretary " the strongest Nixon admirer I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican morale . ) The President , says Connally , sounding rather like Jack Valenti used to sound on the subject of Lyndon Johnson , " is a man who fully understands some of the very basic problems of this country . He 's a man willing to risk his political fortunes on proposals that are n't necessarily inviting . I 've found in Nixon a surprisingkindness toward individuals . But he also has undaunted courage to make the tough decisions . His ideas in foreign policy reflect an unusual awareness of the uses of power in the broadest sense .... " Where has one heard that before ? Why , from someone quoting Nixon on Connally . The President is said to include Connally in a very select company , " one of the few men in this country who understands the uses of power , " by which Nixon means national power . ( Interestingly , John Mitchell does not make this group . but ? of all people ? Nelson Rockefeller does . Like FDR , Nixon is not above the use of tactical compliments that he intends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shrewd sense of what motivates people , Connally understands Nixon 's tremendous desire to be proved right in his international policy . From his own instinctive conservatism ( his speeches as Secretary of the Navy show a strong affinity for the Strom Thurmond school of geopolitics ) , Connally lends psychological support to an embattled President . Some inkling of what he tells Nixon may be gleaned from the following impromptu observations on the state of the world : If we relinquish the leadership role our nation had thrust on it after World War II , the free world is going to be sunk . No structure yet exists to maintain order in the world without the U.S. playing its role . I 'm not sure we Americans fully understand how important this leadership is , how we must pay a price for it , and ? I 'm sure we do n't understand this ? the cost of losing or relinquishing our leadership . Yet we 're on the verge of turning our back on it . We strangely defy one of the basic human motivations : the quest to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SST . That was an incredible act , an abdication of our leadership in the field of civil aviation . We 've planted a tentative foot on the moon , we ca n't turn back , and yet that 's what some are urging . . . . That has a Johnsonian ring , as well as an arresting eloquence . It is utterly unlike anything the other men around Nixon are apt to say , with the possible exception of scholarly yet outspoken Arthur Burns , who , as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board , also treats with the President from a position of independence . Connally is not simply another fawning courtier , another yes-man whose murmur of approval is taken for granted . For the round-shouldered , palm-rubbing President to hear his views echoed and his courage praised by this strapping Texan is like standing on tip-toe and seeing an unexpectedly flattering image in the mirror . " Where can he go ? " I T Is NOT DIFFICULT TO SEE how Connally serves Nixon ? as counselor , companion , upright advocate , clever lobbyist , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And it is rather plain that the President 's trust and favor satisfies Connally 's own estimate of himself . Yet it is difficult , in spite of the knowing consensus , to see how this arrangement will mature into a deal . If there is a thread of consistency running through Connally 's career , it is his reluctance ever to make an irrevocable move . He is a devoted partisan ? of his present choice ? until he changes his mind . At the moment , he chooses to be Nixon 's Democrat , and he insists on both identities . Those who refer to him as a former Democrat disregard the fact that his bridges are being kept in repair . A couple of evenings a week he dines with his close friend , Robert Straus , the Dallas businessman and treasurer of the Democratic National Committee . Republicans who know Connally take him at his word when he declares himself a Democrat . " You should have a high regard for John 's abilities , " says one who has dealt closely with him . " But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can trust him . He 's always loyal ? to whatever he feels like being loyal to . " A friend in New York who has known Connally for to enty years dismisses Republican fears of a double cross . " There ca n't be any double cross because it 's strictly a one-way deal . You ca n't bind John that way . He 's the hardest trader you 'll ever know , always calculating advantage for advantage . He 's in the position where the successes are his , and the failures are Nixon 's . " At this stage of his life and career , the only remainingprize is , of course , the Presidency . When the President gives the GOP shock troops a pep talk about 1972 , he invariably claims that they will have " peace and the pocketbook " on their side . If he 's right , he may invite the Secretary of the Treasury to take a bow , but he 's not likely to invite him to join the ticket . The most obvious obstacle is Spiro T. Agnew , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humiliation of being put out to pasture . A graceful exit might conceivably be opened , perhaps with Agnew moving aside temporarily to a Cabinet position before returning to private life after the election , but such skillful handling of the sensitive , pride-stricken Greek seems beyond the capacity of his enemies at the White House . If , however , Nixon is wrong in his optimistic economic forecasting , which should be determined by early next year , Connally may well receive the invitation to move up , and he must then decide what it is worth . For the time being , he ? quite properly ? professes total disinterest . " I 've never seen a happy Vice President , " he tells friends with the authority of an intimate observer of Johnson 's term in purgatory . One friend , noting how Connally 's interest peaks and sags , doubts whether he would survive the confinement of the Vice Presidency . Much obviously depends on what the Democrats are doing while Nixon and Connally watch theeconomic indicators . Connally 's protege , the youthful Texas Lieutenant Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prodigal . " If he ca n't get what he wants from Nixon , " Barnes has said , " I guarantee you , he 'll cut cut of that Cabinet a Democrat . And then it might be interesting . " In theory at least , Connally could do just that and provide geographical and ideological ballast for a left-leaning Democratic ticket . But such a passage back across party lines would expose him to cries of " traitor " from all sides , and his active candidacy would reopen the wounds of the Johnson era . Still another imponderable is the extent of the suicidal impulse among left-wing Democrats , and whether their party 's centrists will submit , as did the Republicans in 1964. to an ideological orgy that throw s the election away . In that case , with everything to gain from a Republican victory , Connally might sit tight ? and LBJ might come storming out of his unnaturally quiet retirement to protect the protector of his place in history . Everything is where it usually is more than a year ahead of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact is that John Connally is equipped to be President ; the harder fact for him to face is that he needs a break , an opening quite beyond his ability to force , if he is to gain a crack at the biggest prize before time runs out . He occupies , in his own phrase , " a political no-man 's land , " and the only strategy available seems the nonstrategy of patiently awaiting an opportunity that may not come . But sitting in the catbird seat , taking and enjoying what comes , has its satisfactions . Power is flowing from inept hands to Connally 's as though obeying a law of nature . Influence , as in the case of Lockheed and what it may lead to , is thrust upon him . He talks and the President listens . Each morning , depending on his mood , the Secretary takes his official black car or his sleek white Mercedes down to the center of things and drains the day of all it holds . One day last spring , Connally sat relaxed on the sofa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While he sipped black coffee , a sculptor worked unobtrusively in clay . From the likeness of Connally would be struck the Secretary 's Medal , a vanity item the Treasury issues in honor of each new arrival . The first bills bearing his signature would roll off the presses the following week . In an anteroom , Flanigan and various minor assistants waited to be admitted . Connally , as he strolled past his secretary 's desk , took a piece of candy from a jar . " You know , " he remarked , smiling expansively , in the manner of a man well pleased with himself , " I thought I would be putting myself in a difficult position coming here . But I 'm not finding it difficult at all . " He rolled the candy over his tongue . " I 'm in the fortunate position of having been asked . "                     