@@494861

The elevation of selfishness to the level of a first principle is at once the genius and flaw of the American political system . For nearly two centuries politicians on the stump and teachers in the schoolhouse have regaled their audience with the story of American democracy . The Declaration of Independence is held out , in the main , for its opposition to tyrThe American Political Tradition and the Men Who Made It by Richard Hofstadter Originally pUblished in 1948 by Knopf ; $4 Now available from Knopf ; $7.95 anny and its affirmation of " certain unalienable rights . " The emphasis is naturally placed on " life " and " liberty , " but it was in fact " the pursuit of happiness , " Jeffersonian code for " property , " which became the basis for governing the new nation . If Locke and Montesquieu inspired the Founding Fathers in 1776 , by 1787 the Fathers perceived the world through the eyes of Hobbes . The " latent causes of faction , " warned Madison in Federalist No. 10 were " sown in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued from the Constitutional Convention in that hot Philadelphia summer was at best a distant cousin of the radical document which cut the cord to England . The authors of the Constitution were " men of principle and property , " and their undisguised object was to protect property and its unequal distribution . The power of government was divided among competing interests because , in Madison 's phrase , " ambition must be made to counteract ambition . " Government was less a means to control these interests than a forum in which the interests themselves would ' resolve conflict . For politicians compromise became the operativeJprinciple . When The American Political Tradition was first published in 1948 it attracted modest attention . It received a favorable if brief review ( one and one-half columns ) in this journal , but the reviewer lamented that " the book . . . probably will have no general sale . " How wrong he was . In the past quarter-century it has been through 11 printings , more than a million copies , and several languages . Some academicians believe its influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Interpretation of the Constitution ( 1913 ) . In 1967 , when Hofstadter reassessed his work of the ' 40s on the occasion of the book 's publication in Hebrew , he confessed to certain misgivings . The title , he said , was the work of his editor ; his preference had been Men and Ideas in American Politics . While the editor 's choice may have enhanced book sales , it raised problems for the author . His emphasis was clearly on individuals in American politics , not on a tradition he had not explicitly set out to define . His object , he wrote in 1967 , was not " to establish some single overarching theory , about American politics or American political leadership , but rather to make a number of critical comments on certain political figures . " The 50-year-old Hofstadter took issue with the younger man : " I was somewhat disposed to downgrade the men I was writing about , even though I was well aware that the general guiding ideas of American politicians were not their strongest point . " Although Hofstadter 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's enthusiastic readership , his later misgivings about having been too harsh on his subjects were not altogether off the mark . His ctlapter on Jefferson is a case in point . The French historian Alexis de Tocqueville , in " The Art and Science of Politics " ( 1852 ) found the science of politics " fixed , " but characterized the art of government as " a practical and militant aspect of politics coping with everyday problems and adapting itself to a multitude of varying circumstances . " Because the science and art of politics were so different , said Tocqueville , " excellence in the one is no guarantee of success in the other . " The genius of Jefferson was that he was a brilliant theoretician and practitioner of politics but ? and this is important ? not at the same time . While the inconsistencies of any politician are certainly fair game , Hofstadter made too much of them in this case . Jefferson the theoretician wrote against slavery and opposed its extension to new territories but was practical ( or hypocritical ) in that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While acknowledging Jefferson was a " benevolent slavemaster , " Hofstadter could not resist saying : " The leisure that made possible his great writing ' on human liberty was supported by the labors of three , generations of slaves . " Slavery was a deplorable institution , and Jefferson 's slaveowning deserves mention , but of what relevance is it to Jefferson 's thought ? One might as well judge authors by the conditions in the pulp mills and printing shops that made publication of their books possible . Hofstadter 's criticism of Jefferson 's thought tended more to its form than its substance : " He never attempted to write a systematic book of political theory ? which which was well , because he had no system and lacked the doctrinaire 's compulsion to be consistent . " Yet as Hofstadter acknowledged in 1967 , The American Political Tradition was largely " a product of the social criticism of the 1930s . " Ideological consistency was a contemporary value in the author 's formative period ; it was not in Jefferson 's . Jefferson once wrote : " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ add a useful plant to its agriculture . " When Hofstadter cites this remark the inference is that Jefferson 's time would have been better spent writing a comprehensive treatise on government . Today when Central Africa is suffering from drought and Asian nations have populations far too large for their arable land , the development of soy plants with four beans to the pod instead of three seems considerably more important than a consistent ideological tract . If a generation hence the Malthusian specter has lifted , Jefferson 's interest in agriculture may once again be regarded as an amusing idiosyncrasy . So Hofstadter was guilty of using contemporary standards to measure the distance between Jefferson 's words and deeds . Accuracy requires that each be measured separately . American politicians steering a steady course left or right have inevitably run aground . To gain power in our l ? qadisonian system one must boldly navigate the treacherous waters of competing interests . No 19th-century politician knew and practiced the art of government better than Lincoln , yet none has been so cloaked in godlike myth . Hofstadter stripped away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ navigator he was . ( Unlike his flawed evaluation of Jefferson , Hofstadter was more dispassionate in his judgment of Lincoln 's speech and thought . ) Nothing in Lincoln 's early career would have justified his apotheosis as " The Great Emancipator . " In 1858 he could preach racial equality in Chicago but still win applause two months later in Charleston by claiming : " I am not , nor ever have been , in favor of bringing about in any way the social and political equality of the white and black races . " Lincoln eventually came to oppose slavery , but his evolution occurred slowly and for eminently practical reasons . He thought the Civil War would be short and he was prepared to accept slavery in the South as the price of union . Indeed when his generals in the first year of the war issued proclamations freeing slaves in several Southern states he promptly countermanded them . But as the war lengthened he came to the conclusion that it made no sense to reunite the states under conditions identical to those that brought about secession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a cautious first step . It freed the Negro only in those " states and parts of states " where there was rebellion , thus permitting slavery to continue in the border states so crucial to the defense of the , North . ( The ballot to secede in Maryland , recall , failed by a single vote . ) This led Secretary of State William Seward to remark : " We show our sympathy with slavery by emancipating the slaves where we can not reach them and holding them in bondage where we can set them free . " Yet the Emancipation Proclamation helped establish the climate that ultimately led to the outlawing of slavery by the 13th Amendment three years later . Lincoln modestly , said , " I claim not to have controlled events but confess plainly that events have controlled me . " It was a characteristically humble statement , if not an entirely accurate one . Lincoln may or may not have created the climate , but his superb sense of timing and political judgment of what was possible culminated in the end of slavery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White House would most likely have failed . If the nonideological American system requires politicians to be opportunistic and pragmatic , to be successful they must not seem so . " He kept us out of war " was the winning slogan in Woodrow Wilson 's reelection campaign , but Hofstadter showed that even though Wilson seemed sincere in his opposition to the war , he turned a blind eye to British ( but not to German ) violations of American neutrality . Moreover American banks were financing Allied arms purchases with Wilson 's approval while he was campaigning as a peace candidate . He had apparently decided , wrote Hofstadter , that " the best course of action would be to keep the American people busy and prosperous at their peaceful wartime pursuit , the manufacture of munitions . " Yet when Wilson abandoned pragmatism after the war and led a nationwide moral crusade to gain America 's entry to the League of Nations , he failed . Although he had made considerable ' compromises in the international negotiations which established the League , he refused to accept even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political judgment , he lost the battle . As ugly as political opportunism may be , the lesson is clear : the dangers to a politician of a personal crusade are many ; the most likely " reward " is martyrdom . Franklin Roosevelt was the most skilled politician of this century . His New Deal was more pragmatic than programmatic , a temperament rather than a philosophy . Indeed Roosevelt 's failure to present a coherent alternative to Hoover in 1932 prompted this journal to brand the campaign of both sides " an obscene spectacle . " Like the present occupant of the Oval Office , Roosevelt was fond of football ahalogies , but unlike Nixon , FDR had only the next play , not a " game plan " because , he said , " future plays will depend on how the next one Works . " Assessing Roosevelt four years after his death , Hofstadter found him " a more flexible and clever politician than Wilson , much his superior in the craft of maneuver , but less serious , . less deliberate , and less re-sponsible ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well ) acknowledging FDR 's " belief in personal benevolence , personal arrangements , the sufficiency of good intentions and month-to-month improvisations " but averring it would be " fatal to rest content . . . without trying to achieve a more inclusive and systematic conception of what is happening in the world . " Here at last the young Hofstadter walked into the very trap he had seen ensnare Wilson and Hoover , an unfounded belief that there can be in practice an " inclusive and systematic conception " of American politics , that in essence the art and science of politics can be made one . Historically all such prescriptions have proven to be myths . For Wilson it was the delusion that he could create a new world order ; for Hoover it was a fundamentalist 's faith in an individualism and free market that did not exist . The same trap , I would argue , doomed the 1972 presidential candidacy of George McGovern " right from the start . " In spite of Hofstadter 's later demurrer that he had not been bent upon establishing " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to one conclusion : no " inclusive and systematic conception " of American politics can be put into practice . Put another way , make ideological consistency or purity the test for nominating candidates and there is the losing slate . The competition of interests Madison and his colleagues recognized in 1787 and made the basis of the division of governmental powers goes on . If the in- terests have changed with time and the growth of government , the " Madisonian system " has not . Hofstadter 's untimely death in 1970 was a great loss , but he has left us a considerable legacy . The American Political Tradition is important for its insight into the character of American politicians and the workings of our political system . No doubt its value will increase with time . Peter J. Ognibene Grand Scheme The Future of Higher Education by Alexander M. Mood ( McGraw-Hill ; $6.95 ) After six years , six million dollars and some 40 " research reports , " the Carnegie Commission on Higher Education finished its work last month with a modest 100-page final report called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the book under review . It will confirm the worst fears of those critics who charge the commission with cultural obtuseness . How much it will cheer admirers is anyone 's guess . What Professor Mood and his Irvine colleagues have done is to condense the commission 's criticism of modern higher education into one grand indictment and then to extrapolate from its musings about change a single grand scheme for 25 years hence . The indictment is distinctive in its comprehensiveness : it charges that the entire higher educational system is a huge interlocking bureaucracy , supported by the public in order to maintain the status quo and jealously guarded by the professoriate ot4 of self-interest . The sweep is complete and the scythe spares nothing ? entrance requirements , curriculum , grades , degrees ; faculty appointment , promotion and tenure ; physical plant ; financing ; governance . This indictment becomes one of the two basic postulates for the bold surmise about the future : the system is irremediably bad . The second postulate is that the rapidity and direction of social ' change require a total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moreover , will produce it . Grant to Mood and Company their postulates ( I do n't , but that 's the only way of dealing objectively with the grand scheme ) . What then is proposed ? In brief , a clean slate . A single year of college for anyone who wants it , with the alternative of a year of " national service " for the young who do n't , the main purpose of that year being to get thee youngster away from home and into a residential program where he would be free from the malign influence of status-seeking parents . After that , apprenticeships for all but the very few , those pursuing exceptional careers and those intending to become " research workers . " It is never made clear what those exceptional careers would be , but plainly they do not include medicine , law , science and engineering , for example . For the masses ( and despite the constant egalitarian talk this is an elitist formula ) the single collegiate year and the apprenticeship would be filled out over a lifetime by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cassettes whatever is desired . " People will explore anything and everything . They Will dabble superficially without guilt ; they will dig deeply and slowly without embarrassment . " Anyone who has been keeping up with the futuristic treatises of the past two decades will find nothing dramatically new in the proposal except its absoluteness . The work-study program , the university without walls , the external degree and the decade-old video aspirations of the Fund for the Advancement of Education all point in the same direction . They have all been more modest and to date they have no great record of achievement , but they represent the same tide . In one respect , however , Professor Mood 's grand scheme is both more revolutionary and more honest . He wants a great dealmore than the managerial revolution implicit in those activities and in the commission reports themselves . Like that of the cultural upheaval in China , his revolution cuts to the core . The test of any educational system is after all what is taught and how , not the structure that enfolds it . Mood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taught in that one year of residential collegiate education : " no literature , history , foreign languages , Mickey Mouse science courses , and mathematics " ; instead , " practical philosophy , value systems , everyday psychology , exploration of career patterns , commonsense decision processes , nontechnical sociology , nontechnical economics , nontechnical science . " In a later context he says that the content of the curriculum " would be almost entirely taken from the humanities ? philosophy , history , literature ? but all having a distinctly sociological cast . " To clarify the apparent contradiction then , no literature as literature , no history , as history , nothing for its own sake as an intellectual regimen , everything applied and made " relevant . " The obsession with utility reflects the author 's assessment of people 's needs-10 of them . Four he sees in gradual eclipse : association with important or famous people , popular recognition , wealth , power . Six are the basis of his program : to love and be loved , to be healthy , to be regarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have an occupation that gives one a sense of accomplishment , to have a good understanding of the universe and society , to have adequate access to goods and services and interesting experiences . No mention of the need to know more than the present offers , none of the need for art and music , nothing at all about the satisfaction of sheer intellectual curiosity . They apparently are not needs , only appetites , and presumably in his system videoworld will be enough to take care of them . Alan Pifer , president of the Carnegie Corporation , is reported ( in Educational Abstracts ) as feeling " somewhat wistful that the commission did not tackle the thorny subject of undergraduate liberal education . " Apparently he had not read Professor Mood 's book when he spoke , for Mood tackled it and has been thrown for a loss as well . To be charitable : after so many solemn chart- and data-filled volumes perhaps we owe the commission latitude for one jeu d'esprit. 