@@490700

CITY OF DREADFUL NIGHT COME AGAIN IF YOU LEAVE THE CITY : Recent visit to Calcutta , in West Bengal . View as the Plane descends : Flat , wet land . Coconut palms . Dark , muddy Houghly River . Mills strung along the river like beads . Factories . Hovels . Touch down at Dum-Dum Airport . Hot enough to fire bricks . New airport road . More hovels . Stench . Taste of grime in the mouth . Maelstrom of traffic . Roar of humanity . ? The Grand , best hotel in Calcutta , on fashionable Chowringhi Road . Best neighborhood . Offices , shops , hotels , museum . Sign in the room cautions against drinking tap water . ? Alongside Chowringhi , the famous Maidan  --  Indian Hyde Park . Two miles Long , a mile wide . Green . Cosmopolitan . Girls in frocks and boys in knickers playing hopscotch , babies in prams , young men with books of Bengali verse , Europeans , athletes at gymnastics , masseurs giving rubdowns on the grass , sadhus . Monuments to soldiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a soldier in India for fifty years . At one side of Maidan , Victoria Memorial , white marble edifice with dome , surrounded by lakes and well-maintained gardens . Notices forbidding games or running in the gardens . At other side of Maidan , vast outline of Fort William , then river . British Calcutta called " village of palaces , " and around Maidan are grand residences , grand government buildings . Facades , mock-Gothic and colonial , now crumbling . Streets  --  Wellesley , Cornwallis , Amherst , Curzon . Clubs  --  Turf Club , Swimming Club , Calcutta Club , Two race courses , two golf courses within city limits of Calcutta . Head offices of the Statesman , one of the handful of English-language dailies in India . Edited by an Englishman , A. E. Charlton . His telephone keeps ringing . " Yes , it 's raining , " he says into telephone . " Yes .... What ? .. Your ants were very right . Congratulate the ants . " Then , to me : " That was my right-hand roan here . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had sc-en a heap of ants coming out of their hole , and he rang me up to tell me the ants were right . " ? Howrah Bridge . People taking the evening air . Dramatic bore tide . Jetties bobbing , small boats hurrying to middle of river . Indian heirs . Harrison Road now Mahatma Gandhi Road , Lansdowne now Sarat Bose Road , Wellesley- now Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road . Old and new names used interchangeably . Even residents have two surnames , Anglicized and Bengalicized  --  Chatterji and Chattopacihya , Bannerji and BandhopacIliya , Mukherji and Muklinpadhya . New residential areas -- Alipore , Ballygunge , Tollygunge . Restaurants  --  the Peiping , the Blue Fox , the Bar-B-Q , the Kwality . Fish and sweetmeats . C inc m as . Indian sahibs in raw-silk bush shirts , Indian memsahibs in saris with wide , rich borders . Women in tribal dress , complete with anklets and nose rings . Bearded Sikhs in pajamas and kurtas . Bengali gentlemen in dhotis  --  umbrellas in their hands . Snatches of conversation in , seemingly , every Indian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Call themselves " the French of the East . " Everywhere , emanation of Rabindranath Tagore , who , they say , started " India 's intellectual renaissance . " Shelves of books by Tagore , about Tagore , dedicated to Tagore . Everyone constantly invoking the Bengali contemporaries and successors of Tagore  --  the philosopher Sri Aurohindo , the novelist Sarat Chandra Chatterji , the mystic Ramakrislina , the social reformer Ram Mohan Roy , the revolutionary Subhas Chandra Bose , and the " Nightingale of India , " Sarojini Naidu . Also , the musician Ali Akhar Khan , the dancer Uday Shankar , the painter Jamini Roy , and the Elm director Satyajit Ray . ? Dinner at the residence of a rich Bengali . Walled compound with cast-iron balustrades , beds of flowers , rococo fountain , marble nudes . House with several inner courtyards , halls , chandeliers , mirrors . ? Unpainted buildings with rash of signs advertising businesses on all floors . On sidewalks and streets , bamboo-andburlap lean-tos , prostrate bodies with bundles , sacred bulls chewing on husks of coconut . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jasmine . Women scooping up and patting cow dung , and other women cooking on fires of cow-dung chips . Heat at Ili ' . Children washing in runnels . ? Roadside stalls . Signboards : " Four Annas Shave , Eight Annas Headcut , Ten Annas Singeing Ladies ' Heads . " " Loafer 's Delight Restaurant . Mutton Cutlis Our Specialty . Eat Them , Enjoy Them , Repeat Them . " Pan-wallahs folding individual scented betel leaves stuffed with lime , catechu , betelnuts . Icemen . Sherbet-wallahs cool blends of fruit juices , served in gaudy glasses . Fortune-tellers and astrologers . More hawkers and venders , with coconut meat and coconut milk , coir intoxicants and arrack , lotus flowers . Other aromas : freshly ground pomegranate seed , coriander seed , cumin seed , mustard seed ; mint , ginger , cardamom , turmeric , cinnamon , cloves , hay leaf ; gist , chilies , peppers , chutneys . Narrow , cobbled streets , and more stalls , more kiosks , more bazaars . A bookseller and publisher , a goldsmith , a butcher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Everywhere : " Baksheesh ! ... Baksheesh ! ... Bakshcesh ! " ? Visit to a busti ( imperfectly trans-lated as " slum " ) with M. S. Guha Mustaffi , assistant engineer , Calcutta Corporation . Huddles of red the roofs crowding both sides of a paved street . Streets packed with milling , barefoot people and inquisitive , half-naked children , old cows , and stray dogs . Pukka , or permanent , houses , made of brick and cement , but moldy and decaying . Maze of spidery alleys , gullies , and footpaths leading away from the street . Ordure , rotting garbage , and mud underfoot . Overhead , wet clothes , a jumble of colors . A narrow vacant lot jammed with milch cows  --  the infamous khatal , or cattle pen . Now an agglutination of wattle-and-daub kutcha , or impermanent , huts and houses , all with common walls . Near them , a tube well and , beside it , gutters and a latrine . More huts . Miserable stalls of venders . A water tap and an endless line of women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land , " Guha Mustaffi is saying , " but the Corporation tries to provide tube wells and water pumps whenever funds permit . " Duck through low , narrow doorway into courtyard . Open , smoke-filled , unpaved , muddy , used communally for washing clothes and utensils and for bathing . Clustered around courtyard , a few windowless cubicles . Families of a bus-driver , a fruit seller , a taxi-driver , a tailor live in them . Go into a cubicle . Cement floor . Above , roof tiles . A single hemp charpoy . A few shelves holding a few utensils  --  iron griddle , rolling pin , pan and pot , mortar and pestle . Wife of Yusuf Mohammed , fruit seller , small and full of smiles , dressed in cotton sari printed with flowers . Brood of children . " It is very hot here in the day , " she says . " Only in the evening a little breeze comes . But it is Allah 's will . " " Do you get enough to eat ? " Mustaffi asks . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is sixteen rupees a month , " she says . In the doorway , a man . " You lie . The rent is only twelve rupees a month , " he says . Altercation . Mustaffi explains that system is for the actual landlord to rent a house to one tenant , who sublets rooms to subtenants . The man in the doorway , Isaac , is the tenant landlord of the subtenants . Isaac complains . Collects sixty rupees monthly from subtenants , but Corporation taxes and landlord  --  Addy , of Addy Estates  --  take more than twenty rupees . Leave nothing to live on . Visit Moti Jheel ( " pearl lake " ) Busti . Gets name from actual stagnant pond . Other bustis , with roofs of tile , tin , or jute sacking . Shatuhabu Lane Busti , Bihi Baghan Busti , Tangra Busti , 90 and 110 Linton Street Busti , Bedford Lane Busti , Collin Street Busti , Elliot Road Busti . Southeast limits of Calcutta , and Dhapa , the city 's huge refuse dump . Dhapa : open trailers piled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rubbish heaps . All around , bleak , desolate encampments . A slaughterhouse . A butchered cow wheeled by . Human figures , mostly women , scavenging in the heaps . Beyond , marshland . ? Look through Calcutta Hand Book for tourists . Come upon an appeal  --  in disconcerting English  --  some of which reads like an official apologia , some like a personal letter . Appeal opens , " Cal cutta has been variously described as the city of nightmare , the city of processions , the city of filth and squalor , etc. , etc. , " but continues with an optimism as charming as it is pathetic : But here live some 30 Iakhs of people in about 30 sq . miles . Here you will find the multi-storied skyscrapers proudly raising their high heads to the still beyond sky , having a broad base of slum area built of mud and tiled houses . You will find here miles and miles of underground sewer through which a man can even walk erect , carrying filth and dirt to the outskirts of the city , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night-soil has yet got to be removed in Buckets by human agencies . Vast Concrete and Asphalted streets bordered on both sides by huge buildings will greet you on your entry to the city from the east or north whereas your entry from the west or south may possibly sicken you with sights of poor living conditions of the large number of refugees , sailors or seamen who throng the areas .... You want a stroll ? Go right along the Ganges I-looghly by Strand Road right up to the Dock areas . You feel tired in your unaccustomed long-distance walk ? Just sit along the Bank of the Ganges and as our Commissioner says , throw pebbles into the water . The " Tup-Tip " sound will possibly sooth your nerves .... You want is ride on the boat . In the rainy season , you are told you can have your ride on the very streets of Calcutta .... Do you feel depressed for all our commissions and omissions ? Why not see the night life of Calcutta and the West Bengal Government 's Tourist Bureau is at your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you better go to either of the Coffee Houses . Here you will find budding politicians or scholars calmly but passionately discussing the evils of the World and you will find your problem solved in no time . ... But if you ... crave for majestic isolated travel  --  hail one of our Rickshaws  --  still drawn by your fellow brother who will run for Your Majesty at the risk of their lives and neither your pity nor your wrath will help them if you just do not like to avail yourself of their services .... The Chowringhee and Central Avenue Dalhousie area will cater to your needs , if you can pay for it .... A large number of Restaurants of the Park Street will he at your service with dinner , dance and whatnot .... Yes  --  Yes  --  We know . You find Garbages heaped in streets , Taxi-wallas evading your calls , water supply not adequate , hazards of using a public conveyance , etc. , etc . But let us have our say . Our per capita income is Rs. 19.58 19 rupees and 58 pices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .... We have to look after a vast number of refugees who are yet to find their way towards a means of livelihood . You ask , why can not we increase the per capita income if Bombay can do so ? Well , well  --  why do we grow Jute to earn foreign exchange for India when we can grow paddy to feed our people ? Why do we pay most of Income Tax , which is distributed to other provinces to meet their needs ? Many such questions can he asked , but who is going to answer them ? The truncated Bengal is now Calcutta . Here come people from all other provinces , form their own communities , live in peace with Bengalees , earn for their families , and send their earnings to their native provinces . We can not tax them .... You live with us and probably prefer to share our comparatively cheap living , and we prefer to live moderately so that we may yet exist as Bengalees . Cities other than Calcutta are cosmopolitan , but Calcutta still remains a city of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We know it all and we arc being reminded of it daily . If you find anything good , tell others . Live with us in peace and come again if you leave the city . You are welcome . MIIIS morning , I go , by prearrange -- I ment , to Rakhal Das Addy Road and to the offices of Sanat Kumar Addy , a landlord whose holdings include bust ; properties  --  the Shatuhabu Busti and 90 and 110 Linton Street Busti among them  --  and also houses in other parts of Calcutta and an entire bazaar . Rakhal Das Addy Road is some distance from Chowringhi , in a poorish neighborhood . This road , like most roads in Calcutta , is narrow , but , unlike most , it is relatively quiet . The offices , a couple of rooms that occupy the ground floor of a two-story structure , are indistinguishable from those of any other traditional Indian business establishment . There is one long main room with shelves and steel cupboards along the walls , all crammed with ledgers done up in jute sacking . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a foot high covered with a clean white cotton cloth , on which , barefoot , a half-dozen bespectacled babas wearing white kurtas and dhotis sit cross-legged , poring over more ledgers . In the front of the room is a long table , around which the seths , or rich men , of the business , also in kurtas and dhotis , sit in chairs , conferring . A brand-new pack of cigarettes and a hrandnew box of matches , which are set out on a little white tin plate in the Center of the table , are the only touches of modernity in the musty office . As is the custom in such establishments , no general introductions are made , but a chair is brought up and placed for me beside Addy , who is an elderly man with a weasellike face and a circumspect air . Behind rimless glasses , his eyes are friendly , and when he smiles he reveals a few chipped teeth . I ask Addy how he got into the real-estate business . " The business was started by my grandfather , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ built by my grandfather . I live there with my relatives  --  we all live in the same house as a joint family , and they are co-owners of the Calcutta properties . The house has seventeen or eighteen rooms . We once had a rice business , but the government has taken away our rice fields , and now our Calcutta properties are our only source of income . " I ask him if he inspects his properties in the bustis . " We are handicapped , " he says . " In practice , we have no status as landlords in the bustis . We are only d ? - facto landlords , with no power to act . Since 1937 , the courts have administered our busti properties through a receiver . It 's up to the courts to make any improvements , and even the courts Ca n't do anything unless the tenant pays a reasonable amount of rent . " Very milky tea is now served in teacups , with a couple of biscuits on each saucer , and over the tea I learn that the receiver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that the other men around it are partners and associates of Addy . " As a receiver , I am responsible fur administration and maintenance of the property and for distribution of income to the co-owners of the property , " Ghosh tells me . " We receivers arc compensated by the court , but my compensation amounts to only a few thousand rupees a year . But I also have my law practice . " I ask Addy about the extent of his holdings in the bustis . " VVe own altogether sixteen or seventeen busti houses and we have from three hundred to three hundred and fifty tenants , " he says . I ask him how much rent he collects from the bust ; houses . He becomes noticeably wary . " It varies , " he says . " Supposing a single family has had the lease of the same bust ; house for three or four generations  --  then the family may pay only eight annas per month per kutta , which is seven hundred and twenty square feet . The highest amount we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Linton Street , I have sixty kzittas , and I am getting from a hundred and thirty to a hundred and forty rupees per month from them as rent , yet I hear that the land in the neighborhood of Linton Street is selling very high  --  from twenty to twenty-four thousand rupees per kutta . Then , too , the tenants who rent bath houses from us may sublet rooms in the houses as long as they continue to live in the houses , and we ca n't evict them . We must go to the court . Landlords who do n't have the money to fight in the court for six , seven , or eight years ca n't even litigate , and so they sell their holdings for nothing , because who wants to buy property where the rents arc token , where the tenants ca n't be disturbed , and where the bust ; houses ca n't he torn down ? I have spent thousands and thousands of rupees litigating . I spend all my time litigating . Nothing ever comes of it , but at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he says , " Every husti landlord in Calcutta would stand to multiply his income many hundredfold if all the husti houses were razed tomorrow . We do n't want to own bustis any more than anyone wants to live in them . We would all like to help the poor busti-dweller . " From Rakhal Das Addy Road , I go to an appointment with B. Malik , the Vice-Chancellor of Calcutta University . Malik is a pleasant , thoughtful man , who looks younger than his age , which is seventy-one . " I am at least trying to do something about the administration of the university before I leave the place , " he tells me . " Let me give you an example of the kind of mess it is in . There is a very learned Sanskrit lecturer here , Bhatabi Ram Shastri . He was offered a better appointment at another university , and a proposal was made to keep him here by upgrading his post . The proposal went from one committee to another , and after two years it reached the senate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The senate agreed to upgrade him , But then someone in the senate spoke up and said that since Bhatahi Ram Shastri had been waiting for two years , the upgrading of his post should he retroactive . Someone else said that in that case Bhatahi Ram Shastri should give up his two years ' salary retroactively . The post had not been advertised publicly . If it had been , Shastri might have lost out to another applicant , in which case he would not have been receiving any salary at all from the university fur the last two years . Wonderful , to upgrade a man 's post for his benefit , and in the process to take away his salary ! I had emergency powers to make the appointment , and I immediately used them to make his upgrading retroactive . Someone else in the senate now spoke up and said , Sir , you took over as Vice-Chancellor a few months after his appointment came up for upgrading . Therefore , how can you retroactively upgrade him ? ' Our senate is full of wayside lawyers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken a special interest in Calcutta , we are now trying to streamline the administration . " I ask him what other steps are being taken to improve conditions in the university . " V scarcely know where to begin , " he says . " We are a very poor university  --  for seventy-five per cent of our financing we are dependent on student fees . The colleges are spread out all over the city , and there is almost no social contact between students and teachers . We do n't have many residential facilities , and we do n't know where or how most of our teachers and students live . We do n't know what happens to the students after classes , and we do n't inquire . One consequence of this is that they get involved in every major riot in the city . The university is bedevilled with strikes , and examinations and degrees are continually being put off . " Afterward , I have a drink with Samar Son , the editor of a new intellectual English-language weekly called Now , and some of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the atmosphere is a little feverish . The talk always returns to Now , and to the best-known Bengali man of letters writing in English , Nirad Chaudhuri , and his Note articles , of which the following passage is fairly typical : . If I were a sphinx of granite with only the brains of man and bent on intellectual laughter , I should today burst into such a peal of guffaw as with their reverberating ha-ha would crack the vast dome of the firmament But I am a bundle of nerves and flesh , and I suffer . I am swept off my feet at intervals by uncontrollable gusts of rage at what I see . I feel like picking up a cat-o ' - nine- tails and laying about among our politicians , or want to seize a machinegun to mow down the mob or , better still , a flamethrower to cauterize the earth of a suppurating vileness . I feel like going abroad to preach a crusade like Peter the Hermit , although my efforts might turn out to be only as laughable as Don Quixote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Crusade . But in actual fact I can only gnash my teeth , and tear my hair . ON THE BANKS OF THE HooGHLY : The Calcutta Metropolitan District hears such a large responsibility for India 's industrial effort and is such a mixture of ethnic communities and ethnic traditions that it has boon seen as a perfect reflection of India as a whole and as a test case to determine whether India ( or any other underdeveloped country ) can ever succeed in building a modern , industrialized nation . Though Calcutta proper , or , technically , the Calcutta Corporation , as the largest single center in the Calcutta Metropolitan District is called , is today the official capital only of the state of West Bengal , it actually serves as the commercial and cultural capital of all of east and northeast India  --  an area that has a hundred and fifty million inhabitants , or a little less than a third of India 's total population . ( Calcutta is also , in a similar sense , the capital of the Himalayan states of Sikkim , Bhutan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tea and jute , which arc grown in West Bengal and Assam , are processed in the Calcutta Metropolitan District and shipped nut of the Port of Calcutta . Most of the equipment and the supplies for the steel and engineering industries in %Vest Bengal , Bihar , and Orissa also pass through the Port of Calcutta . These three states are known for their rich deposits of iron and coal , for their concentration of heavy engineering and locomotive works , and , above all , for their production of most of India 's steel . ( All her ironworks except the Bhilai steel plant , in Madhya Pradesh , are in this region . ) The Calcutta Metropolitan District handles  --  according to the latest available set of government statistics , for 1963 and 1964 ? forty-two per cent of India 's exports and twenty-five per cent of her imports , clears thirty per cent of all bank transactions in India , contributes thirty per cent of the national revenue from income tax , and manufactures about fifteen per cent of all the goods produced in the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Metropolitan District  --  is India 's single dominant city and port . The Calcutta Metropolitan District lies on the Hooghly , in the Gangetic delta of West Bengal . The Hooghly is actually an eastern channel of the Ganges , or the Ganga , which is known by different local names in different regions , and this channel , being the only one navigable from the sea , has always been the most important commercially . About ninety miles inland from the head of the Bay of Bengal , the Hooghly , which generally runs from north to south , loops in a semicircular bend toward the west , creating a bulge of land on the eastern bank . This bulge marks the uppermost point of the river which is navigable by oceangoing ships , and it was around this point that the European traders  --  Portuguese , Dutch , French , and British , in that order -- who sailed up the river in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries founded their settlements . The British settlement , which was established on the bulge in 1690 , by Job Charnock , of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the capital of British India  --  a position it held from 1774 mid . 1911 , when the British built New Delhi , deeper in the interior , so that their capital might be equidistant from the three great imperial cities of Karachi , Bombay , and Calcutta . Today , the Calcutta Metropnlitan District  --  a recent official designation for Calcutta and numerous surrounding clusters of urban communities and strings of rural villages , each with its own more or less autonomous local government  --  sprawls over both banks of the river and extends from the town of Budge-Budge , ten miles below the bulge , to the new township of Kalyani , forty miles above the bulge . The Calcutta Metropolitan District , where about seven and a half million people live in an area of four hundred and ninety square miles , has a population  --  and in a few cases an area -- greater than that of any one of about eighty countries in Africa , Asia , the Americas , and Europe , among them the Congo , Ghana , Tunisia , Israel , Jordan , Lebanon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dominican Republic , Guatemala , Denmark , Finland , Ireland , Norway , and Switzerland . Half the population of the Calcutta Metropolitan District lives in Calcutta . Across the river from Calcutta is the second-largest urban community , the Howrah Corporation . Chandernagor , the original French settlement on the Hooghly , which is now in the process of being formally incorporated , will he the third-largest urban community . And there are thirty-one smaller independent municipalities . The majority of them date from the nineteenth century , and almost all of them came into existence with the growth of the jute industry  --  which was then , as it is now , the main industry in the area  --  its mills being established by British businessmen all along the Hooghly to take advantage of water power and water transport . Each new mill brought with it factory workers , who settled nearby in a sort of unplanned shantytown , supported and governed by the British millowners to the extent that these owners provided a modicum of municipal services . As the population and area of the original city of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial slums . The mills , which , for the most part , are still in operation , and are still owned by British industrialists , are surrounded both by thick walls and by barbed wire and are protected by watch-and-ward staffs , and they are as spacious , clean , and orderly as the communities outside them are congested , insanitary , and chaotic . In addition to these thirty-one small municipalities  --  almost none of them have areas of more than six square miles , and some of them have areas of less than two square miles  --  there are thirty-two still smaller semi-municipalities and no fewer than four hundred and fifty villages . Calcutta , where the port facilities , the major river crossing , the financial markets , the fashionable residences and shops , the clubs , the official buildings and monuments , and the main university buildings are situated , is alone a city in any modern sense . Except for Calcutta and Howrah , not one of the urban or rural communities has more than six thousand ratepayers , and the rates in all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the local governments have no funds for providing such services as running water , sanitation , public housing , health centers , and education , for maintaining streets and roads , or , indeed , Cyril for adequately assessing and collecting rates . ( In 1963 and 1964 , the tax receipts of Howrah came to only fourteen rupees per person , and the receipts of all the other communities fell far below that , many villages collecting less than one rupee per person . ) Except for Calcutta and Howrah , not one of the urban or rural communities has any borrowing capacity , any means of undertaking new projects , or any chance at all of coping with thr demands of either a growing population or a changing technology . Even in Calcutta , which is responsible for most of the industrial income , funds arc not always allocated to essential municipal services , because these are considered non-productive investments . Owing to the Calcutta Metropolitan District 's importance to West Bengal and to India as a whole , there are hundreds of state and federal government departments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to directing local affairs , and many of them have overlapping , and conflicting , jurisdictions ; for instance , there are at least fifty bodies concerned with traffic and transportation . All attempts to merge the proliferating local governments have so far been frustrated by rivalries and pressure groups . In the past , the Hooghly was the chief distributary of the Ganga , empty-ing into the Bay of Bengal at the westernmost point of the delta , and in the early period of Calcutta 's growth it was a deep , open river , offering ideal access from the Bay of Bengal to the inland trade . Any of the oceangoing ships of the time , however deep their draft , could sail in and out of the Port of Calcutta easily at any season , for though the flow of the Ganga changed as the year advanced , diminishing in the summer months ( April through June ) and swelling in the monsoon months ( July through September ) , the current of the Hooghly was so strong and constant that it swept any silt out to sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past two hundred years , however , the main flow of the Ganga has gradually shifted , and the Ganga 's chief distributary has become the Padma River , which runs through East Pakistan and empties into the Bay of Bengal at the easternmost point of the delta . At the confluence of the Ganga and the Hooghly  --  or , rather , the Ganga and the Bhagirathi , for this is what the upper reaches of the Hoogh-ly are called  --  a large sandbar has now formed , so that except during the mon-soon season , when the Ganga rises over the sandbar and feeds the Hooghly , what scant water the Hooghly receives is from basal drainage , and , because of the weakened current , as much as a million cubic feet of silt a year now ac-cumulates in the riverbed . This accu-mulation is steadily decreasing the depth of the river , its channel being clogged by an unending series of shoals and sandbars , sn that costly dredging is re-quired to keep it open and navigable . Even when some silt is washed down-stream , bore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hooghly 's broad estuary is released at high tide into the channel of the river ) carry it hack up . At one time , the Hooghly was free of bores in the monsoon and winter months , and even in the spring months high tides came only as far as Calcutta , and whatever damage they did to the channel was offset by the strong flow of the Ganga . But now , because of the heavy deposits of silt , the Hooghly is in such a condition of deterioration that even during the monsoon , when the current is at its strongest , it dues little more than check the bores ten miles below the Port . In fact , the river is so shallow and constricted that the bores , which now come almost all year round , keep gathering more momentum , rising higher over the banks , and reaching farther up the river ; at present , during the powerful spring tides the bores crest as high as six feet in the area of the Port and race up as far as eighty miles north of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the cycle of weak current , silt , bores , more silt , and weaker current , the life of the Port would still be in jeopardy , because of the sharp bends in the river . In recent years , the technology of shipbuilding and the economics of trade have led to the construction of tankers that often weigh forty thousand tons and sometimes weigh well over a hundred thousand ; other heavy-cargo carriers often weigh twenty-five thousand tons . Such ships are built long and have a draft of over thirty feet . But for most of the year ships weighing more than ten thousand tons or with a draft of more than twenty-six feet can not risk negotiating the bends to call at Calcutta . Even during the high spring tides , most big , modern ships must make their voyage in stages , sometimes discharging part of their cargo at Haldia , a subsidiary port thirty-five miles downstream from Calcutta . As for the Port of Calcutta itself , not only is it far from the open sea but its whaling and docking facilities , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ central business area of Calcutta , arc crowded , old-fashioned , and generally inadequate . Since the height of the bores and the strength of the flow in the river vary not just from season to season but from day to day , daily calculations have to he made to determine the size of the ships that can enter the port . ( Heavy bore tides decrease the berthing and holding capacity by as much as twenty-five per cent . ) The Calcutta Port Commissioners recently estimated that the average turn-around dine for a ship calling at Calcutta was more than seventeen days  --  the longest and most expensive turn-around time at any major port . The silting up of the Hooghly also threatens to choke off the supply of fresh water for much of the population along its banks . Apart from a number of large and small tube wells , the only source of fresh water for the Calcutta Metropolitan District is the Hooghly , the principal waterworks being situated at Palta , seventeen miles north of Calcutta . These waterworks were built in 1865 to provide filtered water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a million people . At the same time , subsidiary waterworks were built to supply standpipes in the streets with unfiltered water for fighting fires , for cleaning the streets , and for washing carriages . These waterworks distribute water only to Calcutta ; the other municipalities and the semi-municipalities  --  except for Kalyani  --  have no municipal waterworks and only very limited access to filtered water through the tube wells , and the villages have no filtered water at all . Even in Calcutta , the amount of filtered water is so limited and its distribution so haphazard that nearly half the population now routinely uses unfiltered water from the standpipes for bathing and drinking , and in this water cholera vihrio is often found . Moreover , the equipment and the mains of the Palta waterworks are so old and worn that even the filtered water is not always free from adulteration , and the mains carrying the unfiltered water are often blocked by silt . As the current in the Hooghly has continued to slacken , an undercurrent of salt water from the sea has moved farther and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undercurrent is strongest , the salt content of the river near Palta is often ten times what is generally considered fit for human consumption . So far , engineers have managed to keep on supplying the ration of filtered water to Calcutta by pumping and storing water at Paha during the hours of each day when the salt content is lowest . But the salinity of the river is increasing so rapidly that within a few years the waterworks at Palta may be unusable for weeks or months at a time . Even moving the waterworks many miles upstream would be no more than a temporary solution . Throughout the Calcutta Metropolitan District , a full-scale water famine is an ever-present threat . In the entire Gangetic delta , which is fiat ( it is uninterrupted by a single hill ) , the only good land is along the margins of the Roughly . This land , which was formed over the centuries by silt deposits washed up onto the banks when the river was deep and the current strong , is nowhere more than thirty feet above sea level or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away into salt lakes , brackish streams , and malarial marshes . And even these stretches of good land arc subject to the ravages of an unhealthful climate ; the delta is simmering hot for eight months of the year , the temperature regularly rising as high as 117 ? F. , and it is deluged with rain for much of the remaining four months , when fifty-out of a total of sixty-four inches of annual rainfall comes down in concentrated monsoon showers . Although the delta is crisscrossed by many small rivers and streams , it has always had had drainage , and now the rivers and streams , too , are silting up and losing what little drainage capacity they once possessed . During the monsoon , when even the comparatively high ground is flooded for weeks at a time , the standing water paralyzes land transportation  --  and seeps into the foundations and walls of buildings  --  and has to he removed artificially by methods that are extremely slow and costly . Most of the Calcutta Metropolitan District is without municipal ) organized sewerage sy stems , without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of sewage disposal , like septic tanks . Most people have only the use of primitive communal latrines  --  low , cramped , open brick sheds with platforms above earthenware howls on dirt floors of which some two hundred thousand are scattered throughout the Calcutta Metropolitan District . Only Calcutta has a functioning municipal sewage-disposal system , but e ' en in Calcutta the latrines are cleaned only erratically , and then are emptied manually into trailers , which carry the waste matter to disposal pits outside the city limits . Moreover , only about half of Calcutta 's area is sewered ; in the rest , sludge and ordure are carried in a maze of open gutters that run along the surface of the streets , lanes , and alleyways , and often alongside the worn water pipes , with the result that seepage is not uncommon . Stoppages and backups are so frequent that , especially during the monsoon , the contents of the gutters freely overflow into the streets . Poor drainage and poor sewerage aggravate the unhealthy conditions of life in the Calcutta Metropolitan District , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diseases are rampant , as are smallpox and tuberculosis . Although in recent years malaria has been controlled somewhat by the constant saturation of lowlands and stagnant waters with DDT , and cholera by comprehensive inoculations , the Calcutta Metropolitan District has not been able to rid itself of either scourge . Malaria afflicts a large percentage of the population , and cholera , which is often fatal , is endemic in the entire delta , reaching its peak in the summer months of every year . The sanitation conditions , made hopeless by the water shortage and the water pollution , expose the Calcutta Metropolitan District to a permanent siege of mosquitoes , flies , and vermin  --  all breeding disease , Carrying disease , and spreading disease . Despite disease and an occasional but devastating famine  --  like that of 1943 , when , according to some estimates , between a million and a half and three million people in Bengal died the population of the Calcutta Metropolitan District has been growing relentlessly . The population trebled between the census of 1921 and the census of 1961 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly double . A part of this increase represents migrations from other regions of India . Indeed , thirty-nine per cent of the present population is drawn from all parts of India : merchants and financiers from Gujarat and Rajasthan ; bureaucrats and office workers from Andhra Pradesh , Madras , Mysore , and Kerala ; skilled laborers and entrepreneurs from the Punjab ; unskilled laborers and factory workers from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh ; sweepers and tanners from Orissa . The migrations began early in this century , when , because of the general increase in population throughout India and the consequent pressure on arable land , farmers were forced to leave their villages and seek work in one of the handful of urban centers . In the Calcutta area , these displaced farmers , who were often unable to bring their families with them , settled into harrackslike quarters in the bustis , six or eight to a room , resigned to living under any conditions provided they could find work , save something to send home to their families , and perhaps visit them occasionally . They generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , latrine sweepers , office peons , night watchmen , or fruit and vegetable hawkers , and they tended to live in the city as outsiders , forming enclaves , in which they kept very much to themselves , spoke only their own regional languages , followed their own religious , sectarian , or caste practices , and found jobs for new arrivals from their home villages in the trades in which they themselves bad settled . Most of the minority communities entrenched themselves in the industrial areas of Calcutta and Howrah , and here they Live now , as they did in the past , in their little villagelike bustis , a restless , uprooted population . ( Owing to the presence of these workers , the ratio of men to women in the Calcutta Metropolitan District today is three to two . ) In recent years , moreover , there has been another migration , of a different kind  --  an influx of destitute refugees from Pakistan . In 1947 , when India was partitioned to create the Islamic state of Pakistan , East Bengal , which had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Bengal , which had n minority of Muslims , remained part of India . Since then , millions of Hindus and Sikhs have been coming to India , as millions of Muslims have been going to Pakistan . There was a lull in the exchange of refugees for some years , but they have been coming to India in increasing numbers ever since the religious disturbances in Kashmir over the theft of Mohammed 's hair , in 1963 and 1964 , and the second IndoPakistan war , in 1965 . At least four million refugees from Pakistan have settled in West Bengal , where they now constitute ten per cent of the state 's population , and of these at least a million have settled in the Calcutta Metropolitan District . More are still coming , in search of assistance from relatives or the government . ( About a quarter of a million refugees , it has been estimated , could be resettled in regions like the hills and forests of Orissa , but the government has not been able to undertake the expensive work of clearing and developing such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the labor market ; others barely subsist on what they can earn from such occupations as weaving rugs , knitting sweaters , and forging bangles . They have set up makeshift colonies wherever they could find uninhabited ground  --  even in the swampland , though their reed-and-mud huts are regularly swept away by the monsoon rains . Although parts of New York and parts of Tokyo have a population density comparable to that of parts of the Calcutta Metropolitan District , it , unlike the two other metropolises , has few buildings more than three stories high , and most of its people are housed in one- or two-story structures . Few of the houses are pukka structures . Rather , most are kutcha , made of bamboo , mud , or unbaked bricks . Except for the palatial quarters of the rich , most houses , pukka or kutcha , have no inside plumbing , and the pukka structures are often in disrepair . Many of these structures were originally intended only as temporary shelters for migrant workers , but they now house big families . Even so , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dockyards , in factories , in offices , in shops , on construction sites , in railway stations , in hallways , and on stairways of buildings . More than half the Calcutta Metropolitan District is taken up by streams or by marshland that is unreclaimahle for reasons of cost or technology ; the demands on the remaining land are so intense that several hundred thousand people sleep out on the pavements and tens of thousands of people now live , as a matter of course , on low , undrained , disease-infested land bordering the salt marshes . All available public or private land is occupied by colonies of squatters . There is no place  --  not even the border of Calcutta 's refuse dump  --  that is left unoccupied . Unlike other metropolises that have grown up on the hanks of rivers  --  such as London and Paris  --  the Calcutta Metropolitan District has been unable to spread out radially . Its suburbs have been forced to develop farther and farther away from the metropolitan center , crowding the margins of good land along the Hooghly . Yet every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distant suburbs  --  many of which have no paved streets , and no room for much more than pedestrian traffic  --  to their jobs in Calcutta and Howrah Even today , partly because of topography , there are only two main highways serving the Calcutta Metropolitan District  --  the Grand Trunk Road , on the west side of the river , and the Barrackpore Trunk Road , on the east side . Except for two major rail lines , which also run roughly parallel to the river , interurban transport is practically nonexistent , and the few public buses and trams are slow and overburdened . The two roads must therefore carry , in addition to commercial and industrial traffic , hundreds of thousands of commuting pedestrians , so at almost any time of day they are crowded with trucks , cars , bullock carts , rickshaws , bicycles , pedestrians , and pack animals . Of the two , the Grand Trunk Road , which connects the Calcutta Metropolitan District with the coal fields and steel mills of the industrial region , is 1 ) 1 far the more important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even this road is narrow and in had condition , and it passes through very congested parts of the metropolis . Until the end of the nineteenth century , Calcutta 's position on the east bank of the Hooghly , separated from the land to the west , was not a serious disadvantage , for the city 's raison d'E'tre was shipping . But when land transport was developed , in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries , its major facilities , like the Howrah Railway Station , were necessarily built on the west side of the river , while the water-transport facilities , like the Port , remained on the east side . There is onli one bridge across the Hooghly in the Calcutta-Howrah area  --  die Howrah Bridge . This is Calcutta 's single point of access to the rest of the country . " Indian economists ponder : What is the point of struggling to industrialize the country , of building steel mills , if one . can not adequately transport supplies , labor , and finished products ? " Paul Grimes once wrote in an article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the point of growing tea and jute , the biggest earners of foreign exchange , if one may be tenable to get them to world markets ? Without foreign exchange , how can the country buy generators for power plants , petroleum for trucking , tractors for farmland , aircraft for de-fense ? " The partition of India dislocated the entire economy of West Bengal , and particularly that of the Calcutta ' Metropolitan District , parts of which are only thirty miles from the Pakistani border . Not only was Vest Bengal deprived of important markets in East Bengal but its industry and agriculture were also severely handecapped . Before Partition , for instance , West Bengal depended heavily on East Bengal for rice , and from eighty to ninety per cent of the jute processed in the Calcutta Metrora District also came from East Bengal . When that supply of jute- dried up , at least a million acres of land in West Bengal had to be diverted from the cultivation of rice  --  which is still West Bengal 's biggest crop  --  to the cultivation of jute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely recovered . In 1963 and 1964 , in- industry in the Calcutta Metropolitan District absorbed , at most , a million workers  --  two hundred and thirty thousand in the jute industry , four hundred and thirty thousand in other organized industries , like heavy engineering , and three hundred thousand in " cottage industry , " defined as any industry employing fewer than ten workers and relying an electric power , or employing as many as twenty workers but not relying on electric power . Work conditions in most of the factories are as grim as those in nineteenth-century London , and work conditions in cottage industry , which is spread throughout the bustle , are still worse . In the Calcutta Metropolitan District , there is chronic unemployment and chronic underemployment in all industries , in all occupations , and at all income levels . There are at least four hundred thousand adult males with no employment , and no one seems to know how they manage to stay ; dive , Female workers have two main occupations  --  domestic service and prostitution . In recent years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extending education that a lower percentage of children attend school in its urban communities than in some of the rural areas in the state ; at the time of the 1961 census , nearly half of the population over five years of age in the Calcutta Metropolitan District was illiterate and nearly half of the persons who could read and write were only semi-literate . The majority of the schools in the Calcutta Metropolitan District are run not by the government but by private charitable organizations , and , whether private or public , most of the school buildings are dismal , cramped rented or requisitioned tenements , with no facilities for playing , eating , or washing . To achieve the national aim of giving free compulsory education to all children between the ages of six and fourteen by 1986 , Calcutta alone must provide at least a million three hundred thousand additional school places by that time , and at least a hundred new primary schools and a thousand new teachers every year , even if every school is used for double shifts and the city does not try @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secondary education , the problems are equally formidable . Furthermore , the Calcutta Metropolitan District is the country 's most important intellectual center , educating about thirteen per cent of all the students enrolled in colleges and universities in India , but Calcutta University , which is the largest in the world  --  in 1966 it had an enrollment of a hundred and thirty-five thousand regular students , along with sixty-five thousand students taking external degrees  --  has been in turmoil for many years , its academic life disintegrating rapidly under the pressure of its numbers . To describe conditions even in Calcutta alone , observers have resorted to epithets like " slum of the world " and " city of death , " and have strained for analogies to convey their impressions , as in this pa sage from the Times article by Grimes , which superimposes Calcutta 's problems on New York : New York is the only major port in the United States except for San Francisco ( like Bombay ) far to the west . There is no Boston , no Norfolk , no St. Lawrence Seaway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Birmingham are all concentrated near Albany . The only highway from there to New York is the Albany Post Road . The Hudson River is so full of silt that fewer and fewer freighters can reach the - West Street docks each year The municipal water supply is growing dangerously salty and unsafe to drink or use in industry .... Block-long lines of desperate seekers of menial jobs wait outside employment agencies . In the shadow of the Waldorf-Astoria is a shanty town where thousands of persons live in the worst imaginable squalor Times Square swarms with beggars , many of them blind , deformed , or leprous . When a people 's will to protest against intolerable conditions  --  and this will is considered by some political thinkers to be as important for economic development as for political change  --  finds expression in the Calcutta Metropolitan District , it is likely to take the form of explosive demonstrations and pointless acts of public violence , which then suddenly subside without bringing about any improvement Although the Calcutta Metropolitan District has a very low rate of reported crime compared to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of crime at all  --  public demonstrations and outbursts , some of them culminating in looting , arson , and killing , have become commonplace in recent years . Hardly a month goes by without a major strike over working conditions ; a hartal , or general strike , over government policy ; or a riot over some minor grievance . Recently , in Calcutta , eighty tramcars were burned in a month-long riot over a token raise in tram fares , even though the new schedule had pegged the fares to the distances travelled so equitably that some passengers would actually be paying less than before ; in March , 1966 , during a general strike in West Bengal that was accompanied by riots , thirty-nine people died and the estimated loss from the work stoppage and the destruction of public and private property was put at sixty-five million rupees , or more than half the total revenue receipts  --  a hundred and ten million rupees  --  budgeted by Calcutta for the fiscal year 1965-66 . For many years , the Calcutta Metropolitan District 's most outspoken political representatives , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elected not from the poorer constituencies , which often return conservative or Congress Party candidates , but from the richer ones ; yet even the constituents with some money and education , who feel that things can be changed , and are aware that they can choose from a variety of political ideologies and candidates , seem to ignore local issues , like water supply , housing , and education , and mobilize and demonstrate only over big national questions , like the Indian government 's legislation on language or religion , or over international questions , like British policy in Rhodesia or the deployment of the United States Seventh Fleet . The explanation most commonly advanced for the general inertia in local matters is that the widespread poverty induces such passivity and resignation that any condition , however seemingly intolerable , is endured . It is said that even when the poor are aroused to an act of protest they are not capable of sustaining it , and that in the inertia of its population the Calcutta Metropolitan District is like any other poverty-stricken community where conditions for-revolution exist without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintain that the demonstrations and acts of public violence have so far served as a safety valve for pent-up emotions but that they have only postponed the revolution that will one day topple the established order . These intellectuals point out that Calcutta is Currently a center of Communist activity in India , the ideologies here spanning the spectrum from conventional Marxism to the latest variety of Maoism . ( In Calcutta , the Communists publish , by one count , a daily journal , three weeklies , and twelve monthlies , and occupy positions of power on other journals , in government , and in student , peasant , and labor organizations . ) Some of these intellectuals are fond of repeating Lenin 's dictum " The road to world revolution leads through Peking , Shanghai , and Calcutta . " IT 'S THE CRYING BABY THAT GETS PICKED UP : In the days I spend going around Calcutta , I constantly ask myself , " Can anyone be held accountable ? Can things be changed ? Where is help to come from ? " I seek out political figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to attack the problems of the Calcutta Metropolitan District . Most of the men work out of the buildings in and around Chowrmghi or in nearby Dalhousie Square . Some of these buildings lie so close to the Port that they seem to be right on the docks . From the inside , some of them have the feeling of old ships retired from Her Majesty 's service , as if long ago they had sailed up the dark , alien river and been abandoned there by their masters . The Central Municipal Office Building is a huge four-story structure , built in 1872 . It now serves as headquarters for the municipal government of Calcutta . The Mayor , P. K. Roy Chowdhury , who governs Calcutta with the assistance of a councillor from each of its hundred wards , receives me in a large , formal-looking ball lined with impressive official portraits . At one end is an enormous conference table , and at the other are several capacious black leather sofas . The Mayor , a gentle-looking elderly Bengali , is ensconced on one of the sofas . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the kurta and the floor-length , flowing dhoti and the open leather sandals that Indian politicians invariably seem to wear , he has a white shawl around his shoulders . A number of Bengalis , also in kurtas , dhotis , and sandals , are sitting around him on the other sofas , chatting and laughing , drinking tea , and eating sweetmeats and savories . The Mayor introduces them as councillors . They alI seem to be named . Chatterji or Bannerji or Mukherji  --  the Bengali equivalents of Smith and Jones and Brown . " I myself entered politics as a councillor , hut I 'm a doctor by profession , " the Mayor tells me . " I became a councillor not for political reasons but fur medical reasons . I wanted to do something about the health problem in the Calcutta Corporation . As a councillor , I was chairman of the Standing Health and Busti Improvement Committee for six years . I got a lot of satisfaction from doing work for Lb. control , hospital improvement , and so on . " I ask the Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pi ohlems of Calcutta . " We have several organizations that are concurrently seeking to improve conditions in Calcutta and all its suburbs . For example , we have the Calcutta Metropolitan Planning Organization , which is getting experts and money from the Ford Foundation . It is doing the planning for the whole of the Calcutta Metropolitan District . Its work has been expedited by the West Bengal government , and I hope its plans will he carried out one day . The Calcutta Improvement Trust , which was formed in 1911 , and which gets almost five per cent of the Corporation 's revenue , does things like taking a plot of land from us , developing it , and returning it to our jurisdiction . The Founders ' Municipal Association does good work , too . But we have not made much progress , because every problem requires money . We have twenty-five thousand municipal employees , such as clerks , police , and sweepers , and fifty per cent of the income of the Corporation goes to pay them . " I ask him what is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance . " We have two water mains  --  one sixty-two inches in diameter and the other seventy-two  --  to carry filtered water from Palm to Calcutta , a hundred and fifty big-diameter tube wells , and fifty thousand small-diameter tube wells , " he says . " We have started chlorinating our unfiltered water , and have thus brought down the incidence of cholera . Now we also have a scheme to augment the supply of filtered water by sixty million gallons per day , but it will take from a year to a year and a half to carry it out . " Next , I meet the Commissioner of the Calcutta Corporation , H. C. Mukherji , who heads the municipal civil service and supervises the work of all its officers and employees . His office , which is nearby , also has formal furnishings and an informal atmosphere , with councillors and ether officials coming and going , taking refreshment , and exchanging small talk . " My field has always been engineering , valuation , planning , and administration , " the Commissioner tells me . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineer . After that , I qualified as a chartered surveyor in England . Except for some nominal changes in day-to-day administrative procedures , I would n't say that I have been able to change the administration of the Corporation in ways apparent to everyone . " A burly man stops by . The Commissioner introduces him as the chief engineer of the Corporation , and explains that he is in charge of all the municipal engineering works , plans , and estimates . " Calcutta 's worst problem is that it was never planned , " the chief engineer observes . " The city has grown up without anyone 's ever expecting it to have any future . " A mild-mannered gray-haired man wearing spectacles now joins us . He is the health officer of the Corporation , and his duties include supervising municipal sanitation , hospitals , laboratories , and cremation grounds , and seeing to vaccinations and inoculations . " Diseases go in cycles , " he says . " In the last two years , we have been very lucky . The diseases have been on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the cycle , and the epidemic might break out at any time . " " Calcutta is a bundle of problems , " the Commissioner says . " I once took a couple of Ford Foundation experts from the Calcutta Metropolitan Planning Organization around the city , and I told them , ' Gentlemen , I am waiting to see how bold you are . If it were up to me , I would crash down a good part of Calcutta . ' " THE Writers ' Buildings , a block of red buildings built in 1881. ) , take their name from the junior clerks of the East India Company , known as " writers , " who once lived in them . They now serve as headquarters for the West Bengal government , and in them I talk with a number of Ministers of the Congress government of West Bengal . The Minister of Public Works of West Bengal , K. N. Das Gupta , receives me in his office , a large room with three air-conditioners stacked on top of each other in one window and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ room into a sort of drawing room , which contains comfortable-looking chairs , and a sort of study , which contains a desk , a reclining chair with a well-worn cushioned footrest , and a bed with smooth , clean sheets . " We are now beginning to construct special housing units fur factory workers , " the Minister tells In e . " Recently , we advertised three hundred new two-room flats for such workers , and we received twenty-six thousand applications . A committee has begun screening the applicants . " He gets up , moves slowly across the room , adjusts the blinds , and absentmindedly serves me coffee . " Because of the emergencies of the Chinese invasion and the Indo-Pakistan war , we got only two crores of rupees a year for housing during India 's Third Five-Year Plan , which began in 1961 , " he say s . " Now , for the period of the Fourth Five-Year Plan , we are asking for twice as much a year , most of it from the central government . But all this is just maneuvering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get any - thing at all . " The Minister for Local Self-Government for West Bengal , S. M. Fazlur Rahman ( lie is also Minister of Animal Husbandry , Veterinary Services , and Fisheries ) , whom I meet next , is a Muslim in his fifties , dressed in Punjabi-type pajamas and a km-ta. am responsible for dispensing assistance oi municipal governments in West Bengal , including any notified area authority , " he informs me , putting his feet up on a footrest . " A notified area authority is an officially recognized new area that aspires to the status of a municipality . " I comment on the bewildering number of municipalities already existing in Greater Calcutta . " You must call this ' Metropolitan Calcutta , ' not ' Greater Calcutta , ' " he says . " The term ' Greater Calcutta ' should he reserved for the day when Calcutta is a developed city . Now , about the subject you raise , perhaps it would be a good thing to have some of the municipalities consolidated one day . But in a democracy you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of everyone concerned . Much , much legislation is required before any consolidation can take place . In my three tears ' tenure , I have so far been able only to consolidate two municipalities into one and to link up one municipality with the Howrah Corporation . " The Chief Minister of West Bengal , P. C. Sen , to whom I pay my last visit in the Writers ' Buildings , sits behind a Jorge semicircular desk with chairs ranged in a semicircle to his right and left . He talks to me between hearing petitioners , who enter , make their requests , and depart . I ask him how he got into politics . " I went into Congress politics formally in 192 ( 1 , when Mahatma Gandhi gave the call , " he say s . " Between 1914 and 1920 , 1 was somewhat loosely connected with the revolutionary movement of West Bengal . Part of that time , I was a student at the Scottish Church College , in Calcutta . " He orders coffee and cashew nuts , and goes on to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even when we do have the resources , we ca n't change things quickly , because we 're a democracy , " he says . " We had to stop work altogether on the important new road from Dum-Durri ? 1irport to Calcutta because a group of refugees had squatted on a piece of land it had to MSS . It took us a year to gain legal possession of that land . It is a matter of people trying to assert their rights . " I ask him about the increasing public violence in Calcutta . He gives me what I have come to recognize as the Congress line . " It is caused by political agitators who have no use for the ballot box and who are interested only in seizing power , " he says . " The 11/toist Communists have a cadre of saboteurs all their own , and now some of them are even talking about calling in a Chinese Army of Liberation . They say that as soon as this Army of Liberation comes , all the travail and suffering of India will he over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in jail because of their connection with Communist China . " AT Congress Party headquarters for West Bengal , I call on Atulya Ghosh , the Congress boss who  --  with two other party bosses , S. K. Patil , Union Minister of Railways , and Sanjiva Reddy , Union Minister of Transport , Aviation , Shipping , and Ttiiirism  --  is considered to be all-powerful at both state and national levels ; the triumvirate , which dominates the Congress Party leaders , known collectively as the " Syndicate , " is said to have engineered the election of Mrs. Gandhi as Prime Minister . Gluish turns out to he a tall , heavy-set Bengali in his early sixties , with well-groomed white hair . He is dressed in kurta , dhoti , and sandals , and he is wearing , incongruously , a pair of large , round-rimmed dark glasses and is smoking a cigar . I ask him about his role as " kingmaker . " " I have no official position in the government , " he says , in a big , booming voice . " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  how can I have any power There ca n't he any position of personal power in a democratic party like the Congress . One person may become popular or strong , but by himself he can do nothing . It is all teamwork . In fact , I ca n't understand the interest in me . The other day , somebody wrote to me from a university in England and said he was doing a thesis on tm and wanted personal details . I detest all this interest in me . I 've done what I could for my country . I joined Congress IS an ordinary volunteer when I was fifteen , and I have spent , all told , ten or eleven years in British jails . I have given my life to the party , and have remained a bachelor , even though I came from a very good family  --  my mother 's side was well known for its literary activities and my father 's side was well known for its money  --  and had many matrimonial proposals . " I ask him about the threat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the agitation here is by refugees for whom there is nothing on the horizon , " he says . " The remaining twenty per cent of the agitation is by students who have no future . They are all frustrated human beings , with no real politics to speak of . " ( In subsequent elections in NV eq Bengal , the Congress Party was all but obliterated . The state is at present ruled lay the United Front , consisting of about a dozen parties , led by the Communist Party of India , Marxist . ) ANEW huilding on Lower Chitpur Road ( the street was renamed Rabindra Sarani not lung ago , but it is still called by the old name houses the offices of the Calcutta Metropolitan Planning Organization , which since 1961 has been preparing a series of plans for the regeneration of the metropolis . The introductory volume of the series , entitled " Basic Development Plan : Calcutta Metropolitan District . 1966-1986 , " has just been issued . Although it is intended as a master plan for development and includes specific recommendations for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afflictions that paralyze the metropolis , and reads throughout more like a diagnostician 's report than .1 prescription for a remedy . Tu get a first-hand impression of what the planners think , I spend some time talking with M. G. Kutt ) , an Indian , who is the director of the Calcutta Metropolitan Planning Organization ; Dr. Colin Rosser , a British social anthropologist , who is the consultant on community facilities and services for the Ford Foundation group ; and C. Preston Andrade , an American architect and urban planner , who is the director of planning for the Ford Foundation group . Kuttv , a tall , heavily built man in his forties with a chubby , boyish face and pomaded hair , sports a mustard-yellow bush shirt with a silky finish and lounges in a comfortable-looking chair like an old-fashioned bureaucrat . " Perhaps you would like to start the discussion , and summarize the history of planning in Calcutta , " Kutty says , turning to Rosser . Rosser , who is short and compactly built , and is dressed in a short-sleeved shirt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps forty , and has the appearance of someone who has spent his life burrowed deep in work . " The fact that the Calcutta Metropolitan District is the world 's worst area for-endemic cholera attracted the attention of the World Health Organization , and in 1959 they sent a team here to find out what could be done to reduce the incidence of all gastro-enteric diseases , " he says . " The team recommended preparing a master plan for water and sanitation , and the work on the plan was begun with financial help from the World Health Organization and the U.N . Special Fund . But it was realized quite early on that the problems of the metropolis required a much broader attack . The prrliminar3 visit of our Ford Foundation people followed , and the West Bengal government set up the C.M.P.O. and charged it with the task of preparing a comprehensive development plan . That was in July , 1961 , and since then the Ford Foundation has been helping the organization with a group of professional advisers , A succession of people have come and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now . " " May I interject something here by way of explanation , Colin ? " Andrade asks . He is tall and lean , with sharp , clean looks , and has dark-brown eyes and light-colored hair that is turning white . " Although our experience in most cases is with Western cities , we make a cultural adaptation quickly and have developed a considerable familiarity with the problems of the metropolis c ) f Calcutta . " I ask Rosser and Andrade how they happened to become involved in planning for the Calcutta Metropolitan District . " I was with the Indian Army during the Second World Var , and gotinterested in India , " Rosser says . " After the war , I went to Cambridge , where I read anthropology . I came out to India again for field research . I went to Katmandu , where I got interested in urban areas , though the-happy hunting ground of most anthropologists is the villages . When the Ford Foundation was looking for people who had worked in Indian cities or , at least , were in-terested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come to Calcutta , and I came , intending to stay here two months . I 've stayed four years . It 's very hard to disengage oneself from Calcutta . " " We all have our particular stories of involvement with the Calcutta project , " Andrade says . " Until the C.M.P.O. , no one seems to have taken any interest in the city , " Kutty says . " Even basic statistics and basic engineering surveys did n't exist . In other metropolises , which already have all the statistics and surveys , the preparation of such a master plan would have taken a decade . We 've done it from scratch in five years . " " We were n't even able to find an epigraph for the plan , though we searched the literature , " Rosser says . " Calcutta has produced so many famous men that one would have supposed it would he easy to find one good comment on the place . Not at all . Take Tagore . There is n't one good word about Calcutta in all his writings . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University , in Shantiniketan , a hundred miles from Calcutta . The only comment that even came close to the kind of thing we were looking for was something Mrs. Gandhi said the other day , and she was speaking not about the problems of the Calcutta Metropolitan District but about the problems of all India . She said , ' It 's the crying baby that gets picked up . ' Calcutta cries from time to time - mostly in public violence . " " The problems encountered in a metropolis of Calcutta 's population , complexity , and economic significance are greater than those encountered in many sizable nations , " Andrade says . " The population of the Calcutta Metropolitan District is soon expected to exceed Australia 's . The planning that 's going on at the C.M.P.O. now is comprehensive not only in the sense that it brings together various disciplines , like hydrology , engineering , economics , and sociology  --  many of the physical and social sciences  --  but in the sense that it considers all aspects of the needs of the community , rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credits and debits . We do n't talk about the problem of providing housing in terms of building . v number of housing units . The focus of our planning is not just building v number of housing units but providing a suitable infrastructure for an integrated , comprehensively designed human city . This includes environmental services  --  that is , shelter , water , drainage , sewerage , refuse collection , and utilities ; and social services  --  that is , education , welfare , health , employment , and transportation . What I 'm saying is that it 's easy enough to recognize the problems qualitatively , but it rakes a gond deal of work to analyze them quantitatively . " " We have to remember to set our sights on things we have some hope of achieving , " Kutty says . " Until recently , there was n't even such a thing as the Calcutta Metropolitan District . And the Water and Sanitation Authority , formed this year by the West Bengal government , is the first body to have jurisdiction over the entire District . Our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education , housing , transportation , and so on will gradually achieve a kind of drfacto consolidation of municipalities . The greatest need at the moment is for a planning authority , because you ca n't just produce a plan and go away and leave it . " " To give you a coActete example of the kinds of problems we are up against in planning , take housing , " Rosser says . " The housing emergency here requires not only the replacement of the inadequate housing of most of the present population of seven and a half million but the provision of new housing to take care of the population increase of five million expected over the next twenty years  --  an increase that will give us about two hundred thousand new people to house each year . If the average size of a family is five , you need roughly forty thousand new housing units a year just to cope with the population increase , and even if we could somehow build these units , that would do nothing for the people who are already here , eighty-five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not meet the government 's minimum standard of forty square feet per person . Say you wanted to do as much for the old population as for the new  --  you 'd need at least eight ) thousand new housing units a year . Now , the present annual rate of construction here is only about six thousand pukka housing units . To raise that figure to eighty thousand . units a year , or even to forty thousand , would involve an enormous development of the construction industry , to ' c:V nothing of the development of related industries , like utilities . Even if the industries could somehow be developed , the problem of paying for the housing units would remain . Eighty thousand new housing units a year over the next twenty years would cost at least thirteen hundred crores of rupees . This is a truly astronomical figure fur the budget of the entire country , let alone the budget of a single urban district . So the only thing we have been able to do in the plan is to suggest stopgap measures . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thatch , with a life of ten or fifteen years , and perhaps building pukka structures later , when we have more money . The minimum cost of a kutclra unit is between a thousand and fifteen hundred rupees , whereas the minimum cost of a pukka unit is eighty-five hundred rupees . " " May I interject a comment ? " Andrade say s . " What we are really p doing now , and what , to a very large extent , we are bound to do , is simply to build better bust is . The snag in the bustis already built is that the environmental services are either inadequate or totally nonexistent . Consequently , one of the ideas that we 're working on is to see whether the sites of Eustis can he selected in the future by planners rather than haphazardly by individual landlords , as they are now . " " The selection now is so haphazard that large areas in the center of the city of Calcutta are covered with bustis , " Rosser sass . " This is a totally uneconomic use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures that would relate bust ; clearance from the center of the city to the development of satellite towns , where there will be some opportunity to earn a living . " " In a society initiating a really font- damental development program , the question of priorities is a very important one , " Andrade says . " For instance , how high do you rate investment in housing  --  which is economically unproductive even though it may be of very great human importance  --  compared to , say , investment in education , or even in transportation ? Now , in our view the priorities that attach to public investment in housing are very low compared to , say , resuscitating the f ooghly . " " Calcutta 's worst problem is simply that it is on the wrong side of the river , " Rosser says . " At one stage of the plan , we actually considered moving the river to the east of the city , but that proved impractical , so other steps are being taken to resuscitate the Hooghly . The central government is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  a hundred and sixty miles north of here , at the junction of the Ganga and the Bliagirathi , where the sandbar has formed . This should increase the flow of Ganga water into the Hooghly . Meanwhile , the Port Commission has started a program of dredging the river above and below the Port , and ' training ' the river  --  that is , constructing barriers to guide the main flow of the water . This should increase the depth of the channel and prevent further erosion of the banks . These measures should help to push the salinity line thirty miles down Other recommendations of the plan are building new primping stations on the river to supplement the water supply from Palm ; building mote bridges , among them one in the Calcutta-Hovera.h area , to relieve the congestion on the Howrali Bridge , and one north of here , between Katy ant and Bansheria , to help to develop new satellite towns in that area ; building new national highways and arterial roads , and developing the port at Haldia so that it can take bulk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a thousand crores of rupees over the next twenty years , hot , unfortunately , no more than a hundred crows have been allocated for the first five years , so we 've had to lower our sights " NOTES AND THOUGHTS ON CALCUTTA 'S IMPERIAL . PAST : The Imperial Gazetteer of India , edited by Sir William Wilson Hunter ( revised edition , 1908 ) ; " Cities of India , " by Sir George W. Forrest ( 1903 ) ; " The Early Annals of the English in Bengal , " edited by C. R. Wilson 1895- 1911 ) ; " Old Fort William in Bengal , " edited by Wilson ( 1906 ) ; " Bengal in 1756-1757 , " edited by S. C. Hill ( 1905 ) ; and other books to hand . 1498 . Vasco da Gama opens Indian Ocean to the West . 1510 . Affonso de Albuquerque takes Goa for Portugal . 1530 . Portuguese vessels begin frequenting the Hooghly ' . Ships as far as bulge of land , small native craft to Sat-poll , the commercial center nearby . Gradually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sugar , rice . Trading posts on Hooghly. 1600 . Charter of East India Company by Elizabeth . 1625 . Dutch sail up Hooghly. 1639 . East India Company founds Madras , first important British settlement in India . Madras situated on the east coast of south India . 1687 . James II gives East India Company right to establish civil government in Madras . Mayor , aldermen , burgesses , guildhall , schoolhouse , jail , municipal salaries . 1688 . French settlement at Chandernagor , on Hooghly. 1690 . Joh Charnock , of East India Company , founds British settlement , later Calcutta , at riverside village , Sutanuti . Sutanuti has already supplanted Satgaon . Charnock is said to have liked to hold court and smoke a bubble-bubble under a banyan tree in Sutanuti amid mud huts of fishermen . Imperial Gazdterr : " Several reasons led to the selection of this place as the headquarters of British trade in Bengal . The Hooghly River tapped the rich trade of the Ganges Valley , and Calcutta was situated at the highest point at which the river was navigable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the river on the west and by morasses on the east . " Derivation of name Calcutta unknown . Perhaps from Kalikotta , a village bordering on Sutanuti , or from Kalighat ( " landing place of Kali " ) , on the Hooghly . According to one Hindu legend , in the " age of truth " the patriarch Daksha , who was the father of Kali , the death goddess , made a sacrifice in order that he might he blessed with a son . He neglected to include Kali 's husband , Shiva , in the ceremony . Kali , insulted and injured , killed herself . Shiva , grief-stricken , speared her body with a trident and carried it through creation , threatening , in madness , to destroy the world . Vishnu intervened . Saved the world by throwing a discus at the body of Kali , scattering her fragments all over the world . Wherever the fragments fell , the ground was sanctified . The most sanctified place was Kali-ghat , on the Hooghly , where the tors of Kali 's right foot fell . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cale utta. ) 1696 . The Nawab of Bengal , deputy of the Mogul emperor in Delhi , grants British settlers permission to build fort to protect trading interests- Called Fort William , after William of Orange . 1698 . British settlers lease Sutanuti , along with Kalikotta and adjacent village , Gobindapur , from Nawab for thirteen hundred rupees a year . Expand settlement . 17117 . East India Company forms the township of Calcutta , which by now has wharf , barracks , hospital , church ; Bengal a separate Presidency , on par with Bombay and Madras , the company 's two other Indian Presidencies. 1710 . Calcutta 's estimated population ten thousand . 1717 . Fort William completed . East India Company leaks thirty - eight more villages on banks of Roughly . 1727 . Calcutta organized into municipality , with mayor and nine aldermen , to collect ground rent and town dues for repairs of roads and drains . 1741 . Fort William as altered and expanded : Large , irregular tetragon overlooking Houghly . Brick . North side three hundred and forty feet long , south @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ east and west sides each seven hundred and ton feet long . Small , squane bastions at corners , connected hi curtain walls of cemented thin tiltbricks  --  eighteen feet high , four feet thick . Inside the fort : Governor 's House , magazine , military stores , dispensary , smithy , barracks , prison , warehouses , armory , laboratory , etc All around the outside of fort , houses of officers and employees . 1750 . Calcutta 's estimated population two hundred thousand . 1 756 . Succession of new Nawab of Bengal , Siraj-ud-daula . Differences with the British . Nawab attacks and captures Fort William . Some British escape to ships on Roughly , but others are left behind . A hundred and forty -- six said to be confined on Time 20th in fort 's prisnn , the so-called Black Hole , a room show fourteen by eighteen feet , where all but twenty-three of them die of suffocation . The Black Role tragedy chief event in Calcutta 's history ; at least one historian say s British Indian Empire its consequence . Celebrated account of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well , magistrate : Before I conduct you into the Black Hole , it is necessary you should be acquainted with a few introductory Circumstances . The Suha IN swab ! and Ills troops were in possession of the fort before six in the evening . I had in all three interviews with him : the last in Durhar before seven when he repeated his assurances to me , on tar word of a soldwr , that no harm should come to us , and indeed I believe his orders were only general . That we should for the night he secured ; and that v. hat followed was the result of revenge and resentment in the breasts of the lower jemmautdaars rjernadars , " or Indian junior officers I .... We were no sooner all within the barracks . than the guard advanced to the inner arches and parapet-wall ; and with their muskets presented , ordered us to 2 , -u into the room at the southernmost end ui the barracks , commonly called the Black-Hole prison ; whilst others from the Court of Guard , with clubs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This stroke was so sudden , so unexpected , and the throng and the pressure so great upon us next the door of the Black-Hole prison , there was no resisting it ; but Like one agitated wave impelling another . u e were obliged to give way and enter ; the rest followed like a torrent , few amongst us , the soldiers excepted , having the least idea of the dimensions or nature of a place we had never seen : for if we had . we should at all events have rushed upon the guard , and been , es the lesser evil , by our own choice cut to pieces .... I got possession of the window nearest the door , and took Messrs . Coles and Scat into the window with me , they being both wounded ( the first I believe mortally ) .... Figure to yourself , my friend , if possible , the situation of a hundred and forty-six wretches , exhausted by continual fatigue and action , thus crammed together in a cube of about eighteen feet , in a close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eastward and southward ( the only quarters from whence air could reach us ) by dead walls , and by a wall and door to the north , open only to the westward by two windows , strongly barred with iron , from which we could receive scarce any the least circulation of fresh air .... The moment I quitted the window . my breathing grew short and painful . ... I laid myself down on some of the dead behind me , on the platform ; and recommending myself to heaven , had the comfort of thinking my sufferings could have no long duration .... At this juncture the Suba , who had received MI account of the havock death had made amongst us , sent one of his Jemmautdaars to inquire if the chief WIvived . They showed me to him ; told him I had appearance of life remaining , and believed I might recover if the door was opened very soon . This answer being returned to the Suba , an order came immediately for our release , it being then near six in the morning .... @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , made it a difficult task to remove the dead piled up against the door ; so that I believe it was more than twenty minutes before we obtained a passage out for one at a time .... When I came out . I found myself in a high putrid fever , and not being able to stand , threw myself on the wet grass .... The rest , who survived the fatal night , gained their liberty , except MTS . Carey , who was too young and handsome . The dead bodies were promiscuously thrown into the ditch of our unfinished ravdin , and covered with the earth . 1757 . British force under Clive and Admiral Watson , arriving in Bengal from Madras , defeats Siraj-itd-daula and French at Hassey , a village on the Bhagirathi . British given compensations , zamindori ( proprietorship ) over Calcutta , right to establish mint , etc. an due course , British advance from Bengal to rest of India . ) Clive begins work on New Fort William , near the original Fort William . imperial . Gazelleer ? " Modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removes goods from Fort William , now used exclusively as military barracks . ( Later , Holwell , having become Governor of Fort William . erects memorial obelisk at place where his fellow-sufferers were buried. ) 1759 . Thirty vessels call at Calcutta . Main exports opium , silk , muslin , indigo , saltpetre . Main import bullion , 1760 . Area between Fort William 's East Gate and Black Hole prison made into temporary church . 1764 . Civil authority over much of Bengal conferred in perpetuity on East India Company by reigning Mogul emperor , Shah Alam . Center of East India Company ' s power shifts from Madras to Calcutta , 1767 . Fort William , with new buildings added , made into a customhouse . Wilson 's " Old Fort in Bengal " : " From this time onwards its fortunes steadily declined . " 1773 . New Fort William completed , at cost of two million pounds , and jungle around New Fort , cleared for military reasons , becomes Maidan . Customhouse now called Old Fort William , 1774 . British Parliament invests control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council of Bengal . Sets up Supreme Court in Calcutta , which now officially becomes capital of British Empire in India . 1780 . British Calcutta " village of palaces . " But Indian Calcutta very different . William Macintosh 's " Travels in Europe , Asia , and Africa " ( 1782 ) : It is a truth that , from the western extremity of California to the eastern coast of Japan , there is not a spot where judgement , taste , decency , and convenience are so grossly insulted as in that scattered and confused chaos of houses , huts , sheds , streets , lanes , alleys , windings , gullies , sinks , and tanks , which , jumbled into an undistinguished mass of filth and corruption , equally offensive to human sense and health , compose the capita ! of the English Company 's Government in India . The very small portion of cleanliness which it enjoys is owing to the familiar intercourse of hungry jackals by night , and ravenous vultures , kites , and crows by day . In like manner it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temporary huts and sheds , for any respite it enjoys from mosquitoes , the natural productions of stagnated and putrid waters . 1818 . Old Fort William demolished . 1819 . Foundation stone of new customhouse laid . I 821 . HolwelPs obelisk , which has fallen into disrepair , pulled down , 1850 . Calcutta 's estimated population four hundred thousand . 1854 . First jute mill in Bengal . Jute , woven on hand looms , in common use in Bengal villages in eighteenth century , but only in nineteenth introduced to England , where process of bleaching and do ring is soon mastered . Imper ; a1 Gazetteer : " If it may be said that Bombay is built upon cotton , it is no less true that Calcutta is built on jute. " 1858 . East India Company transfers its functions in India to the British government . 1874 . Opening of Howrah Bridge , giving Calcutta overland access to rest of India , where roads and railways in process of development . 1875 . British get control of Suez Canal . More and more sea trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Navigation , British India Steam Navigation , City , Clan , Harrison , and Anchor lines . Bengal gaining monopoly of many of India 's exports  --  jute , coal , tea , hides , linseed , lac . Imports include textiles , metals , machinery . 1876 . Calcutta Corporation constituted , with elected and appointed commissioners . Completes a drainage scheme , increases supply of filtered and unfiltered water , etc. 1882 . Mr. R. R. Bayne , of East Indian Railway Company , while digging foundations for new Railway office huildlng , discovers wall of Old Fort William . 1883 . Bayne reports his discovery to Asiatic Society of Bengal , exciting interest of another Englishman , Dr. H. E. Busteed , who continues excavations . 1886 . March . - Visit of Lord and Lady Dufferin to Calcutta . Extract from " Our Viceregal Life in India , " by Lady Dufferin : This being our last day at Calcutta , we crammed a little sightseeing into it . D. and I went with Dr. Busteed to look at the site of the Black Hole . This gentleman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spot where it was , besides collecting all the interesting details concerning that terrible disaster . Having found the place , which is now part of a courtyard leading to the Post Office , he has laid down a pavement the exact size of the little room called the " Black Hole , " and has put up a tablet to explain this fact . Dr. Busteed gave me a little model of the place as it was , which shows that it was 1101 a " hole " but a room .... Dr. Busteed is very anxious to put up a stone to show where it Holwell 's obelisk stood , and to place in the church a tablet with the names of the persons who died in the Black Hole , which names Holwell had been at some pains to preserve . He ( Hol  --  ell ) was painted by Sir Joshua Reynolds with the plan of this monument in his hand , and his descendants , who live in Canada , have the pictore , and sent Dr. Busteed a photograph of it . 1886 . May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excavation was allowed to remain open for some short time , and attracted very numerous visitors and received much popular attention . The Government of Bengal with ready interest sympathized in the generally-felt desire that so very historical a site should he marked , and directed that what , for the present , was considered the most practicable thing under the circumstances should he dune  --  namely . that as the roadway under which the chamber lay was essential to the Post Office traffic , the excavation should be filled in and decently paved over with granite , and that a tablet bearing this inscription should he placed on the must convenient spot near : " The stone pavement close to this marks the position and size of the prison cell in Old Fort William , known in history as the Black Hole of Calcutta . " 1889 . An eighteenth-century map of Calcutta and Old Fort William found in British Museum . Proves erroneous some inferences Busteed drew from his excavations and published in his work " Echoes from Old Calcutta . " 1891 . C. R. Wilson , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 1900 . The Viceroy , now Lord Curzon , convenes meeting in yard of General Post Office . Considers question of another Black Hole obelisk . Assembly decides to remove massive masonry gate at one end of yard and pave with black marble the part of prison site not covered by building . 1901 . Census . Calcutta 's population eight hundred and forty-eight thousand . Howrah 's a hundred and fifty-eight thousand . Total population of other suburbs a hundred and one thousand . Population of metropolis of Calcutta exceeded only by populations , severally , of metropolises of London , Constantinople , Paris , and Berlin . In Calcutta , fifty-seven languages  --  forty-unc Asiatic , sixteen non-Asiatic . Greatest rate of population increase in the most crowded wards . Ratio of males to females two to one . Very high mortality rate . 1902 . Lord Curzon delivers address on the occasion of unveiling marble oh-disk in Calcutta to commemorate dead of Black Hole . Nora BENE : Remember to review strange &hate; among Indian historians about the number of Englishmen who died in the Black Hole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really occurred . Some say , incredibly , that the Black Hole was merely a British invention to justify the conquest of Bengal , maintaining that the story is found only in British accounts , and not in contemporary Indian , Muslim sources . On this point , cf. the Bengali historian A. K. Mattreva , whose work an Siraj-tid-daula represents the classic Indian attempt to find gaps in the British evidence and so refute the British with their own sources , But new information on the Black Hole based on other than British primary sources , such as the translation , by A. Hughes ( published in Brugal Past &; Pr , , , eat in 1958 ) , of a newt found contemporary Persian manuscript on Siraj-udciailla , cuts most of the ground from under the arguments of Maitreya et al . Discuss problem S. C , Hill raises : " Why the inhabitants of Bengal were absolutely apathetic to events which handed over the government of their country to a race so different from their own . " Analyze differences in attitudes of British and of Indians toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , RIldVard f 1865-1936 ) , who was vii a stranger to Calcutta , is the writer most often quoted on Calcutta , he was born in India and spent his early childhood , late teens , and earl ' twenties in the country , but the Indian cities he knew best were Lahore , where he worked for about five years on the editorial staff of the Civil &; Military Gazette , and Allahahad , where he worked for two years on the editorial staff of the Gazette 's sister publication the Pio9We ' r . While in India , he travelled extensively , and his outlook , when not that of an imperialist , was that of a pragmatic Lalion with perhaps a trace of the spirituality of Allahabad . Certainly some of his stories and articles reveal him to be an upcountry writer who spurned what he took to be the effeminate hybrid culture of Bengal and the pretensions of the British capital in favor of the rugged indigenous culture of the Punjab and the native wholesomeness of a provincial city . He wrote , in fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was written between the ages of nineteen and twenty-three . Calcutta figures in one short story , three narrative poems , and a series of eight short , informal articles that first appeared in the Pioneer in 1889 and , in 1899 , were revised and collected under the general title " Cits- of Dreadful Night " in his book " From Sea to Sea . " ( Calcutta also figures in a children 's story . ) The short story , entitled " The Dream of Duncan Parrenness , " is about a dissolute young Englishman who is a junior clerk in the service of the East India Company and who has a dream in which he confronts his future and the consequences of a wasted youth . The tale , which is a kind of moral ghost story , is forced and awkward , perhaps because it tries to re-create the idiom of the Warren Hastings period , in which it is set . In any case , although the story does contain some specific references to Calcutta ( " sullen , un-English stream , the Hug " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the setting is incidental . Similarly , two of the poems ? " What Happened " and " The Ballad of Fisher 's Boarding-House , " which concern the anarchic diversity of the Indian people and a brawl in a harbor hoarding house , respectively  --  could have been set in Bomhav or a number of other cities . The third poem , however , " A Tale of Two Cities " ? the second city is Simla , the hill station in the Punjab that served as the British summer capital  --  dwells on the physical squalor and loathsome conditions of life in Calcutta , deploring the accident that brought the city into being in the first place and the avarice that sustains it . The poem , which is quoted in its entirety below , has come to be thought of almost as another curse upon Calcutta , phrases from it having become , in the English language , lasting epithets for Calcutta : By far the most substantial treatment of Calcutta is to be found in " City of Dreadful Night , " which was the result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first sensadons of British " backwoodsmen and barbarians " who , like him , have lived for a long time in the rustic , provincial atmosphere of the Empire , away from London and civilization , and have come to think of Calcutta as the only " real " city in India , and who travel there hoping that their heritage of civilization will he restored to them . " Let us take off our hats to Calcutta , the many-sided , the smoky , the magnificent , " he writes . " We have left India behind ime us .... Why , this is London ! This is the docks . This is Imperial . This is worth coming across India to see ! " But in the cosmopolitan Great Eastern Hotel , where nationals of all countries are to be found , and in the splendid Maidan , whose expanse dwarfs everything except the rows of mansions of Chowringhi , and in the palaces themselves , which were built in the old times when money was plentiful , and which , like the houses in hill stations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reeking , ferocious , all-pervasive stench , worse than the worst odor of Benares , Peshawar , or Bombay . There is no escape from it , no relief except exhaustion , for it is the " Big Calcutta Stink , " or , in Kipling 's abbreviation , " B.C.S. " " Stop to consider for a moment , " he writes , " what the cramped compounds , the black soaked soil , the netted intricacies of the service-staircases , and packed stables , the secthmcnt of human life ... and the curious arrangement of little open drains mean , and you will call it a whited sepulchre . " Thinking that any Fnglish municipal government would have solved Calcutta 's most basic problem , sanitation , he blames the stench on an experiment that Calcutta was making at the time with local self-government . " In spite of that stink , they allow , even encourage , natives to look after the place ! " he writes . " The damp , drainage-soaked soil is sick with the teeming life of a hundred years , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  men of the breed born in and raised off this surfeited muckhcap ! " Kipling attends a long , futile debate of the Bengal Legislative Council and continues his explorations of the city , from the banks of the Hooghlyhe visits the Port Office , where efficient hahus daily chart the channel of the Hooghly , and the Shipping Of fice nearby , where mercantile outcasts wait to ship out of Calcutta  --  to the Park Street Cemetery , which contains the graves of the early English . In the course of a night , Kipling visits brothels , dance sheds , gambling houses , and opium dens , being initiated into the dark mysteries of the city as he passes from one vice-ridden , mean neighborhood to another , from the outer edge of what he regards as the inferno deeper and deeper into its center . Everywhere people are trapped and crowded together in abominable 411 , hovels resembling pigsties , and everywhere he encounters rors that " can not be written or hinted at " and yet are accepted as if they were the normal order of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from James Thomson 's " The City of Dreadful Night " : An age has crept past since Kipling wrote , but although his Calcutta writings are adolescent  --  the irony is heavy-handed and the point of view na  --  vely prejudiced  --  they continue to hr remembered , because the passing of years ha : : only preserved and multiplied the horrors of the city . MEETING WITH SATYAJIT RAY : rr Tonight , I approach a large , ghostly old house in Calcutta . An elderly , bearded man wearing a Muslim skullcap is slouching at the entrance . I ask him the way to the lodgings of David McCutchion . He points vaguely toward the entrance of the house , and then shuffles away . The entrance leads into a dark and dingy hallway , where a broken-down bicycle stands next to a broken-down couch . Leading up from the hallway is a wide , unswept staircase , and I climb to the second floor . On the landing , a figure in crimson silk emerges from a doorway . The figure turns out to he a plump @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up . I ask her if she knows where McCutchion lives . She indicates that I should follow her , and silently leads me on a surrealistic walk through a series of lightless passages and into a large , untidy garret containing a narrow iron bedstead , an old cupboard , three wooden chairs , a desk , a trunk , some suitcases , and three umbrellas . To one side of the room is a typical Indian bathing arra-2 sloping Lenient floor on which stand buckets , dippers , and mugs , and a low bench . Overhead , a ceiling fan whirs siuggish1 ) , and stretched across the room is a string from which a wet shirt is hanging . On the desk are photographs of reliefs of mythical scenes and statues of gods and goddesses from Hindu temples , and all around the room are shelves holding hooks on Bengal . McCutchion , who sits reading a Bengali hook when I enter , is a tail , spare Englishman in his thirties . He has on big Hack-rimmed glasses , and is dressed like an Indian , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known in Calcutta as a Satyajit Ray film huff ; in fact , in recent ) ears he has been one of Ray 's closest associates , helping him write the English subtitles for his films . After the girl in die red dress has Ieft , T tell McCutchion of my interest in Calcutta and in Ray , who is considered the greatest film artist in Calcutta and in the country , and perhaps India 's greatest living artist . " Ray loves Calcutta , " McCutchion says . " All of in who live here be Calcutta , in a wal . It is a nightmare of a city in terms of filth , hut the people who live here make it a great city . Like all true Bengalis , Ray ' has a strong feeling for Bengali culture  --  his films draw upon every aspect of it . He is interested in everything Bengali  --  in Bengali litetatur ( , and the Bengali language and Bengali life . When a promoter comes to him and asks him to do a film in another language  --  in Hindi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he did a fifteen-minute segment of an hour TV show for Ess.o  --  cal ed ' Two . ' They wanted it to ht. in English , but he said he would n't do a Bengali film with English dialogue , and he did a silont film , a pantomime . He is quite critical of Bengalis who , for instance , write in English . But lie 's not a Et ngali purist  --  he does n't feel hound to use only Bengali words . In fact , he uses a great number of English words in the sound tracks of his films ; he would say he uses diem in the interests of authen- eity . His films are notably authentic  --  a Bengali house in a film of his will have an oieograpli over the mantelpiece . He often uses amateur actors , and will find someone to play a part who in life is like the character he plays in the film . Ray 's research is very thorough . But 1 am always a little disappointed in his themes . A general criticism of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a rule , he does not deal with the starker aspects of Indian life . But then , as a person , he 's a typical middle-class Bengali . In fact , he is striking for his ordinariness . He lives in a very simple , middle-class way . There is nothing dambo ) ant about him , nothing ostentatious . He knows what he wants , and he is practical in seeking it . He is completely wrapped up in his work . In some ways , he is a very lonely man . When he is not shooting , he sits in a chair in his den for seventeen or eighteen hours at a time . " ask MeCutchion how lie and Ray became acquainted . " I came to India in 1957 , soon after reading modern languages at Cambridge , " he says . " I first met Ray in 1960 , when I was teaching English at Shantiniketan and he came there to speak to the students . He gave me his address and asked me to look him up when I was next in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was filming ' Teen Kanya , ' and I went to watch him shoot . Gradually , we got to know each other . He has introduced me to people , given me film , and in other ways been very helpful to me in in hobby , which is photographing terra-cotta art in the temples . " To meet Sat ) ajit Ray , the director of " gather Panchali " ( Cannes Special Award 1 , " Aparajito " ( Venice Grand ) , " Ialsaghar , " " tiaras Pathar , " " April* Sansar " ( " Pather Panchali , " " Aparajito , " and " Apur Sansar " make up what is well known as the Trilogy ) " Devi , " " Rahindranath Tagore , " " Teen Kan ) a , " " Kancheni ga , " " Mahanagar , " " Charida-ta , " and " Kapurush-O-Mahapurosh , " I walk along a narrow , shabby street to the house he lives in , with his wife and their only child , a son . Having passed titnaigh an unimposing entrance into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dimly lit stairway to the second floor , I reach Ray ' s flat . A servant lets me into a gloomy hall- , which has a couple of glass cases display mg inexpensive knickknacks , such as are often found in Indian homes . The hallway leads into a small , close , cluttered room  --  Kay 's den . All mama the walls are well-worn books , some in soft covers but most clothbound , some in Bengali but most in English . They arc a jumble of titles and au-thors : " Persian Tales , " " My the of the Hindus and Buddhists , " Pushkin , an encyclopedia ( covered in brown pi-per but with the paper cut away to show the alphabetical contents of each volume ) , " The Voices of Silence , " " History of India , " " Czanne , " " The Dawn of Civilisation , " " The Face of New York , " " The Art of India , " Tagore , " Classical Literary Criticism , " the Upanishads , " A Passage to India , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sanskrit Plays , " " Esquire Etiquette , " " The Wonder That Was India . " There are a couple of paintings ; a piano , a tape recorder , and a gramophone ; a divan piled with Indian musical instruments , spools of tape , honks , magazines , typewritten sheets , and a jar of pencils ; a large round table holding more books and papers ; a rectangular table on which are a typewriter and a telephone ; and a couple of easy chairs . Next to the rectangular table is a frayed red chair , in which Ray sits , wearing an unstarched , rumpled white kurta , pajamas , and leather slippers . He has a drawing hoard on his knees . As I enter , he puts the drawing hoard down and stands up to greet me . " I am working on type faces for the International Typeface Design Competition , " he explains , pacing about . " I have to send my designs off to New York by the end of this week to meet the deadline . The prize is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I will also get royalties . I have always been interested in graphics . " Ray sits down . He is a very tall , large , rugged-looking man in his middle forties . He has thick black hair , a big nose , a wide mouth , and eyes that protrude slightly . He gives the impression of having great physical energy held perfectly under control . When he walks about , his movements are abrupt and decisive ; when he is sitting , he is quite still and self-contained . His expression , unlike that of many Bengalis , is not gentle but somewhat severe and remote . I tell Ray a little about the time have spent in Calcutta , and mention to him that one of the things I have noticed is an intense political involvement nil the part of Calcutta 's artists and writers . " Most of the interesting work in the arts here is done by left-wingers , " Ray says . " I can not think of any right-wing Bengali who has ever done anything praiseworthy . As for me , most people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left-wing , like Utpal I ) utt . But I think politics are a mess , and , as a rule , politicians here are not men of calibre , I have not lent my name to many political causes . Recently , I did write a let ter denouncing the appearance of the new National Theatre building here . I denounced the colors , the relief work , the foyer -- the ugliness of the whole building . And during the general strike and riots in Bengal this March I represented the Union of Film Workers in a procession , because film people here have the reputation of not being affected by things like that , and I wanted to give the lie to this idea . I did n't stay in the procession very long , however , because I once had sunstroke and I am not supposed to he out in the sun very long . " I ask him how he feels about living in Calcutta . " I love Calcutta , " he says . " I have lived here my life . The best of whatever is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here . There is great intellectual vitality , here . A lot of very good Bengali writing is being done here . The Bengali theatre is very much alive here . The coffeehouses here are full of people with ideas . Only filmmaking has not attracted many intellectuals , yet from a filmmaker 's point of view no city could he better , because all kinds of things happen here all the time . It is true I do n't have much of a social life , but then I do n't really miss it . There is no one with whom I can discuss all the things I am interested in . In fact , it is difficult for me to find time to do everything I want to do . " I ask him about some of the things he does . " My father , Sukumar Ray , was the greatest children 's writer in Bengali , " he says . " I am still referred to here as the son of Sukumar Ray . ' My grandfather wrote for children , ton , though he made his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his credit , and his printing shop produced the finest printing of his day . He started and edited a children 's magazine , Sandesh , which is the name of a sweetmeat that Bengali children love . I have revived Sandesh with my aunt , Leila Mazumdar . It is a monthly , and I design a new cover for it every six months . I do several illustrations fur each issue , and I do other things for it , too . Recently , I made a puzzle for it , a crossword in rhyme  --  the first crossword of its kind devised in Bengali . I have translated a lot of Edward Lear 's limericks and a great deal of Lewis Carroll into Bengali for Sandesh . At present , I am trying to translate my father 's nonsense rhymes into English , hut I am having a great deal of difficulty with this . " I ask him about his own life . " I was an unit child , and I have always been more or less on m3 , own , " he says . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardly remember my father , and m3 grandfather ( lied before I was horn . After my father 's death , my mother and I lived with my mother 's uncle here in Calcutta . He kept moving from flat to flat , and we moved with him . I attended Calcutta University , and after that I went to Shantiniketan to study fine arts . I was at Shantiniketan for three years . There I painted a little , and I also started developing a serious interest in the cinema . I read some hooks on the aesthetics of the cinema  --  on film forms , film technique , film acting . I read honks by Eiscnstein , he Pudovkin , and by other great directors . I did not finish my fine-arts course , however , because the Japanese started bombing Calcutta , and I left Shantiniketan the day after the bombing started , to he with my mother , who was living here  --  she died in 1960 . A few months after that  --  this was in 199-3 ? I joined D. J. Keymer , the advertising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had no training in commercial art . After I got the advertising job , my mother and I moved to a small flat in the Ballygunge section . At Independence , in 194-7 , my friends and I started the Calcutta Film Society , the first film-appreciation club in the city . We had something like twenty or twenty-four members . Now there are two thousand . I was married in 1949 . I started shooting my first film , Pather Panchali , ' in 1952 , and finished it dirty years later . " I ask him how he came to make " Pather Panchali . " " When I was at Keymer , I was doing hook illustrations , hook covers , hook design , and typography for a publisher on the side. , " he says . " Around 1949 , the publisher asked me to do illustrations for a new edition of Taller Panchali , ' a novel by one of the best-known Bengali writers , Bihhutihhushan Bannerji . It was first published in the early nineteen-thirties , and the author had recently died . While illustrating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a film , and I did a few rough drawings . Tather Panchali ' is not the kind of book that most directors and producers would think of making into a film . It has n't the dramatic structure , the single , unified episode . It has loving descriptions of rural life , of little , subtle relationships among brother , sister , parents , and an old , unwanted aunt . The old mint dies and the daughter dies . But when I read the hook I loved it , and immediately thought what a wonderful film it would make . I talked about this with Mrs. Banncrji , who knew my tire family . She had known ni father and my grandfather , and knew me through the book designs I was doing . Mrs. Bannerji told in ? that her husband used to say , ' My books would make very good films , but no one wants diem . ' I showed her all the sketches for scenes I had done . There were two fat sketchbooks . She was very much impressed , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When the newspapers announced that I had been given the film rights , she started receiving letters from people who said she had no business giving the film rights of a classic to someone who had never made a film . She said to me , ' Althmigin some of these people are close friends of mine , I have full faith and trust in you . I am sure you will do something truly remarkable . ' I showed her pictures of the boy and girl I was considering for the parts in the film , and she said , ' This is exactly how I imafrinud the children in the hook looked . ' Soon after this , I went or England for six rnimths , and in that time I saw about nmet - five I made a point of seeking out all the films by the big names in postwar Italy , acted mainly by non-professionals , out on the streets , without any makeup . On the boat on the way back from England , I wrote a proper scenario of ' Father Panchali , ' hoping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For a ear and a half after I came back to Calcutta , I went around to producers . Nobody showed any interest in filming the story , or in me as a possible director . So I took a loan of eight thousand rupees from IM insurance company ; Hid started shooting . I had a cameraman new to films , Sulirata Mitra . He was twenty-one or twenty-two at th c time . I had &lash; Chandra Gupta as my lit ? director . For ' sir film editor I had Dula D Litth , who had just started editing films . The three have been with me ever since . NIVe were all in our twenties . I still had my job at the advertising agency , so we could shoot only on Sundays and holidays " I /era ! ' reading a. description Run wrote of shooting the first scent ' : It - o. as an episode in the screen pLc in here the two children of the story , brother and sister , stray from their village and chance upon a field of kertsh fi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ti-rel , , md here in this enchanted setting they are reconciled and their long journey is re- arded by their first sight of as railks. ay train . I chose to begin with this scene because on paper it seemed both effective and simple . I considered this important . because the w hole idea behind launching the production with only 8,000 rupees in the hank vi 25 to produce quickly and cheaply a reasonable length of rough cut which we hoped would establish our Bova fides .... At the end of the first day 's shooting we had eight shots . The children behaved naturally , which was a bit of luck , because I had n't tested them . As for myself , I remember feeling a bit strung up in the beginning ; but as work progressed Inv nerves relaxed and in the end I even felt a kind of elation . However , the scene was only half finished , and on the following Sunday we were hack on the same location . Bur was it the same location ? It was hard to believe it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fluffy whiteness was now a mere expanse of uninspiring brownish grass . We knew k , rias.11 was a seasonal flower , but surely they were not that short-lived ? A local peasant provided the explanation . The flowers , he said . were food to the cattle . The cows and buffaloes had come to graze the day before and had literally chewed up the scenery . I remark now how much I like his description of this incident . " Our idea was to shoot some footage and show it to the producers , " he says . " We showed thorn twenty-five minutes of film , but they said they were not interested . I had a friend who had influence with some distributors , end the friend persuaded the distributors to give us some money . Now I filled all the parts and completed something like five reels of film , but when I showed them to the distributors , they said they were not interested in going on . For a year , there was no money and no work . I thought of shelving the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we were not going to go on . Then somebody had the idea of approaching the late Dr. B. C. Roy , who was Chief Minister of AVest Bengal at the time , and trying to get government financing for the Elm . My mother knew somebody who knew Dr. Roy , he was approached , and eventually the film was made with government money . The government gave us installments of money , for which we had to sign vouchers . We resumed working , and it took seven or eight months to complete the film . " I ask him whet happened to the film . " It got excellent reviews . It ran in Bombay , Delhi , and Madras , but with-out subtitles . Finally , it was entered in the Cannes Film Festival , where it was championed by the film director Lindsay Anderson . In Cannes , it was shown after four other films , and many of the members of the jury did not stay for it . The ) were too tired . A few critics stay ed . One of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he immediately arranged a second showing of the film and insisted that all the members of the jury he present . It received a special prize as the ' Best Human Document . " Pather Panchali ' was followed by ' Aparajitu , ' the second part of the trilogy . " I ask him what he thinks of the Indian film industry , which , measured by the number of films produced per year , was long the largest film industry in the world , though Japan has now overtaken it . " You can not take the Indian film industry seriously , " he says . " The heart of the industry is in Bombay , and although it is true that some of the films made there have some good photography , some good sound recording , some good acting  --  even the songs , though much ridiculed , sometimes have a certain quality to them  --  the films always collapse when it comes to the story and direction . For a good film , you need one director who has control over everything , a single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  everything rests with the producers and distributors . " I ask him which of all film directors he admires must . " It is not difficult to answer whom I admire , " he says . " It 's more difficult to explain why . Besides Eisenstein and Pudovkin , I admire Dreyer and Bergman very much , and Antonioni also . I got to know Jean Renoir when he was making ' The River ' here in Calcutta , and I greatly admire his work  --  especially ' La Regle du Jen . ' I 'm impressed with some of the other French directors , like Truffaut  --  especially his Jules et Jim . ' I 'm also impressed by the early films of De Sica -- The Bicycle Thief ' and Umherto D. ' I admire some American directors , like John Ford particularly for their early work . Actually , as you may have gathered , I admire individual films more than directors . My favorites arc ' The Gold Rush , ' ' The General , ' ' Ivan the Terrible , ' ' A Night at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My Darling Clementine . ' Nowadays , I am very impatient with indifferent films . " T HE POOREST OF THE Pooa : " Although throughout India there is a general opting-out of concern about the large problems of the poor by people with any means at all , " one of the Ford Foundation planners tells me , " still , all over Calcutta , in a busti here and a hasti there , a ward here and a ward there , volunteers and voluntary groups are doing welfare work . We did a study of a very poor section of the city that has a population of nearly a quarter of a million , and we found there were dispensaries , family-planning clinics , hospitals , cooperatives , primary VEVale Tet ; 53V-ex-eltre .. e Celebrate the first robin in a crisp new dress . Ours is just the thing with lots of bright white banding caught in shiny golden metal rings . Rayonand-silk bonded to acetate in toast or black for 6 to 16 sizes , $38 . Young Elite Dress Collections . Mail and phone orders filled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , all rim by pi ivate welfare groups . In fact , if it were n't for this - volunteer work , the citi might have collapsed long ago . But each religious , ethnic , or caste group tends to concentrate exclusively on its own poor . Muslims tend to work among Muslims , Gujaratis among Gujaratis , tanners among tanners . There are , it is true , a few groups that try to Cut across the divisions and work throughout the . city , yet , because the problem of poverty as a whole is so vast , even they end up havng their own special concerns . For instance , the Bharat Savak Samaj works among the beggars and the Bengal Ladies ' Union tries to rchahilitate prostitutes . Perhaps the most dreaded work is done by the Missionaries of Charity , who devote themselves to the . lowest of the tow . They devote themselves to those who are rejected by the rejected and despised by the despised . They work mostly with the lepers . " A Calcutta friend , commenting on this . part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " They attach speci.1 importance to their work among the lepers , perhaps because to all the rich of the world , if you really come down to it , all the poor of the world are , in a sense , lepers . The rich may give to the poor , may work among the poor , but they are really afraid to Eve with the poor . " The Missionaries of Charity is a Catholic congregation that was founded in 1948 by an Albanian-horn nun , Mother Theresa . She is still its head , and one morning I go to meet her in the congregation 's convent , which is on a narrow , unpaved lane just off Lower Circular Road . It is a small building enclosed by a high wall with an iron gate . inside the gate is a courtyard . I am shown into a room , overlooking the courtyard , that serves as a parlor . It is furnished with a round wooden table , hearing a Bible and the Catholic Directory of Indio , and a few straight-backed wooden chairs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Missionaries of Charity . Mother ' Theresa comes in . She is tiny and slim , but imposing . Her skin is ivory ; - colored , as if she had not been touched by the all-scorching Indian sun . Her face is creased with wrinkles , but she does not look elderly . Her eyes are small and gray-brown , her nose is strong , her lips are thin , and , though her smile is quick , her expression is stern and purposeful . She is wearing a plain white cotton sari with blue cdg ing and a high-necked , long-sleeved blouse . On her , the traditional Indian dress seems transformed into a practical uniform coin nun 's habit . The sari has been secured to her hair with ordinary straight pins and folded so that it looks a little like a headdress , and its free end has been fastened at her shoulder with a large safety pin , from which hangs a crucifix . " It 's Christ 's work we are doing here in Calcutta , " she sass way of greeting . Vc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two general questions about herself . " There is n't much to tell , " she says . " I was born in 1910 . My father was a shopkeeper , and I had a brother and is sister . I entered a Loreto convent when I was ten , and I came to Calcutta to teach in the convent here in 1929 . I have been in Calcutta ever since . I feel completely Indian now . I speak Bengali very well ; my Hindi is not so good , But I would prefer it if we did n't talk about me  --  if you 've heard about one of the Missionaries of Charity , you 've heard about them all . I 'd rather talk about our work , which is God 's work . " I ask her how the work got started . " I found the vocation of charity here in Calcutta within the vocation of re-ligion , " she says . " Even when I was teaching in the convent , I encouraged the senior girls in the sodality to go into the bustis and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work after the Second ' World War , when I saw a woman dying on the street outside Campbell Hospital . I picked her up and took her to the hospital , but she was refused admission , because she was poor . She died on the street . I knew then that I must make a home for the dying  --  a resting place For people going to Heaven NVhen God wants y on to do something , He has His way of letting you know it . " She goes on to tell me that in 1948 the ecclesiastical authorities gave her per-mission to form a congregation dedi-cated to relief work among " the poor-est of the poor . " She began the work in a couple of small rooms in a house in Mini jh eel Busti , establishing a school for orphan children in one room and a Home for the Dying in the other . Soon afterward , she received her first postu-lant as a Missionary of Charity , and soon after that she found different quarters for the Home for the D ) ing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the original rooms . " So , in time , the congregation and its activities grew , " Mother Theresa adds , First we offer to ship your Volvo home free from the factory . Then we make it worth your while to decline our generous offer . If you take delivery on a Volvo in Europe and drop it off at our factory in Sweden , we 'll ship it to New York , Baltimore , Jacksonville or Houston for free . This wonderful deal has just one drawback  --  you have to drive hack to our factory to take advantage of it . And while our factory is bright , cheerful and modern , it may not he your idea of the perfect end to a European vacation . So we offer an alternative to it : Drop your Volvo off at any one of the ten cities listed above , and we 'll ship it back for just $95 . Which is about one-third of what you 'd have to pay if you did it yourself . Either way you ship your Volvo back , you save money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ car that lasts a long time . We ca n't guarantee how long , of course , butnine out of every ten Volvos registered here in the last eleven years are still on the road . Which means that after three years , you can stop putting your money into car payments . And start putting it into other things . Like more trips to Europe . Write us for a free copy of our Overseas Delivery brochure . Or ask any Volvo dealer . Who , Inc. , Cher.:o Departniont 702 , Rockleigh , N. J. KM : and she hands nhe a couple of leaflets about the work of the congregation tnda% . One leaflet , which is about the Home for the Dying , records : , Mother says , " They have lived like animals , we help them to die like angels . " Here is the story of one poor unfortunate woman who was brought in from the sewer . She was a beggar who had , apparently overcome by hunger and fatigue , fallen into an open manhole . She lay there for five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put her to bed and began gently cleaning her , whole areas of skin came off in her hand . The - worn an , half-unconscious , murmured . " Why are you doing this for me ? " Mother replied , " For the love of God . " This poor waif who probably never in her life had had loving hands tend her  --  looking at Mother her soul in her eyes , faith in human nature restored  --  gave Mother a most beautiful smile and died . That is our reward  --  that we should make the last moments of the fellow being beautiful . " In Calcutta , besides the Home for the Dying , we now have a children 's home , sixteen schools , twenty-three Sunday schools , eight mobile clinics for lepers , seven mobile clinics for the poor in the busth , a relief center for distributing food rations , and two convents for the sisters , " Mother Theresa says . " Altogether , in Calcutta , we have fifty-nine centers for our work , and two hundred and eighty-five sisters , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries , too . We also have sisters doing work in twenty other Indian cities , but most of the sisters work here in Calcutta . " According to the rules of the congregation , Mother Theresa tells me , a candidate wishing to become a professed sister must display health of body and mind , the ability to acquire knowledge , common sense in abundance , and a cheerful disposition . Then , over a three-year period , she will he admitted as , in turn , an aspirant , to learn the nature- of the work of charity ; a postulant , to learn the rudiments of the religious He and to test her sense of vocation ; and a novice , to continue the study of the religious life , to examine the vows of poverty , chastity , and obedience , and , under supervision , to work in the ' nails among the poor . A member of the congregation must cat the same food as the poor and wear a plain white cotton sari with open sandals and a small crucifix ; a dark-blue edging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a candidate . The prescribed language of the congregation is English , and the favorite ejaculation of the members is " Immaculate Heart of Mary ! Cause of our joy ! Pray for us ! " A hell now begins to chime in the distance , and files of nuns in white saris move across the court ) aid outside . " They are going to the chapel , " Mother Theresa says . " They arc going to pray for one of our sisters Nvho died this morning of rabies . She was a trained doctor , and six months ago , when she was working in one of our leper camps , a dog bit her . She did n't take the rabies injections , because the dog was just a puppy . It must have been her time to go to God . " From the distance there now comes the sound of singing  --  of thin , high voices raised in the words of the Lord 's Prayer . " I a In thankful to sav she died two days after the onset of the rabies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to take injections . People who arc bitten by rabid animals take about fourteen injections . We had only indirect contact with the rabies , so we will have to take Diliy seven  --  it 's not so had . " Mother Theresa now prepares to visit some of the centers of the congregation . She invites me to accompany her , and asks for the amhulance , explaining that she often travels in it , so that she can remove to the Home for the Dying anyone she may see dying on the streets or in the bustis . We take our places in the ambulance , beside the driver , and are immediately surrounded by a throng of beggars  --  sick , emaciated , lame  --  al with their open palms thrust forward . " Hey , habu ! " and " Hey , mataji ! " and " Hey , haul " they cry , in a dissonant jumble of voices . I pass out the money in my pockets . Mother Theresa , except for crossing herself , sits impassive . As the ambulance pulls away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tells me that her first stop will he at the Shishu Bhavan ( " children 's home " ) , which houses nearly seventy children at present and has cared for over two thousand homeless children  --  orphaned , abandoned , afflicted , or disabled  --  since it was opened , in 1955 , nursing them , teaching them , finding them foster parents , and arranging marriages for them . The ambulance stops at a crossing , and a thin , pale man comes up to the window . " Mother , I want to find work , " he says . " I do n't know of any jobs , " she says . " I have already ' told you I ca n't help you . " " Please , Mother ... " The ambulance moves away from him . " He has five children , " Mother Theresa says , after a moment . " He has t.b. , and he ca n't do heavy manual work People who ca n't do such work art- the hardest to find jobs for . We arc treating him at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more . " At the next crossing , a small hey with a sad , wasted face appears at the open window and extends his hands in appeal to her . She crosses herself , opens the door , picks him up , and takes him into the ambulance . " He needs food , " she tells rue , " and at the Shishu Ehavan we distribute relief rations . " The Shishu Bhavan , like the convent , has a high wall with an iron gate leading to a courtyard . But here , pressing against the gate , is a crowd of iiiAious-looking women , some of them old but must of them young , and all of them dressed in faded cotton saris , carrying cotton bags , and holding folded yellow cards . Pulling the hog by the hand , Mother Theresa goes into the crowd Of women , shouting , in Bengali , " Form a line ! . Form a line ! Everyone will get her ration , hut you have to form a line first . " The women do not budge , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them up herself . They begin moving into the courtyard , past a model of a grotto , and onto a veranda , where several sisters are working around a barrel of grain , a barrel of powdered milk , some large gunnysacks filled with more grain , and a stack of cartons marked " Non-Fat Dry Milk --  Donated hi the People of the United States of America . " As the line of women moves along , one sister scoops up portions of grain with a measure and transfers them to the women 's cotton hags , another sister measures portions of powdered milk into polyethylene bags and hands them nut , and other sisters replenish the stores of grain and milk in the barrels from the gunnysacks and cartons , and check and punch the ration cards . A girl of about ten stares , unsmiling and without comprehension , at the face of her ration card , on which is printed : Catholic Relief Services Nt Food for Peace A Free Gift from the People of America Distributed by the Missionaries of Charity Mother Theresa , after she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , strides into a little room off the veranda , where about twenty babies lie on small pallets and in baskedike wicker cribs A plain-looking Indian nun , who wears glasses and has the cheer- Drop in the instant load cartridge . Shoot a simple movie ... or create a professional show . You have complete freedom of choice . Even if you 've never taken a movie before , you can now superimpose one scene right over another ... or make one scene fade into the next ... or put your movie title right on top of action . Only Fujica , of all instant load movie cameras , permits these professional effects . You have these features working for you : A push-button powered 14 element , f/1.8 reflex zoom lens , 6x zoom range ( 8 to 48mm ) . A through-the-lens , automatic COS electric eye positioned at the film plane for precisely accurate exposure . And if the light 's too dim or too bright to make a good show , the camera tells you before you waste even one foot of film . Fujica 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sharpest movies you 've ever seen . A variable shutter that gives you speeds from 1/40th to 1/216th second for special effects or to stop the fastest action . Single frame for animation or stop motion . Remote control accessory . Operate the camera from 14 feet away for candids or scenes of natural wild life . If you 've been thinking of getting a movie camera , you owe it to yourself to see a demonstration of the Fujica 7-600 . Lists for less than $330 including DeLuxe case , batteries , lens hood and eye cup ... other Fujica instant load movie cameras start at less than $80 ... at better camera stores or write for data : meals because we are short of space . " Moving around among the children , she shoos them all into a room crowded with beds for their afternoon rest , but the children all stretch out on the hare floor some under the beds , some in a small open area at the far end of the room . " They like the floor because it 's cooler , " Sister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for older girls . Some of the girls are in their teens , and others seem to be in their late twenties or early thirties . Many of them are obviously pregnant . A girl in a printed sari , who has a round , expressionless face and paralyzed legs , drags herself across the floor . " This is Philo , " Sister Lourdes says . " She has been with us for six years . She lost the use of her legs after a bad case of typhoid . " Back in the ambulance , Mother Theresa tells me that she is now going to the house in Moti Jheel Busti where she first started her work , and where she still has the original school , to take measurements for a new blackboard . " Ordinarily , we do n't have special buildings for schools now , " she says . " During the good season , we hold our classes under the trees , and during the monsoon we meet wherever we can find shelter . " At Moti Jheel Busti , the ambulance stops at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and starts following Mother Theresa , calling " Hey , Sister ! " or " Hey , Mother ! " or " Hey , nintaii ! " A few grownups join the train , shouting " Very pranarni " ( Bengali for " Praise he to Jesus ! " ) . A fair-skinned man intercepts Mother Theresa . " We Anglo-Indians are scattered all over this hold , " he says in a stutter , wheezing and coughing . " We would all like to live together , Mother . " " Your old nonsense again , " she says , and adds firmly , " Go to the sister at the mobile clinic across the way and ask her for cortisone for your asthma . Go along . " The man shuffles away , muttering to himself . With children still following us , we go down a narrow street to a small brick building , pass through a wooden gate with a cross on it , walk across a courtyard , and enter a sad-looking old house . The school consists of two dark rooms , which have peeling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a few nursery pictures . As Mother Theresa is taking the measurements for the blackboard , an old man , extremely drunk and wearing only a dhoti , appears from somewhere , kneels down , and clutches her legs . " Please forgive me for drinking , Mother , " the old man says . " Stop drinking , " Mother Theresa says , without interrupting her work . " I ca n't . " " Then I ca n't forgive you . " Back in the ambulance , Mother Theresa tells uric that we are now going to the Home for the Dying , which is near the Kali Temple . " When we wanted to move the Home for the Dying out of Moti heel Busti , We made a request to the Calcutta Corporation for new quarters , " she says . " They gave us a dharanishala a shelter for travellers that used to serve as the overnight hostel for pilgrims to the Kali Temple , and we moved there in 1954 . The dharamshala had two halls , and we made one of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other into a dormitory for dying female street cases . Some Street cases are brought to the Home for the Dying when they are nearly dead , and we ca n't do anything about them  --  many are dead within a few minutes . Some street cases are too old , too crippled , or too far gone with t.b . ever to leave the Home for the Dying , and we go on nursing them until they die . But some street cases can be helped to recover , with calcium and vitamin injections . In fact , out of eighteen thousand five hundred street cases we 've admitted to the Home for the Dying so far , about ten thousand have got well enough to leave . " " Do you follow these up after they leave you ? " I ask . " We try to keep an eye on them if they are not well when they leave , " she says . " Because many of them would rather live in the streets and beg than stay in the Home for the Dying , they go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them come back to the Home fur the Dying to die . " The Hume for the Dying is a one-story yellow house off a typical Indian crossroads crowded with shops and pavement stalls . Two Indian sisters Come out to greet Mother Theresa . One is short and plump , with a round face , and is dressed in the sari with blue edging . She is Sister Barbara . The other is thin , dark , and small , and is dressed in the plain white sari . She is Sister Lillian . " Our sisters always work in pairs , " Mother Theresa says to me . " In emergencies , two heads and four Dacron : The resort raincoat . HARBOR MASTER knows you 're bound to run into a little rain on your vacation . But with a raincoat like this , who cares ? The color , the collar , the harness stitching are great style . As is the fabric ? an extra fine , subtly lustrous blend of 75% Dacron* polyester , 25% cotton with neatness built right in . Needless to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! In six great colors. it 's about $45 at fine stores Ask for a Harbor Master raincoat with " Dacron " . You 'll like the way you look . - Du Pont registered trademark . Du Pont makes fibers , not fabrics or clothes . Her Misty Harbor coat . about $40 PONT Better things for better living .. through chemistry We come from Canada . And we In America , it 's not who you are , it 's what you want to be . Air Canada is the seventh largest airline in the world . We 're also one of the best airlines in the world . But we want to be better . We want to be the best airline flying to wherever we fly . Whether we fly you to a little city like Timmins in Canada . Or to a big citylike Moscow . Whether we fly you to the islands in the Caribbean . Or to eleven countries in Europe . Wherever we fly you , we want you to feel you 're flying on the best airline in the world . First , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as that of any other airline . DC-8s . DC-9s . And soon we 'll have giant Boeing 747s and Lockheed . TriStars . We 'll even have Concordes and Boeing SST s . Next , we 've got one of the most sophisticated computerized systems ever devised . In the future , it will make everything that has anything to do with buying a ticket or boarding a plane , virtually automatic . We 'll have Self-ticketing . Self check-in . Automated baggage handling . And a whole list of other conveniences have a dream . that make it easier for you to fly . And easier for us to serve you . ( After ail , if we 're going to be the best , we have to be the best from the ground up ) . Then , of course , there 's our people . All 17,000 of us . There 's our executive chef . While cooking his way through Europe , we persuaded him to cook ( his way ) for our airline . We think he 's the best chef in the world . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many as the best food on any airline . Or in many restaurants . There 's our stewardesses . They 're perfectionists . They do n't just smile and say nice things . They want you to enjoy your flight as much as they enjoy their work . That 's why they 're never content until you are . There 's our flight mechanics . They 're never satisfied . They want to know all there is to know about an airplane . And then some . And there 's our pilots . 1200 of them . They fly because they love to fly . And they go back to school every three months because they want to be the best pilots in the world . In fact , all of us at Air Canada have this same attitude , It 's an attitude that is familiar to all Americans : " If you 're going to be something , you might as well be the best . " AIR CANADA We want to be the best airline in the world . By the time you introduce this burgundy to your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two names . Baco Noir . If you do n't believe us , wait until one of your friends introduces it to you . We 've watched what happens at our winery . Time after time . We offer a man a glass , and within three sips he 's gone from cool , arm's-length acquaintanceship to such fierce partisanship that he ends up arguing the case with us . For our awn wine ? " You mean to tell me you made this one right here in New York State ? This one ? Really ? Then whatever did you do to it to make a red this vigorous ? This rounded ? This dry ? " So we tell him . Beginning at the beginning , with the introduction of the Baco Noir grape to our shaly , Finger Lakes ' soil . We describe the way this grape at once belied its French origins , first by taking over our acres as though it had been born to them . Then by going on to produce a fruit that matched the vigor of its taste to the vigorous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pridefully , how we protected that taste by reviving the old , slow European methods . Letting the grapes ferment naturally on the skins . Then nudging out just the first pressing . At just the right time . At this point , typically , he will listen no further . " Oh , " he 'll say , with all the arrogance of a discoverer . " So it 's the Baco Noir grape that does it ? Well then . might I trouble you for a bit more of my Baco Noir ? " Once he 's adopted it , this man 's next great pleasure comes when he introduces his friends to his wine . And since this wine is still so new on the market , he ( and you ) can generally have the pleasure of performing this introduction for the very first time . You may also have this pleasure with the three other unusual table wines in our new Americana Collection : Aurora ( an exceptionally light and mellow Sauterne ) , Dutchess ( a refreshingly brisk Rhine wine ) and Chelois ( a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , yet very much its own ) . From the Great Western Americana collection . GREAT WESTERN NEW YORK &CATE; wines un l daripaynes , PILIL , L ; ; : ed stra , c 1860 by Llic i'lcasani Valley Wine Company of Hammonctsport , New York. hands are better than one head and two hands . " The entrance to the yellow house is marked by a signboard reading " Corporation of Calcutta Nirmal Hriday Home for Dying Destitutes , " and by an elaborate framed scroll headed " Holy Father 's Message to Mother Theresa . " Inside is a large , austere hall with an overpowering rancid smell . On each side of a long central aisle is a low platform extending the entire length of the hall . On the platforms and in the aisle are low beds , set so close together that there is very little space to move among them . The , have no bedclothes , and consist of narrow metal frames with mattresses sheathed in polyethylene . Stretched out on the mattresses are men of all ages , and boys as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thin and motionless , their bodies mere forms , their eyes fixed in expressionless stares . Sister Barbara , Sister Lillian , and Mother Theresa walk through the hall , stopping at one bed or another to take a pulse or to straighten a head or a limb and place it in a more restful position . Mother Theresa moves around quickly and is methodical . Sister Barbara always has something cheerful to say , and she talks fast . Sister Lillian follows shyly , seldom speaking , but smiling continuously . None of the men in the beds , however , seem to take notice or register recognition , except for one man , who soundlessly sits up as they approach . He seems to he in his thirties , with a strong-looking body , but he has the same expressionless eyes . He soon falls back on the mattress . " The Corporation ambulances bring in people who collapse on the street  --  street cases so hopeless that hospitals wo n't take them , " Sister Barbara tells inc . " At present , we have sixty-eight male @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have no known relatives , no shelter , no fond . Most are cases of starvation ; for the last six years things have been very bad . No one has died so far today , but xou can never tell  --  someone may die at any moment . We try to make them as comfortable as possible . ' We make the beds very low , so that they ca n't hurt themselves if they fall out . They are so helpless . " We have reached the end of the hall , where there is a passageway , with more beds in it , holding more men . This leads into another hall , which is crowded with women , most of them almost naked . Their bodies are gaunt and their eyes wild and demented . Some of the women are sitting upright on their beds ; others arc lying down , crying and moaning . One woman , who is completely naked , begins to scream , and Mother Theresa rushes over and covers her with a towel . " Once they get this sick , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scream , " Mother Theresa says . Back in the ambulance , as we are driving to one of the congregation 's leper camps , at Dhapa , Mother Theresa talks about criticisms that are occasionally made of the work done by the Missionaries of Charity . It is said that their staff is medically untrained , though the major part of their work is with the sick ; that their efforts are often restricted to the most extreme and dramatic cases , though they might do more to alleviate suffering if they helped care for people with more hope of living ; and , in particular , that their work at the Home for the Dying does little more than prolong misery , for even when the people admitted there are nursed hack to health , they are turned out to the streets to face the old problems of starvation and filth . Of these criticisms , Mother Theresa says that although the Missionaries of Charity may not have extensive medical training , their work gives relief to those who would otherwise have no relief ; that although their work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying to widen its scope ; and that although their work at the Home for the Dying may be concentrated on medical attention , they do try , whenever they can , to effect rehabilitation of the street cases who get better . " We minister to all those with whom we come in contact , " she says . " We turn away no one  --  we always try to make room for one more person in our homes and camps . For when we feed a hungry person , we feed Christ , and when we clothe a naked baby , we clothe Christ , and when we give a home to the homeless , we are giving shelter to Christ . When we know the poor , we love them , and when we love them , we serve them . There arc more people here in Calcutta now who care about the poor and serve them than there were when we started . Our work would he impossible without these people . We say in the morning , ' Today we have no food for relief , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It 's wonderful how it comes . Just yesterday , a Brahman gentleman died . He loved mangoes , and his daughter brought us crates of beautiful mangoes , and every child in the Shishu Bhavan had a mango . Two weeks ago , a few Hindu ladies got together and cooked rice and curry , which they took to a leper camp and fed to the lepers . We need warm hearts that will love and loving hands that will work . " We reach Dhapa . Large vultures with long , thin legs glide overhead . From the refuse dump , a rough , untamed road goes alongside a slaughterhouse , where emaciated buffaloes are now being herded through a gate . A few yards beyond the slaughterhouse is a dirty river , which seems to have no flow at all . We cross the river over a small bridge , get out of the ambulance , and pick our way among puddles and stones on the slimy , uneven hank . " The lepers have to live wherever they can , " Mother Theresa says . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find a place . So far , we have not had the means to build a colony for them , but we have a mobile clinic where they can come for medicine and treatment , and at least once a week we call at different places . We began our work for the lepers because , like the dying , they could n't get help anywhere . Everyone shrank from the m . " Leprosy , which is caused by Mycobacterium irprac , and which takes cutaneous , tubercular , and neural forms , has such manifestations as &pigmentation,; lesions , ulceration , nodules , thickening of tissue , mutilation , loss of sensation , loss of sight , and impairment of speech . It disfigures the face and hands especially , and through the ages has therefore been associated with so-called " leonine " faces and " claw " hands . It is not known exactly how the disease is contracted , how it is transmitted , why only human beings seem to he susceptible to it , or whether there is any cure for it  --  though it can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What is known is that the disease is fostered by malnutrition , filth , and squalor . In recent years , thanks to improved standards of sanitation , leprosy has practically disappeared from the richer countries of the West , but in poorer countries , especial-y in areas of Africa and Asia , it is chronic for as much as ten per cent of the population . In fact , leprosy is now associated almost exclusively with dark-skinned , poor people living in tropical climates . T ask Mother Theresa how many lepers there are in the Calcutta area . " No one knows , " she replies . " But some say two or three hundred thousand . " Ahead is the camp . It consists of rows of huts of stone or clay built wall to wall and with low red tile roofs , like the houses in the bestir . Between the rows of huts are muddy lanes . Cows , dogs , and chickens are everywhere . The place swarms with flies , and overhead are the vultures . Scores of men , women , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , lying on rharpoys in front of the huts , or squatting on the ground in the shade of a few trees . Most of the people are missing fingers or toes ; some have lesions at the mouth and no noses . " Everything takes shelter here , " Mother Theresa says to me . " We get rid of the dogs one day and more come the next . " " Salaam ! " and " Jesse pt. /main ! " the people call nut to Mother Theresa as she moves around among them . She goes from but to hut , greeting them by name and asking questions , listening , giving advice about medicine , about diet , about keeping cows tethered . " So the medicine has brought your fever down , Das , " she says to is man who has lost all his fingers . " That 's good . I sec your children are doing well , too . That 's good . " She tells me as we walk toward a hut , " One trouble with these camps is that vet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so we rented this but to isolate the very , very sick . " " What about all of you who work here ? " I ask . " Is n't it dangerous for you ! ? " " Up to now , thank God , nothing , " she says . " But we have to he ready . " We go into the lint , which is a few feet square . A line , on which wet cloths hang , is strung across the room . On the floor are two charpoys and a mattress sheathed in polyethylene , with three badly mutilated men lying on them . The man on the mattress is sobbing . " No amount of medicine helps ! " he cries out , in a heavy , constricted voice . " The pain will go away , " Mother Theresa says , bending over him and feeling his forehead . She helps a sister give him a morphine injection . When we are outside again , she says to me , " In the early stages , the disease is not so painful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " When she has gone around to all the huts and has started hack to the ambulance , those who can walk follow her , entreating , pleading , and crying for more medicine and more fond . Mother Theresa , as she walks on , keeps talking to them , saying " Yes , " and " Tomorrow , " and " I will try . " She crosses herself continually . ? VED MEHTA                     