@@290547

The continuing Washington stalemate over energy policy resembles nothing quite so much as a soap opera : at the end of each episode , events swirl toward a grand denouement only to emerge in the next episode as tangled as ever , with nothing really resolved . Last week , after battling through their third showdown in two months over petroleum prices , the White House and Congress found themselves still caught in a deadlock that raises serious questions about how far and how fast oil prices will be allowed to rise , how the U.S. will reduce its dependence on foreign oil , if it does so at all , and whether the two branches of Government can ever resolve their differences about how to manage the economy . <P> Legally Free . The latest round began as President Ford made good on his promise to veto a bill extending for six months the oil price controls that have been in effect since 1973 . In response , Senate Democrats , led by presidential hopeful Henry Jackson , provoked a test of strength by scheduling an attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to vote , but the Democrats , joined by a few Republican defectors , fell six votes short of the two-thirds necessary to reverse the veto . Result : oil companies are legally free to charge any prices they think the market can stand-as , indeed , they have been since Sept. 1 , when the old law expired . However , they dare not do so until they see whether the President and Congress will be able to negotiate a compromise . <P> Last week 's episode dramatically demonstrated the political standoff that has left the U.S. without any coherent energy policy . Lacking the votes to get his own programs passed , Ford can only attempt to bludgeon the Democrats into considering them by vetoing their party 's legislation - not only on energy but also on other matters . The Democrats , despite their huge majorities , usually can not muster the strength to override ( an exception : both houses last week voted to enact a $7.9 billion aid-to-education bill , overcoming a presidential no ) . " This has become a Government by veto , " lamented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil vote . " We 've got the minority dragging the majority around by the nose . " <P> Not quite . The situation might more properly be termed non-Government by veto . Ford has still not won over many Democrats to his approach of letting prices of U.S.-produced oil rise gradually as a means of stimulating exploration and production and forcing consumers and industry to burn less petroleum . The President 's latest plan-to lift the controls over a period of 39 months , with the major impact coming after the November 1976 elections-was voted down in July . Many Democrats have deep ideological objections to price rises that fatten oil-company profits . At the same time , the Democrats have no agreed strategy for forcing energy conservation and curtailing imports . Alternative ideas - rationing , import quotas , stiff taxes on energy usage-cannot survive even a congressional vote , let alone a veto .                     