@@494887

Although the Pentagon Papers case was trumpeted as a collision between national security and free press , the deciding votes on the Court found , from their own examination , that the danger to national security was overstated and the conflict was not , in that sense , a real one . In the pretrial publicity area , one suspects , the same approach may lead to the same result . How " clear and present " is the danger to Simants ' fair trial if the press is free to report what it chooses ? There are many procedural steps which courts may take to promote fair trials even where publicity has been heavy . Continu ? ances , changes of the site of the trial , careful examina ? tion of potential jurors and even waiver of jury trial are some of the remedies . Moreover courts are far too ready to assume that jurors read crime stories with the same close attention and memory for relevant detail that a trial lawyer might bring to such an account . To the ordinary reader the damage to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the existence of a confession is disclosed in a story describing the gruesome details of the crime with which he has been charged and the circumstances of his arrest on the following day . One wonders , finally , how the existence of " inculpa ? tive " information such as a confession came to the attention of the press before Simants ' public preliminary hearing . Those who participate in the criminal justice process are , after all , the sources of any details printed by the press , and it seems more just ? as well as more constitutional ? to gag the participants than to silence those whose job it is to watch , listen and report . It is temptingly easy to prevent prejudicial publicity by restricting the media ; a prosecutor 's release of a confession can not influence a jury if no reporter dare print it . But prosecutors and law enforcement person ? nel have their own constitutional duties to insure the fairness of trials , and a court may and should discipline them for any violation of those obligations . Defense lawyers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which they belong , most of which now prohibit inflammatory public statements . When courts go beyond these participants , as they have increasingly done in recent months , and gag witnesses or even the defendant himself , serious constitutional questions arise . And when they impose the restraint directly on the media ? often a general public admonition directed to no one actually before the court ? they go well beyond the remedy that the disease requires . Few sentiments seem more characteristic of political life today than a widespread irritation with the works and scale of government . That irritation , abundantly evident in popular feeling and political rhetoric , and even in serious thought and research on the efficacy of government programs , has now been deepened by financial stringency . A peculiar conjunction of mood and necessity , of political culture and political economy , has encouraged the conviction among many in public life that there is no better politics today than a politics against government . Unlike the antagonism toward " the system " that had its expression during the ' 60s , the current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right , and by people with no clear political allegiance at all . The hostility is directed not at specific policies and decisions , but at the bureaucracies themselves . However , while the left and right seem equally dissatisfied with government , they tend to have different parts of it in mind . On one side the characteristic targets are the CIA and FBI ; on the other , HEW and the regulatory agencies . The criticism is nearly the same : the bureaucracies are out of control , they 're obedient only to their own internal urges . One voice warns that government is destructive of private interests ; the other says it jeopardizes the interests of privacy . The left wants the government out of spying , infiltration , political machinations at home and abroad . The right wants it out of regulating business , busing children , redistributing income . Each has drawn its own lessons from the ' 60s , and now urges a particular kind of scaling down and pulling back . To this general disfavor of government , the fiscal crisis gives a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Politics seems to be practiced today mainly in the negative mode . We debate which part of our past to find in error , what programs to set aside , whose interests to sacrifice in budgetary cutbacks . There is not a single major initiative on the horizon . All this lends a unique malaise to a political life that is both restless and motionless , hyperactive and sedentary , disenchanted and impassive . How , in such a climate , can we find the capacity to deal forcefully with national and social needs ? Is it possible to turn this irritation with government to good use ? Are there alternatives , which can provide jobs and services to those who do poorly in a market economy , without at the same time expanding government bureaucracies and increasing the centralization of power ? First we must not take the current national temper , or distemper , at face value , disregarding its contradic ? tions . The general sentiments of the country are thoroughly at odds with its specific desires . The more diffuse the reference to government , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , voices cry out in anger and distress , and sympathy is stirred for those affected . The public , considered in its parts , simply does not have the same will as the public , considered as a whole . ( Perhaps this is why we can elect an overwhelmingly Democratic Congress , favorable to particular programs , but at the same time send to Washington a conservative Republi ? can administration generally suspicious of them . ) In its various fragments , the society demands action here and approves of a new program there , but detached from particulars , it does not like the total of what it gets . There is also a gap between expressed sentiments and objective conduct . Hostility to government , however widely felt , seems to have had little material impact . It has been under a Republican administration , after all , that the federal budget has gone from $220 ? to-$300 billion , and now is headed toward $400 billion . A Midwestern conservative President is now running deficits of 70 and 80 billion annually , which makes the mayors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is the internal dynamic of expansion stronger than any President 's will ? Do the demands of the economy simply allow no choice ? How much of our politics , let alone our budget , is discretionary ? The protests of concern about government may be signs , not of a determination to stop its growth , but of a faltering resistance to it . One reads that the protests against the " trusts " at the turn of the , century were signs not of a determined opposition to growingcorporate power , but of an uneasy accommodation . The rhetoric of hostility toward the rise of impersonal institutions may , in both instances , be no more than the consolation of a dying individualism . Political discourse often consists of imaginary solutions that disguise and invert the actual direction of historical change . So it may be today . There is also a failure to recognize where govern ? ment bureaucracy originates . It is hard to take seriously the frequent exclamations of dismay from private industry over the growth of the federal . bureaucratic and regulatory structure . Much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempts in Congress and the executive branch to placate private interests , in all their petty diversity . Responsibility for the intricacy and meddlesomeness of bureaucratic decisions rests , not so much with the agencies that carry them out , as with the private parties that succeed in getting their concerns written into the statutes and regulations . If Congress and the executive were less attentive to those interests , government could be greatly simplified and streamlined . But , were it ignored , the private sector would surely be more unhappy than ever . The inefficiency of government is as proverbial as the meddlesomeness of its regulations , but here too one must be skeptical about assumptions . Government inefficiency is often the result , in part , of the fact that government takes on certain functions ( such as services to the poor or the support of basic scientific research ) because no private industry finds it profitable to perform them . The reason for their unprofitability is often related to the apparent inefficiency of the state : the tasks involve inherent difficulties and uncertain ? ties ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Frequently , through subsidies and incentives , government programs try to make these functions economically attractive to private interests , but this builds in extra costs and makes monitoring of the outcome even more difficult . Moreover , because government services are public , we expect them to abide by standards other than efficiency . The wage structure of public employees , for example , seems to be more equal than that of the private sector , leading to losses of talent at the top and relatively greater costs at lower levels . Other consider ? ations militate against observing strict notions of efficiency . If the mails were operated to keep costs down and make the postal service pay for itself , there would be no service to small towns , and most magazines and scholarly publications would go out of business . In many areas , government is n't efficient because nobody seriously wants it to be . And yet , of course , the point still remains : there is inefficiency , there is cumbersomeness , there is unre ? sponsiveness . There is good cause for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discipline " of a market , nor to genuine public control . The state has acquired an existence of its own , over and against the rest of society . So the quarrel between politics and government is entirely natural , and even useful . Men elected to public office in America are now judged in part on their capacity to control , to master , to restrain the estab ? lished bureaucracies . Almost everywhere one looks today , elected officials and government employees are locked in struggle . The mayor or governor who can face down a threat to strike , or a strike itself , by a public-employees union almost assures his own popularity . Congressmen now find that they are increasingly called on to serve as intermediaries between their constitu ? ents and the federal bureaucracy . They have become not merely representatives to the legislature , but ombudsmen before the executive . Even the White House does not fully command the executive branch , but must at times deal with it as if it were another division of government . Nixon 's janissaries correctly saw themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bureaucracy . The Ford administration , on the other hand , seems to have made its peace with what might be called the standing government , and this may be partly responsible for the change in tone from the Nixon era . But this standing government , independent of particular administrations , represents a powerful force of its own . With the proliferation of social services and state bureaucracies , it has become not merely a self-sustaining industry , but the source of new interests that coalesce around the benefits it disburses in contracts , jobs , subsidies and services . Groups and classes struggling against each other all see themselves as suffering the insensitivities and exactions of government . It becomes the object of displaced resentment ? the target for groups that have lost political battles sometimes without having been aware of them . Government in America is sustained by a host of particular interests clamoring for satisfaction ; it has little general support or enthusiasm . With no one in decisive control of the state , everyone feels , in one way or another , oppressed by it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to the problem of the growth and autonomy of the state . Several continue to have some appeal , among them the Jeffersonian ideal of minimal govern ? ment , the progressive ideal of professional govern ? ment , the revolutionary conception of a dual party-state structure , and the decentralist model of direct and local control .. For various reasons , none of these approaches has much relevance to the contemporary American situation . The Jeffersonian ideal of minimal government had a radical content in early American society . In the colonial period , government had been an intimate participant in economic affairs , usually to the benefit of the privileged classes . At that point , to argue for less government meant arguing for less governmental action in favor of the privileged . But with the rise of corporations , the ideal of minimal government took on a different character : little state intervention meant a free hand for corporate power . The Jeffersonian ideal was already in eclipse by the time Jefferson died in 1826 , and with Jackson it became clear , as Arthur Schlesing ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jeffersonian ends could only be accomplished through Hamiltonian means ? in other words , the defense of the interests of less privileged groups had to be accomplished through an active state ( less privileged including not only farmers and mechanics , but less dominant business interests as well ) . Since that time , liberals in America have been identified with the extension of government and conservatives with its restraint . The progressive solution to the problem of the state , in the late 19th and early 20th centuries , was to encourage the development of professionalism . Through the civil service and city management , the progressives wanted to insulate government from politics and to instill in it the scientific spirit of efficiency . This was , in a sense , one removed from the Jeffersonian ideal ? the minimization of political au ? thority , if not the minimization of government itself . Its function , however , was to take power away from less privileged ethnic groups who gained influence through city machines . Today the ideal of neutral , technical authority has lost its hold on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ed , such as the insulation of the civil service from political control , loom as some of the most stubborn obstacles to needed political change . The revolutionary response to the problem of the state has been to strip it of final authority : a political party oversees governmental functions or directly assumes their operation . This is , in a sense , the antithesis of progressivism , in that it calls for the accentuation of politics , rather than its deemphasis . Used in some Communist and Fascist regimes , such a dual structure is clearly unimaginable in the United States , where political parties have never been more than electoral coalitions . The main objection , however , is that while lodging power in an ideological party may solve the problem of the state , it creates a new problem ? the all-powerful party , which may be worse . Decentralization has considerable appeal and much greater plausibility in the United States . Local govern ? ment as Tocqueville observed , has been the school of democratic experience . On the right , one speaks of returning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returning power to communities . Sometimes it is best to discuss these alternatives in the abstract , because when specific issues of great concern to either side are raised ? say , civil liberties to the left or abortion to the right ? neither really wants them left to local determination . Also , hardly anything inspires more warmth for the federal government than a good look at the way states and municipalities are run . But more importantly , so long as the corporate economy is organized on a national and even multinational level , it is impossible for states and communities to deal with economic and social problems on their own . Only the federal government is in a position to act effectively . No doubt , some devolution of power is possible , and greater self-reliance could be achieved , both on a personal and local level , but this is not a realistic strategy for dealing with the most substantial national problems . The modern economy consists , from one point of view , of three sectors : the domestic household , the market and the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called ) . One line of contemporary thought holds that various functions that the state has historically taken over from the family and communal circle ? education , provision for times of economic distress , the resolution of disputes , the care of the sick , the aged and the dependent ? ought to be returned to the family or family-like institutions , such as com ? munes or self-help groups . In this urge , traditionalists and radicals sometimes coincide . Another line of thought , more purely conservative , holds that func ? tions the state has assumed ought to be turned over to the free operation of the market . The first of these positions I see as partially right and yet , like decentrali ? zation , of secondary importance ; the second position , I believe , is wholly wrong and yet somehow closer to the point . For it is in the reconstruction of the market , and its relationship to the public household , that alterna ? tives must be found . Such an approach has actually been implicit in a great many ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , at least three elements are involved : 1 ) the creation of new participants in the market ? that is , new institution 's such as cooperatives and competitive public enterprises , 2 ) the establishment of new rules and conditions , governing such things as access to information and credit , and 3 ) the fostering , through such mechanisms as vouchers for health and education , of greater command over resources , among those who would otherwise do poorly in the market . For historical reasons , the market economy has been associated with the exclusive dominance of private corporations , but the link is neither necessary nor inevitable . There are other alternatives : markets in which public enterprises and consumer and producer cooperatives play a large part . In the United States , " yardstick competition " has long been the justification for competitive public enterprises ( CPEs ) . The Ten ? nessee Valley Authority is the prototype . More recently , Sen. Adlai Stevenson III introduced legislation calling for the creation of a federal oil and gas corporation to exploit reserves on government-owned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to industries where there are " naturalmonopolies . " But as Peter Barnes and Derek Shearer have written ( " Beyond Antitrust , " The New Republic , July 6 and 13 , 1974 ) , there is no reason why , in industries where monopolistic conditions prevail because of the domination of a few firms , competitive public enterprises could not play a useful role . Barnes and Shearer , noting successful precedents in Canada and Europe , call for CPEs in a range of industries : auto , steel , aluminum , drugs , banking and insurance . Vari ? ous levels of government , federal , state and local , could be involved . There might also be a variety of arrange ? ments for shared control involving private investors , government and the firm 's own employees . CPEs would have three functions . The aim tradition ? ally has been , first , to stir up competition to produce consumer savings and , second , to permit more ade ? quate public regulation of private industry , by generat ? ing direct and independent information on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role as a " yardstick , " CPEs might also generate revenues and thereby reduce the reliance of government upon taxation and borrowing . To do so , they would have to avoid being forced into " balanced-budget pricing " ( i.e. , pricing just sufficient to cover costs ) . In some cases , municipally owned electric companies have served this purpose . In general , however , the enterprises taken over and operated by Western governments tend to be in failing industries , like railroads , that no longer serve private interests . The importance of going into the kind of markets mentioned by Barnes and Shearer is that they have high profit margins and could , therefore , serve as major sources of revenue . While CPEs seem most useful in the oligopolistic sector of the economy , cooperatives have a role to play in the sphere of smaller , more local , more competitive enterprise . Cooperatives , as internally democratic institutions , are governed on a one member , one vote basis and probably work best on a local scale . In America , they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are now enjoying something of an urban renaissance . Cooperatives exist not only in retail distribution , food coops being especially popular these days , but also in housing and health care , where they seem to me potentially more promising . ( The Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound , in Seattle , has almost 200,000 members and its own hospital and clinics . ) Yet cooperatives have always been short of capital ; here again the state has a role . To avoid the expansion of its own bureaucratic structure , it has to advance the capital for nongovernmental , though not necessarily private activities . Perhaps more important , it has to create favorable legal and political conditions ? the sort that private corporations have historically enjoyed . Through revising the rules and conditions of the market , much can be accomplished , aside from institu ? tional change . There are a whole range of policies that deal with information . Requirements for disclosure of retail drug prices , comparative mortgage rates , and the fees of physicians , lawyers and other professionals have lately been acted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help reduce the " market power " of those , like druggists , bankers and doctors , who benefit from consumers ' lack of readily available information on relative prices . The market power of professionals and other occupational groups can also be curtailed by eliminating artificial licensing require ? ments that block the entry of , say paraprofessionals in medical care and apprentice-trained practitioners in law . The regulatory boards that have been set up for each profession are now dominated by the professions themselves ; they need to be opened up to public representatives . In other areas , such as transportation , there is a need for substantial deregulation . Much of the regulatory system , despite the animadversion from private industry , was created at its behest and in its narrow interest : witness the recent squeals of trucking firms and Teamsters when the administration announced its plans to seek deregulation in their industry . There is , however , no way to disentangle the government from such areas of the economy completely . A great many sunken subsidies , like the enormous investment in highways , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were it possible , would serve to leave past distortions of the public interest imprinted on the society . Other reforms might involve the national chartering of corporations , and the elimination of some of the privileges and immunities enjoyed through the corpor ? ate structure . Ralph Nader , who has pressed these ideas , has also suggested watchdog groups within companies , funded by check-offs on consumer bills . The general principle is important : there is a need not only for information , but for people in positions to make sense and use of it . Neither changes in organizational structure nor new rules and conditions , however , would be sufficient . The market responds only to effective demand , not to need ? only to what people can afford , not to what may be necessary for them to live . This is , of course , the crucial matter . If the market is to be retained , the government must at least partially correct for the gap between need and demand by providing its citizens with the purchasing power necessary to survive in it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for basic services like education and health care is one way to accomplish this objective , with the least central bureaucratic control . Such a system gives maximum power to consumers who can decide to use their vouchers as they see fit ; unfortunately , for that very reason , it also tends to favor consumers who know how to use their resources wisely . Ultimately , income policy , which would include wage and tax reform as well as vouchers are adequate only when combined with changes in the structure and conditions of the market . Clearly , no institutional form is without its limits and weaknesses . Neither cooperatives nor competitive public enterprises are immune from corruption . ( One need only mention the role of the dairy cooperatives in Watergate . ) A general tendency toward decay , or loss of commitment , may well prevail in all institutions . This is precisely the reason for retaining the market as well as cultivating democratic processes . In the language of the economist Albert Hirschman , there are two principal means of deterring " slack " in organiza ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumer to stop buying a product , of a member of an organization to drop out , or of an official to resign ) and " voice " ( voting , grumbling , protesting , resisting ) . It would make things simple and straightforward if " exit " and " voice " could always be built into social institutions at the same time . But as Hirschman points out , one mechanism sometimes erodes the other . The availability of " exit " can lead to the atrophy of " voice " : the people most likely to complain are often the first to leave . Thus the existence of alternatives may drain off the most quality-conscious and articulate customers or members , and actually lead to less pressure on organizations . Consequently , in some situations , it may be wise to create barriers to " exit " in order to strengthen " voice " ? in other words , one may have to curb the market to improve democratic decision-making . Considerations such as these complicate the picture . Nonetheless , before trading off " exit " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to recognize that both have intrinsic , not just instrumental , value . People ought to be able to leave organizations and states as they choose , and to participate in decision-making , not only for the good of the institutions and community , but as an exercise of their own freedom . Social policy should , therefore , have as its objective the design of institutions in which the avenues of " exit " and " voice " are both available and effective . ( The problem of most people in the world , of course , is that they have recourse to neither . ) An approach along these lines would entail govern ? ment action , in part because the market economy on its own tends to congeal through corporate concentration . Often the only way to preserve competition , and to make it serve social objectives , is by action of the state . The aim of government should be not to eliminate the market , but to use it , deliberately , through premeditat ? ed competition . In that way , perhaps , we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promote distributive justice and a democratic order . This strategy entertains no illusions about the virtues of the unregulated market or of the uncon ? strained state . It seeks a third path between socialism and capitalism , as they have classically been conceived . Whether we explore it is a problem of politics , not of theory .                     