@@480016

situation , and particularly the current status of Palestine , can , if necessary , he continued indefinitely . Such a belief defeats any possibility of settling the Palestinian issue , which lies at the heart of the Arab-Israeli struggle . It also takes for granted the constant availability of American help , since Israel 's continued occupation of the West Bank and the Gaza ? Strip depend on massive U.S. subsidies . Only through aid from the United States $5 million a day from our government and perhaps another $2 million from our private sector ? is Israel now able ? at great cost to its tightly stretched civilian economy ? to spend 40 percent of its GNP on security , including the expense of occupying extensive Arab lands . Until Israel achieves a durable peace , it can never escape from that stifling arms burden ; yet , without settling the Palestine issue , peace is not possible . Absent any political settlement , the dynamics of Arab politics will , sooner or later , force Israel 's neighbors to seek a military solution , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-confidence increases in pace with expanding wealth and military power . To be sure , in reaction to Sadat 's initiative and American prodding , the Begin government has put forward a proposal for " self-rule " for the West Bank and the Gaza Strip , but that proposal does not offer an end to domination by the Israeli Army . On the contrary , without the continued " stationing of armed forces " to control " security and public order , " the plan would , Mr. Begin explained , be " meaningless . " So the Palestinians have responded with the obvious rhetorical question : " What else is new ? " The Is. raeli Army would remain . Palestinians would still have no right to organize ? or to express their views as to their own political future , since that would endanger " security and public order . " Begin 's proposal , in the form suggested , could never satisfy Palestinian aspirations or be accepted by any Arab state ; it could have meaning only as an initial Israeli bargaining position . But his refusal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " sovereignty " of the area after a five-year period leaves matters at an impasse . For " sovereignty " is not the issue ; it is a lawyer 's abstraction . Control of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip should be regarded not as a dispute over real estate but as a question of the rights and aspirations of the people who live in those territories . Apart from trying to maintain its military occupation , what plans does the Israeli government have for the occupied areas ? Annexation , as Mr. Begin 's Likud party has long advocated ? But how to reconcile that with demographic and political realities ? Absorption of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip would add 1.2 million Arabs to Israel 's population . Because there are a half-million Arabs already in Israel , the nation would thus become one-third Arab , with that proportion rapidly increasing . Since emigration now exceeds immigration , the Jewish population of Israel is expanding at less than 2 percent a year , while the Arab population increases at 3.1 percent ; barring major population shifts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1990 . Thus , to keep control of a " greater Israel , " the Israelis would either have to adopt apartheid and disenfranchise the Arab population or compel West Bank Arabs to go elsewhere . Though no one officially admits this latter objective , General Ariel Sharon , the Minister of Agriculture , who is in charge of the settlement program , announced some months ago that 2 million Jewish Israelis would be settled in the West Bank within the next thirty years . That would be possible , he told me when I met him last April , because by the turn of the century there would be altogether 4.2 million Jewish Israelis . But , by a simple extrapolation there would , I suggested , be an additional million Palestinian Arabs in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip . What did he intend to do with them ? He did not answer . do not believe that many Israelis think the Arabs ' can he forced out of the West Bank . But the Israeli settlement policy , administered by a zealot like Sharon , reinforces Arab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NOT FEASIBLE , and the Palestinians can not be pushed out , what is Israel 's long- term policy toward the occupied areas ? So far as I can tell , it is a nonpolicy ? to do nothing . Immobilized by apprehension and internal dissent , many Israeli leaders indulge in the wistful hope that , with America 's unquestioning support , time will somehow work to Israel 's advantage . If Israeli leaders count on America 's forever playing the role of an all-forgiving big brother , that is largely America 's fault . U.S. politicians have long been accustomed to speaking to Israel in the language not of diplomacy but of courtship . Presidents , Secretaries of State , Senators , and itinerant Congressmen regularly compete in hyperbolic declarations that America can forever be trusted to safeguard Israel 's security ; nor will the U.S. ever " pressure " Israel or try to " impose " a settlement or even try to persuade the Israeli government to change its position . That stylized monologue is unfair to Israel and must stop . No matter what U.S. politicians declaim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unqualified support to another country without a substantial assurance as to how that country intends to behave . Most Israelis , I am confident , understand that ? although one can not be sure about Prime Minister Begin . When Golda Meir warned him during the Rogers initiative in June , 1970 , that , if Israel were not more responsive , the United States would stop sending arms , he replied , as she quotes in her memoirs : " What do you mean we wo n't get arms ? We 'll demand them from the Americans . " Let me be quite clear on this point : I am not suggesting that American aid is excessive : the United States should not hesitate to provide even more if it contributes to peace . But so long as Israel 's inflexibility on the Palestinian issue threatens to defeat all peace efforts , can American aid be counted on without regard to the consequences ? Israel 's position confronts Americans with problems , the first of which is moral and political : How does the U.S. justify subsidizing and politically supporting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has most assiduously advocated ? The first principle is that no nation should be permitted to aggrandize itself by military force . The second is a tenet we have professed since Woodrow Wilson that all peoples should be entitled to the right of self-determination . Israel could justify a temporary occupation of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip as self-defense . But occupation has now lasted for eleven years . Can such a colonial anachronism be justified as a more or less permanent state of affairs ? These matters of principle must particularly trouble those for whom human rights have become the stuck whistle of American foreign policy . Yet , in realpolitik as well , there is an insistent question : How long can the American government be expected to subsidize Israeli policies that stand in the way of peace and thus may lead both Israel and the United States to disaster ? If Begin 's government offers no assurance of self-determination to the Palestinians , Israel may soon be passing the point of no return on the road to war . Sadat has been flailing around erratically as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is finally forced to admit the bankruptcy of his peace initiative , he will either have to resign or call on the other Arab states to join in a longterm buildup for a military showdown , as Nasser did after 1967 . What is clearly called for is a major American initiative , but how can one reconcile that with the prevailing assumption that the United States should never try to - impose " a settlement ? What a tendentious formulation ! Even if the United States wished to do so , we could not impose a settlement on either side , short of sending our army , a notion that is manifestly preposterous . Israel , as a sovereign power , is entitled to pursue any line of policy it chooses , even a policy that , judged by the United States , might be a prescription for disaster . But the United States is also a sovereign power with national interests it must safeguard , and one key aspect of that sovereignty is the right to decide how America shall spend its resources ? a decision to be made only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any other nation . What , then , can the U.S. properly ask the Israelis to do ? To withdraw from the occupied areas would , they contend , require yielding tangible territory for intangible promises ; that would be unfair and asymmetrical , since promises can be broken , while territory ? once relinquished ? is retrievable only through military means . Such an argument would carry more weight if Israel 's military occupation did not offend international principles . But that fact confers on Israel the heavy burden of proving why , in its special case , those principles should not apply ? why 3 million people are entitled to impose their army on L2 million of their neighbors . Justification must rest , if at all , on an irrefutable showing that withdrawal would pose a critical peril to Israel ? which brings us to still another assumption : That Israel needs to control the West Bank and the Gaza Strip for its own safety . Arab control of the West Bank would , it is argued , put enemy guns within reach of Tel Aviv , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ driving merely nine miles to the sea . In Jerusalem , Mr. Begin 's custom is to take his visitors to a window and show them how near are the lights of neighboring Arab villages . Though such Israeli apprehensions are understandable , the exiguous distances involved render the doctrine of defense in depth scarcely applicable . Even if Israel should continue to occupy the West Bank , no Israeli town could be safe from SCUD B missiles , with their 175-mile range , or from supersonic planes that can reach Israel in thirty minutes from any Arab air base . Moreover , Israel 's highly competent intelligence service could detect any West Bank buildup well in advance . Geography , after all , is only a tactical ? and subordinate aspect of the issue of secu-rity . Without peace , Israel will never be secure against antagonistic Arab nations that outnumber it many times , no matter how much real estate the country continues to hold . Underlying the argument that Israel needs the West Bank for security is the assumption that withdrawal from that territory would inevitably deliver the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At this point , the giraffe question becomes particularly pertinent . Why ? Is this really true ? T HAT THE INHABITANTS of the West Bank want an end to the Israeli occupation does not mean that they wish to be governed by PLO extremists . But what can they say or do about it ? No one should be surprised that Israel 's soldiers in the West Bank suppress anypolitical organization or expression that challenges the existing order ; a benign military occupation is a contradiction in terms . Individuals under occupation have little choice but to support whatever organized group speaks for them , and that necessarily means the PLO , since the Israelis have prevented the Palestinians from creating any more moderate alternative organization in the occupied territories . Thus , if the PLO is the only instrument for the expression of Palestinian nationalism , the Israelis have made it so . It is instructive to listen to educated Palestinians in the West Bank : " We are totally ignored in negotiations over our own fate . You ask why our extremists perpetrate outrages ? It is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussing our problems were it not for these acts of violence ? You are making us all psychotics and we do n't want to be psychotics . We want to be listened to , to have a voice in our own future . " Two sources of discontent are reflected in the activities of the PLO : the desire of those Palestinians who now live ? or lived before occupation ? in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip to choose their own rulers , and the irredentist feelings of those Palestinian families uprooted three decades ago from what is now the state of Israel . Though the first group primarily seeks withdrawal from the occupied territories , the second group , Israelis fear , would be content with nothing less than the total destruction of Israel or its transformation into a secular state . While those fears should not be ignored , history has repeatedly shown that when peaceful political expression and organization are forbidden in an occupied territory , the resistance movement is likely to be captured by its extreme elements . When Palestine was under the British mandate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Irgun under Menachem Begin . Yet , once the nation of Israel was established and the British withdrew , moderate Israelis formed a government and the Irgun was absorbed into the Herut party . The Israelis refuse to negotiate with the PLO because its National Covenant still calls for Israel 's destruction . PLO leaders , on the other hand , dare not risk a break with their more extreme members by yielding in advance what they regard as their only bargaining counter . Thus the classical impasse between peoples who do not trust one another ; Neither will make the first move . Contending nations have often negotiated peace while each remained publicly committed to the destruction of the other . The vital question is not initial bargaining positions but the commitments undertaken in a final settlement . The irony of the PLO predicament is that violence designed to underline the Palestinian plight has now made an independent Palestinian state appear as a potential source of instability , even leading Egypt to talk of restoring Jordanian control . But Sadat 's expression of preference primarily reflects his desire to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than any deep concern about the issue , since Egypt is not contiguous to the West Bank . Nor is the Saudi position on this question at all clearly articulated . The problem can not be resolved by parceling out the occupied territories between Jordan and Egypt . The Palestinian people will never be satisfied with any settlement achieved through a negotiation in which their own representatives do not participate . If Israel does ever agree to a negotiation in which Palestinian interests are represented by Palestinian spokesmen , it will be only because the United States has found new ways of meeting Israel 's security concerns . Casual suggestions for a formal defense treaty overlook the fact that the United States has never given a security guarantee that was fully self-executing . Even the North Atlantic Treaty does not , by its terms , require the automatic commitment of armed forces ; it merely obligates each party to take " such action as it deems necessary , including ? the use of armed force ? ' The effectiveness of the NATO pact derives first from the fact that it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mutual consultation and cooperation and , second , from the stationing of American troops in the area . Israel 's reluctance to base its security solely on the qualified language of an American defense treaty is understandable ? particularly since we failed to move incisively in 1967 to fulfill Secretary of State Dulles 's implied promise that the Strait of Tiran would be kept open as an international waterway . But , as our NATO experience has demonstrated , a defense commitment reinforced by a visible American military presence is something far different from mere language on a piece of paper . B EFORE THE PRESENT peace efforts finally break down we should offer a proposal incorporating three major elements ? a defense treaty , arrangements for systematic consultation , and an American military presence . We might , for example , as part of a final settlement , establish an air base in the West Bank , where it could contribute to the local economy and stand as a symbol of America 's interest in the area . As an alternative , we might build a naval base in Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sinai , or some combination of the three . Though such bases would be primarily for America 's strategic purposes ( as a counter , for example , to new Soviet bases in Ethiopia and South Yemen ) , they could stockpile replacement parts and material that could obviate the need for another airlift . Added to all this would be , of course , the normal machinery of security ? for example , the creation of a buffer area between Israel and the West Bank , the interposition of neutral forces in other sensitive points of contact , and so on . Egypt , Saudi Arabia , and Jordan should find this base proposal tolerable , since it would provide a tangible warning to the Russians . While there might be some problems with the Syrians , an Israeli willingness to relinquish the West Bank should go far to make it palatable . If neighboring Arab states should regard a defense treaty with Israel as a hostile act , the treaty could be drafted as a guarantee of finally agreed boundaries rather than as a specific security pledge to only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the establishment of forward bases would involve the U.S. too deeply in a turbulent area . Yet ? whether we like it or not ? our vital interests and responsibilities are inescapably affected by Middle Eastern developments over which we have little , if any , control . By encouraging Israeli flexibility and a willingness to concert policy , the establishment of bases might enable the U.S. to influence the tide of events rather than merely respond complaisantly to the actions and decisions of other governments . That is the only fitting posture for a great power ? to direct its own destiny , not to be an innocent bystander . I would hope that assurances reinforced by an American presence might make it possible for Israel to accept Palestinian spokesmen in a discussion looking toward a settlement somewhat along the following lines : ? Israeli troops in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip would be phased out and be replaced ? or , at least , diluted ? by substantial neutral forces , while the areas would be placed under a neutral administration for a preparatory period of five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those areas would be permitted to organize politically for an eventual plebiscite to determine whether they preferred an independent state or incorporation in , or federation with , either Jordan or Israel . ? If that plebiscite should call for an independent Palestinian entity , that entity would be recTired ? as a condition to taking power ? to commit itself : ( 1 ) to de jure recognition of the state of Israel ; ( 2 ) to respecting Israel 's territorial integrity and to renouncing any and all discrimination against her ; and ( 3 ) finally ? following the Japanese pattern ? to effective demilitarization . These are the elements that might make possible a Palestinian settlement . The gruesome alternative is another Middle East war . No matter who might emerge victorious , another such war ? fought this time with the latest planes and missiles and a far more effective oil embargo ? not only would be disastrous for all participants but would threaten an East-West collision and the stability of the whole non-Communist world . America 's stake in a Middle East peace is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use all available leverage with both sides to try to break the current stalemate . We dare not sit quietly by while the paralysis of Middle East politics leads to a catastrophic denouement .                     