@@479430

AMONG CATCHWORDS born indo- lently and destined to stubborn careers misrepresenting the artistic ethos of fin-de-sieele Europe , none is more profoundly inappropriate than " decadent . " It suggests a waning of powers , a coming-undone of moral fiber , a tired acquiescence in fantasy that tells us more about the bourgeoisie. which sentenced itself to hard labor lest it " decay , " than about its antagonists . The latter did , often enough , turn inward , but with the same missionary or proprietary fervor that drove the former outward ? as if both were seeking grace in opposite ways . However different a Nietzsche or a Comte , a Tolstoy or a Mallarme , they shared an epic view of themselves no less significant than the ideas they promulgated . Perhaps because God 's corpse was fresher then than now , and his absence more poignantly felt , social and philosophical combatants fought like rivals for the apostolic succession . This tension generated an immense amount of energy , burning up many people but aggrandizing others . The repressive morality that served industrial civilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of conquistadores who might never have felt compelled to explore human nature , or live it to its limits , had human nature not been made officially terra non grata . The dialectic of confinement and escape can scarcely account for Freud 's genius , but it does go some way toward explaining the overblown image of freedom that made 100 Lou Andreas-Salorne 's life a kind of Wagnerian grand tour . Their correspondence spans the years 1912-1936 . If three decades elapsed before it found its way into print ( the German edition appeared in 1966 ) , the reason must not be sought in its contents , which will disappoint the reader alert for scandal . One encounters a very human Freud , making short shrift of the vulgus , grieving over a son missing at the front , talking about his addiction to tobacco or his fear of death , but not an unfaithful Freud . And in Lou Andreas-Salome one encounters an intellectual whose vamping takes the form of elaborate digressions on psychoanalytic theory . The reason for the book 's delay is snore banal . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pfeiffer , who served her as a companion during the last three years of her life , and as a hierophant after her death . The documents that comprise her literary estate he apparently considers Holy Writ , releasing annotated portions at liturgical intervals . I T SEEMS almost inevitable that of all countries Russia should have produced this hurricane woman who cut a broad swath through Central Europe between 1880 and World War buffeting poor Nietzsche so badly that he was driven to portray her as " the blond beast " in Thus Spake Zarathustra , lifting Rilke to the erotic-religious heights of The Book of flours , precipitating at least two Frederick Brown teaches French literature at the State University of New York at Stony Brook . His most recent book , P.Ere Elysium as Real Estate , which portrays the bourgeoisie through its funerary institutions , will he published this spring by Viking . distinguished suicides , yet somehow , in her own still eye , finding enough composure to write twenty books before subsiding into the laconic life of a Freudian analyst . Just as American Midwesterners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy that must have proved more than equal to the lulling pieties , the hypnotic flatness , the sheer tedium they escaped , so self-exiled Russians who made it to Europe in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries seemed launched from a catapult . One is put in mind of Diaghilev , indeed the whole Mir Iskustva group . reading Western art reviews like voyeurs peering at the real world . What governs explorers , perhaps , is their feeling " elsewhere " or nowhere , and the implicit vanity of wanting to occupy dead center . At once incredulous and gullible , they would not be so apt to penetrate reality had a conventional sense of it been bestowed upon them . The main circumstances of Louise von Salome 's early life conspired to put her beside herself . She was born in 1861 in St. Petersburg to a Russian couple of Prussian descent ; her father , General Gustav von Salome . ruled his family like an East Elbean Junker , speaking German at home and enforcing all the prescriptions of a militant Lutheran faith . Louise found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half , her parents ' only daughter but loath to be only a daughter when womanhood struck her as having no more existence than masculine virtu was pleased to assign it . Between God and nothingness , what choice could there be ? Her earliest dreams of mystical union with a stern , brutal divinity she was fated to express in the form of at discourse , marriage vow ? but in particular the psychic digestion of her divinity . Five years after confirmation at Hendrick Gillot 's hands , she published the first such volume 111v Struggle With God , using a pseudonym that joined in battle and in love ) the titular antagonists : Henri Lou . To be sure . the titles mellowed with age so that in 1931 , by then quite grand . indeed hallowed . she would conclude her literary career with My Gratitude to Freud , but it is not unlikely that inside this perfect disciple there lurked , until the very end , a cannibalistic virgin . THAT A WOMAN at once brilliant and , in her Aryan way , beautiful could lend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by any other orifice proved ambiguously overwhelming I her marriage to the great philologist Friedrich Carl Andreas was neither consummated nor dissolved I. Did she not , either way , engage their profoundest self-love and self-hatred ? If the spectacle of her organizing herself around their thought gave them a demiurgic thrill . then her emotional aloofness set them an example of self-sufficiency so plausible that even Freud felt moved , in an obituary notice , to call her the most " harmonious " person he had ever met . These two modes of narcissism governed all her relationships , first one then the other holding sway . No sooner had she met Nietzsche , on her first trip abroad in 1880 , than she proposed that they form a study group h trois , with a mutual friend named Paul Ree . Their conversations in Rome , in Orta , and in the Tauten-burg forest ? conversations obsessed by " drives , " " forces , " " urges , " but never , alas , halted by them ? sufficed to convince both Nietzsche and her of their essential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoughts and plans that one day our names will be linked together , " wrote Nietzsche . ( Like Rilke , he sometimes called her his " sister . " that is , a feminine doppelganger whom he would have wed , had it ever come to that , by way of self-embrace . ) As for Lou , she noted the following in her diary : " The basically religious trait in our character is what we have in common . It is perhaps so strong in us because we are free-thinkers in the most extreme sense of the word . In the free-thinker , the religious emotion can not relate itself to some divinity or heaven outside , where those forces that give rise to religion ? like weakness , fear and greed ? can be accommodated . In the free-thinker , the religious need , thrown back upon itself , as it were , can become a heroic force , an urge to sacrifice himself to some noble purpose . " For all her talk of heroic self-abnegation , Lou was more given to sacrificing others than herself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this respect her problematical nature mirrored a general zeitgeist that disqualified reason and prevented men from understanding reality otherwise than as the Scriptural Idea , the Absolute Form , or else some impersonal lorce de la nature . Lou was at once a Sublime and an apologist of the id , the more doctrinaire in her praise of " drives " for being so terrified of them , but wearing her mask superbly well , in fact better than Nietzsche , whom she left utterly bewildered . " Everything in woman is a riddle. and everything in woman bath one solution ? it is called pregnancy , " he wrote in Thus Spoke Zarathustra , having failed to answer the Sphinx 's question and having suffered the consequences . His demonic Superman may , after all , have been a transvestite . That Lou preferred eating men to bearing them , in other words , being them by killing them for her totemic repast , one anecdote illustrates graphically . It was told by the Swedish psychoanalyst Pout Bjerre , with whom Lou had a brief affair . " Once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and was going to spend the night with a friend , she suddenly felt it would not work . She left him abruptly , went to the station and took a room in a nearby town . But there she discovered that she was still in love with her friend . She remembered a letter he had written her which she carried in her purse . And to appease her longing for him she ate his letter . There was nothing sensational as she told this story . It seemed the most natural thing in the world to eat your lover 's letter . " One might add that she aborted the only child she ever conceived . Her mothering resembled nothing so much as her worshipping , for it served the same experience of " oceanic " self-aggrandizement that gave her , in her own eyes , a presence , and it meant de-realizing some man . There is a sense in which the love affair with Rilke , who was fourteen years younger than she , brought her life full circle . If Gillot had given her a cram @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , like the murderous schoolmaster of I onesco 's play The Lesson , taxed Rilke 's health with daily instruction in Russian language , Russian literature , Russian history , etc. before leading him eastward into what had suddenly become her own element , as though geography were but the metaphorical expression of her " struggle with God , " and " East " a purely personal apotheosis . Rilke said that Russia made him rethink all dimensions . Lou beheld herself as codimensional with the Motherland . " Here I would Like to stay forever , " she wrote in her diary while sailing across Russia 's central plateau aboard the riverboat Alexander Nevsky . " Here , as so often . the Volga is not a river , it is as broad and comprehensive as the sea . " Her favorite landscape was less a landscape than a plethora indistinguishably earth , water , and sky inhabited by Lou Andreas-Salome. alone . The very terms in which Rilke argued his love made him , at first , infinitely endearing and finally otiose : " You alone are real . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never quite believed . T HE WORDS Pascal addresses to God , " I would not have sought Thee , had I not already found Thee , " Lou might have addressed to Freud . Even before they made one another 's acquaintance at the 1911 Psychoanalytic Congress , her roles patently bankrupt , she had begun as best she could to probe the unconscious instead of exulting in it . The swiftness with which she assimilated psychoanalytic theory ( her earliest letters in this correspondence show her discussing Freud 's concepts very knowledgeably indeed ) can not be passed off as brilliant mimetism , or laid to the account of an inveterate knack for entering the Idol 's Mind , although that certainly helped . Rather , her own quite independent mind felt instantly at home in Freud 's paradoxes ; it recognized a kindred form of cognition before it understood the technical jargon or all the issues . If Freud did not at first take altogether seri ously her request to study with him , he was the last person to plead his cause or tout his custom ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of enthusiasts , rather like an orthodox rabbi whose obligation it is to discourage would-be converts : being a Jew is difficult . It was not long , however , before he too fell under her spell . " I missed you in the lecture yesterday , " he wrote on November 10 , 1912 , " and I am glad to hear that your visit to the camp of masculine protest played no part in your absence . I have adopted the bad habit of always directing my lecture to a definite member of the audience , and yesterday I fixed my gaze as if spellbound at the place which had been kept for you . " The camp of masculine protest is an allusion to Alfred Adler , whose lectures Lou attended for some weeks , only confusedly aware of a mutiny in psychoanalytic ranks . That this newcomer found the Adlerian system simplistic , not to say wrongheaded , could only have ingratiated her the more decisively with Freud , who never doubted his rightness but very possibly felt the queasiness of an intellectual debating a dogmatist ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose every piece warrants close scrutiny , Adler straightaway offered " the complete picture " by doing violence to its component details . " I even acknowledge , " Freud wrote to Lou in January 1915 , " that Adler has an advantage over me in this matter ; it is the advantage of someone imposing a system of thought upon things , compared with someone who observes them and is anxiously concerned to do them justice . I comfort myself with the thought that it is not the task of science to simplify the world , or at least not its first task . " Remarks of this sort appear at sufficiently wide intervals in their letters to suggest that Freud 's malaise outlived whatever comfort his experience and reason provided him , that on some very profound level he needed the endorsement of a charismatic woman . " I have to disappoint you . " he wrote to Lou from Csorbato in the summer of 1917 . " I am not going to say ' yes ' or ' no , ' nor shall I deal out question marks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with your comments : enjoy them and let them have their effect on me . It is quite evident from them how you anticipate and complement me each time , how you strive prophetically to unite my comments into a structural whole . I am under the impression that this is true to a special degree since I began employing the concept of the narcissistic libido . Without this , I feel , you too might have slipped away from me to the system-builders , to Jung or even more to Adler . But by way of the ego-libido you have observed how I work , step by step , without the inner need for completion , continually under the pressure of the problem immediately on hand and taking infinite pains not to be diverted from the path . It seems that in this . way I have gained your confidence . ' Freud 's reality was no doubt a good ' deal more complex than he let on : his scientific requirements and speculative flair so nearly matched one another that he beheld himself as a scientist malgre lui and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " take infinite pains not to be diverted from the path " had the temptation to do so not been great ? The above self-portrait of a monolithically deliberate man calls to mind a very different image he had urged upon his friend Fliess some years before : " You often estimate me too highly . For I am not really a man of science , not an observer , not an experimenter , and not a thinker . I am nothing but by temperament a conquistador an adventurer , if you want to translate the word ? with the curiosity , the boldness , and the tenacity that belong to that type of being . " WI HOUGH FREUD denied himself 1 flights of fancy ( always falling back on what he had verified beyond a doubt , advancing crablike into the undiscovered country while mourning the safety of his neurological laboratory ) , he was likely to admire highly imaginative people , fantasists , and even held his judgment in abeyance for their sake , either postponing such insights as he had won so arduously or trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which nothing in him could finally lend credence . Hence his lovable attempt to deal with Fliess ' numerology , and the reluctance to believe that first Jung , then Rank , and finally Ferenczi had struck out on divergent paths . Perhaps the " wildness " lie acknowledged in himself had its roots in this impulse                     