@@315473

The visit to the U.S. of Vice-Premier Chiang Ching-kuo , the 60-year-old eldest son of Nationalist China President Chiang Kaishek , was meant to be a quiet affair . He was the guest of Secretary of State William Rogers , who visited Taiwan last summer and invited the general to meet top officials of the Nixon Administration at his convenience . Chiang , the shy , tough head of Taiwan 's secret police , dined at the White House but had no private talks with the President . Although his government is unhappy about recent U.S. overtures to Red China , there apparently was no urgent matter to discuss . <P> The only troublesome aspect of the visit was providing security for Chiang , who is expected eventually to succeed his father as Chief of State . While the Nationalists have contributed greatly to economic progress on Taiwan since they fled the Chinese mainland in 1949 , their takeover of the island is bitterly resented by many Taiwanese , who also object to the autocratic power of the Chinese Nationalist government . Operating mainly out of the haven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement of such Taiwanese is agitating for an independent Taiwan . Demonstrators marshaled by the World United Formosans for Independence , headquartered in New York City , harassed Chiang during his U.S. tour . <P> " Little Chiang , " as he is known on Taiwan , draws such attacks partly because he has long managed to remain a mysterious figure . He went to Mos cow when he was 16 , where he joined the Komsomol and studied guerrilla tactics but later broke with Stalin . He rejoined his father in China in 1937 , bringing with him his Russian wife Fanina , and from Taiwan has directed guerrilla activities against Red China . <P> Some 25 members of the independence organization were waiting outside Manhattan 's Plaza Hotel when Chiang arrived for a luncheon meeting of the Far East/America Council of Commerce and Industry . As Chiang walked through the revolving door of the hotel , an Oriental wearing a raincoat ran toward him , pointing a black automatic pistol . New York Detective James Ziede , part of Chiang 's security detail , saw the man and grabbed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Chiang , struck the glass door but missed the Vice Premier . The attacker was identified as Peter Huang , 32 , a Taiwan-born Chinese who claimed to be a member of the World United Formosans group . Police also arrested another Chinese , Tzu-tai Cheng , who had joined the scuffle as Huang was arrested . <P> Seemingly unshaken , Chiang Ching-kuo continued with his scheduled appearances , although nervous security forces were strengthened to protect him . There was little doubt that the assassination attempt was a serious one and that only Ziede 's quick action had saved Chiang from serious injury or death . The incident clearly indicated that the ever-present resentment of Mainlander rule is increasing in Taiwan . One of the fears of many anti-Chiang Taiwanese , however farfetched it may seem now , is that they might some day be delivered to Communist China in a deal made by Chiang Ching-kuo . They refuse to believe that he has renounced his Communist ties .                     