@@487929

I deplore an editorial , " For All or for None , " and an article , " The Return to Geneva ; Will Carter Boot It ? " in your October 15th issue : the first on the " rights " of the American Nazis , the other , by David Caploe , totally one-sided on the Israeli-Arab confrontation . In your opinion the Nazis must be allowed to inflict their obscenities on death-camp survivors still suffering the trauma of their blood bath in order to safeguard future Martin Luther Kings the right to speak for life  --  really ? You consider these Nazis weak and insignificant . So was Adolf Hitler in 1923 . " Our " Nazis are already getting powerful support from " others unde the skin " who are spreading the " buy from ' stian " aganda from Cali-fornia outw Caploe o ing all the g Although si destruction of Is athletes , women and chi dren , proc s ing by his article , Caploe has never heard of It seems that , as of now , the Arab states their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their cat'spaw , the P Israel must sit down to discuss its own des We share Ernest Deutch 's opinion that " our " Nazis are obscene ( indeed , that is what we said ) , but we do n't share his fear of them . What we fear is the precedent that would be set by denying them the right to express their revolting ideas As for Caploe , we submit that a calm reading of his article could not possibly conclude that he finds " all the good ' in the Arabs and all the bad in the Israelis . " The piece was not about good and evil ; it was about getting to Geneva  --  and how President Carter 's approach to the problem was not the best means to that end . The Editors man for the Job ? Springfield , Va . Reading Elliott Currie 's description of President Carter 's welfare reform program The Nation , Sept. 17 raises a question in my mind : If asked to select , from 215 million , the one person best qualified to design a welfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joseph Califano , a lawyer with an income of i half-million dollars , whose life work consists of advising the rich and powerful ? Why be surprised at the result ? Winston McNamara taxes for peace Oakland , Calif . The Nation has published nothing about the World Peace Tax Fund . The proposed legislation provides a legal means for conscientious objectors ( not necessarily religiously connected C.O. ? ) to assign the portion of their taxes destined for the military to peaceful-use . H.R. 4897 has been introduced several times , with increasing sponsorship , by Rep. Ronald V. Dellums ( D. , Calif . ) . The first Senate Bill , S.880 , on the WPTF was introduced this year by Sen. Mark Hatfield . The National Council for a World Peace Tax Fund is in Washington , D.C. Marion M. Sandomire The editors welcome letters from readers but regret that space limitations often prevent publication of those of more than 250 words . EDITORIALS Swinging from the Floor The President had a choice between two targets when he decided to come out swinging against the opponents of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself or the giant energy combines . He picked the easier one when he charged the oil and gas industry with planning " the greatest rip-off in history . " Carter 's language in his October 13th press conference was quite extraordinary in more than one way . The oil companies naturally called it " intemperate , " but it was indeed extravagant . That is not to say that he was wrong to attack the industry for its grasping and wrong-headed ways . It is simply to note that to talk of " potential war profiteering " when he breaks a silence that has lasted for months as Congress fiddled with his energy scheme is a startling change from the passivity with which he has seemed to watch the dismantling of his proposals . Since we are not at war at the moment , he must have had in mind the energy " war " he personally declared back last spring ; that borrowing from William James 's " the moral equivalent of war " has come back to haunt him , as excessive rhetoric is apt to do . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House-Senate conference , the President 's energy program was an unrecognizable shambles . The House had passed a bill that was close to Carter 's version of what needed to be done . The Senate 's Finance Committee turned out a monstrosity containing none of the taxes he asked for and $32 billion in tax credits which he did not want . The House emphasis was on conservation , the Senate 's on incentives to more production . The twain could scarcely meet , even in the pressure cooker of a con .. ference committee . However , there will of necessity be some sort of compromise . The question is how much has already been compromised by Carter even before the two chambers begin to adjust their differences . The President sounded almost intransigent at his press conference , but the truth is that he has by now yielded much of his original ground to the gas and oil industries . The whole idea of regulating natural gas prices in the public interest has almost disappeared . Even before the Senate voted to phase out all price controls on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Capitol Hill were backing a " compromise " regulated price per thousand cubic feet of $2.03 , which is close to what the industry could get if there were no regulation . That figure should be compared with the 60 ? price which the Federal Power Commission called " ample " just last year . So much for the fate of gas prices , and the monopolistic multiplier for oil prices is comparable . In sum , Carter 's " war " to save the country from the disaster of an energy shortage looks like a rout . What about the chances of restoring some form of competition in the highly cartelized energy business and thus getting a grip on these monopolies through the mechanism of price competition ? The name of that game is divestiture and it is one the administration is not going to play . " I do not think that is appropriate , " said Carter 's energy                     