@@431801

 | BIG SCIENCE UNDER FIRE Wartime breakthroughs carried science to new heights , and Russia 's first Sputnik opened wide the public purse . Now the broad enthusiasm and support for scientific research have given way to widespread animosity ; these are lean times for universities and institutes that have drawn sustenance from scientific research . Here a Harvard historian examines the lovehate cycle and calls for " a new way of looking at science . " On page 101 , a scientist-turnednovelist talks about the scientists themselves , how they think about their work , and what makes them different from nonscientists. ust before he died in 1955 , Albert Einstein said that if he had his life to live over , he would become not a scientist but a plumber or a peddler . He meant that they , unlike the scientist , had a calling that could not be perverted to an evil use by governments for the destruction of life . Yet Einstein 's complicity in the atomic bomb was unique , and even people who shared his fears about nuclear war seldom turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hiroshima to the Sea of Tranquillity saw the largest public commitments to science and engineering in the history of the world . Yet suddenly , at the beginning of the 1970s , science is under fire from many quarters . Here are some signs that add up to an increasingly hostile environment for scientific research : 969 NASA put the first men on the moon . In 197tr , its budget is being slashed , its main installation for advanced research in electronics ( NASA Cambridge ) is being closed before it opened , and the New York Times is crying good riddance . One of the more enlightened members of the United States Senate , Mike Mansfield ( D. , Montana ) , has obliged the President to accept and enforce an amendment to prevent the Pentagon from funding any research whatever that does not contribute directly to its military mission . Mansfield has added that he would not be unduly concerned if some of the slack left in research funds was never taken up by any other government agency . As a complement to the Mansfield amendment , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of many scientists themselves , has effectively blocked institutional participation by Harvard in the so-called Project Cambridge , sponsored by the Department of Defense for promoting the application of computer techniques to data from the social sciences . The first scientists to isolate a single gene have simultaneously issued a public warning against the potentialities of their own work for genetic engineering and proclaimed their conviction that  | all research done in the United States is ultimately controlled by men who have " consistently exploited science for harmful purposes " ? probably the first time that scientists have announced a major discovery and apologized for it in the same breath . On a much larger scale , a veritable chorus of mea culpas resounded through the meeting last December of the American Association for the Advancement of Science , citing the grievous faults of the scientific community in the past ? above all , by basking in the favor of the Defense Department to the neglect of urgent social problems ? and innumerable calls went up from both sides of the generation gap to repent before it was too late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the 1970s the marksmen are increasingly drawn from its natural allies and actual practitioners , the sort of men who have been tirelessly trying for two centuries or more to make room for science in a hostile or indifferent culture . Before we can even begin to calculate how far this revulsion from science by its natural sympathizers will go , and how long it will last , we have to account for the progress it has already made . By far the most obvious factor has been the colossal expansion in federal support for science since 1940 . So long as big government remained the panacea of liberals and radicals , this alliance merely eased the accommodation of intellectuals and reformers to contemporary science . But the most striking trend of the last five years in American politics has been the rising tide of hostility to big government . Robert F. Kennedy , Michael Harrington , and Rhody McCoy joined Richard M. Nixon , Milton Friedman , and William F. Buckley in hymning the praises oi- decentralization . Big science became part of the overweening presence of Washington in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ method by which the taint is most effectively communicated is to lump big science and big government together as part of the dreaded Establishment . This mind-benumbing concept has proved to be one of the most successful British exports of recent times , the ideological equivalent of the Beatles and miniskirts . Every generation seems to require a ferocious bugbear to frighten it out of its wits . The monolithic Establishment , obscenely dovetailing all the reactionary forces of the world , is the current answer to this craving . If the Establishment means anything , it means big government and big business , and between them they pay most of the bills for big science . By a natural train of associations , science is becoming increasingly suspect as a pliant tool of the Establishment . The argument is crude and full of holes , but fervently embraced by many young people , including scientists . It is the new gospel of the campuses . The most hated segment of the Establishment is the military , and one of the main channels for the federal financing of science has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown to have been an ad hoc arrangement by which large appropriations for research were obtained under the cover of national defense . The tacit understanding has been that the Pentagon need not confine its grants to narrowly military purposes . Many investigators with wide experience in these matters feel that the Department of Defense has in fact been one of the more enlightened ? that is , permissive ? sponsors of research , willing to act upon a very broad conception of what might contribute in the long run to the national defense . Its grantees , for their part , have not felt obliged to teach the Department to look to its own immediate interests . If this was how the country chose to support basic research , who were they to object ? This is the modus vivendi that has now broken down from both sides . Many young scientists and other academic people can not or will not believe that the Pentagon is ever capable of taking a broadgauged view of the general welfare . They are confident that the military must be getting its money 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence to the contrary is dismissed as " window dressing " intended to camouflage the basically " repressive " aspects of the project . And since the Pentagon has tried to lend a specious coloring of plausibility to its more audacious grants , verbal formulas about the military bearing of the research in question can generally be found to buttress the critics ' suspicions . This is the nub of the recent uproar over Project Cambridge , a scheme for promoting highly abstract methodological innovations in computerizing data from the social sciences ? any data for any purpose . But to make this sound like a legitimate enterprise for the Department of Defense to support , examples were given in the original proposal of substantive data that might be handled more effectively if the project were authorized . Some of the examples , such as analyzing Viet Cong documents , were or could be of direct military interest . This was not , however , the main thrust of the project , and it is a safe bet that people in the Pentagon did not suppose it was . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critics of the scientific-military Establishment . The obvious , and basically truthful , response to such critics is that the military applications of Project Cambridge and similar enterprises are secondary to the promotion of basic research and may well turn out to be inconsequential or nonexistent . But in the public relations of academic science , this is jumping out of the frying pan into the fire . Members of Congress , led by Mike Mansfield , do not like to have the pretense that the Pentagon has been sticking to its military mission utterly stripped away , even if they must have known for years that it was a pretense . What is more , Mansfield shrewdly suspects that  | the radical critics of Defense-supported science are never going to be persuaded by such arguments . He has also said that some of the abuse now heaped upon the Department of Defense probably arises out of its unnecessarily and unwisely exceeding its proper sphere in research . From his perspective , the main problem is not that science is compromised by military associations , but exactly the opposite , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If , however , the Pentagon does n't need the research in question anyhow , why put up with the abuse ? When to this is added the less respectable consideration that some congressmen must be laughing up their sleeves at letting the universities reap the budgetary consequences of harboring so many radicals , the wide appeal of the Mansfield amendment is clear . The paradox is that Mansfield and the Harvard critics of Project Cambridge have come out at the same point : that the Pentagon and basic research should put as much distance between themselves as possible . Mansfield has added , and many , though not all , university critics would agree , that some of the projects sponsored by the Pentagon could legitimately he transferred to other federal agencies , ideally the National Science Foundation . But the transfers would be substantial-87.5 million for Project Cambridge alone ? and by no means automatic . The prospects of an orphaned appropriations item are always bleak . At the present moment in American history , they are even worse than usual . There is a widespread demand for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems of the ghetto . Though only an obscurantist would deny that science might contribute to this end , there is a perfectly justified sense that the basic problems involved are political and moral rather than intellectual and scientific . To upgrade the problems of the ghetto is to downgrade the promotion of basic research among the national priorities . Thus , any money saved from the military budget is unlikely to be deflected toward civilian science . @# Whatever its practical consequences , the Mansfield amendment was not intended as a frontal assault upon scientific research . But there are steadily growing numbers of young people who are deeply fearful of science itself and wondering whether they dare to do it or abet it . In fact , the whole period since Hiroshima has seen an increasingly desperate quest for some kind of science that would be humanly safe to cultivate . In the immediate aftermath of Hiroshima , there was a qualitatively significant shift of physicists to biology . Some of these men , including " The Father of the Bomb , " Leo Szilard , were influenced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was unmistakably life-enhancing . The irony was that the **28;730;TOOLONG and their immediate collaborators promptly got molecular biology off the ground , discovered the double helix. and opened up vistas of genetic engineering that were anything but " safe . " By the end of the 1960s , scientists and laymen alike were conscious of living in a biological revolution . No one could confidently say that the good consequences for human happiness would outweigh the bad , and many people feared the opposite . Biology as an escape from the ethical dilemmas of nuclear physics turned out to be another dream of innocence gone aglimmering . The undercurrents of anxiety liberated by this development have now surfaced in the extraordinary press conference held by the team of researchers in the Harvard Medical School , led by Jonathan Beckwith , to warn the world against the possible abuse of their own triumph in isolating the first gene . The other delusive hope that stirred in the apocalyptic spring and summer of 1945 was for salvation from physical science through social science . On the day he died , Franklin Roosevelt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was drafting a speech for the opening of the United Nations , in which he would say that the next great assignment of humanity was to bring the social sciences abreast of the physical . It seemed axiomatic to him and to many who later read his words in the glare from Hiroshima that this could only be a beneficent development . A mature social science would bring peace and harmony with it . This was always a naive hope ; but in one sense it has not been as clearly falsified by later developments as the comparable expectation of unmixed ble gs from biology . For in 1970 , the social science are still lagging at least as far as ever behind physics and biology in theoretical grasp and practical utility , and therefore in the power to change the world for good or evil . In the circumstances , it might seem that nobody would be urgently concerned about the current impact of the social sciences . Nothing could be further from the truth . Many American radicals and some liberals are deeply suspicious of social science , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a tool of the Establishment for manipulating public opinion at home , suppressing national liberation movements abroad , and generally keeping a lid on social ferment all around the globe . In its backhanded way , this is the most extravagant compliment that has yet been paid to social science . The question becomes how anyone could possibly deceive himself on this scale about its present capabilities . Sheer ignorance is one answer . Another is that too many people have taken the entrepreneurs of social science at their highly colored word . But undoubtedly the main factor in sounding the alarm has been the increasing recourse of social scientists to big computers . When social science data began to be computerized , many otherwise unflappable  | people got the wind up about immense data banks in which every dimension of a man 's life could be recorded and retrieved at will by Big Brother . This is why Project Cambridge struck so many sensitive nerves across a wide spectrum of the Harvard faculty . It was , precisely , a scheme for computerizing social data , accompanied by portentous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The previously unpersuasive nightmare of social control through social science became a psychological reality by introducing computers into the picture . The social sciences have joined biology among the exploded repositories of the utopian faith in science . But wherever one looks , science in all its aspects is now perceived as irremediably equivocal in its bearing upon human happiness ? capable of producing good but also evil , and unsafe at any speed . Even medical research , once associated with the martyred Arrowsmith and the blessed Microbe Hunters , is now seen as lying at the base of the population problem that threatens to drown us in our own numbers . And besides , the Microbe Hunters enlisted for germ warfare . Those other doughty warriors , the Hunger Fighters who sought to increase agricultural yields , have virtually accomplished a green revolution by which as few as 5 percent of the human race will soon be able to feed the other 95 percent . But this is driving the peasants into the festering cities , where work or even dignified misery is hard to come by , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Science will be used and abused . It will solve human problems and create them . No redressing of the balance among the sciences will save us , no inherently good sciences will come thundering to our rescue . This was always built into the logic of free inquiry . The transforming element in the situation is the new sense of the equivocality of science as a historically demonstrated fact . Put in these terms , the easy passage that science seemed to be having earlier in the twentieth century was an index to naivete about it ; and the current forebodings are a direct function of greater sophistication about its true nature and potentialities. @# For many people , the better they understand science , the less they are going to like it ; for science embodies many values and assumptions that are widely repugnant in this generation and anathema to young people . Science exalts the principle of intellectual authority , always aims at authoritative pronouncements , and tolerates dissent only because it promises to reconstitute the authority of science on firmer foundations . Authorities can always be overthrown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of science . By no accident , one of the highest compliments that can be paid to a scientist is to say that he is one of the great authorities in his field . At any given moment there is , and must be in every science , a prevailing orthodoxy , jealously guarded against unauthoritative intrusions and yielding only to a new orthodoxy . Divisions of opinion prolonged as a mere form of self-expression , dissent as a way of life and badge of integrity , are intolerable to scientists , who can not rest till they achieve a new stability , a new consensus dissolving controversies . Fresh controversies will arise , but the basic thrust of science is toward an ungrudging though continually retreating unanimity . No intellectual animus could possibly be more foreign to many young idealists of this generation . They resent the principle of authority and despise the aspiration toward it . They can not bear the idea of a privileged utterance , carrying a prima facie authority and putting the onus of contradiction upon others . They associate it quite simply with social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their own ideal is exactly the opposite : a fluid and unstructured concourse of multitudinous opinions endlessly rebounding , never cut off by a definitive resolution . But science is the resolution of disputes , the stilling of discordant voices . By the same token , science is the embodiment of the drive toward " objectivity , " but the concept of objectivity is rapidly becoming as viscerally unacceptable to many young radicals as authority itself . One of the most admired writers among the young today is the " dissenting " historian Theodore Roszak . In his book The Making of a Counter Culture , he denounces " the myth of objective consciousness . " He rightly feels that the high esteem in which objectivity has been held in recent generations represents the main impact of science upon human values . Roszak infers that as the subjective mode of consciousness regains its old respectability , science and technology will occupy an increasingly " subordinate and marginal status in the lives of men . " Whatever the accuracy of this as a prediction , it reflects a naked hostility to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Most of these would probably be incompetent to pursue scientific careers anyhow , but they might well contribute as citizens to an uncongenial environment for science in the coming decades . Science as the exemplification of authority and objectivity is offensive enough to many people , but in the end the worst of all its offenses against the spirit of the rising generation is that science is a risk ? in fact , the supreme risk ? in an age that craves security . The riskiness of science extends far beyond the equivocality by which nuclear physics can be used to build either bombs or power plants . Even when we consciously dedicate scientific research to beneficent ends , we discover that it produces mixed results . Cyclamates protected people in general against the perils of obesity , and diabetics and latent diabetics against worse perils , but may have increased the prospects of cancer for all of us . DDT 99  | helped to bring many insect-borne plagues under control , but also got into people 's food and drink and played hob with certain ecological balances . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparently increases the risk of thromboembolism for some women , and may have other undesirable side effects . At best , the application of science to human problems will have to be justified by the mere statistical preponderance of good effects over bad . Yet many people are increasingly critical of science and technology for supplying boons that are not absolutely infallible , with airtight guarantees of total satisfaction . These we can never obtain , least of all from science . If we do insist upon them , we will lose the benefits of science ? and many human lives . For the paradox of refusing to run the risks of science is to be thrown back upon the risks that antedated science . A just estimate of science would require a habit of making statistical evaluations of its impact . It is probably fair to say , however , that of all the respects in which lay opinion has lagged behind scientific , the most glaring is the disinclination or incapacity of most laymen to think in statistical terms . If anyone doubts this , let him consult the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are now coping with the furious women who could not grasp the statistics of the Pill . Yet in the absence of the statistical way of looking at things , confidence in science will be continually shaken by the untoward side effects of even the most beneficent innovations . On top of this , if laymen ever did start to think statistically about science , that would simply remind them that it was a risk , and risks they do n't relish . @# With science beset by all these fears and animosities , what predictions can we reasonably make about its prospects in the 1970s ? Are we in danger of entering upon a new Dark Age , when men willingly let their hold on science go ? Merely to be asking this question in the last decades of the twentieth century is staggering , and on balance , the answer remains decisively no . The inertia of a deeply entrenched institution like modern science is enormous . Moreover , in spite of increasing hostility toward science , the great mass of people have no attitudes toward it at all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only science and a scientifically based technology can supply . As long as this craving persists , we are not likely to dismantle the scientific-technological structure that produces the goods . If , however , science continues to flourish on these terms , and these only , the hostility of many young people toward it will simply be perpetuated . For part of their indictment is that contemporary science ministers primarily to the selfishness and mate- riahsin of the age , bribes people into callous insensitivity to the perils and inequities of modern life .. The permissiveness that young people now display toward sexuality and drug-taking is curiously batanced by an intense puritanism about getting trapped by material comforts . This attitude has begun to be reinforced by the argument of men like the Harvard nutritionist Jean Mayer , President Nixon 's adviser on hunger . that the affluent classes have too high a standard o ( living . They are threatening , he says , to bury the human race alive under its own rubbish . They must learn to abate their insatiable appetite for more and more creature comforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure that such arguments are echoed by people of all ages , the old slogan about science producing better products for better living will ring increasingly hollow . Some other social justification for science will have to be found . What difference are these changing attitudes going to make in American society ? It seems virtually certain that some of the distortions introduced into the structure of American universities in the last generation by the unequal access of science and the humanities to federal funds will be abruptly reduced , largely because the funds wo n't be there on anything like the same scale for scientists to draw upon , and also because some scientists will he skittish about the government support that remains . It is just possible , therefore , that the relative position of science in the American universities in 1980 will more nearly resemble the situation in 1950 than in 1970 . Nothing can take us back to where we began , but we might come closer than anybody would have dared predict even a few years ago to a resurgence of the old-fashioned liberal arts college @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but many people would undoubtedly rejoice . No reflective person is likely to rejoice at the consequences of divorcing military research from civilian research as Senator Mansfield and the young radicals are equally demanding . If they get their way ? and the Mansfield amendment is already the law of the land ? the upshot will be a self-contained military research establishment , insulated and isolated from the " pure " scientists in the universities , and manned on a self-selecting principle by the very investigators who are least fazed by ethical considerations . The defense of the country will suffer . So will the alertness of the national community to the military research that is being done and the policy options that are opening up . Right , left , or center , nobody is going to profit from this development . The most interesting and probably the most hopeful development that one could imagine would be the growth of a new way of looking at science . The dominant conception of science from the time of Francis Bacon forward , and a principal source of the hostilities toward it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been as the great manipulative agency for transforming the world , generating new possibilities , and unsettling all inherited values . But there has always been another conception , highly recessive in modern times , of science as contemplative , content to observe the natural world without turning it upside down . And suddenly the attractions of the contemplative attitude toward nature are experiencing a sensational revival in the form of universal demands to preserve the natural environment against pollution and desecration . Yet we will never preserve or restore the natural environment merely by looking reverently at it . All the manipulative powers of science will be required . But for the first time in many generations one could imagine a scheme of priorities in which the manipulative side of science was in the service of the contemplative and preservative values that have long been forgotten or brutally overridden in the headlong rush of the modern world to cast its inherited skin . Scientists might be exercising some of their ingenuity to get the world back into the condition it was in before they shook it up out of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new society . It might even be a science to fire the enthusiasm of the young .                     