@@485490

The United States launched , or completed , a major foreign policy , initiative just as the previous one collapsed . Or is " Camp David , " With its promise of a long step toward peace in the Middle East , really dead ? And what does the " normalization " with Peking really mean ? On the Mideast " front , " as Nixon and Kissinger used to so-bright , there is no doubt that the prospects that looked so-bright on September 17 from the top of the Catoctins were substantially dimmed when , by December 17 , no agreeinent had been signed between Israel and Egypt . The President is angry , or just miffed , depending on one 's reading of his words on the failure to meet the deadline he imposed on the two parties at Camp ' David . And he is directing his criticism entirely at Israel . Is that fair , , Or even useful ? In our view , it is not . TO sum up a vastly complicated set of arrangements , thedeal collapsed because Israel did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power dependent upon the future behavior of the naturally volatile Palestinians and their even edgier , Arab friends . The ambiguous " linkage " between the , straight Egypt-Israel pact and the future of the Palestinians  --  though no doubt a crucial element of any comprehensive settlement  --  looked ominous from Jerusalem , and that was a reasonable view . And so the process must start again . The United States has great leverage , still , with both sides ; but that will disappear if the President 's disappointment at the missed ? deadline causes him to lose his mediating credentials with either party . He was perilously close to that loss , with his irritated words about Israeli stubbornness , on the eve of the announcement of the recognition of China . The Chinese " breakthrough " was thus a welcome diversion from the new stalemate in the Middle East . Of course we haVe never had relations with China that could be called " normal , " even going back to the Open Door and missionary periods , and certainly not over the span of a whole generation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tool . Novv ? " nor- ? 724 , The mal diplomatic relations " will not instantly normalize our links with that puzzling power . That will take years of careful and mutually respectful dealings on both sides . But at least the process has begun . It is an overdue step in the right and sensible direction . The Writing On the Chinese Walls The " wall of democracy " still stands in central Peking and the posters that cover it continue to express criticism of China 's past and pres- ent leaders and policies . This single fact il-lustrates why the events of the past month  --  including the long overdue normalization of diplomatic rela-tions between Peking and Washington  --  amount to More than just another twist in an ongoing power struggle in the Chinese hierarchy . Rather , they mark the start , however tentative , of a new era in the politi-cal life of the People 's Republic  --  one in which the au-thorities have officially sanctioned the right of the people to air their grievances and to criticize and de-bate government decisions in a manner not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last month on the late Chairman Mao Tse-tung and his radical policies , and on the more dogmatically Maoist mem-bers of the current leadership did not at first point to such an outburA of democracy . Coupled with reports of a secret meeting of the Chinese Communist Party 's Central Committee , they seemed , instead , a sign that Vice Premier Teng Hsiao-ping was simply bringing to a climax the campaign he started over the'summer to dismantle the cult of Mao and oust those senior offi-cials opposed to his program of economic moderniza-tion and expanded interchange with the West : Most China-watchers adopted this-interpretation of events in Peking on the ground that what was hap-pening looked very much like a repeat of the classic Cultural Revolution pattern of officially orchestrated wall posters , an internal power struggle and , eventu-ally , a - purge in the hierarchy . But they were soon proven wrong . Instead of a round of purges , Teng announced to visiting foreigners , there would be no shake-up in the government ; the leadership was stable and united in its determination to achieve the so-called " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tech-nology , and national defense ) . Moreover , despite a directive banning personal criticism of Mao , Teng described the wall-poster campaign as a " good thing , " which should be allowed to continue  --  as indedd it has . Posters put up since the directive was issued in late November have attacked a number of top offi- ' cials for their role in suppressing the pro-Teng , anti-Gang of Four riots in Peking two-arid-a-half years ago , and complained about problems ranging from poor housing to alleged persecution at the handS of corrupt party cadres . And with the exception of calls for President Carter to turn his attention to human rights violations in China  --  whiCh were removed not because of the topic but becanse of the invitation to ' a foreigner to interfere in Chinese domestic affairs  --  not one poster has been torn down . The poster campaign has , moreover , been coupled with important new moves to revamp the Chinese legal system , which was virtually destroyed during the past decade . Articles in the Official press have called for the adoption of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to use mettiOds of extensive demoCracy , including speaking out ' freely , airing views freely , writing big character , Posters , holding great debates , staging parades and demonstrations and even striking . " Demands have also been voiced for laws to protect the public against arbitrary arrest and imprisonment at the hands of unscrupulous offi. , cials , and to insure that every person accused of a crime , whether common or political , be given legal counsel . Most significantly , perhaps , has been the call in the People 's Daily for leaders to be chosen by secret ballot in free elections , and for the public to have the right to recall officials whose . performances are unsatisfactory . The intriguing question , of course , is why Teng Hsiao-ping , who is not known as an ardent civil libertarian , has permitted , if not actually engineered , this extraordinary break with past Chinese Communist political practice . Any answers must at this stage be tentative ones , but there appear to be several interrelated reasons for Teng 's unexpected move . First @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most important  --  and most-revolutionary  --  task facing China today . Dismissing Mao 's view that people can be changed through ideological exhortation , alone , Teng appears to have concluded that only economic progress will undermine the backward and traditional ideas and values which continue to exist in ' China , especially in the countryside . And foi modernization to succeed , Teng behexesthat the most repressive and rigid aspects of Chin 's political and , economic system must be removed . . Second , instituting legal safeguards to protect the ' rights ' of the people is a way for the 74-year-old Teng to insure that his highly popular policies are carried on after his death . Legitimizing the right of free speech , holding elections by secret ballot and implementing laws to guarantee ' that despotic officials do not ride roughshod over the ordinary citizen will make it much more difficult for the radical Left , with its tradition of mass mobilization and its . disdain for formal legal procedures , to stage a comeback after Teng passes from the scene . Third , encouraging public criticism of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to undermine the power of those radical-leaning officials still in office , and to pressure them to support Teng 's development program . In this way , . Teng can isolate potential opponents . This movement for " socialist democracy and legality " does not mean that Teng intends to govern China . along Western lines . Nonetheless , the measures now December 30 , 1978 The under discussion in both the wall posters and in meet-ings of the senior leadership could lead to significant long-term changes in the political organization of the People 's Republic  --  a reduction in the influence and role of the Communist Party , more popular participa-tion in government , an end to mass mobilization cam-paigns , and a livelier political and intellectual atmosphere . This pluralistic trend may also have paved the way for the decision by Peking to acceler-ate the process of normalizing relations with the Uni-ted States . The China of Teng Hsiao-ping could well end up looking more like the Yugoslavia of Tito than the China that Chairman Mao ruled only a few short years ago . MICHAEL CHINOY Michael Chinoy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kong for the National Broadcasting Company . Namibia ? Rhodesia Again ? The town of Windhoek does not have much at- mosphere ; its tedious neatness recalls subur- ban white Rhodesia , and in Namibia , as in Rhodesia , it is often hard to " feel " the immi- nence of total change . But if you wander around Wind- hoek for a ' while , ' the signs of the Namibian crisis do begin to disclose themselVes . Rather like Maigret , ar- riving in a sleepy and silent town , the visitor gradually begins to notice patterns and reminders of other places in other times . For a start , the main street is called Kaiserstrasse , and down this strip run all the blue-chip businesses . Here is the office of the fabled De Beers Diamond Company and , here , sharing the building , is the office of the " Democratic Turnhalle Alliance " ( in transla-tion , Drillhall Alliance ; the combination of brutality and sentimentality in nomenclature is familiar ) , the party built up by ' South Africa to take over the terri-tory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn into Goeringstrasse ( after the family of the notorious Hermann ) . Farther along is a row of streets named for every composer from Brahms to Wagner , and on Brahmsstrasse is the headquarters of a church organization that denounces the Turnhalle Alliance as " neo-colonial and reactionary . " This used to be a German colony , and in the bars and hotels the red-faced busi-nessmen inveighing against " Kaffirs " are , as often as not , doing their inveighing in German . The Germans withdrew , after conducting a war based on principles of extermination which they later adopted to European use . Helmut Bley , a German scholar specializing in Africa , has written a book ar-guing that German colonial policy was one of the roots of Nazi racism . Looking up the record , one can see why . The Herero tribe , now split between nationalists and South African collaborators , used to be the largest in Namibia . It is now a small minority , in consequence of an " extermination order " signed by General von Trotha earlier this century . History @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hill , just out of sight of the capital itself , is a sprawling and sordid African township . It is named Katutwa , which means " those without a home . " Here the nationalist force or the South-West African People 's Organisation ( SWAPO ) is exceedingly strong , and here the contract laborers from the north , who live in compounds under conditions of serfdom , plan for the day when they will get their country back . The United Nations has declared SWAPO the sole legitimate representative of the Namibian people , but its supporters are under no illusionsin this area the South African armed forces count for more than any number of General Assembly resolutions . At the moment , the Namibian conflict divides three ways . On the one hand stand the black African majority , who have been fighting for a generation against 11-legal South African occupation of their country . Unlike their less fortunate Zimbabwean counterparts , they have managed to preserve a largely unified liberation movement which , although not without internal dissent , has contrived to keep military and political action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the white oligarchy of Namibia , of , which one-third is still German and the rest Afrikaner . Under pressure from SWAM , they have modified the apartheid rules somewhat , and abolished the more irksome kinds of racial legislation ( mixed marriage , for instance , is formally tolerated ) . The Democratic Turnhalle Alliance rather resembles Ian Smith 's Rhodesian Front , much as the December elections resemble Smith 's " internal settlement . " Dirk Mudge , the DTA leader , is a tough farmer with a long history as leader of a white supremacist party . He has imported some black figures into his coalition , but still relies chiefly on the South African and indigenous business interests who pay his bills - ( and have recently helped him buy up most of the newspapers in Windhoek ) . When I asked him if he was funded from South Africa he did not bother to deny it . In the middle , between the black majority and the intransigent whites , are the Namibian white and black liberals and the five Western members of the U.N @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany , Canada and " the United States ) . The U.N . constituent in this group is , alas , rather feeble . The Namibian National Front and the group of ex-SWAPO dissidents are at least firm on their multiracial opposition to South Africa 's plans for the territory , while the Western Five , in the words of Mr. Tlhabanello , SWAPO 's spokesman in Windhoek , are " apparently compromised by their close economic links with South Africa itself . " The pretense that the December 8th election  --  boycotted by SWAPO and decidedly won by the Turnhalle Alliarke  --  could be followed by ? others properly organized hi 1979 does not really bear examination when you remember that the 20,000 or so South African troops will certainly be staying on . What we are seeing in Namibia is another Unilateral Declaration of Independence , only this time backed even more strongly by Pretoria because those involved are of South African , rather than British , stock and because the economic stake is more direct . Indeed , as the establishment South African Financial Mail put it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Africa as the imperial power , and with most of the spoils of fishing and mining sucked out by foreign firms . " That , really , is the heart of the matter . South Africa wishes to retain control of Namibian uranium and diamonds , and to use the country as a position from which to continue the destabilization of Angola . It can dO so only by fighting a classic colonial war , especially in the heavily populated area of Ovamboland where resistance is concentrated . With the lessons of Rhodesia staring it in the face , the West should do better than maintain " evenhandedness " between the illegal occupier and the colonial subjects . CHRISTOPHER HITCHENS                     