@@493188

Agnelli 's Russian Connection Col. Qaddafi , Italian Capitalist by Michael Ledeen It has been a big year for Colonel Moamar al-Qaddafi . His friend and client Dom Mintoff was reelected in Malta , his " Green Book " is on the stands in Paris , a public debate between the colonel and some journalists and intellectuals in Paris was published in Italy and now he has become the second largest individual stockholder in Fiat . With a bit of luck , and some more of the active cooperation he has found of late among Italian businessmen and political leaders , he could just Michael Ledeen is a historian and teacher in Rome . manage to reverse the colonial relationship that existed between Rome and Tripoli and dramatically alter Italy 's place in the international order . By now , the entire world has heard of the fantastic triangular relation among Italy , Libya and the Soviet Union that has made Qaddafi a 10 percent shareholder in Fiat . ( He has options that would raise his participation to 13 percent in the next few years automatically , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there are those in Italy who believe that his real holdings approach 20 percent already . ) An official in Confindustria , the Italian version of our National Association of Manufacturers , reports that Russian sources say Libya already has just about majority control of the company . The common analysis is that Fiat 's director , Giovanni Agnelli , eager to do as much business outside Italy as possible ( who can blame him ? ) , proposed a continuation of the joint efforts with the Soviet Union that produced Togliattigrad , the Italian-built industrial complex annually producing over 600,000 automobiles ? the " Jigoulis . " Both Agnelli and the Russians would like to see the figure go to a million , but neither had the cash available to finance the operation . Russia does not do business with the West except on a cash-and-carry basis : the West puts up the cash , and the Russians carry it until production begins . The loan is paid back out of the profits . Neither Fiat nor the impoverished Italian government could raise the necessary funds . This , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ picture . Qaddafi , it is said , owed a favor to Brezhnev for the $800 million arms deal recently concluded between the two countries ; and in return for promises of continued military aid , and support for Libya 's Middle Eastern policy of unrelenting hostility to the existence of Israel , Qaddafi bought a new issue of Fiat shares at three to four times their market value , bought convertible bonds to the tune of over $100 million and floated a loan for an additional $104 million . Now everyone is smiling : Qaddafi , because he has become a partner in one of Europe 's biggest multinationals ; Agnelli , because he has made an excellent deal without having to pour more of his own money into the Italian drain ; and Brezhnev , because he can now do more business with Western money , and export Russian automobiles back to his capitalist friends . Another ominous consequence of the deal has been virtually ignored in the West : the Libyan news agency , Arna , reported last week that the Soviets are now ready to sell Qaddafi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the affair obscured . For the matter is far more complex and grave for those who continue to worry about Italy 's future , and of the NATO alliance to which she belongs . The first point to be made is that the Fiat-Qaddafi deal is very different from those recently concluded between Krupp and the Shah , and Mercedes and the Kuwaitis . In the German cases , the foreign investors put money into the companies , without acquiring substantial voting leverage on the board . In Turin , the Libyan government sits with two members on the board of 15 , and has one seat on the five-member Consiglio di Amministrazione , which , in effect , runs the business . The Libyans have made no bones about their intention to play an active role in Fiat 's policy-making . " We are not going to sit back and collect dividends , " Abdullah Ahmed Saudi , president of the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank told an Italian reporter in his sumptuous offices in Rome 's Piazza Venezia where , a generation ago , Mussolini proclaimed the Fascist empire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a review of the status of La Stampa , the Turin daily edited by Arigo Levi who nearly three years ago had to be supplied with a police guard around the clock after being threatened by Colonel Qaddafi for publishing a satiric piece on Libya . The Libyan bankers have said that La Stampa will be treated as a purely " business " question : if it makes money , that is fine , but if it runs in the red , it will have to be examined . This is hardly encouraging to La Stampa 's staff ( especially because Levi is Jewish and strongly pro-Israel ) , since the paper runs up an enormous debt year after year , like every other Italian newspaper . Italian papers this week carried a notice suggesting that Agnelli was negotiating with the Rizzoli publishing house for the sale of La Stampa and its evening twin , Stampa Sera . The story is doubly significant , for Rizzoli is on the verge of achieving a near-monopoly of the Italian press , and he has done so , according to reliable information , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Rizzoli is financing the installation of powerful television transmitters on Malta , designed to broadcast throughout Italy , or that Rizzoli recently bought out Agnelli 's interest in the prestigious Corriere Della Sera in Milan , which for the past two years has been increasingly pro-Arab and hostile to the Israeli cause . The Fiat caper is only one in a long series of attempts by Qaddafi to influence centers of Italian industry , the media and governmental officials . He is said to have financed the Sardinian Separatist Movement and the Sicilian Nuovo Partito Popolare , neither of which has made much of a mark on Italian politics . He purchased the Sicilian island of Pantelleria for over $60 million as a potential tourist development , but it has remained a mass of rocks and lava . The colonel has been more successful in the congenial areas of terrorism and arms purchases . For many years Italian security officials bragged privately about the close working relationship they had with the Libyans , which was said to guarantee that Italian passenger planes would remain immune from terrorist attacks . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when five Arab terrorists arrived at Rome 's Fiumicino airport from Spain ( having purchased their tickets in Tripoli ) , bombed a Pan Am jet , hijacked a Lufthansa plane , captured six guards and shot down a passenger on the runway . Nonetheless , Arab terrorists captured in Italy continue to get favored treatment . One group was even flown to Libya on a specially chartered Alitalia plane a couple of years ago , and last fall three more who had been arrested at Fiumicino for possession of arms , ammunition and a bomb were pardoned by the president of the republic and released after serving one month of a seven-year sentence . This pattern of freeing terrorists goes hand-in-hand with the considerable volume of arms traffic from Italy to Libya , a traffic that was initiated by the Italian government in an attempt to improve relations with a government that had expelled all Italian citizens a few years ago . Italy provided the Libyan Army with M-47 tanks , several hundred helicopters and substantial quantities of ammunition . An additional shipment of torpedoes and cannons remains to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to automobiles , also manufactures weapons . In return , Qaddafi appears to have financed a wide variety of groups within Italy . Reliable sources within the Italian Ministry of the Interior say that Libyan money was behind the small Lotta del Popolo group in Rome , which was defined as a Nazi-Maoist movement by its followers . Moreover , the same sources indicate Libyan support for right-wing terrorist groups like Ordine Nero and Ordine Nuovo , both of whom support the Palestinian rhetoric at the same time they name their cells after Adolph Hitler , Drieu la Rochelle and so forth . Finally , there is the curious notice , printed nearly a year ago in the London Daily Telegraph , according to which Qaddafi made a contribution of some $80 million to the Italian Communist party . This was done , according to the Telegraph 's David Floyd , " as a special gesture to Mr. Alexei Kosygin. . . to help the Italian Communists to increase their electoral support . . . they would then be in a position to press for the withdrawal of the US Navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russian priority . " Thus , Giovanni Agnelli ? long considered a member of the elite of the Western business community , a close friend of the Kennedy family and a solid advocate of the integration of Europe ? has a new partner . Why has such a person brought Colonel Moamar Qaddafi into his business ? Part of the answer is undoubtedly a purely business consideration : no one else was likely to pay such an incredible figure for shares of a company that is not making money in Italy , and is faced with very bleak prospects in the next few years . The Italian crisis is reaching alarming proportions these days , and as yet neither major political party has shown any signs of being able to propose an acceptable strategy for calming the runaway inflation ( currently around 20 percent ) , unemployment and trade deficits currently lacerating the national economy . But there is also a political motive in Agnelli 's actions , one he surprisingly spelled out to a national television audience a week ago . " If I had sold these shares to an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a journalist 's question , " the piazzas of Italy would be full of angry demonstrators . But since I sold to Qaddafi , the situation is relatively calm . " He was entirely correct . Neither the ruling Christian Democrats nor their partners in the current government of " no confidence , " the Communists , have raised any serious objections to the transaction . This is particularly surprising for the Communists , who have always posed as the great paladins of Italian economic independence , and who have listed the presence of foreign ( especially American ) multinational corporations as one of the great risks to Italian sovereignty . In the present case , the party newspapers have sagely noted that the Communist party is not opposed to foreign investment , and party foreign policy official Sergio Segre told a Western diplomat in private that he felt the deal was a good one . As for the Christian Democrats , one can only speculate about the content of the conversations between Premier Giulio Andreotti and members of the present and incoming administrations in Washington earlier this month . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to Messrs . Ford , Kissinger , Simon , Vance and Mondale ? If so , it would provide another motive for the current Western reluctance to bail out the Italian economy without strong guarantees from the Andreotti government for a tough anti-inflationary program . The third motive for Agnelli 's sale of Fiat stock to Qaddafi is the one cited by most observers : it is not easy to get foreigners to invest in Italy these days . Representatives of Saudi Arabian banks in Italy , for example , said that they did not consider investment in Italian industry to be sound these days , and were amazed at the price paid for the Fiat shares . For the most part , foreign capital to say nothing of domestic capital , is fleeing the country , not searching for new avenues for speculation . Under the circumstances , while it is unthinkable that Agnelli could not have found Western sources for money if he had really wanted it , he could never have found so much money under such favorable conditions . Agnelli , like many others , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his cash out of Italy is also Agnelli 's way of keeping it away from the Communists . He started his Fiat negotiations with Qaddafi through the Libyan charge in Rome in August 1975 , a few weeks after the Italian Communists scored great gains in regional elections . He has sold his interests in Aeritalia , and is trying to get out of his participation in Grandi Motori of Trieste . Business , we must remember , is just that . At the same time that Agnelli was closing the Qaddafi deal , Libyan Prime Minister Abdusallam Jalloud was in Madrid , negotiating , it is said , for participation in SEAT , Fiat 's Spanish counterpart . There the political implications of participation were immediately clearer than they were in Italy , because Jaloud 's presence in the Spanish capital coincided with the meeting of the World Jewish Congress . The WIC had had a long-standing promise of a meeting with King Juan Carlos , an encounter that would have been rightly viewed as a symbolic end to the expulsion of the Jews . Instead , the meeting was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not likely to be allowed civilized gestures toward Jews . You can ask Carlo De Benedetti about this . De Benedetti is the wealthy Jew from Turin who left his post as general manager of Fiat last summer . He recently told a close friend that his departure was linked to the Libya affair . The most important aspect of the Fiat-Libya transaction is its international implications . Italian labor costs have reached such a high level that it is becoming increasingly difficult for the country 's industries to remain competitive in the West . This problem is intensified by the difficulty of meeting schedules ( tourists coming here this Christmas will again find massive train strikes and postal delays ) and providing services when required . As a result , Italy for the past several years has been slowly shifting her trade pattern toward the Third World , where technology of a lower level is required , where trade is often done more on the basis of political sympathy and traditional relations than on that of dollars and cents , and where delivery delays are , if anything , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are so clogged with boats these days that many shipments have been intentionally postponed . In this part of the world the greatest asset is friendly relations with the Soviet Union and Russian support for the programs in question . When Agnelli flew to Moscow in his private plane from Paris on the evening of December 8 for what was evidently supposed to be a secret meeting with Qaddafi , he was well aware of the importance of the Russian imprimatur . Although he subsequently claimed that he had met the Libyan leader in the Kremlin merely because Qaddafi happened to be there , and because he himself felt " at home " in Moscow ( Fiat 's Russian ties go back to before the end of the Second World War ) , the " explanation " has not convinced anyone . Even the Corriere Della Sera noted that the Moscow meeting raised serious questions about " the Libyan Landing in Turin , " and the left-wing daily Republica put the matter in its proper context : What is the position of the Soviet Union in the Mediterranean ? Militarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose international activity is likely to coincide with the Soviets ' is Libya . . . Libya can not be hoping for a united Europe . . . it is aiming , instead , for dislocating one or more European countries from Europe to the Mediterranean . . . Italy has the weakest economy in Western Europe , and is well suited for an organic tie with the producers of raw materials . Italy is also the country with the strongest Communist party in Europe , which the Soviets have not stopped pressuring , even if it is not certain that they will succeed . The same day he saw Qaddafi , Agnelli apparently also met for lunch with a partner in the Lazard Frres investment house which has a seat on the Fiat board ; one of Lazard 's American lawyers , Sargent Shriver ; and Alexei Kosygin 's son-in-law , deputy chairman of the Soviet State Committee of Science and Technology Djerman Gvishiani , who manages to be both a KGB agent and a founding member of the Club of Rome . The Wall Street Journal of December 14 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place , as first reported in Corriere and other Italian papers on December 10 . But on December 15 , a Fiat press representative confirmed the fact of the meeting , the participants and the date . Whatever the interests of Western bankers , it is an ideal marriage of convenience when the Soviet Union and Libya combine to attempt to separate Italy from the West . The operation is , in fact , a logical corollary of the program of the Italian Communists and their allies , who have long advocated greater independence from the American and German " imperialists , " and closer ties with " progressive " forces in Africa , such as Algeria , Guinea , Guinea-Bissau and the " new " Angola . But this process has only just begun . We shall hear a lot more of it in the days to come , when Italian Minister for Foreign Trade Ossola goes first to Moscow , and then to Tripoli . We shall hear still more in January , when Foreign Minister Forlani goes to Moscow . The Russians have already used up a $900 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Will the Italian government , already reeling under its own burden of more than $20 billion in foreign debt , make new concessions to the Russians ? More to the point for the new American administration , will the loans which Andreotti requested so urgently in Washington recently be used for such purposes ? From Tripoli , in the meantime , the sirens are squealing . Libya needs skilled manpower , and it is looking for Italians to move from Sicily to Tripoli . The president of the Libya-Sicily Friendship Association put it this way : " Emigration is a painful fact for our country , but if it is necessary , it is better that it flow toward the Arab countries which are close to us and which welcome us , rather than toward Germany or Australia , where working conditions are more difficult . " Moreover , the siren speaks in dulcet tones , offering a rosy future to the country whose citizens were driven from Libya in the summer of 1970 as " the Italian cancer . " Today Italians are hoping that Libyan investments will pour into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national economy from disaster . Would Qaddafi pour so much money into Italy , they argue , if he were of the opinion the country was about to fail ? Two final observations are in order . First , that Colonel Qaddafi has never concealed his contempt for the decadent parlimentary systems of the West , or his hope that they will collapse into total ruin . The greater the leverage he obtains over this feeble economic reed , the greater his chances for precipitating an Italian , and then a more general Western crisis . Second , he has never contented himself with pure business deals . In Malta , where he has actively financed the ebullient and mercurial Dom Mintoff , Arabic in now compulsory in the public schools . Salam , Mr. Agnelli.                     