@@319627

Of the many innovations stemming from the Second Vatican Council ( 1962-65 ) the Synod of Bishops is potentially one of the most important . Instead of a worldwide church governed totally from the top , the Synod provides a vehicle for Roman Catholic bishops from around the world to meet periodically and advise the Pope and the Vatican Curia . It lacks the sort of collegial clout that church progressives might want , but then the power of the Synod , like that of Rome , will not be built in a day . <P> Liberal lobbies hovered around the first three Synods ( 1967,1969,1971 ) , holding their own press briefings and counter-synods . By the placid fifth Synod , which concluded at Vatican City last week , the only interest group in evidence was a prayer band of 25 Catholic Pentecostalists . Hardly a harsh word was uttered during the month-long deliberations in the functional , modern auditorium beside the Pope 's Audience Hall . The Vatican 's Sebastiano Cardinal Baggio , Synod cochairman , protested to newsmen that he found himself having to defend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One seasoned bishop saw in this serenity a sign of a period of consolidation in the church following the " tremors " set off by Vatican II : " The postconciliar polarization and infighting have passed . " <P> There remains enough conflict , however , to have made the fifth Synod something of an eye in the Catholic storm . For instance , in catechesis ( religious education ) , which Pope Paul fixed as the topic for the Synod , bishops are caught between priests who continually test how far they can go and parents who fret that the old faith is dribbling away . The Synod 's final document of advice to the Pope , in the form of 34 propositions under six headings , grants that there is considerable " confusion " surrounding doctrine and moral teachings . It goes on to state that parents must not equate the legitimate speculations of scholars with the unchanging official views of the magisterium ( the teaching authority presiding in the Catholic hierarchy ) . <P> The 1977 Synod took one innovative step . Besides the in-house document that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bishops also issued an unprecedented , impassioned " message " of their own to the world at large . The message developed during the Lufthansa airliner hijacking , when Pope Paul offered himself in exchange for the terrorists ' hostages . Declared the bishops : " Old value systems are crumbling , oppression and disregard for the human person are leading human security into crisis . " The bishops were also distressed by reports of religious and political persecution from many parts of the world , which turned some discussions into mini-Belgrade conferences . Declared their message : " No power on earth has the right to prevent people from searching for truth , from receiving it freely and from knowing it fully . "                     