@@317024

To restore order , to maintain calm , to remold South Viet Nam into a new socialist image-these were the tasks facing the new Communist rulers of Viet Nam last week . In the ten days after their triumphant entry into Saigon , they wasted no time in starting on them . Reports from the new Viet Nam-some from the Communists ' Liberation Radio , but others from reputable Western journalists still in the city-suggested that calm and order had indeed been quickly restored . Unlike the ruthless new rulers of Cambodia ( see story page 26 ) , the victors in Viet Nam seemed anxious to win the good will of a population that only days before had been in a state of panic . The Communists gave every indication that they would establish tight , unopposed control over the land and people that had suddenly become theirs . But the mood in South Viet Nam last week was one of relief and calm as the conquerors took their first steps away from the art of war and toward the less spectacular , more complex art of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gleaming presidential palace in Saigon on the 21st anniversary of the Communists ' victory over the French at Dien Bien Phu , the new rulers officially introduced themselves . Chief among them was General Tran Van Tra , 57 , a onetime peasant from a village near the North-South border who was head of the Viet Cong 's armed forces during the war ( TIME , May 5 ) . Tra introduced the eleven-member military administration committee that will direct Saigon 's return to normality . In his speech , delivered beneath a huge picture of Ho Chi Minn , Tra praised the " fierce anti-American spirit " of the South Vietnamese and promised leniency toward those who had worked for the old government or for the U.S. <P> Indeed , the rule of the Provisional Revolutionary Government in its first week seemed to combine a surprising degree of moderation and conciliation with some unmistakable moves toward consolidating political control . The 120 foreign journalists who remained in Saigon after the surrender of the old government were at first allowed to move around unrestricted ; press communications with the rest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restored . By week 's end , however , the government announced that all foreigners , including newsmen , would have to register with the new authorities and that sensitive areas such as the airport and the harbor would henceforth be off limits . Within the country , news was being carefully managed . All non-Communist newspapers in the capital were suppressed . The city 's only sources of information were the government-controlled radio , a new newspaper called Saigon Liberation and a few copies of two Hanoi newspapers .                     