@@493642

money lost through these exemptions , the committee raised the tax on pre-1973 oil from wells to 75 percent . At one point the committee found it had approved tax credits for various energy-related expenses ( storm windows , etc. ) that added up to more than the estimated revenue from the tax that was expected to replace the lost money . It ingeniously solved this problem not by reducing the tax credits , but simply by making its revenue estimate more optimistic . On the floor , the Senate left most of the exemptions alone , but voted to raise the tax on oil from 1973-78 wells to 75 percent . It appeared last week that the Senate also would add a new " minimum tax " on new oil to replace the " OPEC tax " that Carter proposed , the House passed , and the Finance Committee killed . Then the bill goes to conference . The two chief defects of the tax , as its final contours begin to emerge , are that it applies to future oil discoveries , on which there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ senseless exemptions . Both defects result in part from the confusion created by Carter 's inflamed rhetoric about the oil companies . The logic of the exemptions seems to be that just because you want to punish big oil , you need n't also drag in more appealing sorts like Indians , schoolchildren , and " small " oil producers . The exemptions for independents illustrates the fallacy that little companies are owned by little people . In fact , the typical stockholder of an independent oil company is far less deserving of solicitude than the typical stockholder of one of the biggies . Pension funds and small investors buy Exxon stock ; independent oil companies generally are closely held by the rich . In any event , a windfall profits tax is designed to make difficult readjustments easier by reducing invidious distinctions between citizens . It should not be presented in a way that makes those distinctions more sharply felt . Politics Superman Crashes If his name had been Edward Moore , as Eddie McCormack bitterly observed in 1962 , his candidacy would have been a joke , " but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much the same for all the 17 years since Edward Moore Kennedy , then only 29 , beat McCormack for the right to fill the US Senate seat of his brother , President John Kennedy . And even though Edward Kennedy has had probably as much public attention for all these years as any political figure except the various presidents , nobody 's really been looking and listening , either . The press , the polls , other politicians , and most of the people have come to believe that some irresistible force , some historical or genetic inevitability , was operating to make Kennedy a candidate for president . The evidence suggests that Kennedy himself was of two minds about this supposed natural law of Kennedy ascendancy . He resisted strong pressures to run in 1972 and 1976 , all the while saying that his time might come , but later . This time , too , he held back at first , saying he expected President Carter to serve two terms and pronouncing himself eager to serve as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee . If Kennedy was going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought of 1984 as his year . But he changed his mind . Why ? Kennedy says it was because of a fundamental disagreement with Presi ? dent Carter on vital issues ? energy , the economy , leadership of the country . These may have been what clinched his decision . But he would have to be on Mars not to be listening to the claque of press and politicians who shouted incessantly : this is going to be easy . The president 's poll ratings were down near 20 percent , as low as any incumbent 's have ever been . All the constituent groups of the Democratic party were mad at Carter . He had n't done much right either in foreign or domestic policy . People were going to go into the primary voting booths and take out their frustrations about the inflation rate and energy prices by voting for anybody but Carter . If it is n't you , Teddy , the claque proclaimed , it will be Jerry Brown or some nobody , and he certainly will be beaten by a Republican . If so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the situation will be like in 1988 ? Kennedy 's staff members all deny that this logic prevailed upon him . They loyally declare that the issues are what got their boss into the race , and that dedication to his positions on the issues will sustain him through the hard going ahead . But the press and the public had the idea that Carter was hopelessly weak , and they had the idea , too , that Kennedy could n't be beat . Public opinion polls sustained those twin beliefs . In July , Gallup showed Kennedy 's support among Democrats at 54 percent to Carter 's 21 percent . Kennedy was far ahead of potential Republican challengers , while Carter was behind Reagan and Ford . Other polls showed Chappaquiddick was fading as a factor in people 's minds . Louis Harris said 67 percent of the people thought Kennedy had the right leadership traits to be president , while 71 percent doubted Carter had enough competence for the job . A CBS-New York Times poll showed that 55 percent of the people thought Kennedy showed good judgment under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now Kennedy the presidential candidate is paying the price of being Edward Kennedy and not Edward Moore . Instead of being able to slog quietly around New Hampshire and Iowa and get his act together , like George McGovern , Jimmy Carter , George Bush , or any mortal candidate , he is expected to leap out of a phone booth and soar . So that when he does n't ? when he stumbles , in fact ? disappointed onlookers report that he has crashed . Kennedy bobbled the Roger Mudd interview on CBS , unable to articulate why he wanted to be president . He lost the Florida straw poll to Carter . He could n't get his syntax straight or make eye contact in his early speeches . He seemed to lack fire , and made some of his listeners doubt whether he really wanted to be president after all . In San Francisco , responding to Ronald Reagan 's inflammatory suggestion that the shah of Iran should get asylum in the United States , Kennedy let loose with an irrelevant and politically inept denunciation of the shah @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign that was supposed to immediately attract Democrats in droves , the Kenedy effort has been weak in getting early endorsements from prominent party figures . In New York , for example , Governor Hugh Carey and Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan are staying neutral , as are most state legislators and members of Congress . The Carter campaign , meanwhile , is cleaning up on mayors and other city officials , led by Edward Koch . Elsewhere , the most publicized endorsement to come to Kennedy ? that of Chicago Mayor Jane Byrne ? may be more trouble than it is worth . Byrne 's heavy-handed efforts to dominate the Cook County Democratic organization have offended most of Chicago 's party princelings , who are taking out their hostility by staying uncommitted in the presidential race or by flirting with Carter . They include Richard M. Daley , son of the late Richard J. and now , of all things , the darling of suburban good-government anti-bossists . Even in Congress , where grousing about Carter has been endemic , there has been no mad rush for Kennedy . Even standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , apparently believing it will do them or their constituents no good to declare a choice . Everyone agrees that endorsements do n't carry the weight they used to , but they do provide a signal of where politicians sense the wind is blowing . In most places , the politicians are acting as if they expect a ruinous storm . Carter 's political standing has been strengthened by the Iran crisis . The latest Gallup and Harris polls show a dramatic reversal in the Carter-Kennedy race . Among Democrats and independents , Harris has Carter ahead by two percentage points , and Gallup shows Carter leading among Democrats , 48 to 40 . Suddenly it has begun to dawn on people that this is going to be a rough-and-tumble race for the Democratic nomination , and that Edward Kennedy is not a political superman . But neither is he a stumblebum for not fulfilling overblown expectations . Kennedy 's campaign managers are right : he has not made a slow start . Since October 30 , the Kennedy campaign has gone from zero funds and no campaign organization to $2.5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff of 95 people in Washington and in 25 states around the country . Kennedy has been on the road practically non-stop since his announce ? ment November 7 . He has made three visits to Iowa , where the 1980 voting begins on January 16 . According to legend , there are well oiled Kennedy political machines lying hidden around the United States , ready to spring into action the minute the candidate announces . But the truth is that Kennedy had to put together an organization in a hurry , with emphasis on the early primary states . Carter has a formidable , well established campaign organization , which has the advantages of lavish use of federal perquisites and three years of pro-administration activity by the Democratic National Committee . DNC chairman John White makes no apologies about his preference for Carter . " Anybody who expects the chairman of the party to be neutral about an incumbent administration is awfully naive about politics , " White says . " We are n't playing beanbag . " Political experts in Iowa sense that the start-from ? scratch Kennedy organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secret weapon apparently is going to be the United Auto Workers , which will try to turn out its 40,000 members at the caucuses on Kennedy 's behalf . Carter 's strongest organizational backing comes from the Iowa State Education Associa ? tion , which has 32,000 members , though about a third of these are Republicans . The Iowa result may also depend on the performances of Carter , Kennedy , and Jerry Brown in their televised debate January 7 . Beyond Iowa , if pro-Kennedy forces once thought they could bowl Carter over in state after state , they do n't now . Kennedy managers have given up the idea , for example , of making an all-out effort to trounce the president in Florida and thereby inflict a knock-out punch close to his southern base . Instead , they will concentrate resources in urban counties , where Kennedy strength is likely to be greatest , in the hope of getting as many convention delegates as they can . Kennedy probably will benefit from yet another reversal in the polls . Carter 's upsurge is fueled by the Iran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader . Even if Carter succeeds in getting the hostages out alive , and in an honorable way , public attention is bound to return to inflation , energy , and the president 's overall performance as president . Even if his polls do n't sink as far as his low standing this summer , they are bound to fall from their present level . Hidden away in the latest ABC News-Harris survey , for example , are figures showing that , despite Iran , the public lacks underlying confidence in Carter . Sixty-five percent still feel Carter " does not inspire confidence as a president should , " almost exactly the same percen ? tage as before Iran . Seventy-one percent agree that though Carter is well-intentioned , " you begin to wonder if he has the basic competence to do the job . " But if Kennedy is going to capitalize on this basic dissatisfaction with Carter , he will have to perform better than he has . Various gaffes aside , Kennedy has failed to convey an overall vision of where he wants to take the country if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are plain . He 's against decontrol of energy and in favor of federal subsidies for conservation . He 's for more jawboning to control inflation , instead of restrictive monetary policy . He wants a more generous health care program and a bigger federal jobs program than Carter thinks the country can afford . But he is not tying it all together yet . Some aides are recommending a " Four E 's " campaign ? based on the issues of energy , economics , effectiveness , and equity ? but that is not the stuff to move people 's souls . Not that Carter 's come up with anything better . The opening days of the 1980 campaign have served a useful purpose . They have deflated the country 's image of Edward Kennedy . He is walking on the ground , now , where we all can take a close look at him . If he is the better man , he 'll have to prove it . The Czech government 's trial of political dissidents in October provoked unexpectedly widespread moral indignation and diplomatic protests , probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five years in jail . But the most intriguing feature of the trial in Prague was its underlying lack of purpose . Observers of the Czechoslovak political scene were hard put to explain this show of force . Since the Soviet invasion in 1968 , Czechoslovakia has seemed to be the country in the Soviet orbit most immune to oppositional activities of any kind . For all the well-deserved publicity that the Charter 77 movement received in the West , its impact inside the country has been greatly exaggerated . At the peak of this movement , this dissident proclamation was signed by about 1000 Czechs , almost all in Prague . Slovaks apparently remained aloof , perhaps for fear of jeopar ? dizing the only meaningful survival of the Prague Spring , the federal structure of the Czech state . The signers of Charter 77 were intellectuals . Even those signatures marked " worker " mostly belonged either to intellectual victims of Husak 's purges forced to engage in menial tasks , such as nightwatchmen or store ? keepers ( and thus purposely kept out of contact with industrial blue-collar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been denied access to higher education . Czech dissent is modest compared to what is happening in Poland . At the beginning of 1976 , a year before the Charter 77 movement began , more than 40,000 Poles , most of them prominent in their professional field , took part in protest movements against constitutional amendments . The number of participants in protests has since increased , without provoking police reprisals on a scale even vaguely resembling those in Czechoslovakia . The influence of the Czechoslovak opposition has been limited for several reasons . First , there are the relative economic prosperity of Czechoslovakia , and the almost universal political apathy resulting from the 1968 Soviet armed intervention . Despite the invasion , many Czechs still demonstrate an amazingly stubborn conviction that the system is reformable and suscepti ? ble to acquiring a " human face , " if it were not for outside interference . Under the circumstances , one would think " normalization " would be served best by a policy of reconciliation , roughly patterned after the exceptionally successful Kadar experiment in Hungary . In Czechoslovakia , more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against us , is with us " ought to be a sensible one . Instead , the Husak leadership has opted for brutal suppression of the slightest indications of non-conformity . Not only did it nip in the bud all real or imagined opposition , but it also exacted obtuse vengeance for " sins " allegedly committed a decade ago . There is no evidence that this counterproductive reign of terror , unmitigated by any openings in cultural and spiritual life , has been imposed deliberately by Moscow . The Hungarian and Polish experience shows that , in this respect at least , the Kremlin may be persuaded nowadays to leave the decisions with the local satraps . The Soviet Union even accepts , albeit reluctantly , a certain amount of deviation from the prescribed pattern , as long as its essential interests are not endangered . Even allowing for the existence of a hard-line faction inside the Czechoslovak party ap ? paratus , which still regards Husak as irrevocably tainted by his one-time collaboration with Dubtek reformers , it seems that the recent sentences ? the enforced exile of Kohout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               