@@288258

Tricks of the trademark-and the Battle of Bully Hill What 's in a name ? A lot of litigation , that 's what . After a round of fisticuffs in New York federal court , the makers of Hawaiian Punch have just been walloped with a decision allowing a rival to market a similarly packaged tropical drink called Punch ' n Fruity . In Los Angeles , the Avis Rent A Car System , now owned by Norton Simon Inc. , is wrangling with the auto firm 's founder , Warren Avis , over whether he can use the Avis name to start a worldwide send-flowers-by-wire network . Competing national brewers have been in a ferment over such new sound-alike low-calorie beers as Light and Lite . Even nicknames can create legal hassles . The owners of the Paris-based International Herald Tribune have just gone to court to stop alleged trademark infringement by a proposed new Manhattan daily called the Trib . <P> Such quarrels over names may seem frivolous to casual consumers-that is , nearly everyone . But they are no laughing matter for companies that must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ risk losing them without compensation . Xerox , for example , spends some $100,000 a year for ads explaining that its corporate name is not a synonym for making a photocopy but the registered trademark for a specific process involving only Xerox machines . In the U.S. alone , the Coca-Cola Co. retains three lawyers to stand guard over the trademark " Coke . " Other companies like IBM , RCA and Gillette also retain full-time trademark attorneys to keep products built by advertising into household words from becoming just household words . Even Britain 's Freddy Laker has hired a Washington lawyer to protect Laker Airways ' registered " Skytrain . " Airlines , including Braniff , which applied for a no-reservation Dallas-London " Texas Skytrain " route , have already been warned politely but firmly to buzz off . <P> Such vigilance is necessary . Since the protection of trademarks was initiated a century ago , more than a million have been registered , but only about 40% still enjoy protection under federal law . Some have simply been abandoned by their proprietors ( Bristol-Myers ' Ipana toothpaste ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nylon ) . Paradoxically , some of the most successful trademarks have been lost because of their very popularity ; they became so firmly entrenched in the language that no single company could still legitimately claim ownership . Over the years , such casualties have included mimeograph , linoleum , cellophane , elevator , escalator , raisin bran and cola . <P> To protect trademarks clearly endangered by popularity , the owners of such familiar names as Kleenex , Jell-O and even Frisbee constantly monitor newspapers and magazines , television stations and the ads of competitors . They look for any use of their trademarks-say , without capitalization-that implies a wider , generic meaning . Offending writers or editors may get no more than a note or telephone call from the company urging them to avoid future errors . But when a potential rival violates a trademark , the legal battle may be heated .                     