@@480129

As one of the official events of the Edison . Centennial commemorating the 100th anniversary of the electric light bulb , the Electric Power Research Institute and the Thomas Alva Edison Foundation were cohosts of an international Symposium on Science , Technology and the Human Prospect , held in San Francisco in April , 1979 . Some 45 distinguished , international scholars , scientists , governmental officials and businessmen delivered papers during the three-day Symposium . The Edison Electric Institute is making a cross-section of the views expressed by the participants available in this form because it is dedicated to offering concerned citizens impartial information on the various issues affecting the nation 's electricity needs , usage and delivery systems . The articles in this insert , severely edited to meet space limitations with the authors ' kind permission , can only begin to suggest the diversity of subject matter and range of opinion presented at the Symposium . Readers interested in obtaining the complete text of the Symposium proceedings should contact Pergamon Press , Fairview Park , Elmsford , N.Y . 10523 . In addition , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For information on its availability , contact the Electric Power Research Institute , 3412 Hillview Avenue , Post Office Box 10412 , Palo Alto , Calif. 94303 . Symposium is edited by Rees Behrendt and designed 4 George Kurten . Edison Electric Institute The association of electric companies by Chauncey Starr W e now live within a framework shaped by complex technology , and we ca n't help but be concerned about how that technology will affect our future . 1 believe history supports this assertion : science and technology have continually relieved the limitations on man 's ability to live in the circumstances provided by nature , and they continue to do so . Science and technology have permitted enormous growth in the world population by improving man 's ability to increase food production ; to accommodate to harsh climates ; to provide transportation and communication for the world 's goods , services and ideas ; to increase available resources and use them more effectively ; and to live longer in better health . Thus , science and technology historically have opened new frontiers for mankind , not only permitting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do not accept the premise that constraints on such growth are in view or that our long-range planning should be determined by today 's perceptions of existing limits . I believe that a long future of expanding expectations continues to be an available option if we take advantage of the fact that technology is an unlimited resource of the human mind . The real question we face is : do we want to accept the idea of limits as a guide to human expectations and societal planning , or do we want to keep alive the idea of expanding expectations and new horizons ? If we choose expansion , we need more science and technology applied to a spectrum of uses and to the problems of dealing with the undesirable side effects of growth . The recently popular " limits to growth " theme was based on the assumption that natural resources and ecology impose a near-term limit on our ability to continue to derive materials from the earth and to handle safely resid4 uals of growing industrial processes . For proponents of this theme , the obvious course would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now alive and k limit sharply the growth in the world 's population . This i. a seductive dogma , because if it were socially and politically feasible to accept such limitations , and thus reduce the worldwide demand for goods and services , we woulc simultaneously reduce the stress on our natural environ ment , on our political and social institutions and on ou problem-solving and decision-making mechanisms . But i such a prescription acceptable from a social and politica standpoint ? Perhaps it is for the comparatively weaithy but what about the poor people of the world ? For theirs limits to growth would mean lives of hopelessness . The continuing debate on energy supply and demath epitomizes these issues . Those who press the view tha man-made energy processes alter the natural ecolog appear to forget that human society also has a comple energy ecology woven into its fabric . As with natura ecology , any change in this total system of relationships will affect all its components . Popular ignorance of this fact has led to many simplistic notions regarding the role of energy in the quality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less energy used , the better the life , to the opposite extreme , the need for unlimited abundance . Neither extreme has sufficient evidence to support its validity . When we examine social groups with very low energy supplements , we find they are frequently on starvation 's edge , ridden with malnutrition , endemic disease and physical misery . It has been estimated that one-fourth of the world now lives on this edge of survival . Given a free choice , such groups avidly seek more energy . The vehicle for energy to improve the quality of life is technology . And this is intuitively understood by the world 's peoples . Thus , if personal aspirations worldwide can not be reduced , limiting economic growth would create major ? and perhaps catastrophic ? strains on our international political and social institutions . I challenge the factual validity of the assumption that resources are limited , which is at the root of the doctrine of limited expectations . I believe that the resources available for use into the distant future are not generally limited , because history testifies that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does this by providing increased efficiency in the conversion of resources to human uses , i.e. , less is needed to produce more , and in the extraction of traditional resources from the biosphere , as well as by providing methods for the conversion of dormant substances into new resources . So far , we have extracted only a small fraction of the store in the earth 's crust . History also tells us that the apparently limited resources available to mankind in any one period of time become just a small fraction of the resources ultimately available to later generations because of the intervening contribution of science and technology . I As an example , let us consider the availability of oil . If oil exploration and extraction had been restricted to the techniques that were current about 1900 , we would have been out of oil generations ago . At the beginning of this century , available U.S. reserves were about one billion barrels ? enough for a decade then and for about two months of our present use . What oil was available then was found by looking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around salt springs . In that period , we did n't have the sophisticated exploration , deep drilling and extraction techniques available today . Technology has enabled us to discover oil repositories miles underground and to force that oil out , as well as to obtain it through artesian pressures . And we 've been able to open up oil Melds under the oceans . There is no possible way that inyone without high-technology engineering equipment fluid develop a deep sea oil well . This is truly a frontier ) pened by technology . This is a good example of how technology has kept ncreasing the available supply of all mineral resources ind illustrates how science and technology are instrumenal in expanding the limits of man 's resources . This expansion of limits has occurred with minerals , vith food , with transportation , with communication , with realth and with extending livable space in unfriendly , tarsh environments . There is ample stimulation to reassess the role of science nd technology in our social development , to explore what ley have done for the world 's nations , what they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go in the pure . Such an assessment is particularly timely for the lectric industry . The major economic growth of the industrial nations has taken place parallel with and supported by the development of new uses for electricity , so the electric industry recognizes its responsibility as a partner in this growth . Those of us pursuing the applications of science and technology believe that all progress in these fields is good for humanity generally and the developing nations in particular . Yet we do recognize the serious negative impact that some of the byproducts of these technical developments have had on individuals , on specific social trends and on the environment in which we live . We are also conscious of the possibility that such social costs might become so large that we must carefully examine what we are doing and perhaps better plan our activities . There has been ? during this past decade , in particular ? a growing attack by a portion of the intellectual community on the social merit of the industrial section of our society . The electric utility industry is one such target @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A segment of the intellectual community has suggested that we should somehow restructure our society to remove the heavy hand of technology . This has been one of the popular tenets of the environmental movement . The basic question being posed is : are we the passive subjects of an uncontrollable technical system , or are we able to control this system to improve our destiny ? I believe we must understand all aspects of such fundamental questions and assist our society in finding its balance . Whether or not one pushes technological growth depends partly on individual philosophic beliefs and partly on the perceived prospects for technology . For more than a hundred years , most societies had unquestioned faith that technological growth was worthwhile . Our cultural conceptions of the role of science and technology are very fundamental to the average man . They affect his immediate activities , his future and that of his children and grandchildren . In the last few decades , our faith in technology has been questioned . And these doubts have created public issues bearing not only on the applications of science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To some , the disapproval of the intended end of a particular science or technology means that research to develop fundamental knowledge should be stopped . But to do so would inhibit the potential for its good use , as well as for its bad . The debate on genetic engineering is such a case . In contrast , as an example of the stimulation fostered by an approved objective , the continual search for military superiority has historically extended scientific and engineering frontiers . It is an interesting commentary on the priorities of nations that this search for military strength has focused resources on new technology as no other social goal has done . It is indeed regrettable that our peaceful objectives are not equally stimulating . It is my own belief that science and technology are powerful and unlimited resources for bettering man 's condition ; that the undesirable byproducts of their applications are susceptible to reduction by these same arts ; that science and technology are the key to the " growth of limits " for resources and to the application of these resources for useful purposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human expectations and aspirations ; and that future generations will be able to manage competently the world they will inherit ? one that I believe will be better than the world my generation inherited . 1 believe this can , and will , happen , provided our sociological and cultural structures do not inhibit the intrinsically fruitful activities of science and technology ? whether from fear of future uncertainties or from paranoid anxieties 0 3 created by the doomsday syndrome . A mong the critics of energy conservation are those who claim that as we use less energy we will become less civilized . They believe that the retreat from high energy consumption will lead mankind directly back to the caves that provided his first shelter . The immediate response to this warning is that the first substantial use of petroleum dates not to the Stone Age but to the period of the Civil War . And furthermore , that even a fifty percent reduction in our total consumption of energy would not transport us back to Paleolithic times , nor even to the Dark Ages , but to the 1950s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reduce its energy consumption continue to haunt us . We foresee a doomed civilization , with tractors paralyzed in the fields , abandoned automobiles rusting on weed-choked freeways , factories as quiet as tombs and our haggard descendants facing a life of everlasting drudgery . These are strange visions for a nation that uses a 5,000-pound automobile to drive a mile in order to buy a half-dozen cans of beer that will be drunk in an overcooled room and the empties thrown on the trash heap instead of being delivered to an aluminum recycling center . How did it come about that a people who use and waste vast amounts of energy believe that the alternative to high energy consumption is the primitive life endured by early man ? And , even if the choice is not between the Stone Age and life in the twentieth century , what is the relationship between energy use and level of civilization ? The current approach to the energy problem ignores the fact that for almost two centuries energy consumption in the West has had an ideological component . High energy consumption has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and military strength , it has also been identified with the idea of civilization itself . The tendency of the Western nations to equate energy use with level of civilization was accurately and satirically described by British author Aldous Huxley . Said Huxley , because we use a hundred and ten times as much coal as our ancestors , we naively think that we are a hundred and ten times better intellectually , morally and spiritually . When energy consumption thus serves as a measure of the height of civilization reached by a nation , then changes in energy use will have wide implications . As less energy is available per capita , the nation is thought to lose its standing among the world 's civilizations . Those countries with high rates of energy consumption are ideologically committed to maintaining them , and those with lower rates are motivated to copy their energy-hungry , civilized superiors . This ideological commitment helps to explain why so many of the less industrialized nations felt it necessary to have their own nuclear reactors . It was not necessity that drove them to acquire them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this latest event in the energy- ? civilization race . To simplify consideration of these matters , I will assume the existence of an energy-civilization equation . Although no one has ever formally written out such an equation , it has pervaded western thought for the past two centuries . It can be found in the physical , life and social sciences , and in technology , philosophy and popular culture . The left side of that equation contains energy , a well- defined physical concept . On the opposite side appears civili- ' , zation , which is a subjective evaluation of the intellectual , moral and aesthetic accomplishments of a society . The two sides of the equation are directly related , so that high energy consumption results in high civilization and low energy consumption in a low level of civilization . The energy-civilization equation originated in the early nineteenth century . Prior to that time , the introduction of new energy sources was not linked to the advancement of culture . Take the example of the Middle Ages , which wit . nessed a great power revolution . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trans ? formed social and economic life , no medieval thinker was ever moved to claim that they were the ultimate sources 01 the cultural and spiritual achievements of the time . The rose window of Chartres , the philosophy ol St.Thomas Aquinas , or any other of the accomplishments o the age were never related to the energy that had recenth been put to new and practical uses . And conversely , medie val man never feared that dry streams , windless days and ba4 harnesses would mark the end of his civilization . Yet , by th. 1800s , the energy-civilization equation found easy acceptance , and claims and warnings of this sort were gaining in popularity . The formulation of the energy-civilization equation was made possible by the Scientific Revolution of the seventeenth century . The emergence of modern science and the subsequent identification of scientific and technical advancement with human progress provided the kind of intellectual environment in which a newly introduced power source would be dealt with differently than it had been in the Middle Ages . The Scientific Revolution created a world view in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 17th century , Sir Francis Bacon listed the great inventions that had changed the course of civilization ; they were the compass , gunpowder and the printing press . With the rapid growth of science and technology , it was an easy matter to extend Bacon 's original list by adding new inventions . By the late 18th century , an obvious addition to that list was the steam engine , which produced large amounts of power and had noticeable social and economic effects . It quickly became the symbol of industrialization and the social , economic and cultural changes that accompanied it . 11 . The steam engine appeared to offer strong evidence that energy could be converted into civilization . However , neither the steam engine nor any other mechanical device could provide a proper theoretical basis for the energy-civilization equation . Only the sciences could supply such a foundation , and they did so during the 19th century . First physics and chemistry and then the biological , social and behavioral sciences were called upon to offer theoretical justification for linking energy with civilization . Among the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of conservation of energy and the establishment of a science of thermodynamics . Early in the century scientists had their first glimpse into the passibility of energy conversion . At that time they were interested in the conversion of heat to tight , light to chemical action , chemical action to motion , motion to electricity , electricity to magnetism and so forth . Some men of science were not satisfied to confine the conversion series to the boundaries of the physics and chemistry aboratory . Is it not possible , they argued , to convert physical forces or energies into biological ones ? After all , it occurs iaturally every time an animal assimilates its food . And canard the series he extended from the biological to the nervous orces that energize the nervous system ? And why stop here ? an we not take the next step , the one that connects nervous orces to the mind and to the study of moral and intellectual ? nergy ? If one answered " yes " to these questions , then there xisted no theoretical barrier between the physical concept energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was in this way that the nergy-civilization equation finally found an apparently espectable place for itself among the sciences . Once the path had been opened between physical energy and culture , it was possible to imagine energy conversion sequences that began in the firebox of a steam engine , or in the windings of an electric dynamo , and ended in the world of morality , social and intellectual concern and artistic creation . Most scientists preferred to work on the first few links of the sequence , links that were clearly empirical . On the other hand , there were those who saw no problem in speaking of vital mental and social energies and in determining their relationship to the energy of the physical sciences . Some cases in point : * Wilhelm Ostwald , German chemist , 1919 Novel prizewinner and creator of Ostwald 's energetic imperative : Do not waste energy ! He attempted to develop an energetic basis for all the sciences . ' , Henry Adams , American historian and author of the famous essay , " The Virgin and the Dynamo , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the course of Western civilization , concluding that the force of electricity was every bit as mysterious and powerful as the religious force produced by medieval Catholicism 's veneration of the Virgin Mary . *Frederick A. Soddy , British scientist , 1921 Nobel prizewinner and a pioneer in the study of the atom . Soddy believed atomic energy would lift civilization to heights undreamed of , if atomic warfare could be averted and a new economic system established for a more equitable distribution of goods and services . - Henry Ford and Thomas A. Edison , who followed Soddy 's lead in dealing with energy and economics . Ford proposed using an abandoned Muscle Shoals , Alabama , hydroelectric plant to produce enough cheap power to supply a city 75 miles long and 15 miles wide . Edison proposed financing the scheme through Energy Dollars , imprinted with a depiction of the hydroelectric plant because energy was the true basis of money . Politics intervened to kill the grandiose scheme . And the energeticists marched on . The dreams of hydroelectric plants and a new society persisted to the time of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Tennessee Valley Authority program . The TVA mystique was to reappear in such unlikely and remote areas of the world as Aswan , Egypt , and the Mekong River delta in Vietnam . It would be foolish to argue that hydroelectrical establishments have no influence on their social and intellectual milieu . However , it is also true that they have not created the revolutionary changes promised by their promoters . We have yet to create a new civilization merely because we harnessed the power of some wild river . There remains a considerable gap between the Utopian societies projected and the economic and ecological liabilities of power dam construction . I have touched upon but a few of the many manifestations of the energy-civilization formulation . Sigmund Freud linked sexual energy , and its sublimation , to civilization . Some current anthropological and sociological thought links energy and cultural achievements . There is astronomical speculation that ranks the civilizations of yet to be discovered extraterrestrial beings according to their supposed access to different amounts of energy . The disclosure of new energy sources ? coal , petroleum , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exaggerated claims that they would be the basis for a new society and a higher civilization . Finally , a National Science Foundation course describes energy as follows : " Energy is the source and control of all things , all values and all the actions of human beings and nature . " That is the sort of description 5 that at one time would have sufficed to define God ! Having resolved the historical question of the origins and diffusion of the energy-civilization equation , we are still left wondering about its ultimate validity . In this equation , slight increases or decreases in energy use cause large fluctuations in the level of civilization . If man uses less coal or electricity , then he is surely doomed to wear animal furs , gnaw on bones and pass his time shaping stone tools . On the other hand , if he only adopts solar , fusion or some other new energy source , then the gates of the Garden of Eden will be opened to him . We should be suspicious of a formulation that places mankind so precariously between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepting an equation that does not reflect the fact that the vast increases in energy consumption over the past few decades have not necessarily enhanced our changes of reaching a new stage in civilization . Perhaps one reason why our rapidly increasing energy consumption has not placed us upon a new plateau of civilization is the way in which we choose to use that excess energy . The crude formula linking civilization with energy has no place for questions of choice . It deals with energy expended per capita and does not ask if the energy was squandered on trivialities , wasted in destructive wars , or utilized to advance the social , moral and cultural accomplishments we identify with civilization . Another weakness of the equation grows out of the vague way energy is defined within its context . There is no quarrel when the term is limited to the physical domain . But what are we to make of the analogical reasoning that led to the writing of serious essays on moral energy , sexual energy or religious energy ? If the energy-civilization formulation encouraged the loose definition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization ? Immediately we are faced with an entirely different situation . Energy has its roots in the physical sciences , so that no matter how it is misapplied the original concept maintains its integrity . Civilization , on the contrary , never has had the kind of precise determination we associate with an accepted scientific concept . Civilization has always been a value-laden word that has changed over time and has been redefined again and again in order to meet current political , social or cultural needs or desires . It is an ill-fated formula that would attempt to link closely two such disparate entities as energy and civilization . Yet , even if we attempt to make the equation workable by focusing upon one nation at a given time and assuming that its people will agree on what is meant by civilization , we find grave difficulties . When the English economist and philosopher Stanley Jevons was predicting the imminent decline of British civilization in the 1860s , he supposed that coal , iron and railroads had raised England to the pinnacle of culture . Not so , responded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said Arnold , that two hundred years from now England was to be swallowed up by the sea . Then , when the rest of the world recalled England 's greatness , they would undoubtedly remember the Age of Shakespeare as her golden hour and not the time of Alfred Lord Tennyson and Queen Victoria . The Elizabethans managed quite well without the steam engine to produce a culture that is admired throughout the world . Should a twentiety-century opponent choose to enter into the debate with Matthew Arnold over this matter , he would probably draw upon statistics proving modern superiority in life expectancy , literacy , nutrition , public hygiene , speed of transportation , equality of opportunity and so on . In short , he would shift the argument to the arenas of quality of life and economic growth . Matthew Arnold would reply to his modern critic as he did to Jevons , by defining national greatness as that quality that excites love , interest and admiration for a nation and its deeds . And Arnold would be correct in doing so , because throughout its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of man , and not the more mundane aspects of his life . After all , the steam engine was praised not merely because it could pump drinking water to city dwellers but because it was a dispenser of culture . A persistent critic would then respond that there just might be a connection between the availability of potable water and the creation of high culture . Must not the artist and scientist be fed , clothed and sheltered before he can address himself to artistic and scientific affairs ? There is no simple reply to this question . However , I believe it calls for something far more profound than the energy-civilization equation , which has often been put forth as the definitive answer . There is a great danger in assuming that cultural attainments must wait upon the fulfillment of creature comforts , that man could not study the stars , think about gods or ornament a piece of pottery until he had a full stomach , a roof over his head and a wall around his city . The more historians and anthropologists learn about the early history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , religion , and art were always part of his existence , and not refinements he cultivated after reaching a certain stage of economic stability . Neither historical nor anthropological research supports the popular view that economic necessity is prior to , and prepares the way for , the moral , intellectual and aesthetic life of man . Therefore I , for one , would reject the simple correlation of energy consumption , economic growth and civilization . In the final analysis , it is not crucial that all of my criticisms of the energy-civilization equation be accepted . It is much more important that the equation is recognized as a pervasive , if often implicit , element in both popular and sophisticated approaches to energy and society . If the equation is as worthless and potentially dangerous as I think it is , then it should be exposed and discarded , because it supplies a supposedly scientific argument against our efforts to adopt a style of living based upon lower levels of energy consumption . If it is a generalization of great truth , then it deserves a more refined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . W e are in one of those phases , recurrent in American history , in which morality has been rediscovered yet once again . It is characteristic of such phases that a hunt for scapegoats ensues , focusing our concerns in precisely the wrong way on precisely the wrong issues . Blaming and punishing individuals becomes a substitute for asking what it was in the structures of our common life that at the very least made possible and perhaps even positively engendered moral fault and failure . The present fashionable concern with morality in general and the practice of scapegoating in particular concentrate their concern almost exclusively upon breaches of the kind of moral rule that tells us only what we ought not to do . Our very concern with an emphasis upon negative , prohibiting rules leads us to lose sight of what is , in fact , centrally important to morality and thus , in turn , to fail to give due importance to these self-same negative , prohibiting rules . The record of the electric power industry , in abstaining from breaking such negative , prohibiting rules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough , insofar as I am inclined to question the moral resources of the electric power industry , it is because in one way its moral record is as good as it is . The morality of the industry has been essentially a negative one of proved abstinence from wrong-doing . Since the end of the Great Depression , the electric power industry has inflexibly interpreted its legally mandated task , at the heart of which is the requirement to supply electric power on demand . The American electric Mr. Macintyre is professor of philosophy and political science at Boston University . power industry not only supplied power with a success unparalleled in human history , but actually participated in creating the demand that made that success necessary to the rest of American industry . All this was achieved in such a way that neither the more general question : " Growth for what ? " nor the more specific question : " Electric power for what ? " needed to be raised , let alone answered . Those questions implicitly were held to be questions only for consumers , just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the provision and use of electric power were held to be questions for the Congress and for citizens . The morality required and practiced by the industry was generally a strict morality of non-intervention in every area but that which it and others regarded as its own legitimate realm . There was one positive aspect to the morality : its basic assumption , so firmly held as scarcely needing to be stated , was that the providing of electric power within the limits set by these negative constraints was an unqualified good . Environmental concerns did not emerge until the very end of the period about which I am speaking ; and the obvious connections between the provision of electric power and the possibilities both of providing employment for an increasing work force and of increasing the comfort of domestic life reinforced this assumption . The consequence was that a whole range of decisions came to be treated as purely or almost purely technical decisions to be handed over to the economists and the engineers : what types of plant should be built , where should they be sited , al @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the industry need . Congress provided the mandate , the consumer provided the data for prediction , the executives of the industry provided the commercial integrity and the skills for answering such questions , but the questions themselves were technical , not moral . The electric power industry ? and in this it has been no different from the rest of us in modern society ? has allowed its moral perspectives to be defined too much in terms of the negative prohibiting and constraining rules and not enough in terms of positive goods that ought to inform its tasks . H is those goods that provide the distinctive moral dimension in any definition of the future tasks of the electric power industry . We can very happily take for granted the need to observe the requirements of the negative rules ; what we do need is a more explicit assertion of the industry 's positive moral tasks . One positive moral task of the industry is to assume a large public responsibility in areas that it has hitherto 7 treated with a scrupulous but , if I am right , partly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the executive branch of government or of the industrial , commercial and private consumer . That responsibility is to urge , cajole and compel our society to make certain choices and to make those choices in as open , as explicit and as rational a way as possible . There are two different kinds of reason why this responsibility falls to the electric power industry . The first is concerned with its unrivaled strategic position in the supply of power and with the scale and scope of its resources , especially the industry 's accumulation of relevant knowledge and relevant skills . Both government and the general , public have to learn what are the applications and consequences of alternative energy sources under specific local conditions of particular communities and environments . Engineering , economic , environmental and social considerations are going to have to be presented within a framework of political choice . It is perhaps obvious that the members of the electric power industry are , as a group , uniquely well-fitted to present such choices . It would be required of them that they transcend their position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then be asking them to become moral supermen ? There is no simple , glib answer . But part of the complex answer is that we have asked no less from a variety of special interest groups in times of national crisis , especially during the Second World War . The second type of reason for suggesting that the industry has this special and relatively new responsibility is that so far those who have been conveniently assigned this task by the democratic process have signally failed to discharge it in any but the most inadequate ways . We have in our society only two institutionalized methods for coordinating individual preferences and transforming them into public choices : those of the market and its allied institutions , and those of government legislation , taxation and regulation . It is scarcely surprising that public debate has focused , explicitly and implicitly , on energy questions as elsewhere on the choice between those two , and that the form of public debate has been largely that of an indictment of each of these methods by the proponents of the other . The sad fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods are grossly defective , and specifically so with respect to the kind of choices that our society now needs to formulate . Consider first some defects of the mechanisms of the market . Markets only provide mechanisms for coordinating individual preferences once those preferences have been formulated and expressed in acts of consumption . The market , therefore , is of no help to us in those areas of life where we have to decide what our patterns of consumption are to be , how our preferences are to be ranked , how our desires are to be ordered . The debate on energy is centrally about investment ; and it is a debate that has to be conducted within what Daniel Bell has felicitously called the " public household . " We need to reason together in order to discover with what choices we want to enter the market . We are , that is to say , at a point in the argumentwhere to tell us to rely on the mechanisms of the market is not so much mistaken as irrelevant . There are weaknesses and defects in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weaknesses and defects of the market . It , like the market , is responsive to the pressures of the present much more rationally than to those of the future , partly because our ability to predict the future accurately is in general extraordinarily limited . And it , like the market , is far more effective at expressing already formulated choices on familiar issues than at formulating new possibilities of choice in unfamiliar areas . Neither the market nor the political system will provide the ordinary citizen with an adequate arena for formulating and expressing radically new choices of the kind that the energy debate thrusts upon us . And if public discussion that will enable ordinary citizens to formulate and express radically new choices does not take place , then the political and economic outcomes will inevitably be sadly defective . But who is to begin the debate neceseary to supplement our conventional economic and political institutions ? Who is to educate the educators ? I see very few individuals or institutions who are both capable of taking up this task and who possess the resources and the strategic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and institutions comprised by the electric power industry . Their work compels them to interact with both producers and consumers at essential points . They have a peculiar responsibility , which arises from the fact that if they do not discharge it , it is unlikely that anyone else will . if the industry does embark on this task , it will perhaps be accused of trying to preempt the democratic process ; but if it does not take . action that will render it liable to such accusations , the democratic process itself may fail us . What then is the task , and why does it have moral dimensions ? In order to answer this question , shall have to state briefly and unoriginally what I take the energy crisis to be . There is no more of a shortage of available energy now than at any other time ; what has suddenly become unavailable is energy at the kind of low price to us to which we had become accustomed . What we now have to debate is what we are prepared to pay for what and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The major possibility that we confront is of a gigantic shift in patterns of investment . And if we invest massively in new energy sources or in new ways and to new extents in existing sources , then we shall necessarily be shifting our investment away from something else important to our lives . Hence the energy crisis is a crisis about our whole way of life and not just about energy . It is not difficult to see that when we rethink the wide range of questions facing America as questions about energy , four different kinds of moral concern must arise . The first is a concern for complexity . Oversimplification , the sacrifice of complexity , is in fact a crucial form of the vice of untruthfulness . Yet this is not the only morally damaging harm that is likely to arise from oversimplification of the issues . Just because so many different kinds of issues of policy and practice interlock at the point of energy use , there is no simple way to assess the costs and benefits that will arise from any particular proposal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerations relevant to the same proposal the harm of damage to the environment against the harm of making fewer jobs available to thost who badly need work , and both against the harm of injury and death to a certain number of presently unidentifiable individuals ? It is always much easier for us to conside these issues in a piecemeal , local way , in which some par ticular compromise ? determined through bargaining la local circumstances and balance of power ? will , in the short run , at least , satisfy the particular , local contending parties . Our whole political and legislative process is biased towards oversimplified statements of problems and , consequently , not only oversimplified but unjust solutions . Because our culture possesses no general set of standards that will enable us to evaluate costs and benefits of very different types in a single rational argument , it is all the more important that our evaluations satisfy two minimal requirements of justice . The first is that everyone relevantly involved ? and where energy is concerned that means everyone ? should have a chance to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a benefit . The second is that , so far as possible , those who receive the benefits should also be those who pay the costs and vice versa . Neither the former nor the latter principle has received anything like adequate attention in recent debates . When environmentalists urge policies that will significantly reduce the number of jobs that might otherwise be available , it is rarely , perhaps never , the case that they are able to show either that those who would lose their opportunities of work are the same people who would benefit from the environment or that those who would lose their opportunities to work have had a part in shaping the conception and criteria of costs and benefits involved . Environmentalists in the present have sometimes been as untrammeled in endangering other people 's jobs as industrialists in the past were in endangering other people 's investments . Equally , when opponents of nuclear power stations urge policies that will significantly increase our future dependence on coal , the lives that will be lost as a result of their policies are not their own . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a vote , but that some people ? the populations that will bear the relevant risks and dangers , or most of them ? have more of a voice and more of a vote than others . There is at least one further requirement that must be met if justice is to be served . Because the energy crisis is primarily a crisis about the investment of resources , ordinary citizens are going to have no opportunity to understand how the costs and benefits of different investment policies do and will impinge upon them , if the costs are systematically concealed by subsidy . For the inhabitants of most advanced countries , the cheapness of energy to the consumer in the past 50 years has disguised its true costs . Ordinary citizens respond to their everyday experience and , if their everyday experience conceals what they are really paying for energy in all sorts of disguised ways , then no amount of theoretical education is likely to succeed . Only if there is a widespread perception of what the costs and benefits of different energy policies are can we decide both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and benefits . Justice and truthfulness are not the only virtues central to determining energy production and use . Another is the ability to live with unpredictability . We need to plan on a large scale , but we also have to recognize that our plans are for a future that is always apt to surprise us with its unexpectedness . In part , our social future is unpredictable because of the ways in which the future development of mathematics , science and technology are unpredictable . An obvious and obviously crucial example is the mathematics of Turing or of von Neumann , work essential to the development of modern computing science and engineering , and work whose outcome could not have been rationally predicted in advance . In changing the social world and its national environment , we also change ourselves . No matter how sophisticated our social planning with respect to energy or to anything else , we can never rule out the possibility that in the course of implementing our plans we shall acquire views , interests and desires markedly different from those that led us to draw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crucial that our planning is not so inflexible that it leaves our future selves ? let alone successor generations ? with no or few options acceptable to them because we were , at an early stage , too rigidly insistent on what is now acceptable to us . It follows that there are great moral as well as practical dangers in making too many large-scale irreversible investment decisions that foreclose on future choices . This is especially a danger because the urgency of our immediate needs always tempts us towards short-term solutions . Some of my statements about justice might seem supportive to the advocates of massive investment in nuclear power , while what I am now saying about the need for an ability to live with unpredictability may seem to endorse what some of their critics have said . But what matters at this juncture is not so much the particular policy implications of particular points ; rather , it is the need to underline the fact that we ought not to expect moral considerations all to point in one single policy direction . There is a genuinely tragic dimension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is going to involve the sacrifice of some authentic goods for the sake of others . Our culture lacks any clear sense of how to handle tragic situations , situations that reveal our moral and human limitations in relation to the tasks imposed upon us . Because we have never learned to face up to our moral limitations , we have lost to a large degree our vision of positive possibility . We have trudged for so long into a future of apparently limitless consumption that we do not now find it easy to remember who we are and what links us to others . The notion of possibility is always the notion of some future form of community that provides us now with standards and goals by which to diagnose our various forms of inadequacy and to set about remedying them . Just such a common vision ? partial , not always coherent , but providing the essential sustenance for our constitution ? was implicit in the founding of this republic . What I am suggesting is this : that to press forward in the public arena the debate about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral dimensions clear so far as possible to the whole society . will reveal to that society that it is , to a degree that a good deal of political rhetoric conceals from us. involved in a moral crisis as well as in an energy crisis . The prospect is a dismaying one and requires courage : we do not know how to reason together morally in an effective way . And this lack ? just because it is something wanting in the social order as a whole ? will never he remedied unless we face it as a society . by Eric Hoffer mm the early days of the Industrial Revolution , intellectuals of every sort predicted that the machine would make man superfluous . Right now , it would be difficult to find a social scientist who does not believe that automated machines and computers are eliminating man as a factor in the social equation . The belief that the machine turns men into robots is an a priori assumption that prevents social scientists from seeing that technology is doing precisely the opposite of what they predicted it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human factor has never been so central as it is now in technologically advanced countries . And it is the centrality of the human factor that makes industrial societies at present so unpredictable . In the 19th century , which saw a Promethean effort to master and harness nature , little thought was given to the management of man . The ruling middle class could proceed on the principle that government is best when it governs least . Everyday life had a fabulous regularity . Obedience of authority was as automatic as a reflex movement . Social processes were almost as rational and predictable as the processes of nature . It was reasonable to believe in the possibility of a social science as exact as a natural science . There was also boundless hope , a belief in automatic progress that imbued people with patience . Mr. Hoffer , the self-educated author of numerous books on social philosophy , is a former migratory worker , gold miner and longshoreman . Then came the 20th century ! Have there ever been two successive centuries so different from each other as the 19th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ predictable , rational , hopeful , free , fairly peaceful and lumpy with certitudes . The 20th century has been hectic , soaked with the blood of innocents , fearful of the future , stripped of certitudes , unpredictable and absurd . The history of the 20th century is a succession of disastrous absurdities : the First World War , the Russian Revolution , the Versailles Peace Treaty , Prohibition , the wild ' 20s , the Great Depression , the Roosevelt Administration , the Hitler Revolution , the Second World War , the Holocaust , the absurd 1960s and now the Carter Presidency . What was it that made the 20th century so different from the 19th ? The First World War was the sharp dividing line between the two centuries . But it was not the First World War itself , but its aftermath , that shaped our century . Without the breakdown of Czarist Russia and the humiliation of Germany by the Versailles Treaty , there would have been neither a Lenin nor a Hitler Revolution . We have the testimony of highly reliable observers on the fabulous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Whitehead , who was immersed in the new physics , " the period 1880 to 1914 was one of the happiest times in the history of mankind . " It is impressive how logic and hope kept 19th century thinkers from contemplating an unpleasant , let alone apocalyptic , denouement as the fulfillment of the Industrial Revolution . Few in the 19th century were aware of the explosive irrationality of the human condition . No one suspected that once nature had been mastered , industrial societies would enter a psychological age in which man would become a threat to mankind 's survival . No one foresaw the disintegration of values and the weakening of social discipline caused by the elimination of scarcity . A logician like Marx could not foresee the downfall of capitalism by ever-increasing efficiency rather than by ever-increasing misery . Hardly anyone in the 19th century foresaw the chronic unemployment and the loss of a sense of usefulness caused by increased ambition , No one feared that drastic change would upset traditions , customs and other arrangements that make life predictable . Finally , no one foresaw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swamp societies with hordes of educated nobodies who want to be somebodies and end up being mischief-making busybodies . Strangely , those whom thinkers of the 19th century viewed with alarm were the masses . Some thought that the masses loathed continuity and that their clamor for change would topple all that was noble and precious . Others believed that , once the masses were given political power , only education and prosperity could preserve social stability . How naive to believe in a stabilizing power of prosperity and education after we have seen what affluence and education have done ! To Freud , it seemed that individuals composing the masses support one another in giving free reign to their indiscipline . No one had an inkling that anarchy , when it came , would originate not in the masses but in violent minorities , including the minority of the educated . Everything that was said about the anarchic propensities of the masses fits perfectly with the behavior of students , professors , writers , artists and the hangers-on during the righteous ' 60s . The masses are the protagonists of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curious that Disraeli ? remarkable man ? should have had a truer world view of the nature of the masses than his liberal contemporaries . He sensed the conservatism and patriotism of common people . Could it be that , as a genuine conservative , Disraeli was more attuned to the eternal verities of man 's existence ? Considering also how timely and relevant were Disraeli 's ideas about what makes nations strong and great , it is legitimate to wonder whether you have to be a conservative if you want to be up to date . The 20th century saw not only the fulfillment of the Industrial Revolution but also the fulfillment of wars planted in the preceding century . There is hardly an atrocity perpetrated in the 20th century that had not been advocated by some intellectual in the 19th . The 19th century was dominated by men of action ; the intellectuals just talked . And no one expected savage words to have consequence . The intellectuals entered the 19th century convinced that it was going to be their century . Had they not made the French Revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the Industrial Revolution gave power to the middle class , and the intellectuals were left out in the cold . It is the predicament of the middle class that , although it excels in mastering things , it is awkward and almost helpless when it comes to managing men . Thus , when the human factor became more and more central , the middle class , drained of confidence by the First World War and a great Depression , found itself in deep trouble . The stage was set for the entrance of the intellectuals . To Ian intellectual , power means power over man . He can not conceive of power moving mountains and telling rivers 1 where to flow . He is in his element commanding , brainwashing and in general making people love what they hate . He glories in the role of medicine man and charismatic leader . And feels godlike when he makes words I become flesh . Thus , he has made the 20th century a century of words par excellence . In no other century have words become so dangerous . A failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , viewed from any vantage point , the 19th century I ! wasa sharp historical deviation . About 150 years ago , the Occident was catapulted into a trajectory away from the ancient highway of history . We can now see that the trajectory is the loop that turns upon itself and is curving back to where it started . We can see all around us the lineaments of a pre-industrial pattern emerging in post-industrial society . We are not plunging ahead into the future , but falling hack into the past . The explosion of the young , the dominance of the intellectuals , the savagery of our cities , the revulsion from work are all characteristics of the decades that preceded the Industrial Revolution . We are returning to the rocky highway of history and are rejoining the ancient caravan . The significant point is that the people who are rejoining the ancient caravan are not what they were in preindustrial days . They are more dangerous . The unspeakable atrocities of the 20th century have demonstrated that man is the originator of a great evil that threatens the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age is how to cope with this human evil . It is conceivable that if the exhaustion of raw materials and sources of energy make it imperative for a society to tap the creative energies of its people , it may in doing so also tap a new source of social discipline , for the creative individual , no matter how highly endowed , must be hardworking and disciplined if he 's to accomplish much . There is no invention that will take the hard work out of creating . Moreover , since the creative flow is never abundant , the greatest society is likely to be disciplined by a new chronic scarcity . The trouble is that the coming of the creative society will be slow and faltering , and we must find other defenses against evil . What I 'm going to advocate may seem far-fetched . But in this case , all suggestions are legitimate . As things are now , it may well be that the survival of the species will depend upon the capacity to foster a boundless capacity for compassion . In the alchemy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , love , hope , faith , beauty , loyalty ? can be transmuted into ruthlessness . Compassion alone stands apart from the continuous traffic between good and evil proceeding within us . Compassion is the antitoxin of the soul . Where there is compassion , even the poisonous impulses remain relatively harmless . Compassion seems to have its roots in the family . It is conceivable that the present weakening of the family may allow compassion to leak out into wider circles . So , too , the cultivation of esprit de corps , which is the creation of family ties between strangers , may spread compassion . The question is : can we make people compassionate by education ? It is natural to assume that the well-educated are more humane and compassionate than the uneducated . But , believe it or not , the reverse seems to be true . When Gandhi was asked what it was that worried him most , he replied , " The hardness of heart of the educated . " We have seen the highly educated German nation give its allegiance to the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Kremlin , as Churchill called them , liquidated 60 million Russian men , women and children . We have also seen a band of graduates of the Sorbonne , no less , slaughter and starve millions of innocents in Cambodia and Vietnam . The murder weapons that may destroy our society are being forged in the work factories of our foremost universities . In many countries , universities have become the chief recruiting ground of mindless terrorists . I 've never been a teacher or a parent , and my heart is savage by nature and therefore unfit to tell people how to implant compassion . Still , I have the feeling that perhaps the adoption of a certain view of life might bear the fruit of compassion . We feel close to each other when we see our planet as a tiny island of life in an immensity of nothingness . We also draw together when we become aware that night must close in on all living things , that we are condemned to death at birth and that life is a bus ride to the place of execution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the bus , and the ride is over before 0 1 1 we know it . The majority of the public in the United States does not seem to understand the fundamental necessity for a strong program of advancing technology to meet the public 's own insistent requirements to have a growing standard of living , low unemployment and tolerable Ithat is , small ) inflation rates . We have two routes for initiatives to get things done in the U.S. : free enterprise and government . Without a high degree of cooperation between the government and the private sector , and public understanding of the need for this cooperation , technological advance in the U.S. will be highly constrained . Because the government is so important in sett- ing the environment for technological innovation and because innovative capability in the U.S. resides almost entirely in private industry , improved organization to accomplish beneficial advancing of technology depends on the extent to which a harmonious ensemble can be organized out of the three ingredients : government policy , private investment and implementation , and public support . Currently , inflation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impaired industry earnings and lowered available funds for plowback to create technological advances . Unfortunately , an increasing fraction of the most needed and potentially beneficial technological projects call for investments beyond the net worth of most corporations , and large corporations in the U.S. now are essentially not allowed to team up to share the risk . For such projects , the " risk-toreturn " ratio is too great , the start-up losses are too high , the time to " turn-around " to an eventual profit phase is too long and the dependence of success on unpredictable political decisions is forbiddingly close . The lack of industry incentive to invest funds to back innovation goes with the other characteristics of the U.S. environment : inflation , high taxes , high costs in dealing with government regulatory requirements , high **25;3419;TOOLONG ratios , and high ratio of government to private sector spending . Given the state of the economy , no government program to stimulate more innovative effort and R &D; in private industry could be nearly so effective as a successful government program to lower inflation , or one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technological corporations by a lowering of taxes . If the government could create these changes , the seeds of scientific and technological advance would quickly blossom into copious crops . Here are some examples that illustrate the relation of the rate of application of technological advance to economic-political constraints . If existing U.S. continental oil wells were equipped with submergible pumps for secondary and tertiary recovery wherever warranted , our oil reserves would be greatly increased ( perhaps even doubled , the experts tell us ) . Technologically , such installations are thoroughly practical . Most often , the installations would be economically feasible as well , if the price per barrel were higher than present controls permit for old oil , i.e. , in the range of prices the nation is paying now for imported oil . Billions of dollars invested this way would bring us tens of billions in equivalent additional petroleum . The critical pricing parameter to make the private investment a sound one lies outside the free market and is a political matter . Pricing involves a contest among numerous influential constituents with wide differences of opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ justify investing the required funds . Almost every large U.S. city could gain by installing a first class public transportation system . But it has to be the right system . The technology has to be carefully selected and matched to each city 's layout , industry pattern population and employment distribution , health care and education facilities . The economic gains could be prodigious . Perhaps half our population could save hours each week over present means for getting to and from work . They would travel at less expense , consume less energy , cut air pollution and decrease the accident rate . But is it intelligent for an American technological corporation to invest its resources with the objective of developing , then selling , and finally earning a return from mass transit systems for American cities ? Consider Los Angeles as an example . Imagine that some private company a few years ago decided to devote several years of effort in fitting technology to L.A. 's social and economic needs and designing the multi-billion dollar transit system required . Then , further assume , as we must to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controls , communications , it energy distribution , safety , terminals , maintenance , rights of way , environmental reports , etc. ) were out and debugged . All this would have involved an expenditure of a hundred million dollars or more and would be only a beginning . Much of this effort would have had to be 11 ' repeated for other cities because of the importance of bringing prices down by realizing as much commonality as possible in equipment and software for multiple instal ' lations . Then the private concern would have to design , build and tool up several plants to start producing the specifically required hardware , refine it by full-scale test , ing and manufacture parts in some quantity to be sure of price and quality before taking on contracts for shipment and installation . If the company had gone this far ( it would by now have made over a billion-dollar invest , ment ) and had done everything perfectly would it then have succeeded in selling a system to Los Angeles ? That is I extremely doubtful . Who exactly is this customer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truly want and how are its requirements being decided ? Can Los Angeles raise the procurement funds ? Hundreds of separate ( and often quarrelling , apathetic or self-seeking ) groups , both private and governmental , are involved in the answers to these questions , Potentially beneficial as the proper application of transportation technology might be , the market in any given city is not formed . The " risk-to-return " ratio would be absurdly high for the private corporation electing to develop this field . The start-up cost would be huge . Even assuming eventual success , the time to payoff would be too long and the city or county government 's eventual approach to the pricing of the service , fundamental to the promise of return on the private investment , would be too unpredictable . Done suitably , with a mixture of creativity and common sense , the selective depolluting of major lakes , rivers , harbors and coastal waters stands to yield a good return on the investment in health , quality of life and economic gain through preservation and maintenance of vital natural resources . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technological work is needed to understand pollution phenomena more deeply , develop superior non-polluting approaches to use of the waters , and produce a myriad of specialized equipment . Of course , such technical effort would be meaningless or misguided without attention to all the complex interface problems . What company , or group of companies , would invest in a private overall systems solution for , say , depolluting Lake Erie ? This would mean their setting out , with their own funds , to settle the many interactions and to develop the new chemical processes , superior purification and fuel-burning methods , optimum energy-use techniques and the rest . Many specific and dificult scientific and engineering advances would be vital for an intelligent , broad changeover to an integrated lower pollution system . But in what context should the individual technological efforts be chosen ? What criteria should be used ? Even if a combine could be created of , say , five large corporations that among them possessed all the technical expertise required , how could they presume to design and install a system that would affect the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of citizens distributed around the lake ? COAL By all-out use of science and technology and the full cooperation of government and private industry ( neither of which is in the cards today ) , we could have a plentiful supply of energy for hundreds of years by properly utilizing our huge reserves of coal . Existing technological beginnings can be advanced to desuiphurize coal , produce liquid and gaseous fuel from it , mine it more safely , obtain a good deal of it without mining ( in situ ) , burn it more cleanly and more fully and limit environmental harm . The resulting energy supply would be higher priced than today 's oil , in part to write off the cost of the technological advancen but the funds to pay for the fuel would stay in the U.S. Success requires both the know-how of private industry and enormous capital placed at risk . A corporation choosing to make a major entry into synthetic gas or liquid fuel from coal by new technology would have to commit funds in the range of billions of dollars , and decades might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realized . Indeed , such return might never come , so great are the risks associated with unpredictable government decisions on critical aspects . The complete " system " involves a host of private and public organizations that are semiautonomous and not readily directed by any one body : landowners , mine operators , labor unions , railroads , power generating and water supply utilities , numerous engineering and manufacturing organizations , county and state governments and many , many agencies in the federal government that deal with prices , environment , labor and transport , to name only a portion . It is not difficult to appreciate why we are not moving very rapidly in developing and applying new coal technology . Few doubt that energy will be more costly in the era ahead . But with a plentiful supply at the higher price level ? in contrast to a subsidized , low-priced and low-quantity supply ? the United States could prosper , some students of the problem would tell us . If we could bring ourselves to design a national program around the realistic expectancy of a gradually higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , we might well discover that private investment would become available and private know-how would be applied to ensure adequate supplies . This would be , of course , because the return on investment would justify the investment . Such a program would require viewpoints by the government and the public differing from the present ones built around the politically popular , but unrealistic and inconsistent , policy that preaches conservation while subsidizing low-priced energy . FUSION ENE-2GY Controlled thermonuclear fusion has the possibility of providing us with cheap and plentiful energy . Many millions of dollars have already been before all of the remaining physical scientific and engineering details are worked out sufficiently for this approach to energy supply to be ready for application . It may turn out that it never will prove feasible . The total costs in the start-up phase are in the billions of dollars , maybe in the tens of billions . When we have to speak of funding at such levels , time durations of decades , and major doubts as to basic technological feasibility , we are beyond the boundaries of areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now what does all this add up to ? The high potential for science and technology to benefit the society more and at the same time the difficulty in obtaining the benefits ; the inability of free enterprise to encompass more than a fraction of the sponsorship ; the limitation on the capability of the government to take over where the private sector can not provide the desirable advances . What views and policies should we promote as steps to improve the situation ? Let me offer some specific recommendations to the four concerned entities : the free enterprise sector , the government , the universities and the public . Those interested in preserving the free enterprise system ( such as leaders of big business and others who see the free market and the private enterprise concept as 14 valuable routes toward utilization of advanced technology ) should accept that ours is a hybrid society . It is not helpful and oftentimes harmful to press so hard , as these supporters of the private sector often do , for free enterprise to be labeled as the all-encompassing answer to all problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide a part of our needs . A creative , cooperative relationship between the private sector and the government should be sought , and the often present adversary relationship should be eliminated . Government leaders should recognize the government 's involvement in scientific and technological matters to be permanent and set a long-range policy for that involvement . It should answer such questions as : Which research and development areas must the government sponsor , and which are best left to free enterprise ? How can the required regulatory duties of the government and the setting of the rules for free enterprise be handled so as to enhance and not impair national innovative effort ? The government should appreciate the broad impact of science and technology on virtually every important government decision-making area , and count a healthy scientific and technological effort in the country as vital to the overall national economy . The government should itself be innovative in creating a national environment for innovation . It should direct its sponsorship in scientific and technological matters toward the generation of information to remove risks and thus to enhance the contribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should resist the creating of new government research and development efforts and expenditures to enhance innovation in private industry . Instead , the government should act on the premise that improved use of science and technology will quickly follow an improvement in the economy , this improvement characterized by less inflation , taxes and government spending , with discretionary funds for investment in innovation more available to the private sector . The universities should teach elementary economics to every graduate , so that at least these members of the citizenry would understand such concepts as cost of capital , return on investment , consumption-investment tradeoffs , causes of inflation and the fundamentals of the free enterprise system . The universities also should mount increased efforts to discover and develop innovative talent . Furthermore , the research programs in the universities should be enhanced to include greater emphasis on the relationships between advancing science and technology and the **25;3446;TOOLONG structure of the nation . The universities should aspire to be a source of innovative ideas about innovation , including the articulating of alternatives for restructuring the nation 's institutions so as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and technology to the greatest advantage on behalf of the society . The public would do well to foster neither of the two extreme views : free enterprise alone can do everything best ; free enterprise is bad and the government must do everything . if the public is interested in the flexibility , freedom of opportunity , motivation and incentives of free enterprise , then it should recognize that free enterprise can only contribute to the nation 's needed research and development if private industry is allowed to generate the necessary funds for investment . " Profits " should be applauded if they are reinvested boldly and wisely for research and development . Finally , the public should get over its anti-technology prejudices . It should decide once and for all that science and technology are not independent , external enemies but the public 's own tools , and get on with seeing that these tools are used to achieve 0 the goals the citizens choose . dominant civilization has disappeared ; and that even now we are sharing the torch of technology with several other nations . Few of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its prominent place in the world , as have other nations within our lifetimes . Somehow , we feel that the United States is exempt . And yet to think so is to fly in the face of history . Many nations at the apex of their power were inwardly doomed when their will power began to falter , and therefore we should be most careful about retreating from the specific challenges of our epoch . Each noteworthy civilization has grappled with the great problem of its time . For the Greeks , it was the organization of society ; for the Romans , the organization of empire ; for the Medievalists , the spelling-out of their relationship to God ; for the Europeans of the 15th and 16th centuries , mastery of the oceans . And for the last two centuries , it has been the scientific understanding of nature and the creation of an industrial society . For tomorrow , the challenge is to continue these latter tasks . It is to determine how mankind can live in harmony on this finite globe , establish permanent relationships to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to enable achievement of the individual potentials of individual human beings as we reduce the ravages of disease . If instead , intent on a risk-free society , we succumb to a national failure of nerve , if we always heed the nay-sayers , then again Shakespeare will have been proved prescient in his lines : " There is a tide in the affairs of men , which , taken at the flood , leads on to fortune . Omitted , all the voyage of their life is bound in shallows and in miseries . On such a full sea are we now afloat ; and we must take the current when it serves , or lose our ventures . " Those lines apply to America in the 1980s . Whatever other policies we follow , we can be unabashedly optimistic concerning the prospects for continuing great discoveries in every discipline of science . And yet we should note that even in science the international position of this country is changing . For two decades after the war , the United States conducted the largest , most powerful , most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been more productive than at this moment . But the economic growth of other nations has enabled them also to develop their scientific potential . Today we constitute perhaps one-third of the world effort , albeit our enterprise still seems somewhat disproportionately successful . But it 's clear that the others are rapidly gaining ; since the fruits of science are universally available , we should be pleased , not dismayed , by that fact , but only so long as we maintain our own scientific capabilities . Our current malaise stems from a few bad experiences ? from the time-delay in meeting the high hopes and expectations raised in the minds of those who appreciate the great power of science , the force of technology . Those expectations have taken on a new light as science has also revealed the true condition of man on earth . And I see no alternative but to address rigorously the principal questions of science and to use our ever widening understanding or increasingly sophisticated technology with grace and charity and wisdom . We 're not omnipotent , but neither are we unwitting foils @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 've learned not to seek a perfect world . Our joy must be found in those acts by which we exercise our unique capabilities to eradicate what we abhor and to promote that which we value and cherish . I retain my faith that the science that has revealed the most awesome and profound beauties we have yet beheld is also the principal tool that our civilization has devel- 0 15 oped to mitigate the condition of man .                     