@@278093

AFTER a fortnight of legal fencing , the showdown shaped up late last week before the U.S. Supreme Court . A Government bent on preserving secrets for the sake of national security faced a press determined to print the facts as laid down in the now-celebrated Pentagon papers . All week long , the Government fought a running battle with restraining orders against two of the country 's most respected newspapers . Attorneys for the New York Times and the Washington Post pounded away at the seldom-invoked practice of " prior restraint , " arguing that the public 's right to know and the First Amendment guarantee of press freedom ruled out pre-publication censorship . <P> The rare Saturday session in the marble Supreme Court chamber was testimony to the importance of the two cases at issue . Dressed somberly , the opposing attorneys prepared papers for their historic confrontation before the nine robed Justices . All 300 seats in the chamber were full and newsmen stood shoulder to shoulder in the press alcove . At precisely 11 a.m. , the red velvet curtains parted , the Justices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , distinguished former dean of Harvard Law School , launched a 53-minute opening argument . <P> No Quick Ruling . Griswold urged the court to establish a standard that would allow the Government to prevent newspapers from publishing classified material that he claimed would do " great and irreparable harm " to the nation 's security . In lower courts , the Government had alleged that willful disclosure of secret information violated both the Espionage Act and an executive order dealing with classified material . Arguing for the Times , Alexander Bickel , the polished Yale law professor , contended that the Government had failed to show there was a " direct and immediate link " between " the fact of publication " and any " grave event " that endangered the nation . When Griswold contended in his summary that the First Amendment was " not intended to make it impossible for Government to function , " Justice Potter Stewart observed that unless there was conclusive proof that publication of documents endangered national security , then " prior restraint is presumptively unconstitutional . " <P> To the disappointment of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simply announced that " the case is submitted , " and gave no indication of when a decision would be handed down . It was expected early this week , however , and supporters of the Times and Post took heart from the narrow ( 5 to 4 ) decision to listen to oral arguments ; the dissenting Justices ( Douglas , Hugo Black , William Brennan , Thurgood Marshall ) did not even think the Government 's case was worth considering . If only one of the other five joins them - and Stewart is considered an active possibility-then the papers will have won their battle against prior restraint . But the victory would not allow the press to behave irresponsibly . The question before the court this week is only whether the press can be prevented in advance from publishing classified information . In any case , it can still be punished after the fact .                     