@@283194

There was a touch of Teutonic pomp , but the circumstances were markedly different from those of 1936 . The colors were cool , breezy pastels , not the strident Nazi red and black ; it was Willy Brandt 's gemtlich Munich , not Hitler 's dark Berlin . With a fanfare of Alpine horns and a gaudy parade of 12,000 athletes from 124 nations , the XX Olympiad opened last week in an 80,000-capacity , acrylic , glass-covered stadium that stands on the site where Neville Chamberlain landed in 1938 to establish " peace in our time . " <P> On this go-round , the atmosphere was eminently more serene . A bright Bavarian sun shone down as the Greek team , in accordance with tradition , led the march around the red and green arena that will hold the track and field events . The West German crowd applauded handsomely ( even for the East Germans ) as each nation trooped its colors to dance-band music , which included When the Saints Go Marching In for the U.S. and Song for Natasha , in salute to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Discus Thrower Olga Connolly , 39 , the mother of four , who defected from Czechoslovakia in 1956 to marry U.S. Olympian Hammer Thrower Harold Connolly . In a tradition set by the 1908 U.S. Olympic team , she did not dip the American flag before the grandstand* and matched strength with the men of a number of other countries by holding the flag staff at arm 's length during much of the march . After the West Germans , as host team , closed the parade , 3,200 Munich schoolchildren sang Sumer Is Icumen In , a far cry from the 1936 Horst Wessel Lied . The traditional doves were released , the Olympic flame was lit by a torch relayed from Olympia in Greece by 5,976 runners , and West German President Gustav Heinemann officially initiated proceedings with the regulatory 14-word statement : " I declare open the Olympic Games celebrating the XX Olympiad of the modern era . " <P> Desolated . For a while , it had seemed possible that Heinemann would declare open a somewhat diminished affair . In a painful contretemps similar to the South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ key U.S. black athletes-had threatened to boycott the Olympics rather than compete with Rhodesia , a nation of strict apartheid policies . After five days of agonizing deliberations , the International Olympic Committee voted narrowly ( 36 to 31 , with three abstentions ) to expel Rhodesia from the Munich games well after the 44-man team had arrived expecting to compete . <P> The Rhodesian athletes were desolated by the decision . Perhaps the bitterest was Bernard Dzoma , 31 , a black long-distance runner from Salisbury who has twice trained for the Olympics . In 1968 he and his teammates were thwarted from participating in the Mexico City games because Mexico did not recognize Rhodesian passports . This year , a full week after he had arrived at the Olympic Village , Dzoma learned he would not run . " All I can say is that I 'm at my end , " he said . " I shall never enter any race again . "                     