@@275989

Debunking a Myth One of the more tenacious Anglo-American myths holds that athletics build character . Competition on the playing field , so the theory goes , breeds the kind of citizens required by a competitive society : physically tough , brave , aggressive and disciplined . That thesis has lost much currency in recent years , partly because of the semiprivate life of Swinger Joe Namath and the locker-room exposes of such ex-jock authors as Jim Bouton and Dave Meggyesy . <P> Two California psychologists now offer empirical evidence that faith in the value of competitive sports is simply not valid . Writing in the current issue of Psychology Today , Professors Bruce Ogilvie and Thomas Tutko of San Diego State College contend that " the personality of the ideal athlete is not the result of any molding process but comes out of the ruthless selection process that occurs at all levels of sport . " The authors further argue that " athletic competition has no more beneficial effects than intense endeavor in any other field . " <P> Eight years in the making , the Ogilvie-Tutko @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The researchers found that successful athletes , while highly organized and respectful of authority , had a " low need to take care of others " and a " low need for affiliation . " The authors found many athletes who were so anxious to succeed that they displayed " severe emotional reactions to stress " ; indeed , they conclude that " competition does n't seem to build character , and it is possible that competition does n't even require much more than a minimally integrated personality . " <P> Part of the present problem , in the age of the self-searching athlete , lies with the coach , who generally believes that " a truly good athlete is also a redblooded , clean-living , truth-telling , prepared patriot . " Those who still embrace this simplistic view , the psychologists conclude , " undoubtedly believe that the wars of England were indeed won on the playing fields of Eton . "                     