@@494641

" Spying arid All , " Mr. Breslin writes ? and he means the whole 93-page book of prose and verse by Williams , published in 1923 , not the later streamlined versions ? " Spring and All , for its startling originality and tense force , must be ranked as one of the major documents of modern literature . " Good ; it 's time that was said . And though most of its pieces are accessible here and there , it 's time for the book to be reissued . Hardly anyone saw it in 1923 , when Bob McAlmon published 300 copies in Paris . Hardly anyone has seen it even now . ( Flow many survive ? The covers of even a well-cared-for copy crumble . ) And it 's where the essential Williams really begins . The book enacts a spring , a springing , of the Imagination ; he thought much about the Imagination in those years . He meant by the Imagination a hardto-place zone where mental clarities occur : You no more experience clarities in your head than you experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? It is beyond the eye , in a space you have learned to create . And where , likewise , is the thought world ? Ah , in the Imagination . Which , Williams meant , is where outdo him in simplifying the complex , and who make sweeping cultural pronouncements with little of the vital historical sense he clearly possesses . Whatever his success personally , he may well be on the track of what the scholar must do to be heard at all in the whirlwind . Generalists are a dime a dozen these days ? running even with the specialists ? but generalists who know something are not . poems are , in a space you must likewise learn to create . " There is a ' special ' place which poems , as all works of art , must occupy , but it is quite definitely the same as that where bricks or colored threads are handled " : are handled , of course , by the intending mind , that can reach through the fingers . The poem that does n't succeed in existing there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opaque board covered with vain curlicues . " In that place Williams called the Imagination we may encounter such a flower as the rose from whose petal 's edge . . . a line starts that being of steel infinitely fine , infinitely rigid penetrates the Milky Way without contact . The mathematical happenings take place in the Imagination too , and it is also the place where the reddish purplish , forked , upstanding , twiggy stuff of bushes and small trees DECEMBER 12 , 1970 bristle and quicken in March . The poem seems to say they are " all along the road , " but that road , being a verbal road , has eluded all maps . All this is so hard to talk about that there is almost no Williams criticism , despite much appreciative writing . It is almost impossible For critics not to be talking about something the words derive from : a yard with a red wheelbarrow ( what to say about that ' ) or the tapestry in the Cloisters , or the geography of Paterson , N.J. When the London Times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " an imaginary town in New Jersey which Williams created as his symbol of America , " it was righter than it knew , though it did n't know how to go on . Mr. Breslin 's book , cleanly written though nowhere exhilarating , does try to talk about happenings in the Imagination , where words collide , He is right to dwell on Spring 1-md All , and what he says thereabouts all points in the right direction ; as when he proposes to show how this jagged , circling movement extends down into the most minute workings of the poem into the line itself . " He notes accurately how " the line breaks do more than isolate the parts ; they also stress the novelty of their combination . . . A pause at the end of a line which is not a complete syntactic unit creates an expectant silence - which is often filled in surprising ways . " So much for the cut-up-prose stereotype . He can show us why the earlier parts of lit the American Grain are better than the later ; he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some length , perhaps the best that can be done for Asphodel , that Cruceny Flower- , where the emotion is so pervasive we 're apt to mistake it for the poetry . ( Mr. Breslin does n't say that , being generous in wanting Williams ' work to have a fine ending ; but he helps one to formulate it . ) Not only better than usual , then : certainly the best short introduction . Yet the book is wholly ( in the best sense ) academic : of the academy : of a quiet place to which poems come to have their tonsils checked . Eli Siegel by contrast can slip without effort right into the place the poems occupy , and still contrive that we shall hear him talking . He talks of " musical nimbleness " : " The scratch , the scrape , the sudden turn , the angle unhooked for - made musical - were the world made 23 ? plain and likable and honest to Williams . " Siegel is neither academic nor otherwise , but sill gencris . " I think that poetry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be proud of eternally . " Into this good time enter " a vowel and consonant drama and a world-as-seen drama , " registered in " one of those mischievous , musical poems in which the universe comes to be present through a few scratches and twirls . " So Siegel can talk fluently about the Wheelbarrow , and why " so much depends ' H " Williams is saying that if a curved useful thing , a wheelbarrow , can he red ; and if the red can be glazed with rain water ? that is , make a one with something different from red , something not of color ; and if the oneness of a red wheelbarrow and rain can be attended by living things in white ? the white chickens ? the diversities of the world , seen boldly , can satisfy human life and a particular mind . " Wow . Wow indeed ; he has three pages on that poem , simply wanting to do it justice ( for " so much depends . . . " ) ; they are three of the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , no , not even " barrow " as " a study in the power of the magnificent consonant 11 along with two heavy vowels , a and ow , separated by two growling and functional r 's ; " never forgetting that " while these prosodic and perceptual things are going on , rain is making ontological love to a red wheelbarrow . " The critic like the poem is free in that strange zone , the Imagination , where vowels may growl and rain make ontological love , and where Pythagoras vv. -I , : at home . Unhappily , fewer than a quarter of the aoo pages in The WillianN-Siegel Docwneniary give us Siegel 's dealings with Williams ' imagination . The rest documents an apparently obsessive grievance . Williams wrote ( Nov. 3 , lo , i ) an enthusiastic letter about Siegek poems ; Siegel lectured on Williams , and Williams was present and pleased ; Williams arranged for Siegel to participate in a reading . And then  - -  and then Siegel , and Mrs. Siegel , and the members of the Society for Aesthetic Realism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. . cool . And he grew no warmer , and did n't answer letters ; and the Siegels persisted ; and Mrs. Siegel made anxious diary entries , and wrote to Williams that she could make allowancesfor his silence , since " ES , as lie is , so humble and so great , is more than most egos can stand ; " and that ES could do Williams good , because " There is something you want to see ; he knows what it is . There is something you want to know ; he can teach you how . " And still the silence persisted . No frail convalescent of 70 wants to be quite so submergingly done good to . The prodding continued . And two years ago Mrs. Williams , through New Directions , felt compelled to notify the Aesthetic Realists that she " did not wish any of ( The classics that Marge Piercy has chosen as models are those dark fantasies , like Lord of the Flies and Lord of the Rings , lord-books heavy with pessimism and persecution , and animated by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winners are somehow always losers . Dance the Eagle Dunn tells the story of some not-too-distant time in which a small army of youth , drawn together by mutual feelings of alienation and hostility towards an oppressive , deWilliam Carlos Williams ' poems republished in connection with Eli Siegel 's lecture . " So it 's a sad book , the Aesthetic Realists standing sparsely about its decor like a Martha Graham troupe while Eli Siege ! wastes his gifts enacting the injured Party . One of the girls breaks formation briefly to testify that " Eli Siegel is the greatest critic there ever has been . " No one needs that kind of praise . What Williams helped us see in Siegel , what Siegel helps us see in Williams , these clarities persist . It 's a pity human beings always want more . humanized System , declare themselves a nation apart . Secession first takes the form of an armed takeover of a New York City high school and the establishment of a communal lifestyle during the ensuing seige . Though the initial revolt is put down , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prolonged period of communal experience , self-imposed and underground exile which is followed by a suicidal episode of guerrilla counter-attack . The resulting holocaust of repression by " them " scatters and decimates the rebels , but like an earlier Civil War , does not diminish the spirit of secession . The firestorm passes , leaving smoldering embers that are carefully nurtured by the surviving few . Ray Mungo corroborates the simplism of Reich III by unintentionally ( or inadvertently ) speaking for a whole generation of rebels . His model is Henry Thoreau ( by way of Jack Kerouac ) , but he has reversed Thoreau 's progress from pacific transcendental revolt to the championing of John Brown : starting as a rebel , he ends up a recluse , nurturing his new consciousness in Vermont . The implication of autobiography always tends toward the universal . As Mungo goes , so goes Wood 