@@315763

ETCHED majestically against the endless green curtain of Cambodia 's jungle , the graceful colonnades and parapets of Angkor memorialize a civilization that ruled most of Indochina nearly 1,000 years ago . Last week , in the war that will determine Indochina 's future rulers , Vietnamese Communist troops occupied parts of the massive , ancient complex , scattering storage areas , hospitals and military emplacements near its statuary and intricately carved walls . For the first time since 1431 , when the forebears of modern Thailand pillaged Angkor , the seat of Khmer culture was occupied by foreigners . <P> The Communist presence in the ruins of Angkor was symptomatic of the war 's tidal movement throughout Indochina . In supposedly neutral Laos , North Vietnamese forces overran and held the southern provincial capital of Saravane , which has for two years been a U.S. air-supplied island within the Communist-held countryside . The city 's fall could well indicate that the Communists , who already control most of northeastern Laos , intend to tighten their grip on the country 's southern reaches . In South Viet Nam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the northernmost I Corps with shellings , sapper raids and the bloodiest assault on civilians in more than two years ( see following story ) . <P> Two Life Lines . But Cambodia remained the war 's focal point . Along Cambodia 's eastern border , U.S. troops , working against a pullback deadline that expires in less than two weeks , continued to uncover rich veins of buried Communist supplies in the sanctuary areas . But the U.S. sweep seemed only to push the Communist forces deeper into Cambodia . Roving forces of Communist troops kept pressure on three provincial capitals , including Siem Reap . the gateway to Angkor , and Kompong Speu , only 24 miles southwest of the capital , Phnom-Penh . The widening Communist attacks spread Premier Lon Nol 's forces so thin that his strategists were seriously discussing a kind of grand enclave plan for the country . The Cambodian army would pull back to a corridor stretching from the seaport of Kompong Som ( formerly Sihanouk-ville ) to Phnom-Penh and northwest to the Thai border , tacitly ceding the rest of Cambodia to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lon Nol with roughly half the country to defend , including the fish-and rice-producing region around the Tonle Sap and the Angkor area . The regions given over to the Communists would include the northeast , where they already dominate , the eastern border regions and the rugged Cardamom Mountains in the southwest . <P> The admission that Phnom-Penh does not control much of the rest of the country would be a severe psychological blow to Lon Nol 's government but would probably constitute a wise military move . As it is , says one Western military analyst , the Cambodian army 's desperate holding action resembles " a skater gliding over a lake of rotten ice . No matter how fast he tries , the ice keeps breaking up , and pretty soon there is nowhere left to skate . "                     