@@488053

Between the appearance of the President 's Seal of Office on the tube and the emergence of Mr. Nixon himself , one at least of the networks managed to hndwich in an Esso commercial about " the new big plus . " There was really nothing in the speech that was new , or big , or much of a plug . He spoke , it is true , of peace , but in terms so vague that both Senators Stennis and Hatfield could approve what he said . The speech did offer at least the outline of a plan , and it avoided any threats . In fact there was a papal piety about the rhetoric and the delivery that contrasted sharply with the rough-tough speeches of his surrogate , the Vice President . Of course , a cease-fire in place would be welcome , however difficult its enforcement . Of course , the release of all prisoners of war would help to establish a degree of confidence . And of course , the idea of a larger Indochina Peace Conference is a sensible proposal ( though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to our side of the table ) , as is the specific , publicly announced timetable for troop withdrawals . But these suggestions , in one form or another , have been floating about for some time . Unless Hanoi is thoroughly exhausted , which seems doubtful , there is little in the plan that would appeal to the North Vietnamese . It places a working military settlement ahead of . a political settlement and hence gives , at the moment , an advantage to the United States and South Vietnamese in the most densely populated sectors . And since the President says that we intend to withdraw in any case , the addition of a specific timetable may not make much difference to the North Vietnamese . If accepted , the plan would give the Thieu regime the upper hand in South Vietnam . But of course the President was merely offering a plan , a set of proposals , and some of the North Vietnamese objections might be removed through meaningful negotiation . Obviously this was not a take-it-or-leave-it offer , and the representatives of Hanoi and the Vietcong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maneuvering by casting their denunciations of the speech in terms that carefully avoid rejecting it . The advance billing and promotion which the President personally gave the speech , as well as its tenor and timing , suggest that it was primarily aimed at the U.S. electorate . Sensitive to the charge of " politics , " the Administration contends that the military situation prevented the making of a cease-fire until this precise moment . But this precise moment happens to be perfect timing from the point of view of the Congressional elections  --  it is unlikely that the President 's words can turn hollow before November 3 . Politically the speech was effective . It will , along with the Administration 's clever public relations , further " de-fuse " the issue of the war . It was more pacific in tone than anything Mr. Nixon has said to date , and it reflects , to a degree , some of the views of some of the critics of his Vietnamese policy . In brief , the speech is sound politics  --  the President no doubt will follow it up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but diplomatically it was neither new nor big nor much of a plus . Not So Hawkish Sen. William Proxmire is sometimes pictured as a Don Quixote from Wisconsin , doing , battle with the Pentagon in a hopeless effort to reduce military appropriations to a reasonable level . In point of fact , Senator Proxmire is largely responsible for the cuts of recent years in the swollen Pentagon budget  --  and he has formidable support both in the Congress and among the voters . The military spenders have cause to be worried about Proxmire 's analyses , and the taxpayers are not unmindful of his long-continued efforts on their behalf . A glance at the Congressional Record ? Senate , September 24 , 1970 , S-16436 ? leaves no doubt on that point . The Gallup poll which Proxmire had read into the Record of that date put the question as follows : " Congress is currently debating how much , money should be spent for military purposes . Would yOu like to have your Congressman vote to keep spending for military purposes at the present level , increase the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in percentages , were as follows : deleted table This poll probably understates the sentiment against lavish military spending . A voter who feels strongly on the issue is likely to favor either an increase or a reduction . The " present level " is the easiest choice , for those who have not paid much attention . to the- debates in Congress or who are in the " President knows best " category . But since the trend is clearly toward reduction , the chances are that if they studied the matter , the " present level " group would divide in a ratio favoring those inclined toward reduction . The details of this analysis are revealing in several respects . If we ignore the " no opinion " group , a clear majority of the entire sample would prefer to have their Congressman vote to reduce military spending . Even in the South , invariably the most bellicose section of the country , and richly endowed by the military , only 12 per cent of those polled favor an increase . The better educated the voter is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those with a college background , young voters ( 21-29 ) are 60 per cent in favor of reduction . There is no significant difference between the views of Democrats and Republicans , but there is a considerable preponderance on the reduction side among independent voters . Senator Proxmire compared the results of the Gallup poll with one of his own . In August he sent a questionnaire to his Wisconsin constituents and received about 12,500 replies . The question was how the constituents would vote on the President 's $73.6 billion military budget for fiscal 1971 . Sixty-six per cent wanted the amount reduced , 30 per cent favored holding it at the proposed level , only 4 per cent favored an increase . Those who replied may not be representative of the entire Wisconsin electorate , but the result does coincide fairly well with ' the Midwest figures in the Gallup poll . It would seem , therefore , that Secretary Laird 's asser- , tion that the proposed $68.7 billion budget represents " rock bottom " is. not taken too seriously , either by the electorate or by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House Appropriations Committee cut it by $2.1 billion , and when the bill reaches the Senate further cuts may be proposed . Senator Proxmire merits great praise , but he does not appear to be in a political plight calling for commiseration . The War and the Law It would not be quite accurate to say that the Indochinese war has disappeared from the news . It is still 0 , there , but in a quiescent state that does not constitute a critical problem . This subsidence of an explosive issue is the public relations coup of the Nixon Administration . It was accomplished by highly publicized withdrawals of ground and support troops , while the war in the air continues practically unabated ; by a reduction in American casualties to what appears to be an acceptable level ; by the gimmick of Vietnamization ; by President . Nixon 's posturing as a Quaker whose heart 's desire is to bring peace to the world ; by off-the-record White House 4. briefings of newspaper publishers ; by Vice President Agnew 's public whippings of anti-war Senators , regardless of party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Agnew 's discovery that " permissiveness " has brought the country to its present pass ; and much else that is equally meretricious . The fact remains that , morals aside , a notable public relations success has been achieved by the warmongers . It is by no means total , however . The Cambodian phase of media whaavreisgo ingadlythfoe for " our " the e psiden.blAiendr e , mwaibnilse uthne easy . The Hatfield-McGovern plan , which was rejected soft-pedaled by the Senate 55 to 39 , is actually favored by a majority of voters . According to a Gallup poll reported at the end of September , the men of the nation are about equally divided on the issue , but the women favor getting out of Vietnam by the end of next year by a phenomenal ratio  --  more than 2 to 1 . The result is that nationally those favoring Hatfield-McGovern number 55 per cent , those against 36 per cent , with 9 per ' cent expressing no opinion . Moreover , with the election less than a month 6 , away , the percentages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 61-29-10 . The issue is becoming increasingly partisan . Another precarious element on the hawk side hinges on a ruling by U.S. District Judge William Sweigert . The Administration has been pleading with the Supreme Court not to " hem in " the President by ruling on the constitu-tionality of the war . Judge Sweigert has before him the I case of three Berkeley law students , also military reservists , who challenge the legality of the war on the ground that it yds never declared by Congress and hence violates the Constitution . In a 28-page discus.sion of the legal aspects , pending a final ruling after government attorneys have filed an answer , Judge Sweigert urges the courts to " discharge their traditional responsibility for interpreting the Constitution . . . . " He aims his criticism particularly at , the Supreme Court . Citizens who are not aware that a district judge may properly direct scathing language toward his judicial superiors should read Judge Sweigert 's discussion of the issues . The Supreme Court , he points out , struck down as unconstitutional President Truman 's seizure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other interventions , Judge Sweigert comments that " to shy away on ' political question ' grounds from interfering with a Presidential war . . . would be to strain at a gnat and swallow a camel . " The conjurers in the White House may yet find themselves in trouble . Uncle Cries ' Uncle ' Among our client nations , Greece is the one that has most recently forced the United States to cry " uncle . " Having for more than three years applied a " limited " arms embargo on the colonels without in any notable degree , transforming them into Jeffersonian Democrats : the Pentagon and White House have now decided to resume full shipments of military hardware . The colonels have operated by the kind of blackmail that , to our pained surprise , is invariably applied by re , pressive regimes whom we befriend . If they did not get the tanks and planes , they eloquently shrugged , it seemed regrettably inevitable that they would be unable to maintain the segment of the NATO cordon sariitaire that had been entrusted to Greece . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by purges and defections among its most experienced officers , to the point where its effective-ness is dubious , was not raised by the Greeks and certainly not by Defense Secretary Laird on his recent visit . ) How important NATO really is to the nations of the West , what with nationalism fragmenting the globe and the super-nation cold war somewhat abated , is never discussed ; it is enough that the " idea " of NATO implements the international flow of luxurious and expensive devices of mass slaughter . And the colonels were probably under no necessity to argue their indispensability to the long , thin line of freedom , since they have another ace up their sleeve : Greece is the only country of the eastern Mediterranean that allows the Sixth Fleet free access to its ports , and , the Russians have been busily showing the hammer and sickle in those waters . In a sense , it is a blow for honesty to have the pseudo tntbargo lifted . If it was designed to coerce the colonels into respectable domestic behavior , it was singularly ill-adapted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sort used in serious international encounters  --  were cut off ; the small stuff that one employs to put down popular resistance and silence inconvenient voices continued to arrive as before . Furthermore , replacement parts for the heavy equipment already in Greece were not banned , and since the army of the colonels used such items only for parade and crowd intimidation , it was feasible to keep the battalions bristling , though of course not in every case with the latest models . At that , they got a good deal of up-to-date stuff , because from time to time  --  as during the Russian invasion of ? Czechoslovakia  --  the embargo was lifted long enough to allow some current models through the gate . As Senator Fulbright said recently : " There is a sad but familiar ring to this entire affair . We espouse high-sounding principles on the one hand , while dealing with dictators for military bases on the other . " What Mr. Laird got for the United States in exchange for resuming the full arms traffic is not easily determined . The colonels , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; in return , they spoke of " liberalizing " their regime  --  a promissory note that is hard to cash . It is said , for example , that the junta may stop using its military courts to try those in political opposition  --  the sort of mockery of justice described by Ernest Goodman on page 363 of this issue . They may indeed go through some such form , , but they are not likely to free the political prisoners in their jails , or to remove the threat of censorship fforn the press ; aid it will not be difficult to keep the civilian courts subservient to the colonels ' orders . By our handling of the embargo we have certainly taught the colonels a lesson : it is that tyranny pays . Father Hesburgh 's Proposal The New York Times of October 1 carried an article by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh , president of Notre Dame University , titled " A Proposal for Mideast Peace , " and subtitled , " Could the Arabs and Israelis Build a New Nuclear State in Sinai ? " Father @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solve the problem of the displaced Palestinians . " Modern science , " he argued , ' " makes this possible if only , for once , we would use it for peace and construction rather than for war and destruction . " Only a single exception can be taken to Father Hesburgh 's description : the plan is bold , but hardly new . In the early 1960s Dr. R. Philip Hammond , a chemical engineer at the Los Alamos nuclear weapons center , conceived a plan for production of nuclear power on a scale so huge that it could desalinize water economically for irrigation . Dr. Alvin M. Weinberg , director of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory , borrowed Dr. Hammond from Los Alamos and set him up at Oak Ridge as chief of the Saline Water- Conversion Reactor Program , essentially a study group . The Nation sent its science editor to Oak Ridge to report on the proposal and published two articles : " The Big Atom : Solving the Water Shortage " ( December 28 , 1963 ) and " Atomic Power : The Fear and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The latter article alluded to the Israeli-Arab conflict : " When  --  if ever  --  the Arab masses can come to understand the conflict between their interests and those of their rulers and , concomitantly , the identity of their interests with those of the Jews , the North African and Arabian deserts can ? . . be transformed by nuclear distillation of sea water . " One of America 's leading investment bankers , Lewis L. Strauss , chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission ( 1953-58 ) and Secretary of Commerce under President Eisenhower , took an interest in the matter and made repeated efforts to promote it as the " Eisenhower Plan " for the Middle East . The Nation has given frequent editorial support . These and other efforts have so far come to nought . The Israeli-Arab conflict , and diplomatic efforts to resolve it , have been posited on the preniise that there is only so much arable land in the area and that the Israelis and Arabs must fight over it , or be forced into some kind of territorial division that will be satisfactory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States have concurred in the resulting sterile policies . The consequence is recurring and increasingly dangerous warfare , while the creative solution has received little attention at high levels of government . Putting the cart before the horse , the great powers have assumed that there can not be collaboration in making the deserts bloom until some kind of peace can be patched up between the warring nations and their great-power sponsors and arms suppliers . Now that Father Hesburgh has called attention to this travesty of statecraft , perhaps the nuclear solution will find support . He is no novice in this field ; he served as Permanent Vatican Representative ' to the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna which , he points out , could help manage the project . The difficulties are formidable , but if Admiral Strauss , a prominent American Jew , and Father Hesburgh , a leading American Catholic , could enlist the support of the Nixon Administration , the Vatican and others in this proposal , peace would have a chance . Alternatively , the Middle East ' is the , most likely incubator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the supposition that Vice President Agnew is not .4 utterly guileless in matters political , his attack upon Sen-ator Goodell is one of the stranger performances of his vindictive vaudeville . He must know , or there must be those among his advisers who know , that he is anathema in New York , and particularly in downstate New York , where Senator Goodell must hope to find the bulk of his support . That being so , the Vice President 's stomping upon his fellow Republican can only have the . effect of throwing votes to Goodell . But whence will come these votes ? Not from the ' Buckley ranks , surely ; rather they will be drawn L from the support for Representative Ottinger , the Democratic candidate who , all hands agree , is at present con ' sideraNy the front runner : And if votes can be diverted . from Ottinger to Goodell , the race could end in a three-man blanket finish , with Buckley 's chances measurably 9 " improved . Agnew could get nowhere attacking Ottingerit would be merely routine politics  --  but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the staunchly " loyalist " Vice President may be pursuing his goal by indirection . , In that case , Governor Rockefeller , who has rather roughly invited the Vice President to pick up his marbles and let New York decide its own political future , is ? wittingly or unwittingly playing Agnew 's game . Mr. Rockefeller has a long experience in politics , and if this possibility occurs to us it must also occur to him . Thus the situation would be that Agnew is attacking Goodell in order to win him votes and allow Buckley to ' defeat Ottinger , and Rockefeller is making faces at Agnew in order to advance this plot . Machiavelli would smile . , It is possible , of course , that he , would smile at the above hypothesis . When politicians behave in ways that seem irrational , there is always the temptation to assume that they have been reading ' The Prince , whereas in fact they may be behaving like routine politicians . It is too early to decide whether Machiavelli has had a hand in this-stew . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on November 3 , the voters in New York may have to make up their minds whom they will help if they cast a vote of righteous indignation for Charles Goodell  --  who , plots and double-crosses notwithstanding , is a first-rate candidate . But so is Ottinger , and the real point is to prevent Buckley from climbing to office on their shoulders . Good Nutrition ? Only in Spurts - Shoppers throughout the nation may have noticed their friendly supermarkets sprouting with neat graphics urging them to " eat the four basic foods every day , " and their local newspapers singing the nutritional praises of hamburgers . Lest they wonder whether the food giants are undergoing a change of heart , this is a two-month national nutritional awareness campaign run by an industry that is willing to repent in September and October for some - of the damage it does to the country 's nutrition all year long . The idea was hatched at the White House Conference on Food , Nutrition and Health last December , when the industry was rapped for its lack of interest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calories . " The campaign is sponsored by the Food Council of America , an umbrella group of trade associations which was formed a few years ago to push two " food is a bargain " campaigns , and which has now been reactivated in a good cause . But even as show-window repentance , the new campaign does not rate very high . Nutritionists like Dr. Jean Mayer have criticized it for being greatly oversimplified , weak on solid information , and too free with windy slogans like " food is . . . the wonderful world of the supermarket . . . the health you ? find on super-. market shelves . " A deeper , flaw is that good nutrition simply can not be promoted like a National Donut Week , when what is needed is a massive reorientation of ? the public 's eating habits . Recent U.S. Department of Agriculture , surveys show that the ' country 's nutritional level is no matter for pride . It has been gradually falling over the years as we eat more meat , baked goods , snacks , cereals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and vegetables . As a result , even the middle class can suffer from mild but chronic deficiencies of iron , calcium and key vitamins . The poor are even worse off . As the nutrition campaign was getting under way , a study by a San Francisco citizen 's group , the United Health Alliance , showed that many West Coast families could spend MO or less per person on a meal , and fewer than 20 per cent of welfare families eligible for food stamps were actually getting them . While the local supermarkets blossomed under their new display material , a band of elderly San Franciscans picketed a local restaurant chain for jacking ' up its special lunch by 250 to $1.25 . Poverty is ' not , of course , the , food industry 's responsibility , but food manufacturers must take a good deal of blame for exploiting the national weakness for tasty , convenient but non-nutritious food . ' Last year they spent $2.6 billion to promote their products , devoting most of it not to the " four basic foods " but to breakfast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beer , soft drinks , candy , snacks and desserts . Given the addiction to " empty calories , " a sounder approach would bei to undertake the judicious but widespread fortification of marginal foods ( a few manufacturers are already doing so ) . It would , of course , cost money , not to mention extensive changes in federal food standards . But the country at large would be better nourished , and the jolly green food giants could be good boys all year round , ? JENNIFER CROSS A Convenient Clubbing Cambodia and Kent State triggered protests ' on many campuses around the nation , including Portland State University , at Portland , Ore . There , striking students erected barricades in the streets surrounding the campus and set up on the Park Blocks , an esplanade which runs through the campus , a large canvas shelter , which they called a " hospital tent . " After some debate , little of it heated , the barricades  --  which had kept no student from going to class  --  were dismantled . Except for a few minor incidents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was relative calm , The only real symbol of the strike remained the hospital tent . The student demonstrators asserted that they had received verbal permission to keep the tent up until May 12 , the day following the removal of the barricades . But the Mayor , Terry Schrunk , egged on by City Commissioner Francis Ivancie , a hard-line right-winger , dispatched the tough , battle-geared TOP ( Tactical Operation Squad ) cops , trained for riot duty and armed with riot weapons , to remove it . The TOP Squad advanced upon the tent and ordered the students around it to disperse . The students locked , arms and remained firm and quiet . The commander of the TOP Squad then announced that " those who do n't disperse , consider yourselves under arrest . " When the students held their ground , the cops charged , cracking heads , beating a man with his own crutches , jabbing their clubs into the stomachs of ' women , and flailing the fallen . When a high police official was later asked why the students had n't been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explained ' that it was too much of an ' inconvenience to arrest the students and that there was n't enough jail space for them . Newspaper and TV reporters at the scene were shocked and outraged , but when they reported their observations they were subjected to a flood of abusive calls and letters . The mail which poured into City Hall was overwhelmingly pro-cop , and if any regret was expressed it was that , not enough blood had been spilled . Naturally , the Maydr and Ivancie upheld the police . Some citizens did protest the police action , however . These included Portland State " jocks " who had been gung ho for law and order until the TOP Squad 's busting bee , and a small group of courageous women . In response to these protests , the Metropolitan Human RightS Commission , a standing body appointed by the Mayor , launched an investigation of its own . Its finding 's , released recently , revealed that the students did indeed have permission to keep the tent up until the next day ; that three police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removal " ; that " no attempt was made to effect arrests at the tent prior to the use of force " ; that the police " erred in the method used to remove the tent " ; and that " the TOP Squad employed violence in a nonviolent situation . " The Human Rights Commission also concluded that the police acted in violation of Oregon state law , in that " no attempt was made to effect ' arrests and summary punishment was meted out instead of arrests being made . " , The Mayor , previously shaken by the bloodletting and the switch of " jocks " into the ranks of the protesters , said he would study the report .                     