@@289259

FICTION The Flounder by Gunter Grass . Germany 's finest novelist orders up a vast helping of Northern European history for his tour de force that joins themes of nutrition , sexual politics and the inevitability of love and folly . The Stories of John Cheever . The author 's reputation as a master of the American short story is now signed , sealed and delivered in this gathering of nearly 50 years ' work that mythologizes the anxious affluence of the suburban class . The World According to Garp by John Irving . A long family novel that exhibits awesome talent for meshing melodrama and tragedy , pathos and comedy . Shosha by Isaac Bashevis Singer . In his eighth novel the Nobel laureate again evokes his native prewar Warsaw in a tale of a young man who turns from fortune and freedom to be true to his traditions . The Coup by John Updike . An imaginary African nation-arid , politically awry and culturally deformed by cheap Western goods-is the stage for this bittersweet , vividly written book . <P> <P> NONFICTION A Childhood by Harry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ memoir of an inexhaustible literary arena , the Depression South , when " there was n't enough cash money in the county to close up a dead man 's eyes . " A Distant Mirror by Barbara Tuchman . By detailing the tears and triumphs of the human condition in 14th century Europe , the author gives a human face to one of the most disastrous of centuries . American Caesar by William Manchester . A sometimes overwrought but always compelling account of General Douglas MacArthur , an authentic hero brought up by military tradition and brought down by private arrogance . A Personal Adventure by Theodore H. White . The megajournalist in search of history recalls the sights , sounds , persons and episodes he witnessed while whipping around in the slipstream of American power . A Place for Noah by Josh Greenfeld . The story of an autistic child and his coping family , told with warmth and unfailing humor .                     