@@491832

REFORMED CHURCH IN AMERICA : OLDER THAN THE NATION ITSELF . by Donna Nason It was winter . The young Dutch minister gathered his wife and two small children about him as they gazed at the tidy farms , the straight , flat terrain of The Netherlands .. The communities of Hem and Venhuizen spread out before them , drowsy in the early morning frost . Towering above the landscape rose the brick steeple of a Gothic cathedral , its cock-topped weathervane reaching toward heaven . Calmly Jonas Michaelius studied the graceful , pointed arch windows , memorizing every line of the cross-shaped structure , visualizing the sermons he had delivered there , the weddings and baptisms celebrated within its massive walls . His church , his home . Abruptly his mind forced hilt back to the present . He pictured the sturdy Dutch ship waiting in the nearby harbor of Enkhuizen , its bare masts stark against the slate sky . The time had come . The journey had barely begun . The year was 1628 . His destination : New Amsterdam . His mission : to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World ; or , as he phrased it , " We must all have no other object than the glory of God in the buildlonger ministers only to the Dutch . But not one day has passed from that time to this that a minister of the R.C.A. has not been proclaiming God 's word to North America . The denomination is not imposing in size , boasting only 350,000 members , yet it contains two of the most internationally influential preachers of modern time . Dr. Norman Vincent Peale , the originator of the Positive Thinking concept that swept America upon the publication of his first book in 1952 , The Power of Positive Thinking , is the senior pastor of Marble Collegiate Church in New York City . A continent away , on the Pacific Coast of California , the Possibility Thinking Dr. Robert Schuller leads his 9,000-member congregation at Garden Grove Community Church and broadcasts his nationally syndicated television program , " The Hour of Power . " ? Scattered across the country , some 950 congregations of the Reformed Church in America are serving their communities in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dutch settled in North America , with a large concentration in New York and New Jersey and other clusters centered around Chicago ( Michigan and Iowa settlements are the largest ) . Another large group is found in Canada , where generous immigration policies attracted a substantial number of Dutch immigrants fleeing from the ravages of the Second World War . For many years the R.C.A. considered its purpose to be a ministry to the Dutch , even occasionally closing churches when there were no longer any Dutch in the community . This theory being long outmoded , the R.C.A. ? often called the biggest little church in the United States  --  is now forging ahead in all directions . It sees the minorities of our country as a fertile mission field and seeks to establish new congregations to serve these communities . Attempting to penetrate the Deep South , an area where its sphere of influence has always been extremely weak , it is forming a new church in Cary , North Carolina . It is experimenting with new concepts of church organization , a prime example of which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Texas . There three pastors will form a group ministry , each caring for all three congregations and each one concentrating in his own area of specialization . The three fields will be experimental evangelism , education , and liturgy and worship . They expect two congregations to be housed in separate facilities and the third congregation to be a church without a building . Vice President of the denomination , Rev. Edwin Mulder , claims to be first of all a parish pastor , second a church administrator . He cares deeply about the entire denomination but explains there to whom English is a second language . Fifty-nine percent of the population lives in multiple dwellings . He feels one of the great challenges of the church is to create a sense of community for these people . " The church has not yet found the answer of how to reach the high-rise dweller , " Mulder says , punctuating his sentence with a well-placed sigh . For two years now , Mulder 's congregation has opened a hospitality center called the Joyful Inn on the main shopping street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is a way to do good for people in the name of Christ , to remind them of what Christmas is all about . It is a place for weary shoppers to rest and enjoy a free cup of coffee . Balloons and shopping bags are given out , puppet shows presented . There is a literature table with Bibles and other materials presenting the Christian message . It provides a way to share the life-changing story of Jesus with hurting , lonely people . The street kids gather there , eager to help blow up balloons . Reverend Mulder smiles , " In the midst of the commercialism of modern-day Christmas , Christ is there . " How does a church permeate an urban area ? People are often intimidated by the Gothic church buildings . People need to see people . This concept seems to be one of the driving forces of the Reformed Church in America today . As an indication of the importance placed on church growth within the denomination , individual congregations raised $6 million for that purpose in1977-78 ? over and above the usual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and missionary work . Foreign missionary work has always received an unusual amount of attention , although some has been curtailed due to political problems , especially in China and Africa and other countries of extreme political unrest . There are currently active missionaries in Mexico , Taiwan , Ethiopia , Japan , Hong Kong , Singapore , the Philippines , India , and the cluster of countries known as Arabia . A relatively new concept in missions is underway in Venezuela , where the R.C.A. is working hand-in-hand with an established Pentecostal church there . The new style of ministry overseas  --  developing in the R.C.A. as well as in other denominational and private groups  --  is that of being a supporter of and a co-laborer with churches already on the scene , of giving aid to existing congregations in terms of church growth . What are the goals of the Reformed Church in America ? They are mainly interested in programs relating to people . It is not so much a matter of forcing denominational doctrines as it is an act of loving people into a relationship with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They want to present the Gospel in such a way that people will respond to it and accept God as their motivation for life . They feel the church has a responsibility to respond to things that are important to the quality of life in our world , The R.C.A. emphasizes personal growth , stretching the mind and spirit , helping people to be able to deal with social issues on an individual level . They are interested in their sphere of influence . Can they influence each congregation and its community ? They are concerned about the small church 's ability to survive in an inflationary economy . They have a desire to share their belief that the Christian faith contains the answers to modern man 's problems and questions . One of their main thrusts is to minister in a meaningful way to the city dwellers . It is apparent that this historic denomination , born in an obscure grist mill surrounded by wilderness , is ever growing and changing , always struggling to maintain its identity and integrity in a fast-moving world . True to Reformed tradition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 