@@317731

A ceasefire , but both sides are prepared for further war <P> A shaky ceasefire , as cease-fires always seem to be , took hold in Lebanon last week , but East Beirut was a smouldering ruin . In that battered section of the city , once home to 600,000 Maronite Christians , rescue workers picked through the rubble in search of the dead and dying . Glassy-eyed survivors crept cautiously out of basement shelters , scurrying back to safety when Syrian snipers cut loose with automatic weapons . A number of would-be refugees , seeking to join the exodus that has emptied East Beirut of more than two-thirds of its residents , were mowed down by Syrian machine guns as they tried to cross the bridges leading to Christian strongholds outside the city . Five other people were wounded as they attempted to cross the " green line " separating Muslim and Christian sections of Beirut . In effect , East Beirut was under siege : the 30,000-man Syrian peace-keeping force kept 3,500 Christian militiamen and 150,000 civilians bottled up within easy range of the heavy artillery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighting since the end of the civil war in 1976 . <P> Even as intermittent bursts of cannon fire marred the uneasy calm , both the Christians and their enemies prepared for a new outbreak of fighting . From Damascus , convoys of Syrian trucks transported 8,600 heavily armed Palestine Liberation Army commandos to fortified positions in Beirut . The P.L. A. commandos will be the backbone of a new Syrian-controlled antimilitia alliance comprising leftist Lebanese Muslims , Yasser Arafat 's Palestine Liberation Organization and an army commanded by pro-Syrian Christian for mer President Suleiman Franjieh . The Arab League mandate under which the Syrian peace-keeping force has occupied Lebanon since 1976 will be reviewed on Oct. 28 . If the league orders Damascus to withdraw its troops , the new force could still press the offensive against the Christian militias with Syrian arms and ammunition . <P> Israel , too , was building up its Christian allies : the " Tigers " commanded by former President Camille Chamoun and the Phalangist fighters under Pierre Gemayel . By night , Israeli ships brought in arms , medical supplies and food to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israeli advisers - distinguishable from their Christian clients because they do not wear the pearl-handled revolvers and outsize crosses favored by the swaggering militiamen - were providing counsel and logistical support . Christian officers of the Lebanese armed forces turned over to the militiamen an arsenal of U.S. weapons that had been destined for the country 's moribund , ineffective army . Contemplating the grim fact that more than two dozen armed factions are now operating in Lebanon , Militia Leader Chamoun asked pointedly : " What is Lebanon - a sovereign state or a whorehouse ? "                     