@@314764

Every high school civics student is taught that " in all criminal prosecutions , " the Sixth Amendment guarantees defendants " assistance of counsel . " It was not until 1963 , however , that the Supreme Court 's Gideon decision extended that right to all those accused of felonies in state-court proceedings . Yet most defendants still did not benefit because 90% of them were tried for non-felony offenses in lower state and local courts-the so-called sausage factories of the criminal-justice system . Not until a 1972 decision involving a Floridian convicted without a lawyer of a misdemeanor did the court finally rule that " no person may be imprisoned for any offense . . . unless he was represented by counsel at his trial . " Legal experts viewed Argersinger v. Hamlin as a landmark commanding wholesale change in criminal-justice procedures . <P> Token Reform . Did the change happen ? Not at all , according to a comprehensive survey being released this week by Boston University 's Center for Criminal Justice . The five-volume report , product of an 18-month study of nine sample cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature , " reform " has been chaotic and uneven at best , " and the assurance of legal representation remains " an empty right for many defendants . " <P> To judges long-pressed by the glut of an estimated 5 million non-felony cases , the key words of Argersinger must have been those permitting " a knowing and intelligent waiver " of the right to counsel . That phrase , says the center , " has resulted in a 95% waiver rate in some lower courts . " In Houston and Belle Glade , Fla. , according to the report , " it is assumed that a defendant has waived counsel unless he aggressively asserts . the right . " In other jurisdictions , " defendants perceive , correctly or not , a tacit rule of court that those who ask for counsel are treated more harshly . " Defendants of modest means are supposed to get free lawyers , but the financial screening can be arbitrary . In Birmingham , for example , center staffers found that the " posting of bail was used to declare a defendant financially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawyers are made available , the quality of representation is frequently dismal . In some cities , public defenders have picked up the new mass of defendants without a commensurate increase in staff . Elsewhere , court-assigned counsel are used- " usually novices gaining experience , or court ' regulars . ' " Whoever the lawyer is , he usually meets his client for the first time only minutes before the trial . The study calls this " hallway advocacy " and criticizes " most of the legal profession " and the law schools for shunning the lower criminal courts and letting them remain " invisible and disreputable . " To make new lawyers aware of the problem , the center recommends that law students be hired to assist lawyers who work in such courts . It also endorses widespread use of prepaid insurance for legal services .                     