@@275985

Saigon 's Puvlishing Perils Each afternoon in Saigon , as South Viet Nam 's 57 dailies start their press runs , the first copies are rushed to the office of the national press director . A battery of readers in Vietnamese , Chinese , French and English gives them a fast run-through , and officials decide which papers are to be seized that day for running articles they consider unacceptable . Word is flashed to police with walkie-talkies stationed outside the printing plants of habitual offenders . While the cops carry stacks of banned papers out the front door , staffers often spirit out the back as many copies as they can for clandestine circulation in anti-regime activist ranks . <P> The seriocomic seizure game was stepped up during President Nguyen Van Thieu 's one-man run for reelection . Before the campaign started in late August , newspaper seizures for the year totaled 291 . Since then , up to the time the polls closed last week , there were nearly 200 more , and virtually all victims were anti-Thieu papers . The wonder is that the regime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seizures seldom suppress a paper entirely , and because the Vietnamese press has a longstanding reputation for venality , relatively few people pay much attention to its attacks on Thieu in the first place . <P> Resort to Radio . A new press law passed last year proclaims that " censorship is prohibited , " but it also provides that " the exercise of press freedom shall not be harmful to personal honor , national security or traditional morality . " That large loophole leaves Thieu free to crack down on his critics . Chief sufferer has been Tin Sang ( Morning News ) , a reputable opposition daily owned by a tough Catholic politician . Ngo Cong Duc ( TIME , Sept. 6 ) . The paper has been seized 166 times so far this year , and Duc 's home , office and printing plant have been vandalized or fire-bombed five times . Once the best-selling serious paper in Viet Nam , Tin Sang 's circulation has fallen by half , to 50,000 . " Why does the government try to muzzle the opposition papers ? " Duc asks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not read papers they want to read , they will listen to the Viet Cong radio . This will be damaging to the national interest . " <P> Except for Tin Sang and a couple of other papers . Vietnamese who care about what is really happening usually resort to foreign radio stations anyway . Many read their papers more for titillation than truth , and serialized romantic novels outweigh political polemics as circulation builders . Reporters routinely moonlight for as many as six papers of opposing political persuasions and cheerfully quote an old adage , which rhymes in Vietnamese : " A journalist is a man who tells lies to make money . " Newspapers have existed in Viet Nam for more than a century , but Journalism Professor Nguyen Ngoc Phach characterizes their history as " one of constant struggle , few glories , small achievements and dubious causes . "                     