@@491837

ing them with a bland hairstyle will advance the ho-hum impression . Go somewhat more stylized , not to extremism , but for more effect . A layered cut , center parted , for extra lift and texture is one of several alternatives . Anything would work better than looking like an anemic bookkeeper . The opposite of a weak-featured face is one with so much strength that the hair must be played down . Yes , if the hair is too short , the strong features might predominate even more . Try a shorter-thanaverage medium length with no part . Let the hair frame the face but avoid anything rococo or too ornamental . Every hair slicked into submission . Or blown dry to look like a helmet . Face it , the hair is too fastidious and makes you look too vain . Hair she wants to touch is hair you want to have . When your hair looks as if you 'll strike should one strand be mussed , it 's for armor , not amour . Put your hands on your hair and rough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a little . Of course , if you want a stylized Valentino look , okay , but remember that few men  --  excepting those who live on fashion pages  --  can carry it off . And when your hair goes ultra , your body must follow . Brushing Up Natural boar-bristle brushes  --  very compatible with hair  --  enjoy a certain snob appeal . The bristles are deliberately drawn to different lengths to produce an uneven surface so that the scalp can be massaged and stimulated without irritation . Reputedly , these bristles , which come from the back of the wild boar , can not break or split and thus should n't snag . Contrary to popular belief , however , brushing is of limited value in styling , unless a specially designed , curved styling brush is used in conjunction with a blow dryer to force hair into a specific shape . Without the lift that accompanies the blower 's hot air , brushing alone may cause a flattened  --  even a matted  --  look . The main purpose of brushing is to redistribute natural oils evenly along the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a growing number who suggest that 100 strokes are for self-destructive folks . Years ago , when people tended to shampoo only once a week or so , brushing would rid hair of some excess dirt and oily buildup . But today rminy critics believe that brushing is only psychologically soothing . Overbrushing by men with oily scalps is thought to increase the oil production . Whether your hair benefits from brushing , then , depends upon cleansing practices and how much oil is secreted on your scalp . If both scalp and hair are dry , regular brushing may help the hair appear more lustrous , but overzealous action is to be avoided . Dry hair is less supple and more easily broken . For this reason , many hair stylists recommend Denman-type brushes  --  those with rubber cushions into which bristles ( natural or synthetic or a combination of both ) are set , allowing for more give and less pull to the scalp and short styles . Bristle firmness should be determined by hair texture and volume . Thick , curly hair requires strong bristles ; thin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soft bristles are a must . Back to the boaring controversy : Natural bristles are very good indeed , but plastic and nylon bristles with rounded ends have been improved considerably and perform well . Brushes , like combs , must be kept scrupulously clean . If you shampoo daily , then you should cleanse your brushes daily , too . But since you wo n't , at least do so once a week . Regular cleansing of brushes will help prevent the accumulation of hair strands in the bristles . These Mustaches can lessen the impact of a too-big nose , create machismo in a bland face , narrow or widen the planes of the jaw , boost weak chins. hair  --  as the most gentle brush for anyone . Oily hair ? Wielding any type of brush wrapped in clean gauze to absorb excess oils is more highly recommended than brushing conscientiously night and morning . Regardless of hair type , everyone should brush just prior to shampooing . Stimulation at that time loosens oils and buildup , facilitating cleansing . Choose a brush according to scalp sensitivity as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the length of the bristles should correspond to hair length  --  longer hair , longer bristles . Popular club brushes , the ones usually associated with gift sets for men , are for fellows with relatively // can be removed with fingers before they become plentiful . Wooden or metal handles should not be submerged in the cleansing solution . Diluted dishwater detergent and shampoo both work . Dry bristles face down on a terry towel or upright in a glass after a complete water rinsing . Do n't risk warping by placing the brush in strong artificial heat or on top of a radiator . Left to their own devices , most brushes will dry within a couple of hours . How to Live With Recession Admittedly , on heads where hair does n't grow , it 's pointless to suggest hairstyling solutions . But in virtually every case where there 's even negligible hair , a good stylist can probably achieve a positive result in place of the negatives stemming from obviously deceptive measures . Here are a couple of examples . The ploy of camouflaging loss by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then adding mutton-chop sideburns as compensation just does n't work . At best , a man may look like a cartooned chipmunk . Rather than taking the defensive , a fellow might gain the offensive by treating balding as an advantage . He could have the remaining hair cut exceedingly short and forget about style all together . If the hair is dark , it can be bleached so that it does n't look like stubble . Since the hair loss is already pronounced , the hair may already have atrophied somewhat , and bleaching may truthfully weaken it more . In this instance , however , so much the better , because the desired end is that the hair appear like downy peach fuzz . Either go with this look as it is or add a carefully groomed mustache and beard . When less hair is growing , it usually is a mistake to grow what 's left longer , especially if the major loss is at the hairline . Since an overall thinning accompanies even the initial stages of baldness , when recession becomes more extensive , then longish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no matter what precautions are taken . Shorter hair stands up better because it automatically has more resilience and lift . It 's bouncier because weighted length does n't pull it down . Going very short , however , may present problems for the man who has pronounced features , such as enlarged ears , a jutting chin , or an oversized nose . When the hairline is receding , often it does so first at the temples , creating an exaggerated widow 's peak . So how do many men try to conceal this ? By combing their hair straight across the forehead from one side to the other in a very harsh line . This looks even worse if there 's some wave in the hair ; a viewer can begin to suffer seasickness . Normally stylists cut hair for balance , an impossibility with unevenly receding temples . Yet the hair should be cut according to natural growth . Trying to force the hair into an unnatural shape can not only look wrong , it could prove harmful , because increased tension on the hair as it 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hair falls naturally forward and slightly to one side , the most pleasing method of capitalizing on the hair recession is to emphasize the face asymmetrically by keeping the temple high on one side and combing the hair across to the other side , avoiding a well-defined hairline . Allowing one area to appear thinner than the other will make a man look less bald , not more so . If hair loss is so advanced that major " camouflage " is required , forget about it , for trying to pass off a small amount of hair for a headful is a fool 's mission . However , the hair can be cut to redirect the eye from the baldness to another area of the head . Certainly this is true with a balding crown . Conjure up an image of Norse Vikings . The image is invariably virile , and the first thought is of rather full hair covering part of the ears and turning inward to frame the face . That baldness at the crown comes second or third in the recollection . The absolute reverse impression comes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face in a vain attempt to make a bald crown appear less vulnerable . It only looks sadder . Of course , wearing a Viking-type style can be too extreme for a short , frail man , but he can adapt the idea by keeping the hair neatly clipped ( remember , the shorter the style , the more bounce to the hair , hence the impression of more hair ) with some extra fullness at the sides so that the hair grazes the ears . If the temples are likewise more bare than hairy , he might try the asymmetrical trick with a side part . This will help create a new facial focus , leading the eye to what hair he has rather than to where he has n't any . There 's yet another way to beat baldness without going to pieces . Welcome it . Especially young men who 've experienced premature hair loss might consider shaving it all off . Then baldness does n't appear to be an untimely fluke . Instead , it expresses strong-willed determination and a forceful personality . On the Scent A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; it 's only a potential fragrance . If you'remove the top and sniff , you 're not experiencing the true cologne either , since it only becomes " real " or " actual " once it 's applied . Then the liquid reacts chemically with the skin . That 's why colognes smell different on various men . Selecting a fragrance because it 's terrific on someone else makes little sense , since it wo n't smell exactly the same on you . Oily skin , for example , can change a cologne 's characteristics dramatically ; and dry skin has difficulty sustaining a fragrance over a period of time . To test a cologne , rub a little on the top of your hand . Do n't whiff it immediately . Wait for several minutes , allowing the fragrance to settle on and with the skin , then evaluate . Despite the feminine connotation of the word , " perfume " is where mate scents begin . Perfume ( which is what a so-called men 's super-cologne really is ) is the most highly concentrated realization in alcohol of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the perfume compound might represent 10 percent of the volume . Less concentrated , colognes may only have 2 to 4 percent " fragrance . " A standard aftershave lotion is least concentrated , perhaps containing about ' ' 2 to 1 percent of the perfume base . An aftershave lotion almost always has some emollient and healing agents added , but a cologne may not . However , newer products such as " aftershave colognes " contain these extras as well as more essential oils . However , if they are truly colognes , they also contain greater percentages of alcohol and lower percentages of water than do conventional aftershave lotions . The more alcohol , the more sting on a newly shaved face . These technicalities illustrate that fragrance should be liberated from the shaving syndrome . Aftershave lotions can be part of shaving for their antiseptic and therapeutic qualities . Although traditional colognes can work as antiseptics , they usually do n't incorporate any healing agents and therefore are n't soothing after the shave . The more soothing aftershave balms have minimal fragrance compared to the supercolognes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't promote moisturization of the shaved face . In short , scents-ible men should recognize that fragrance is body adornment , a damned good liquid asset . Fragrance  --  which seldom lasts for more than several hours on the skin anyway  --  is more easily diminished if only splashed on the constantly exposed face . Since heat diffuses fragrance , a splash of cologne on the chest , the arms , or wherever you want to spice yourself up spreads the scents-uality around . The choice of a particular fragrance is entirely personal , since the psychology of smell is very complex . When asked to describe a cologne they like , most men mention something about a " masculine " scent . There 's no such animal . What 's considered masculine is what 's predominantly sold for men . When Billy the Kid doused himself with lilac water , that was manly . Even today Middle Eastern men are strong on heavy , sweet rose bouquets . The fragrance industry is increasingly offering " modern blends " ? concoctions without aromatic counterparts in nature . A good fragrance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as the scent does n't turn off the individual he 's interested in impressing . Unfortunately , no one fragrance has proved to be a universal aphrodisiac . Yet , a relationship between fragrance and sex exists , as both men and women emit distinctive scents of their own when sexually stimulated . Estimates for the shelf life of cologne vary from eighteen months to four years . But you can never know when you buy a bottle of cologne how long it has rested on the shelf in the store . For optimum fragrance , once a bottle is opened , do n't expect it to last more than , a year . Do n't save cologne for special occasions . The harmony of the blend might be gone before you find enough occasions to luxuriate in it . Light is the most lethal enemy of colognes , so do n't leave them near a window . It may not look especially attractive , but consider putting the bottle back in its package after every use . Heat is also destructive . Never store colognes near a radiator . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long any fragrance will last . About six hours is maximum , even if the dousing is lavish . Do n't mix two or three colognes together to come up with your own private stock . Nor should you splash yourself with conflicting colognes and aftershaves . Fine colognes are well balanced and carefully blended . Mix them and you 'll probably concoct a mess . It 's been suggested that one cologne can be rubbed on the neck , another on the chest , stia another wherever , creating little zones of surprising aromas all over the body . Well , to each his own .                     