@@315166

Trade was going to open the way toward conciliation with Russia . More than a year ago , President Nixon negotiated a major new agreement designed to step up commerce between the U.S. and the Soviet Union . The President pledged , subject to congressional approval , to confer most-favored-nation status on the U.S.S.R. , giving it the same trade position as almost all other countries and eliminating the discriminatory tariffs that Congress imposed on certain Communist states in 1951 . " M.F.N. " was to be a cornerstone of new Soviet-American economic relations and thus a cornerstone of detente itself . <P> But the Administration failed to clear M.F.N. in advance with Congress , where there was growing concern over the Soviet Union 's restrictions on Jewish emigration . While this is obviously an internal Soviet matter , a combination of genuine humanitarianism , old cold war reflexes and a high regard for Jewish votes and political contributions combined into an extraordinary movement to block M.F.N. Last week the House handed the Administration a major defeat on detente . In passing the much-needed Trade Reform Bill , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 106 , tacked on an amendment prohibiting M.F.N. to any country that denies its people the right to emigrate freely . Worse from the Administration 's point of view , the House passed a similar amendment that denies U.S. Government-supported export credits to countries that do not have free emigration . These moves will hit many Communist countries . <P> Export Crimp . The Soviet reaction to the House action was immediate and angry . The news agency Tass called the amendments " interference in Soviet affairs " and the work of " cold war advocates , " which was " at variance with detente . " Certainly the amendments do threaten to impede the growth of U.S.Soviet trade . Administration officials have estimated that , by substantially reducing tariffs on such Soviet products as vodka and motorcycles , M.F.N. might increase Soviet exports to the U.S. by $10 million to $25 million a year -a considerable addition to Soviet shipments to the U.S. , which in 1972 were only $95.5 million . But restrictions on credit assistance could have a much more serious economic impact . This year the Export-Import @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shipments to the Soviet Union . Cutting off the flow of credit would crimp industrial exports to the Russians and upset plans for the joint exploitation of Siberian gas and other Soviet resources . <P> Secretary of State Henry Kissinger led the fight within the Administration to delay passage of the Trade Reform Bill as long as the amendments were attached . Kissinger has argued that placing these kinds of conditions on Soviet trade amounts to an attempt to " transform the domestic structure " of the Soviet Union . He is worried that the amendments could hurt the chances of Soviet cooperation in maintaining the fragile cease-fire in the Middle East , and he feels that secret diplomacy will be more effective than public pressure in persuading the Soviets to liberalize their emigration policies . Either because of the diplomacy or the pressure-or both- emigration of Jews from the Soviet Union has recently been running about 3,500 a month .                     