@@286956

The man who wrote the Declaration of Independence , made the Louisiana Purchase and dispatched the Lewis and Clark Expedition was also a multifarious taster of art , a dilettante . Lacking a theory , Thomas Jefferson was blessed with an eclectic curiosity about aesthetic experience . As architect , he drew up some of the most refined structures in all Georgian building-Monticello , the Richmond Capitol and an " Academical village , " the university of his native Virginia . He also had a devouring and insistent eye for detail ; designs for stair rails , coffee urns , goblets and garden gates flowed from his hand . He systematically assembled a library , " not merely amassing a number of books , but distinguishing them in subordination to early art and science . " <P> Instructive Figure . He studied landscape design and was a botanist . He was also one of the first foreigners to discern , as minister to France in the 1780s , the challenging merits of new artists like Jacques Louis David and Antonio Canova . " I do not feel an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he wrote in a flush of enthusiasm . Jefferson became the first American to transcend the cultural provinciality of his own land , moving with some ease between the New World and the Old . Even if he had had no political life , he would on that ground alone have been one of the most instructive figures of the 18th century . <P> Jefferson 's achievements and tastes are celebrated in a vast show ( 609 items ) , that runs through the summer at the National Gallery of Art in Washington , D.C. The aim of " The Eye of Thomas Jefferson " is to sketch the cultural environments through which Jefferson moved . This is a pharaonic enterprise : pushed to its limit , the subject of such an exhibit might be nothing less than the whole of aristocratic and high bourgeois culture in Georgian England , America and France . Of course , no show could encompass ( or even adequately sample ) ah " that ; so what there is , in essence , is a glamorous but uneven struggle to display cultural history as saga @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One realizes , with fresh interest , how cramped the visual resources of Jefferson 's Virginian education must have been ; his own remark on local architecture in 1781 , that " the first principles of the art are unknown , " is borne out in other fields by the stiff , crude society portraits of the young colony . The show traces the neoclassical ideal forming in Jefferson 's ideals and tastes-the growing certainty that republicanism was a function of natural law , that a new age of civic virtue was dawning and that an art of reasoned severity and correct classical proportion was needed to embody it . As William Howard Adams writes in the show 's excellent catalogue : " Jefferson envisioned a style and form based on antiquity but with a purity that left behind history 's corrupting influences of rotten governments , benighted rulers and unenlightened institutions . "                     