@@488033

Miss Welch is a member of the political science faculty at the University of Nebraska . Her article will be part of an essay in the forthcoming Communication in International Politics , edited by Richard L. Merritt ( University of Illinois Press ) . The conflict between the government and the press over the publication of the Pentagon Papers has provided a convenient occasion to examine the role of the journalists during earlier stages of the American involvement in Indochina . Over the last six years the press has reported many anti-governmental viewpoints on the war , and in so doing has suffered a good deal of ' criticism , particularly from the Johnson and Nixon Administrations . But , looking back at coverage of two decades ago , one finds that the press played a key part in promulgating the view that Indochina was an area of vital interest to the United States . This was of course the view of the Truman and Eisenhower administrations , and the press , with some exceptions , relayed it to the public with a good deal of faithfulness . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York Times , The Washington Post , the Chicago Tribune and the San Francisco Chronicle  --  from 1950-56 recalls a treatment of the Indochinese issue that is in significant contrast to reporting on the war today . By 1965 , when the United States dramatically escalated its involvement in Indochina , the rhetoric with which the struggle was discussed had long been fixed . It was in the 1950s , not the 1960s , that this distant and undeclared war became established in the minds of both the public and public officials as a showdown between the forces of communism and anti-communism , vital to the " free world " ; that Ho Chi Minh was identified as a tool of a larger Communist movement , and that victory in Indochina ' was seen as vital to the preservation of all Southeast:Asia , indeed perhaps of all Asia and beyond . What the press did to help establish these views is important . Most people , including many officials , never come- into direct contact with the foreign events about which they gain convictions and make decisions . They rely , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only about a particular issue but also for the more generalized frame of reference within which it is being ' discussed . Once a specific issue is put into a larger ideological context , the alternatives for dealing with it are automatically narrowed . If one defines an enemy as a " godless Communist , determined to conquer by force all of Asia , " one does not in the next breath suggest negotiating with him to settle grievances . The terms used to char-acterize the enemy in Indochina have precluded some possible courses of action . The definitions of the conflict were chosen by the government and echoed by the press , beginning in the early 1950s . We could have seen the war , at that time waged between the French-led-and-supported forces of Bao Dai and the Vietminh , as a civil war , as an anti- : colonialist upsurge , or even as a struggle between Communists and anti-Communists that was not vital to our security . Instead the two administrations of the 1950s chose , and the press accepted almost without question , a definition in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " free world " to throw back Communist aggression . ' While it would have been possible for a deterwined , administration to deny this assumption , with the opening of each new act in the drama of the cold war , it became harder . Thus the Korean War implied that President Truman was assuming larger responsibility for the defense of Indochina ; the steady deterioration of the French position there coincided with the Eisenhower administration 's steadily tougher rhetoric and increasing military commitments to France . By 1960 , the assumptions held about the Indochinese situation were fixed , and until disaster befell the United States in its military involvement there , they seemed unchallengeable . From 1950 to 1952 , the part being played by the United States in Indochina was not given a great deal of press attention . Official policy had been , made and consolidated before the subject became a matter of daily news coverage . For example , in that , period , The New , York Times carried about one item on the issue every four days . Few of these stories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close reader of the limes could have found some continuing news of U.S. involvement in Indochina , tont a less careful reader , or the reader of a less comprehensive paper would seldom have been reminded that the problem was continuing and indeed growing . Indochina at that time was , to Americans , a relatively noncontroversial topic , even as the United States was reinforcing major economic and political guarantees to the French . What were these papers saying about Indochina at this early stage ? By the end of 1952 , and before " Indochina " had become a word common in the headlines , The Washington Post , the Times and the San Francisco Chronicle had adopted terms and definitions which clearly put the developing struggle in the context of a worldwide Communist versus non-Communist battle . Indochina must be " saved " ( from the Communists ) ; " no free Indochina in a slave world " ; the Vietminh were directed from Moscow , ready to do anything when " the Kremlin gives the order . " The " domino theory " was not labeled as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If Indochina falls to the Communist advance , the whole of Southeast Asia will be in mortal peril . " Hence , the terms of future debate over United States policy were already being hardened into usage by the press , even if the coverage was thin . The importance of Indochina and the need to save it were the recurring themes of the news provided by these three papers . There was , to be sure , some minor dissent . For example both the Post and the Times sometimes criticized the administration for not having a firm policy . The Times , in particular , thought the administration was moving too slowly . Its basic position was that expressed on May 6 , 1950 : " Indochina must be saved promptly . " The Chicago Tribune took a quite contrary position throughout the early stages of the conflict . It can perhaps be summarized most concisely by quoting from an editorial of May 14 , 1950 , written after the announcement of United States aid to France in Indochina ; Mr. Acheson says that we are to aid France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  from France . France is fighting to save that country from Communism . Was there ever a nobler purpose than to fight a costly war thousands of miles away from home , in order that colonials might be freed from your own rule , saved at the same time from Communism ? The Tribune , then , was skeptical of the whole operation in Indochina . While admitting that Ho Chi Minh 's movement was Communist , the Tribune seemed equally hostile to France , which it repeatedly portrayed as a greedy colonialist power . Throughout 1953 the press carried these points of view still further . The Times , the Post and the Chronicle continued to stress the " interlocking " nature of the struggle in the Far East , in terms both of the commonality of the struggles in Korea and Indochina and of the emerging " domino theory . " For example , the Chronicle editorialized on March 27 , 1953 that there was : . . an increasing awareness in the United States that France 's war in Indochina is vital to the entire free world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all ? Southeast Asia , protecting Asia 's historical rice bowl , and maintaining the West 's access to tin and rubber . . . . The Tribune held to its anti-intervention attitude , saying , with respect to the dispute between France and Indochina as to which should receive American aid , " There is something excruciatingly funny about a jurisdictional dispute between two pickpockets as to which is to work the juicy side of the street . " While 1953 was a crucial year for United States policy toward Indochina , 1954 was a year of crisis , The press reflected the increasing concern of the administration as coverage of the war increased dramatically . Indochina was front-page news for most of the first seven months of the year . Press discussion of proposed U.S. military intervention was frequent , none of the three pro-administration papers raising a voice against it . Neither , however , was any of them forthright in urging the administration to take military action . Most columnists and editorialists agreed with Joseph Alsop that the United States was going to be faced with " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . whether to take drastic measures to reinforce Indochina . " During the four months preceding the final settlement at Geneva , stories of rumored intervention , of Dulles ' warnings to China of " major retaliation , " of Congressional opposition to intervention , of Allied dissension , and of Dulles ' attempts to achieve an agreement among them received front-:page attention . The Post , Times and Chronicle continued ' to call for firm and united action by , the Allies as being the only way to meet the united front of Communist power . " It is only when the ranks of their enemies are tightly closed that Moscow and Peking are inclined to make procedural , let alone real , concessions , " commented the Times on April 8 . The Tribune on the other ' hand , never deviated from its opposition to intervention , united or otherwise . Its editors accused Dulles of being " bellicose , " " reckless " and " hankering for war . " The Tribune was the only paper to state firmly , or even to hint , that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failing to win support from any of the Western Allies ' for a united armed intervention in Indochina , and after failing to gain domestic support for unilateral intervention , Dulles instructed Walter Bedell Smith to agree that the United States would not obstruct the proceedings at Geneva . The Geneva Agreements were signed on July 21 , 1954 . The press response was mixed . The Chronicle called its editorial on the settlement " The Disaster at Geneva . " The Tribune and Post , from different perspectives , blamed past policy for the poor settlement . The Post looked ahead optimistically to the future of the independent nations protected by an Asian defense treaty ; the Tribune foresaw that , because of Dulles ' plan for a ' SEATO treaty , the United States would probably become entangled in another Asian adventure . The Times grudgingly accepted the settlement , its editors being happy that the problem had been transferred from the military to the political sphere . They encouraged the Allies to join together to protect the rest of Asia and supported the formation of a Southeast Asian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Indochina . Except for the Tribune , then , the editors of these papers appeared to believe that U.S. policy had failed largely because alliances had not been firmly made beforehand , and because the Allies could not agree on united action . An alliance was now about to come into being , and there was great hope that it would engender at last a determination to protect Asian nations from Communist domination . There is little evidence that , other diagnoses ' of the situation were considered : for example , that instead of being mere mechanical failures , such setbacks in policy might have been caused by fundamental misperceptions of the prospects for establishing democratic systems that could elicit popular support without granting fundamental reforms  --  reforms that the prospective pro-Western leaders might not be willing to make . Instead , the press ' anticipated the early establishment of a " Third Force , " an alternative to Communist Ho and French-backed Bao After Geneva , coverage of the Indochinese " dropped sharply . By the end of 1955 , Washington 's support for the regime of Ngo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the point of no return , and the press old press coverage of the war is not , of course , to dwell on the irony of the Chicago Tribune 's dovish stance , or to condemn the bulk of the press for being shortsighted or gullible . ( Nor is there more than passing satisfaction to be . gained from noting that The Nation was one of the very few journals on the democratic Left which did not accept most of the administration 's rationales . ) The reasons behind the behavior of the press in this situation are , I think , what make this excursion into recent history important . It seemed to be the case , in early coverage of the war , that the press relied largely upon the administration for information . This does not mean that the sole function of the papers was to pass along the administration 's handouts . On the Times , for example , some of the best-known reporters were filing stories from Indochina ; James Reston , Clifton Daniel , William White , Elie Abel and Hanson Baldwin were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Indochinese policy , these competent newsmen frequently tried , to examine the implications for future United States foreign relations and for the outcome of the struggle itself . Hanson Baldwin noted early that the war was going badly ; others pointed out dissensions within the administration as to what an effective policy should be . Nevertheless , the press mirrored the underlying administration perceptions of the struggle . In part , this happened because foreign policy is an area in which , inevitably , official sources initiate a great deal of the news . Reporters get the bulk of their information from State and Defense Department handouts , from press briefings , informal meetings with administration officials , and the like . For example , the Post 's coverage of the Indochinese war , in a not untypical week ( March 24-29 , 1953 ) indicated key sources with such phrases as : " General Mark Clark said . . . " ; " Premier Ren6 Mayer predicted . . . " ; " President Eisenhower assured . . . " ; " France and the United States warned . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perspective by interviews with sources who may have contrary opinions , but the official voice is still the dominant one . As Richard Harwood of The Washington Post recalls , " . . through the 1950s , when editorial positions were being staked out and attitudes were being formed , The Washington Post ' had no correspondent in ' Vietnam , or hardly anywhere else for that matter . So we became heavily dependent on the administration for whatever information and assumptions we acquired . " Second , the pressure of day-to-day news coverage leaves little time for extensive background articles about a current situation . If the story is " hot , " newsmen are pressed to keep up with current developments ; if the story is " cold , " few are interested in background details . The Post and the Times did make occasional attempts to provide the reader with information broader than what had occurred in the previous week or month , but these " back-grounders " were usually brief historical reviews rather than serious considerations of U.S. goals in Asia or the Iong-term odds for success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumptions would most likely have had to be based on sources completely outside the government . This situation was common to most cold-war foreign policy : its premises , at least in the ' 1950s , seemed to be accepted by almost everyone holding an official position . And even if someone within the Congress , for example , had wished to challenge the administration 's position on Indochina , the domestic political pressures of the time might have raised a formidable ideological barrier to sponsoring a divergent view . That is , it might have been risky to proclaim too loudly Ho 's nationalist appeal without immediately deploring his status as a puppet of Moscow or Peking . McCarthyism created in the 1950s a climate that encouraged almost everyone to see communism in the prescribed way . Aside from that , Congressmen and other politically important persons were as dependent upon the administration for information as was the press . ( The Gulf of Tonkin incident and the Senate resolution it produced are examples of this phenomenon from later years . ) Thus the disposition to challenge the administration 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as Wayne Morse were isolated , and after a time , not very newsworthy . The fourth reason for the quality and tone of press coverage in the early stages of the war was perhaps the most important . Indochina was a very complex situation about which the press , as well as the administration , had little first-hand information . Issues of communism and anti-communism , colonialism and anti-colonialism , questions of the strategic and economic importance of the Indochinese states , concern over the degree to which the Vietminh were dominated by external Russian and/or Chinese forces , and questions about the relationship of this struggle to European defense and relations with our most powerful Allies all entered into considerations of this far-off war . The administration chose to put the Indochinese situation into the relatively simplistic mold of a struggle between good and evil , and others were glad ? enough to accept it . It fitted neatly into the overall postwar foreign-policy assumptions held by most politically aware Americans . Editors in Washington or even reporters in Asia could discount signs somehow suggesting that U.S. policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the , battlefield or the Saigon political scene could be offset by word of greater U.S. aid , new talks between France and Indochinese leaders about greater autonomy , new progress in Vietnamizing the French-led Indochinese army . There were no network evening news broadcasts to pound home night after night on television that the policy and the war were not going as promised . In the 1950s , illumination was spasmodic and more easily overlooked . Thus the failure of the press to challenge administration assumptions about the war was due in part to the day-to-day demands of journalism ; in part to the prevailing political climate ; and in part to more complex kinds of human behavior , such as the ' tendency to ignore facts that do not fit existing notions about how things " should be . " One can not , of course , attribute to the press sole responsibility for either administration policy in Indochina or the relatively recent rise of dissent against that policy . In fact , it seems clear from a comparison of early and recent U.S. involvement in the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and variegated protest movements , were often crucial to stimulating a more searching kind of press coverage of a particular situation . Yet , it can be seen , that the press did play a pivotal role in developing and sustaining public acceptance of the administration 's views . And by itself accepting administration assumptions the press increased the probability that others within the political system would view the situation in that light . ?                     