@@431792

 | Mind Research : The Promise and the Peril N A Baltimore elementary school , 52 fifth- and sixth-graders , all of them poor learners with behavioral problems , were presented each day with what the students called " smart pills . " In reality , half the youngsters were receiving a potent stimulant known to have an " exciting " effect on the central nervous system . The other half received a placebo ( a sugar pill ) as a control measure . After a month , the two groups were switched . In each test , the group receiving the drug always showed a significant improvement in their behavior , while the placebo-treated group showed no change . More significant , reports Keith Conners , who headed the experiment , the youngsters receiving the drug showed increased ability to concentrate and more motivation toward learning . In another experiment , far removed from the classroom , a goldfish swam in one compartment of a tank that was divided in two by a plastic barrier that reached to within one inch of the water 's surface . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the goldfish immediately swam over the barrier into the other compartment . The fish was exhibiting learned behavior : it had been taught to swim away from the light by a University of Michigan biochemist named Bernard Agranoff . Next Dr. Agranoff injected an  | antibiotic around the brain of the trained goldfish . The drug , puromycin , is known to prevent the manufacture of protein . After several days , the fish was returned to the tank and the light flashed again . The goldfish did not respond . From this experiment and many others , most brain researchers conclude that protein synthesis in the brain contributes importantly to learning and memory . Indeed , the exact mechanism of the mind has become the target of a vast amount of research in laboratories around the world . Just where this research is leading , and how it will affect us and our children , no one really knows . " But I am convinced , " says David Krech , professor of psychology at the University of California at Berkeley , " that in the relatively near future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Get Smart ' pills . " Such speculation , once labeled wild-eyed , is now considered logical by virtually every scientist working in learning and memory research . Thus they are eagerly seeking out the evanescent trail of memories , to learn how , where and in what form memories are deposited within the brain . In a short time , they have made remarkable progress . Protein Storehouses . We have known for most of this century that brains give off an electrical current . In 1924 , with the first use of the electroencephalograph , to record human brain waves , scientists began to learn a great deal about this electrical activity . They also came to suspect that memory itself functions electrically ? that messages from the eyes , ears and other sensory organs flow into the nerve cells , or neurons , of the brain , where they are noted and either stored as memories , dropped into some limbo and immediately forgotten , or sent back out to various parts of the body as signals for action . Repetition of an act or idea is assumed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given circuit of neurons ? much as a path is worn through a forest by constant traffic . Then , in the 1950s , brain researchers began subjecting trained animals to electric shocks to the brain that were expected to destroy memory . Surprisingly , the animals did not forget their training . Clearly , some thing other than electrical pattern was implicated in memory storage It was at this point that the scientifi discipline called molecular biology was turned to brain research . At the University of Gothenburg , Sweden , biologist Holger Hyde trained rats to perform a variety o tasks . Then the animals were sacri ficed and individual neurons tha made up their brains were isolate and compared with neurons fro the brains of untrained rats . It wa quickly apparent that stimulatio of any sort increased the productio in the neurons of a chemical calle ribonucleic acid , RNA . A less com plex nucleic acid than DNA , the primary deposit vault of all genetic information , RNA acts as a messen470 MIND RESEARCH : THE PROMISE AND THE PERIL 121  | ger , carrying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the cell to another part of the cell where protein is made . The RNA provides the instructions on just what sort of protein to build . After hundreds of trials and analysis , Hyden put forth the theory that sensory inputs cause both an increase and a change in RNA production , which in turn lead to the formation of specific proteins that serve in the storage and retrieval of information . Some memory is strictly for shortterm use , some for a lifetime , and researchers are learning that the mechanisms for the two are different . Dr. Samuel Barondes , of the University of California at San Diego , has been testing the idea that protein synthesis is essential to longterm memory . He injects a memory eraser , known to inhibit protein synthesis , into a group of mice and then trains them to run a maze . A second group is trained but does n't get the drug . Both groups learn at about the same rate ; three hours later they perform equally well . But after that the drug-injected group quickly begins to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six weeks later , remembers a great deal of it . Counting Cells . Chemistry also seems to play a major role in the actual assembly and organization of brain cells early in their development . " While the fetus is young , " explains Prof. Roger Sperry of Cal Tech , " the brain cells acquire and retain thereafter individual identification tags , chemical in nature , by which they can be recog- nized and distinguished from one another . " This theory was supported by a set of intricate experiments in which Sperry and his colleagues , working with living fish , severed and then scrambled the nerve fibers that connected their eyes to the brain . Unlike mammals , fish can regrow nerve-fiber connections . The scientists microscopically photographed successive stages in the regeneration process ? and found that in each instance the scrambled fibers unscrambled themselves and regrew along their own particular original channels until they regained their original hookups . It is now becoming apparent that a great many of the most complex components of behavior are built in , ready to function without benefit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a psychobiologist at the University of California at Irvine , found cells in the brains of cats and monkeys that could actually count ! This discovery came while Thompson and his colleagues were examining the response of certain cat brain cells to specific stimuli . A series of clicks would be sounded , and the cell under examination would fire off an electrochemical signal . At first there seemed to be no particular rhyme or reason to the timing of the response . Then Thompson noticed that a particular cell fired only after a series of seven clicks . If the series added up to five  | or six , the cell did not respond . If there were more than seven clicks in the series , the cell would fire at seven . Eventually , Thompson found other cells in the cat brain that responded similarly to the numbers 2 , 5 and 6 . In monkeys , cells were found that would count from 2 to 9 . Do " counting " cells , and perhaps other specific learning-function or " gnostic " cells , exist in man ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " seem to know a great deal without being taught . For example , infants will spontaneously sort objects into color categories . " Memory Molecules . The view that protein synthesis is at the seat of memory storage is not held universally . A persistent minority of brain researchers cling fiercely to a theory called chemical transfer . They believe that , when two animals learn a task , the chemical changes that occur in their brains are almost identical . Thus , it should be possible to take the " memory molecules " from one brain and inject them into another , actually transferring the memory of one organism to another . Eventually they hope that these chemicals can be identified and synthesized , for then , says James McConnell , professor of psychology at the University of Michigan , " scientists might even be able to implant artificial memories in human beings . Obviously , education would be quite a different matter indeed if students could be injected with algebra-memories or Spanish-memories rather than having to read books or attend lectures . " In 1962 McConnell reported on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . First , he conditioned the flatworms to curl up whenever a light flashed . He then ground up these trained worms and fed them to untrained planarians . The cannibalistic , but untrained worms , he reported , learned to curl up in response to the light far more quickly than did a similar , but less exotically fed , group of untrained worms . The chemical that McConnell believes to be the carrier of memory is RNA , and in this he is fairly close to the mainstream of researchers . Still , his experiments aroused a storm of controversy which persists to this day . Some scientists claim not to have been able to duplicate the results ; others say they can , not merely in worms , but in mammals such . as rats and mice , and have spent years in seeking the elusive memory molecule . Staggering Implications . Most psychobiologists do not share McConnell 's views . But few of them will deny that something is going on . " One possibility among many , " explains Prof. James McGaugh , of the School @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " is that there are several effects of brain extracts on behavior . The extracts would conceivably contain biochemical substances which facilitate learning by stimulating the cell- tral nervous system of recipient animals . " McGaugh and other researchers have found that in rats and mice the learning rate can be substantially improved by low doses of central-nervous-system stimulants such as pentylenetetrazol . The implications are staggering . " In the future , " says McGaugh , " drug treatment of memory defects could become as common as drug treatment of allergies and emotional disorders . " " Who Decides ? " At present , drugs to treat human learning deficiencies are being used only by psychiatrists and psychologists confronted with learning and memory problems in their patients that defy all conventional treatment . Meanwhile , science is beginning to close in on that most elusive of man 's possessions ? memory . Eventually researchers hope to understand the process well enough to duplicate or aid it . Some scientists also foresee the use of agents to stimulate specific learning areas . Explains Berkeley 's David Krech , " Through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to raise verbal abilities in some , arithmetical reasoning in others , artistic abilities in still others . " This raises awesome thoughts . " Who gets what raised ? " asks Dr. Krech . " He who has the price of a pill ? And who decides for whom ? The parent , the huckster , the school board ? On what basis do we make the decisions ? " Obviously , these are not simple questions . Just as obviously , they must be anticipated and solved before man gets to the point of providing intelligence in a pill . @#                     