@@488028

Mr. Gitlin has been a community organizer and is co-author of Uptown . Poor Whites in Chicago ( Harper &; Row ) In a time of rapid change , amidst shifts not only in style but in the social bedrock beneath style , any person who maintains the same insurgent politics for more than thirty years is remarkable . Of course there are inducements : success in one 's own terms is the greatest . For example , some years before the end of his thirty-year long march to revolution , Mao smelled success , but long before the seizure of power seemed imminent Mao had been able to erect standards for intermediate successes , to change his line  --  indeed to make line-changing part of the line  --  and to convey his total confidence to party cadres and ordinary Chinese . But in America , those . radicals ( mostly Communists and Trotskyists ) who , have sustained the , same world view from the thirties through the early seventies , unconfirmed by any detectable success , seem merely mechanical ; they have carried ideology and method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down by a steadfastness that is finally external to themselves . Their writing is dead , their enthusiasm ritualized , and their ideas long past ready for a museum . Then what are we to make of Saul Alinsky ? Unlike his contemporaries in the Left parties , he is vivid and human ; he writes engagingly and gives off energy in his new book as he does hi person . Yet he has been peddling the same brew since he organized Chicago 's Back of the Yards in the late thirties and published Reveille for Radicals in 1946 . There is something paradoxical here : energy within stasis . Of course Alinsky is a loner and an activist , an uncommon combination , and if he had the singular audacity to make that synthesis in the thirties we can begin to understand why his certitude has been unshaken by World War II , Hiroshima , the bureaucratization of the unions , the cold war , the civil rights movement , Black Power , the New Left , . Vietnam , and the totality of political-economic and cultural changes of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reviled both by the Left and by such pillars of society as the Catholic Church and Eastman Kodak ; yet , refusing to acknowledge specific criticism , he keeps bouncing back with puckish assurance . Though he says that he wrote Rules for Radicals out of desperation , he has a uniquely wry-cheerful , even winning way of expressing desperation . Alinsky has always believed in the American dream and his place in it . Reveille for Radicals was drenched in evocations of the American spirit which would have embarrassed Walt Whitman . It seems not his offhand opinion but ' his conviction that America is uniquely destined to greatness if only people will follow his " rules " and get organized . At the heart of his " rules " is the standard package of American truisms . First , pluralism : if the poor and powerless combine in rough-tough organizations , they will get what they want , which will turn out to be what everyone wants , an honorable place at the cornucopia ; or if it is anything else , Alinsky does n't tell us . Second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fascination with technique which substitutes for a clear and supple philosophy . ( " An organizer working in and for an open society is in an ideological dilemma . To , begin with , he does , not have a fixed truth  --  truth to him is relative and changing ; everything to him is relative and changing . " Here Minsky almost sounds like Mao in his more trivial moods . ) Third , political orthodoxy of the Democratic-Republican sort . ( " To diminish the danger that ideology will deteriorate into dogma . . . no ideology should be more specific than that of America 's founding fathers : ' for the general welfare . ' " And again , he believes in " all those rights and values propounded by Judaeo-Christianity and the democratic political tradition . " ) And fourth , patriotism . ( Organizing against the status quo is " more than I can do in Moscow , Peking or Havana . . . . Let 's keep some perspective . " ) A blend of these absurd clich  --  s is all , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a radical , wears the description proudly , and continues to organize communities and to accumulate enemies like Phi Beta Kappa keys . Plainly he must have something else to offer . I think that something is the identity that he has carved out . Alinsky has succeeded in becoming one of the bad boys of this society : a kind of Norman Mailer of politics . He loves the gusto of combat ; the few personal anecdotes he tells of his confrontations with power , he tells with relish . He is proud of having been reviled in the press , and cocksure in his assumption of the amoral tough-guy stance . A long chapter of this book is devoted to -a discussion of means-ends problems , in which he infuses the stock principles of almost all politics with a gleeful wickedness that seems altogether incommensurate with the banality of the principles themselves . Is it news that " one 's concerns with the ethics of means and ends varies inversely with one 's personal interest in the issue " 9 That " the less important the end to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in ethical evaluations of means " ? Perhaps Alinsky envisions himself as shocking a class of bright-eyed seminarians . You would think those principles were being invoked to justify the murder of the kulaks rather than the somewhat mild tactics Alinsky actually recommends . Faced with moralists who accomplish nothing , Alinsky insists on the primacy of self-interest , though " all effective actions require the passport of morality . " Thus the bad boy , who wants and expects to be scolded by authority for testing the limits of authority 's own precepts . By careful and seemingly artless gesture he succeeds in reminding authority how ' far he will go ? and how far he will not . Sometimes he appears to want out , but at bottom the last thing he wants is to leave the family . He wants to be hated , even feared , because that assures him he is alive , loved , and attended to . The bad boy who recruits friends ( organizes people ) guarantees that he will be taken seriously . But it is finally from authority ( if Alinsky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receives his cachet of recognition . None of which is to say that Alinsky does not believe in organizing the poor and others in their own behalf , though it is curious that someone who insists that all morality is either rationalization or luxury does not disclose his own motives for placing himself at other people 's service . We should know more about his passion , not to discredit it but to gain insight into the psychology of that rare and crucial animal , the organizer . As it is , Alinsky has exempted himself from his own categorical imperative . but worse , he is trapped in the pluralist assumption of the legitimacy of all competing interests . Management ( City - , Hall ) has its prerogatives ; the workers ( residents ) have theirs ; and the differences , as clearly implied by Alinsky 's percentage formulation , are merely quantitative . Alinsky even inflates this quantitative principle into Holy Writ : " A society devoid of compromise is totalitarian . If I had to define a free and open society in one word , the word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be prepared for compromise , short of the all-or-nothing revolution , is one , thing , but to lodge compromise at the heart of all political activity is to accept the overarching , determinant power of corporations and the state  --  forever . Alin-sky can not or will not see past the bustle of tomorrow 's deals to a situation in which , after many tomorrows , the quantitative encroachment becomes qualitative and power has been diffused . There is no sign , that Alinsky is aware of the recent critique , in the works of Gabriel Kolko , James Weinstein and others , of progressive reform and trade unionism as weapons of the vanguard of the ruling class . But in the absence of such a critique and a transcendent vision , Alinsky 's approach , like the i CIO 's , can lead only to the integration of insurgent groups into the lower reaches of the political system . About socialism or anarcho-syndicalism or any visionary variant , Alinsky says nothing , though he deplores the fact that " we have permitted a suicidal situation to unfold wherein revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to splitting this political atom . . ? . " By Alinsky 's own standard , the book is a failure . The rival vision is simply not there . The revolution is indefinitely postponed , supplanted by technique . And therefore the organizer 's schizophrenia , morality aside , can have only dire effects . Facing the people organized , he accepts the " 100 to nothing " polarization , only to lead " his forces " into a confrontation to secure a 10 per cent increment . It is . one thing to prepare people for a compromise made necessary by the fact that they are not powerful enough ( yet ) to win anything different ? if the specific necessity of that compromise is clear to the insurgents . Then at least the terms , of their impotence are known , and they may straightforwardly discuss the prospect for a movement that would transcend quantitative demands . The organized , in other words , would learn the same sort of schizophrenia with which the organizer is , equipped ; and would therefore be able to outgrow him more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they do not grow . Their consciousness remains fixed on quantitative differences ; they learn only that a total critique is a ploy an organizer resorts to in order to mobilize the faithful . The total critique becomes merely rhetorical and decorative , a ritual preface to " real politics " ? the bargaining session . Divorced from any practicality , the idea of holistic transformation finally decays , and the people are left in the wilderness of pluralism , never able for long to take the initiative against power . No wonder the " community leaders " easily rise to a kind of professional activism while the followers sink back into apathy . No wonder Back of the Yards evolved into a conservative , " have-a-little , . want-more " organization . Alinsky never proposed anything else . The most remarkable revelation of this book is blunt enough : Alinsky admits that his methods have engendered " more failures than successes . " We would be in his debt if he elaborated the apology into an explanation . Perhaps he has even come to conclude that the concrete changes his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does he begin to explain why he fails , or what he means by failure . Surely an organizer who proposes revolution is responsible for criticizing his own method . We begin to understand Alinsky 's stubborn energy . He brushes off criticism and other approaches , protects himself with a useless confession of failure , and justifies obliviousness with a jaunty style . That is too bad , because Alin-sky does know a good deal about organizing technique . If he traced his failures and successes to this or that technique ( the technique , of course , representing a political choice ) , we might be ' able to sift the good from the bad and learn something  --  if only about what not to do . Yet Alinsky does not probe the peculiar choices of the catalytic organizer . He summarizes the organizer 's character , but does not detail his practical methods so that the reader can place himself in the organizer 's position and imagine the choices open . " The ego of the organizer , " he writes , " is stronger and more monumental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drivin by the desire for power , while the organizer is driven by the desire to create . The organizer is in a true sense reaching for the highest level for which man can reach  --  to create , to , be a ' great creator , ' to play God . " It is good to have this ambition out in the open , yet it is plainly problematic . Breathing life into clay is much different from tapping the potential-of real people . The catalytic organ'izer , like the psychotherapist , also plans to remove himself from the scene when he has helped the others to realize their latent powers and to recognize , analyze , and combat their weakness  --  a god who moves on : a strange mutant in the annals of the gods . In order to know whether this is actually possible , and in what circumstances , we need bald , even clinical analysis of experience , but Alinsky only sprinkles a few anecdotes . The organizer must act as a catalyst , but he is also a teacher whose values should be explicit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values , they will nonetheless make themselves felt as the organization is put together in his image . The organizer must also share his educated sense of the probable consequences of political choices which he ' does n't endorse ; if he thinks that more is possible for the organization than assimilation into the enervated center , he must be honest about the prospects and costs of such a program . Alinsky covers this problem with a rhetorical smoke screen : " If you respect the dignity of the individual you are working with , then his desires , not yours ; his values , not yours ; his ways of working and fighting , not yours ; his choice of leadership , not yours ; his programs , not yours , are important and must be followed ; except if his programs violate the high values of a free and open society . " ( My emphasis . ) But of course different organizers will have different versions of those high values . If they are the orthodox pluralist blend , it is naive to say that " his values @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what if one judges that the pluralist vision is a trap , a mere recycling of powerlessness ? Can one then convey that sense to the organized and yet couple it with practical here-and-now action that will settle for less than total change , without either manufacturing impossible expectations or postponing the dream ? Alinsky brushes the problem aside , but the New Left organizer must learn to live with the immediately practical without discarding the transcendent vision : must somehow make his political vision plain without letting it excuse him from bread-and-butter responsibilities . It is a central problem , and Alinsky does not help much . In practice , his method seems to be to eliminate organizers who want to express , if not insist on , their total point of view . In some organizations under Alinsky 's wing , organizers have been , purged for introducing " irrelevant " concerns , e.g. , the war in Indochina or socialism . But there are ' often ways to broach such transcendent matters without interrupting the rhythm of local organization , yet without discrediting the organizer . Alinsky does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far-out " concerns may be introduced when the organizer establishes an intimate relationship with community people , But the " far-out " concern he adduces is birth control in a Catholic neighborhood . To a would-be organizer interested in conveying or proposing a radical world view without cutting himself off from those he would organize , Alinsky has little to say . Finally , Alinsky does not at all discuss the particular problems of the organizer whose ' class and consciousness are different from those of the people to be organized , except to say that the organizer should acquire credentials by being invited by ' a " significant sector " of the local population . " Significant sector " turns out to mean the local clergy or union or " community leaders " ? those very groups whose failures conceal the community from its own reality , and whose upward mobility most closely . matches the organizer 's own prejudices . Yet in the end Alinsky confesses : " Those out of their local communities who were trained on the job achieved certain levels and were at the end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a highly . imaginative and creative architect and engineer then the best we have been able to train on the job were skilled plumbers , electricians , and carpenters . . . " He does not seem to entertain the possibility that this failure is embedded in his method ; that the organizer 's dependency on local , organizations freezes out the potentially more imaginative ( and disaffected , and usually younger ) individuals , those who have been betrayed by the organizations and are awaiting some more vital vision . For whatever reasons , Alinsky has now turned his attention from the poor to the " middle class . " He proposes a new variety of " middle-class " organizing , the proxy fight within corporations . He declares that " this could be one of the single most important breakthroughs in the revolutions of our times . " The objective is to keep the " middle class " out of the hands of Wallace and Nixon ; yet for what ? To achieve some influence over the quality and prices of consumer goods ? To tone down the corporations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no more than to repeat the CIO experience of achieving recognition without power , and influence only within the matrix of capitalist prerogatives . One can not flatly oppose a consumer revolt any more than one can oppose trade unionism , yet without understanding the centrality of profits for the corporate system , it is hard to see how Nader-style consumer revolt generates a more transcendent vision of a society worth living in . Indeed , the myth of " people 's capitalism " and the corporate manufacture of consumer needs conceal the reality of our common subjugation to the institutions of production and communication . Moreover , the very stake of stockholders in a corporation is of doubtful legitimacy , and the ownership of stock is not central to an individual 's existence , like work or neighborhood ; therefore stockholding is a poor basis on which to erect organization . The most to be said is that conceivably a stockholders ' revolt whose failure would teach the insurgents how much is at stake in corporate control would be an educational boon ; and that stockholders ' revolt which saw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting . But Alinsky has not proposed it . For all his reputation as an alliance maker , he seems to shy away from alliance across the frontiers of the community at hand , whether it be the physical community of the neighborhood or the fictitious community of stockholders . His successes are therefore fragmented . Thus the book skirts the hardest questions and covers them with vague generalization . Still , there is much that is admirable about the man . It is that spirited and very Chicagoan , persona , the lone organizer who rides again , whose audacity is at once his strength and his weakness . He has kept at work through difficult decades , upholding the idea of catalysis ( even if inadequately ) against its hierarchical and " vanguard " opponents ; and trying to fan to flame the Populist embers in the lower depths of the society . Unfortunately , the price he has paid for his doggedness is blindness to the dogma built so undogmatically into his approach . The question of the relation between organizer and organized is central to the theoretical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to teachers , students , psychotherapists and patients . It is no special criticism of Alinsky to say that he has not resolved it , or formulated it more clearly , or usefully built on the inherent tensions . No one has cast much light here ; but one is especially disappointed in Alinsky because he has promised more . He could add a great deal to the discussion if he were to open his experience , in all its density and ambiguity , to the next generations of organizers . Finally what he is asked to do is more difficult than tenacity . He should stare failure in the face , accept it as a fierce instructor , and let it revise his world view and his method . ?                     