@@485145

Pollsters , whose results may generally be viewed with some calm , can occasionally strike a nerve . For , example , the finding which showed that politicians as a class ' rank below garbage men in public esteem may leave Presidents and Kenneclys unruffled , but it is symptomatic of a deep dissatisfaction with the political process now embodied in the stumbling two-party system . The two-party system , as we have known it , is clearly the best system for this country , but our experience has shown that it is n't necessary always to have the same two parties . More than 100 years ago , a situation very much like the one in which we now find ourselves gave birth to the Republican Party . Today , people have many pressing daily Sen. Charles Mathias , Republican of Maryland , has served in the Senate since 1960 . He is a member of the Judiciary , Appropriations and District of Columbia Committees . concerns which the political parties are largely ignoring as they choose candidates and try to excite the electorate . I do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems in our whole political system . The parties have failed on the issue of jobs . For the 8 million Americans who are today unemployed , the promise of the Employment Act of 1946 is an illusion . Unemployment in turn places stress upon family life and contributes to the despondency that has overtaken millions of Americans . The parties have failed to enact meaningful welfare reform . In the last ten years our nation 's welfare expenditures rose from $5.6 billion to more than $37.7 billion . One person in every six in New York City is on welfare , and that bleak statistic is repeated in many parts of America . The welfare system has wasted ' money . But more tragically it is also wasting human lives . We can provide a job for everyone able to work , and we must . For those unable to work a negative income tax can treat-poverty for what it is  --  an economic disability rather than a social disease . Instead of tearing families apart we can use jobs and income maintenance to give a sense of hope to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties have failed on the issue of crime . Under the Kennedy and Johnson administrations , major crime rose 148 per cent . The repressive measures enacted by the Nixon administration have not been successful . While a high percentage of legitimate businesses may fail each year , the tragic fact is that crime does pay . Most criminals are either not apprehended or suffer no penalty if caught and convicted . The high rate of recidivism demonstrates that our prisons are not rehabilitating people or making America a safer country . Perhaps we should provide industrial-type employment within the prisons so that workers can learn meaningful jobs and support their families while they are confined . The parties have failed on the issue of tax reform . In a with more than 50,000 pages of regulations in the Federal Register . Unreported and undisclosed ex parte contacts from businesses , from Capitol Hill and from the White House ; taint the regulatory process . Administrative costs and staff efficiency have not been properly studied . The Civil Service system needs a thorough review to measure its effect upon efficiency . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bottom to see whether it saves us money or provides a bureaucrati6 morass . Unnecessary red tape , delays and busy work at the Federal Housing Administration frustrate the nation 's housing goals . Unfortunately , however , regulatory reform gets little more than lip service in Washington , even though America 's consumers could be saved billions of dollars each year . No one can doubt that the parties have tragically failed to deal with the problem of race relations in America . Racial tensions today may be worse than they were a decade ago . Louisville and South . Boston are not unique recent year a major corporation which earned tens of millions of dollars in profits paid less tax than a woman who cleaned the executive toilets . Other American corporations pay more in income tax to foreign governments than they do to their own . Taxes are not based upon how much you earn but rather upon the segment ' from which your earnings are derived . Senator Hatfield has proposed a simplified tax system with no loopholes ; it has been given a bipartisan burial . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestic priority . Both parties have failed to deal with the federal bureaucracy . I am told that the Interstate Commerce . Com-mission has more than 43 trillion railroad rates on file  --  with no index . Businessmen are confronted each year The bussing controversy has created tensions and hostility where none existed before . Neither party is willing to advance new alternative measures to assure racial equality without resort to reverse discrimination and race quotas which could undermine our goal to become a color-blind people . The parties have failed to address the quality of life in urban America . Urban renewal has torn up neighborhoods and repackaged the slums in glass and concrete cages where a man can not get his shoes fixed or buy a beer . We have failed to provide band concerts , historic preservation and planning on a human scale . I believe that cost per square foot should not be the primary criterion for rebuilding our cities . If cities of the future have us living with artificial grass under giant domes , there may be air conditioning and all the plastic amenities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and rain , without buildings on a human scale , life will not be enriched . Chickens may survive in automated hen houses , but man , will not . Even now , our highways are filled on weekends with people trying to escape the sterile life of ? the city and renew their communion with nature . Our goal should be to develop cities so that they will be suitable for the full expression of human potential . While regional planning and metropolitan government provide certain economies of scale , they are often too remote and unreachable . They make people feel powerless and frustrated . Parks , recreation , zoning and other matters of neighborhood concern can be left to neighborhood control  --  an important first step if we are to turn service areas into communities . But the greatest failure of our political parties is the failure to improve the significance of human life . American youth is protesting the dehumanization of society . The young are on drugs and their mothers on Valium . They live in look-alike houses , eat artificial food , and often end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community , a loss of self-reliance and a loss of purpose . In foreign policy , in health , in education and many other areas the parties have papered over problems and failed to develop new and imaginative policies which can make for a better country . When the people have looked to their political institutions , the parties , for thoughtful and constructive approaches to their problems , they have been answered with bland rhetorical boiler plate or insulted with irresponsible thirty-second commercials . Instead of initiatives carefully crafted to meet the need , we get position papers crafted to avoid offense , larded with scraps of buncombe no more trenchant than the paste used to stick them together . Like network television , the parties have followed public-opinion polls down to the lowest common denominator . The result has been insincerity , weaseling and hypocrisy , and the public has seen it for what it is . I believe we can no longer afford . ideological reflexes , principles that are compromised to feed the alligators of the Left and Right , or candidates who are sold like soap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , the inadequacies of the two parties have placed the system itself in peril , and there is no corrective effort underway . The prospect of suicide through irrelevancy would not even be a disturbing one , except that we have no clear idea of what political mechanism would take its place , structuring development of the nation 's leadership in decades to come . I do not charge that the American people are apathetic about the political process , merely about the parties as instruments . The anti-war movement , the consumer movement , the environmental movement and dozens of lesser , popular initiatives , all of them reflecting widespread concerns , took shape and gained influence without reference to party politics . Within this century , there have been times when the great political questions of the day were discussed and thrashed out in meetings down to the level of the local political clubhouse . Something happened , however , between the early decades of the 1900s and now . Today , should anyone be so impertinent as to raise someurgent national topic in such a forum , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to shut up , while the meeting got back to the serious business of seeing who had the most votes . Little wonder that Americans today view the political parties as hypocritical , concerned more with winning elections than solving issues . Party alignment statistics bear this out . Figures collected over two decades by the University of Michigan 's Survey Research Center show that those willing to call themselves Republicans have declined from 29 to 18 per cent ; Democrats declined slightly from 44 to 42 per cent , and Independents gained from 24 to 37 per cent . The proportion of Independents rises , according to Gallup , with education , professional status and with every passing year . In the 18-to-24 group , 46 per cent identify themselves as Independents , 39 per cent as Democrats and 15 per cent as Republicans . The Republicans , sliding ever more rapidly toward splinter status , should be particularly concerned , but it would be hard to detect that they are by viewing the present struggle for the party 's Presidential nomination . The Ford-Reagan monologue , which results from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats but hundreds of thousands of Republicans . If either candidate thinks these people can be retrieved by a sudden reversal of rhetoric between the convention and the general election , he will have a rude awakening next November . Democrats can take little comfort from their own status . Neck and neck with the Independents , and significantly below 50 per cent , Democrats increasingly must win votes from outside the party . Yet the game of musical chairs now being played out in primary election maneuvers seems to involve little more than a struggle for endorsements by existing party factions , religious or ethnic groups and labor . Indeed , both parties may have become permanent captives to powerful constituencies who subordinate national needs to partisan logrolling , government contracts , grantsmanship and scoring ideological points . When candidates must play to these interests there is little hope that their programs will add up to coherent visions of the nation 's future . November could find the nation 's voters forced to choose between two men , each of whom has triumphed within his party and in the process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observer has longed for a choice on the ballot marked " None of the Above , " but those in charge recognize that choice as far too attractive to be permitted on the lists . It may be that the nation is eager for a new mechanism through which people can express themselves politically . If established parties do not supply an outlet for creative ideas , they will find their own channels . A fusion movement , to use a neglected term , could draw from the dissatisfied of both existing parties as well as from the vast pool of self-proclaimed independents . Its mission would be to give the public the kind of options it does not have in the present moribund party system . The failures and limitations which have confronted the United States in recent years have not detracted from its basic vitality. , I am convinced that our most significant time on the stage of history is still to come . Shortcomings which seem so significant to us at home shrink to insignificance in the view from abroad by comparison with the tremendous energy and wealth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose greatest goals may still be dimly perceived . I think there are people who want to participate in its greatness but who are frustrated now . They must have the chance to be as good as I think they are . ?                     