@@287352

The charges against them are all trumped up , of course , but the three lovely women could not care less . They are detectives working undercover to investigate the strange goings-on at a prison farm , and becoming prisoners of that institution is the only way they can do their jobs . They are also , however , nice girls , and their cool quickly disappears as a matron , dressed SS style , clearly lesbian in sexual orientation , growls : " O.K. , girls , strip down to your birthday suits . " After a mandatory shower , each in turn must open her towel and submit to the warder 's inspection as she sprays them with disinfectant . That 's only the beginning . Beatings , threats of rape and enforced prostitution follow , not to mention an imminent triple murder when they find out too much . <P> What is this ? A report on the latest skin flick ? A case study on the fantasy life of a troubled adolescent ? Nope . Just a plot summary of an episode from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That 's right , television . <P> Everybody knows about the power of a great idea whose time has come . What often gets overlooked is that the strength of a mediocre idea whose historical moment has arrived can be just as awesome . This is especially worth considering in the weird realm of regularly scheduled prime-time commercial television , that bargain basement of American culture , where the very nature of the environment usually precludes great notions and the merely good ones are rare . Instead , the insipid and the tasteless constantly push and shove , tug and haul , rudely jockeying for position in the ratings that mean the difference between survival and death for programs . Financially a couple of points make the difference between profits that are merely terrific for the network with a bunch of flops or simply stupefying for the one with the most hits . Here timing is everything . Whoever guesses right when mood swing afflicts the customers becomes TV 's merchant king-for a day-while competitors retreat to a sullen contemplation of their demographics and a glum reshuffling of their schedules . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surfing blithely atop the Zeitgeist 's seventh wave is a little number called Charlie 's Angels , starring sexy Farrah Fawcett-Majors , sweet Jaclyn Smith and smart Kate Jackson . The series is about delicious ladies who get into scrapes that threaten life and virtue in the course of working as operatives for a private detective with such a passion for anonymity that he is never seen on camera . The show is not just a winner but a certifiable phenomenon . Seldom has a brand-new entry broken into Nielsen 's top ten in its first week and then stayed there , steadily improving its position with each subsequent airing . Generally it takes a half season at the very least for a show to achieve these heights .                     