@@491285

Higher education in the Soviet Union is a coveted privilege granted only to a relatively small minority of the nation 's youth . The restricted role of Russian higher education and the Soviet universities as leadership entry points stand in stark contrast to America 's dramatic postwar surge towards quasi-universal higher education . More than 4.5 million Russian students are now enrolled in some eight hundred institutions of higher learning . One in seven high-school graduates is now entering some kind of institution of higher learning . But this proportion is expected to drop to one in ten by 1975 , due to a major expansion of secondary schooling with no corresponding increase in the number of places in the university . For the Soviets the future holds some interesting dilemmas , as an increasing number of their young develop rising expectations in a society in which university entry is strictly controlled and where jobs requiring university graduates are still limited . The differences and similarities between Soviet and American higher education are equally instructive . Soviet higher education is largely dominated by the fact that university admissions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a citizen , and this fact shapes everything from the political attitudes of the students to the organization of university faculties . During my two years in the Soviet Union , I met students who attended universities of widely varying academic quality and content , in Moscow and in other cities from the Caucasus in the south to the Baltic republics in the north . Some of the students were liberal by Russian standards , eager for more exposure to Western ideas and contact with young people from the West . Others  --  not surprisingly in a country where students are entirely dependent on their government for their education  --  seemed conservative even within the context of Soviet society . All of the young men and women I met were far more serious and seemed to place a much higher value on their education than American students  --  either my college generation of the early sixties or the more radical students ! subsequently wrote about as a newspaper reporter during the era of campus revolts . To most Russian students , entering and staying in school is a serious business  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Do you mean to tell me that a student can fail to attend his classes and remain in an American university ? " asked a girl who was enrolled in the foreign languages department* at Moscow State University ( MGU ) . ** According to the 1970 census , approximately 5.5 percent of Soviet citizens above age ten possess some education beyond secondary school ; 4.2 percent have completed their higher education . A university diploma provides a virtual guarantee of a high-status job . There is no reason to question the practical value of higher education in the Soviet * The Russian equivalent of an . American university department is usually translated as fakultet . However , a Soviet fakultet would sometimes be the counterpart of colleges within large American universities . ** Moscow State is popularly known by its initials , MGU , which stand for moskovsky gosudarstvenny universitet in Russian . Union , since the government only trains as many people as it needs to fill specific jobs . Most students , well aware that they constitute a fortunate elite , have neither the time nor the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A few brief profiles of Soviet students illustrate this point : Luda , a pudgy twenty-year-old who is studying to become a high-school English teacher , never stopped talking about her good fortune in having been admitted to a highly regarded teacher training institute in Moscow . Her mother is a cook in a Moscow restaurant and she lives at home because it is slightly less expensive than living in a dormitory . " Of course , I would like to live in a dormitory , " she says . " But 1 am so happy for the opportunity to study that it 's enough by itself . " Elsa , a part-time Intourist guide who is a student at Latvia State University in Riga , speaks with quiet enthusiasm about a term paper she is preparing . It compares Jack London , a popular and officially approved foreign author in the Soviet Union , to a writer whom Elsa referred to as " the Latvian Jack London . " The " relevance " ? or lack of relevance  --  of her academic work does not concern Elsa . She is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world . In Tbilisi , capital of the Soviet republic of Georgia , a burly young man who is active in the Komsomol ( Young Communist Youth League ) has heard about the Black Panthers and is convinced that they are soul brothers . He did not understand what I was talking about when I suggested to him recently that the Panthers are in many respects a revolutionary organization , while the Komsomol can hardly be considered revolutionary since it is dedicated to preserving rather than changing the Soviet system . He appears to believe everything he has ever read in his political textbooks . Students do not necessarily represent the most intelligent segment of Soviet youth , although that is sometimes the case . The Soviet university entrance system discriminates heavily against students who have not made the grade in high school , particularly against those whose behavior has been considered obstreperous or " anti-social . " A brilliant student with a history of rebellion against high-school rules and officials would find it far more difficult to gain admission to a Soviet university than an American student in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ university , an even heavier penalty is exacted if he displays signs of political or purely intellectual nonconformity . A case in point is Andrei Amalrik , the young historian and writer who is now serving three years in a prison camp for writing and authorizing Western publication of his books , Involuntary Journey to Siberia and Will the Soviet Union Survive Until 1984 ? Amalrik first came into conflict with Soviet officialdom when he submitted a thesis paper at MGU on the civilization of Kievan Rus , the early Russian state centered around the present capital of the Ukraine . Amalrik 's research was acceptable to the faculty examiners but his conclusion  --  that early Rus sian civilization was strongly shaped by Byzantine and Norman influences  --  was unacceptable . It ran counter to the official and highly chauvinistic historical view that Russian civilization was developed primarily by Slays . Amalrik was eventually expelled from the university for sticking to his conclusion and for trying to communicate with a Danish scholar who held similar views . By trying to write the Dane , the young history student first attracted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the courage to defend it can be dangerous ; few students are willing to run the risks involved . There are , of course , many first-rate minds among students at Soviet universities . Some of the best students enroll in science departments rather than the humanities , because the sciences are more sheltered from political controversy and therefore from the possibility of making a political " error " in one 's academic work . Other students , more willing to compromise than Amalrik , have become adept at presenting an orthodox front to the world and keeping whatever dissenting thoughts they have to themselves . Nevertheless , it is as misleading to suggest that stu-dents form a pure- Union during the next half-century is now studying at some kind of higher educational institution . Soviet students are proud of their position in society , but at the same time sensitive to suggestions that they are a privileged elite . " Everyone has the right to a higher education in our country , " one student from Kazakhstan said . " The government pays for everything . I think this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " She seemed disbelieving when I pointed out that despite the steep cost of higher education in the United States , a much larger percentage of American high-school graduates are able to attend college than Soviet young people . Then she said , " But your Constitution does n't guarantee you the right to education . Ours does . " Higher education is an enormous government-financed enterprise in the Soviet Union . All of its 4.5 million students , except those with extremely poor grades , receive stipends of thirty-five to forty rubles a month. * Dormitory fees are seldom more than five rubles a month . Tuition is free . The term " higher education " has a broader meaning in the Soviet Union than it does in the United States . It includes full-fledged universities with doctoral programs , music conservatories to train concert artists , agricultural and teachers ' colleges , even institutes designed to produce automotive engineers only one level above high-grade mechanics . Some fifty institutions are designated as universities ( universiteti ) by Soviet education officials ; most of these are the equivalent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other academic programs . All of the remaining institutions of higher education train young people for specific professions ranging from medicine to animal husbandry . **A Soviet universitet is not necessarily more prestigious than an institute . In Moscow , for example , the best foreign-language instruction is offered not in the appropriate department at MGU but at the Institute of Foreign Languages . This is true even though MGU is in many respects the Harvard of Soviet higher education . In uniyersiteti and in many institutes , it takes five or six years for a student to receive the equivalent of an American undergraduate diploma . A candidate 's degree , roughly the equivalent of a master 's , theoretically takes an additional three years . The three-year figure is purely theoretical , because Soviet universities are far less strict than American universities about time limits for the completion of graduate study . The average age of scientists receiving candidates ' degrees is forty  --  evidence of an academic-scientific time lag that some prominent Soviet scientists have already sharply criticized . A doctor 's degree does not necessarily represent a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is often awarded on an honorary basis for scholarly research or , in the case of scientists , applied work . A common practice is to award a doctorate to a professor on his sixtieth birthday . * One ruble equals approximately $1.11 at the official rate of exchange . The average Soviet worker 's salary is about 133 rubles a month . ** All institutions of higher education , including universities , come under the term VUZ , which stands for vysshee uchebnoe zavedenie ( literally , institution of higher education ) . The Soviet system of higher education begins with a complicated admissions process that is integrally linked to the nation 's central economic planning . The number of students in foreign-language departments is determined by the State 's decision on how many foreign-language specialists it wishes to train in a given year , not by demand . Broad decisions on the number of college-trained personnel needed in each major area of employment are included in the Five-Year Plans for economic development . The Five-Year Plans are approved and their basic direction shaped at the top level of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naturally adjusted somewhat from year to year in different areas of the country . The assistant rector of Latvia State University explained this planning process : " Each year in February or March , a new determination must be made about how many students will enter the universities -- and each department within the universities  --  the following September . This is , of course , related to the question of how many specialists will be needed for jobs five or six years in the future . Everyone participates. - the universities , government and Party planning organs at the city , republic and national level . The final decisions are reviewed in Moscow at Gosplan the central government 's top economic planning agency . " I said it must be quite a chore to prepare for each academic year with so many government agencies in on the act , but the assistant rector merely smiled . Decisions on how many specialists the State wants may regulate the number of places in every university department but they do not regulate the number of applicants . The assistant rector at Latvia State said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . and the least popular was a department concerned with accounting and bookkeeping . He said there were five applicants for every place in the most popular departments . The fiveto-one ratio is low by the standards of the most prestigious Soviet universities . In some departments at MGU and Leningrad State University , there may be fifteen or twenty applicants for each place . Until two or three years ago , some high-school students found loopholes in the admissions system by taking their entrance examinations in departments with relatively small numbers of applicants and then switching to the department they really wanted after they were safely enrolled in the university . A boy could apply to the accounting and bookkeeping department at Latvia State and switch to the foreign-languages department at the end of his freshman year if his academic record was satisfactory . To discourage such practices  --  which create havoc for the economic planners  --  universities have tightened their regulations to make it more difficult for a student to switch departments at any point in his academic career . Every August millions of young people throughout the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where they have already applied . The common American practice of applying to several Continued on page 128 universities with differing admissions standards is prohibited ; if a student fails to make the grade on the MGU entrance exam , he can not fall back on his application to a less prestigious university . Young men and women are kept in the dark about their fate until they receive official notices of whether they have been admitted , usually two or three weeks before the universities open . Many secondary-school graduates who were intending to continue their education find themselves unexpectedly in a factory or office as a result of a low score on the entrance exam . Only last month , the notion of predicting academic success on the basis of Soviet university-level examinations was publicly attacked in Literaturnaya Gazeta , the weekly of the Soviet Writers Union . V. Bespalko wrote that Soviet entrance tests produced such pressures on the applicants that " their real capabilities are not accurately reflected . " The author , in citing serious disparities between examination performance and actual academic talent , observed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is assured of receiving a diploma in higher education . On the entrance examination , even a 4 equivalent to a B can be fatal . But during study in the higher institute , 3 's equivalent to C 's will not stand in the way of a diploma . " The exam scores generally play the most important role in determining university admission . A student 's high-school record , both academic and extracurricular , has some influence . It is particularly helpful to have been active in the Komsomol . Some preference is also given to young people who have worked a year before taking the entrance exam and to children of peasants and blue-collar workers , who are underrepresented in the universities in comparison to the children of the Soviet intelligentsia . Soviet education officials never disclose exactly what weight is given to the social and professional background of an applicant 's parents . There is general agreement that the proportion of students from blue-collar and farm families is rising slightly ; some universities have even set up special preparatory programs for students from poor rural high schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where new programs have been organized to aid black students ; in the Soviet Union , children who live on farms suffer from unequal educational opportunity in much the same fashion as children who live in America 's central cities . Despite official efforts to achieve a more diverse student population in Soviet universities , a majority of young people enrolled in higher education institutions still come fromfamilies in which the parents also had some education beyond high school . The Soviet intelligentsia is as successful at perpetuating itself as the intelligentsia of any other country . The disparity between the limited number of university places and the growing numbers of students who want to go to college leads some families to take desperate measures . Many urban parents pay hundreds or even thousands of rubies for private tutoring , hoping their children will score higher on the university entrance examination . Some instructors who had access to the examination questions have gone to jail for their part in tutoring rackets . The more honest tutors simply try to " teach the test " in a fashion hallowed around the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bribery  --  an abuse of the system that receives an unusual amount of publicity in the official press . The Soviets are prouder of their advances in education than of almost any other achievement since the Bolshevik Revolution and they are extremely sensitive to any charges of official misconduct in educational institutions . In one lengthy court case earlier reported in the press , several teachers and members of the admissions board of the Moscow Polygraphic Institute were convicted of having accepted thousands of rubles in bribes to admit students who had failed to qualify on the examination . One teacher set a standard five-hundredruble fee to illegally reserve a place ; 20 percent of the fee went to an examiner who upgraded the applicant 's low mark . The evidence produced in court showed that teachers and examiners had been responsible for admitting several dozen students each year who should not have been eligible on the basis of their examination scores . In another episode , a " clearing-house " involving educators and more ordinary criminals was set up to buy places for dubious applicants at universities in several large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward abuses of official position in education , they are not willing to address themselves to the basic social problem behind the bri bery  --  a massive expansion of secondary schooling during the past fifteen years without a corresponding increase in university facilities and enrollment . The number of high-school graduates has jumped 700 percent , while the number of university places has only doubled . A stepped-up expansion of higher education does not fit in with Soviet economic planning for the foreseeable future . The Russian economy still depends far more on unskilled labor , particularly in agriculture , than do the industrial nations of the West . The country 's most urgent need at this point of economic development is to upgrade its skilled blue-collar labor force . Russian planners regard expanded secondary-school education as being in line with the need for a larger and better-skilled labor pool ; they believe  --  probably correctly  --  that the Soviet economy can not put more college graduates to effective use at this time . Thoughtful Soviet officials are beginning to discuss the problems inherent in a system that now allows millions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no realistic hope of continuing their education . " I believe we have what the Americans call a syndrome of rising expectations , " one social scientist said . " Intellectually , I know we are going to have a great many unhappy young people on our hands . Realistically , I know the number of university places is not going to be significantly increased in this Five-Year Plan or the next or maybe even the next . " How can our government spend money to train students for jobs that do n't yet exist in our economy ? And yet we encourage our young people to dream that they can become anything , do anything they want . I do n't see any answer right now , only fiercer competition to get into the universities during the next ten or fifteen years . " Given such a situation , it is not surprising that the fortunate few make every effort to meet whatever demands the universities impose on them . Those demands on a student 's time and energy are stringent : a Soviet student 's life , while rich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pleasant by Western standards . One of the most striking characteristics of Soviet higher education is that a student must spend far more time in the classroom than he would in any American college or university . In most Soviet institutions or universities , an undergraduate attends class five or six hours a day , Monday through Saturday . The large lecture system is as widely used at Soviet universities as it is in the United States with one important difference : attendance is compulsory . A student who misses a lecture without an official excuse from the college infirmary or some other university agency is reported to an appropriate Komsomol representative . If absence from class becomes a regular pattern , the student is called before a Komsomol committee to account for his actions , disciplined in some way and probably escorted to class thereafter by a dedicated Komsomol member . In using students to discipline their peers , Soviet universities are continuing a practice that begins early in elementary school with the Young Pioneers . In high school , the Pioneers give way to the Komsomol . Nearly all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a small percentage , many of them future Party members , are activists in the organization . An English-literature student in Tbilisi said , " We do n't have much use for Komsomol members who are always meddling in other people 's affairs . It 's all very well for children to watch out for each other in elementary school , but to carry on the same system with people who are almost adults is ridiculous . I actually had one friend who was assigned a Komsomol member to make sure that she did her homework . " Preparation for classes occupies the major proportion of a Soviet student 's free time . Some students told me they had to work two hours by themselves for every hour spent in class ; most said they spent one hour on homework for each class hour . My conversations suggested that the average Soviet student spends ten to twelve hours attending or preparing for each day 's classes . It is impossible to pass courses simply by cramming for final exams , because Soviet universities demand regular written and oral assignments from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet academic establishment have noted unfavorably the resemblance between universities and high schools . Kostiantyn B. Yatsymyrs'kyi , director of the Ukrainian Institute of Physical Chemistry , has written in Literaturna Ukraina ( Literary Ukraine ) that many Soviet institutes and universities " work like secondary schools . This is a very bad practice ... Such childish methods must be rooted out from their institutes . " Yatsymyrs'kyi was speaking not merely of teaching methods but of a university system that requires students to specialize from the beginning of their academic careers . A student has little say in planning his curriculum other than making the basic choice of a department when he applies for admission . The often bewildering supermarket of American university courses available even to freshmen and sophomores would be unthinkable in a Soviet institution of higher education . The course requirements for each five- or six-year undergraduate degree are strictly laid out , and they concentrate almost entirely on the occupation for which a student is being prepared . A mathematics student would not ordinarily be allowed to take a course in Europeanliterature ; a law student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the only courses a student takes outside of his specialty are political subjects such as Marxist-Leninist theory , the history of world communism and Marxist economics . The freshman program of one prospective English teacher who was studying at an institute in Kazakhstan consisted entirely of English grammar , English literature and the philosophy of Marx and Lenin . Three or four hours a day were spent on English and one or two hours on political theory . During her sophomore year , the girl explained , courses in the history of the English language and teaching methods would be added to her program . In Moscow , I met a fourth-year electrical engineering student who had never taken any courses unrelated to his engineering specialty . He was astonished when I told him that most American universities require students to take some courses in the humanities and the physical and social sciences during their first two years . Like the class attendance system , the high degree of specialization in Soviet universities is the logical outgrowth of a secondary-school structure in which youngsters have no choice about their classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the universities because " our students have all received the basic background in high school that your students get during their first year or two of college . " My own observations of Soviet high schools did not convince me that they provide anything like the equivalent of first- or second-year basic courses in American universities . The average Soviet high-school student is required to take many more hours of science and mathematics than the average American student , but quantity and quality of instruction do not necessarily go hand in hand . I found no evidence  --  either in classroom observations , conversations with students and teachers or in textbooks  --  that Soviet high schools were turning out graduates who knew any more about modern science than American high-school graduates . Russian high-school students are particularly deficient in their knowledge of history and other areas of the humanities . They take ten years of Russian and modern Soviet history but do not study world history in any meaningful way until their final year in high school . Such students can hardly be considered so " well grounded " that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sole aim of higher education is to train a young man or woman for one job . The results of overspecialization are evident in the educational deficiencies of many Soviet university graduates . One highly intelligent young man , a graduate of the prestigious Moscow Institute of Foreign Languages , startled me by asking who Aristotle was when he came across the name in a book I had given him . In a line at Moscow 's central farm market . I met a young construction engineer who graduated from an institute in 1967 and had done most of his subsequent work in rural areas . He knew so little about agriculture and genetics that he was sure rotten vegetables were caused entirely by planting seeds from previously deformed or rotten plants . The fascinating colloquium of scientists published in Literaturna Ukraina indicated that many first-rate scholars and scientists believe overspecialization hampers the intellectual development of all Soviet students . Victor 0 . Kononenko , a member of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences , had traveled in France , Belgium and Japan , where he actually participated in commissions examining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been extremely impressed by the creativity of Western graduate students , particularly by their ability to answer questions in areas entirely different from their specialized fields of study . Kononenko views higher education as a two-stage process : the informative stage , in which a student basically absorbs and memorizes information , and the creative stage , in which the student begins to apply knowledge to new problems . He wrote that Soviet higher education " pays Eitsl main attention to the first stage and sometimes forgets about the second stage . " He added , " We always dream that a man will start thinking independently by himself but the student seldom fulfills such dreams because he is not pre-pared for creative , independent thinking . " The scientists also touched on another point that is not generally acknowledged in Soviet academic circles : complete specialization in the universities may be as detrimental to the country 's long-range employment needs as it is to the development of creative minds . A scientist who is trained in only one narrow specialty rather than in the application of creative , inductive research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concepts . " The question is , will our students be of any real use to their profession five years after graduation ? " one research scientist commented . Also , the best-laid charts of economic planners go awry when people decide they do not like the jobs for which they have been trained . Soviet students are assigned to a job by the government for two years after graduation but after that period of service is ended they are relatively free agents . Switching professions is common and the new profession often has no relationship to the job for which a student was trained in college . One middle-aged woman told me laughingly about her sister , who studied for six years at art aeronautics institute and was graduated as an aeronautical engineer . After five years , the young woman decided what she really wanted to do was work with children in a nursery school . " So I asked her why she spent six years studying airplanes . And all she said was , ' You know it 's very hard to jump out of a plane . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union began his academic career in an architectural institute . Even people who once intended to cultivate careers in the Communist Party change their minds . " This is human nature , " a professor of botany said . " It 's better if we teach students to cope with whatever they decide to do in life . " The problems of Soviet universities  --  particularly the lack of emphasis on creative , independent thinking  --  are political as well as academic . Scientists , secure in the knowledge that they are essential to the Soviet State , are generally more outspoken than humanities scholars about the deficiencies in their system of higher education . A system that does not allow an Andrei Amalrik to conclude that Kievan Rus was influenced by the Normans can also place constraints on scientific research . Foreigners easily forget that Soviet universities , like all institutions of Soviet society , must operate within the framework of one " right an swer " ? Marxist-Leninist theory as interpreted by current political leaders . Only fifteen years ago , the Soviet academic and scientific worlds were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joseph Stalin 's favorite biologist , the charlatan Lysenko . Lysenko 's fundamental belief was that acquired characteristics could be transmitted to future generations through simple breeding ; his concepts fitted in with the political ideal of creating a new " Soviet man , " unfettered by any constraints from the past , Lysenko popularized his ideas with the saying , " The zygote is no fool . " To breed a large calf with high butterfat milk content . Lysenko believed it very important to select a small bull for the father and a large cow for the mother . If the cow were small  --  so the theory went  --  the calf Continued on pate 130 If this seems insignificant , imagine for a moment what would happen to us if someone invented a nuclear engine small enough , safe enough , and cheap enough for automobiles . The resources invested in the production of internal-combustion engines would become immediately obsolete . Those obsolete resources would include the educations and training of literally millions of citizens , from garage mechanics to automotive engineers , from oil-well riggers to organic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ develop entire new industrial and technological systems  --  including the recruitment and training of millions of workers  --  to accomplish the conversion . Our society is so vast and complex in its relationships that this could not be achieved without considerable chaos , and probably would not be accomplished until the shortage of fossil fuels became so undeniable that this would be the only alternative left to us . This fact of our society is the compelling reason for proposing the conversion from fossil fuels to hydrogen fuels before the crisis comes . It is the only proposal consistent with the organizational realities of our civilization . We have learned to do much more with the fossil fuels than burn them . The chemicals of coal and petroleum have become fundamental for pharmaceuticals , fabrics , plastics , and similar products . Whole industries are based on the production and uses of these chemicals  --  and these industries depend for their survival on continuing supplies of coal and petroleum . If we stop burning the fossil fuels , then we can keep our reserves for the use of these industries . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics confuses us as much as chemistry confuses politicians . But a major emphasis of our foreign policy is given to ensuring imports of petroleu m from various parts of the world . it worries me that so much of the world 's petroleum lies under politically unstable nations . We have had our investments seized , we are subject to political blackmail , we are forced to support regimes which have little to offer but oil exports . Since hydrogen can be produced in immense quantities wherever there is water , hydrogen offers the United States considerable independence from often unpleasant and sometimes hostile oil producing states with whom we are now forced to do business because we need their oil . We must stop burning our fossil fuels . We need to preserve these natural resources for the industries which truly need them . We must do this , and we can . Various experimental groups around the country have already operated existing internal-combustion engines on hydrogen and found they run quite well . The Arkansas Power and Light Company has supported a research group at Oklahoma State University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gasoline engine on hydrogen . The Perris Smogless Automobile Association in California has been driving a couple of Ford trucks  --  one a Model A and the other considerably more modern  --  on hydrogen . It has been done . To make hydrogen a fully efficient fuel for cars , trucks , and buses . however , there need to be some changes in engine design ; providing for larger combustion chambers and modified carburetion or fuel injection systems . But these changes are on the same scale as those presently being innovated by the automotive industry . We need no engineering breakthroughs to shift the standard automotive engine from petroleum combustion to hydrogen combustion . And we gain a couple of marketing advantages : Hydrogen makes possible a nonpolluting , high-compression , high-performance engine which is possible now only with leaded gasoli nes ; hydrogen burning engines could be made without the pollution-control devices which increase costs and decrease performance . To keep the mobility of our vehicles at their present level  --  about 200 to 300 miles without refueling for automobiles  --  liquid hydrogen fuel tanks would need to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tanks . Furthermore , the vehicles should probably be designed so that the entire fuel tank could be replaced when the vehicle needs to be refueled . Liquid hydrogen needs to be kept very cold , - 423 degrees Fahrenheit , or it turns to gas . Liquid hydrogen is now shipped around the country in double-walled insulated containers , dewars , that have effectively solved this problem  --  and only I or 2 percent per day is lost in transit or in temporary storage . These containers , much like Thermos bottles , can be made quite small  --  we use small dewars constantly in our research laboratories  --  and they can be made large enough to be put on wheels as truck trailers and railroad tank cars . You may not have noticed , but if you have spent much time waiting at railroad crossings you have seen liquid hydrogen going to market . Continued on page 131 continued from page 129 would also be small because the zygote would " instinctively " decide it would have difficulty emerging from a small mother at birth . But if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Lysenko 's hypothetical zygote would opt for the most desirable traits of both parents . A foreigner can laugh at Lysenko 's thesis but Soviet scholars and scientists died in prison camps for opposing him . lie was finally toppled from his pedestal only in 1965 . Meanwhile , several generations of Soviet students had learned Lysenkoist biology from fearful and compliant faculty members . The Soviet university today is a far more open forum for academic discussion and debate than it was in Stalin 's day , but the importance of such a repressive heritage can not be discounted . Part of that heritage is the relative isolation from international contacts that characterizes the scholarly work of both students and professors . Only a small percentage of university faculty have had the opportunity to work or study outside the Soviet Union in areas of the world most pertinent to their academic specialties . Trips abroad are prizes usually granted at an age when a scholar can no longer derive maximum benefit from contacts with foreign colleagues and experiences . met one fifty-five-year-old professor of French who had just received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other Soviet tourists . Scientists find it difficult to participate in international congresses ; the majority of visas are granted to older scientists who are past the stage of career for serious research . Needless to say , undergraduate and graduate students almost never have the opportunity to travel . " I have heard that many of your students travel all through Europe in the summer , " a girl from Lvov said in a wistful tone . " I would so love that  --  it would be good for my English . But there is no chance . " Once again , scientists are more outspoken than their other academic colleagues about the need to expand the international contacts of Soviet scholars . In its heritage of isolation and rigidity , the Soviet university merely reflects the basic condition of the Soviet society . The possibility of change is inherent in debates within the academic establishment , but such changes are likely to take place only over a period of several decades . It is difficult to determine whether the elite nature of the university system makes change more or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from change , but they also have the most to lose by sticking their necks out . With such scarcity of opportunity , moral courage must often bow to the necessity of survival , despite the desire for change and a freer intellectual life . The foregoing article is reprinted by special permission from the Nov. 1971 issue of Change magazine .                     