@@493206

front in Altenburg ; a hunger for seeking " change for the Absolute , " that currency only religious souls possess yet so many agnostics need ; a fascination for history , which crushes man yet provides him with the grandest opportunities for defiance ; a passion for those " Men of History " who succeeded in deflecting its course : these are all concerns and qualities that seem almost anachronistic in an age of mediocrity , when history takes the insidious form of statistics , power is busy with mere management , and terrorism becomes the small change of heroism ; when writers either return to triviality or experiment with the destruction of forms as well as characters . Hence that other embarrassment : in the prosperous France of 1976 , whose politicians hurl at each other " social blueprints " without national vision , and whose youth oscillates from conformity to cynicism , Malraux seemed like an outsized relic from another age , and young writers promptly explained that he meant nothing to them . Did Malraux himself sense this kind of disharmony ? Did he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own disenchantment with Europe 's present ? He noted that the present civilization is the first to be both the conscious heir of all past ones , and devoid of values ? deprived , it seems , of the will to create new ones and even of the energies of nihilism . His last " anti-memoirist " books often strike that note of derision and grotesqueness which he had , in his youth , called le farfelu , and which is Malraux ' sardonic equivalent of Sartre 's pathetic nausea . And yet , it appears that his very last book ? on art ? announces a newmetamorphosis : the audio-visual revolution , and salutes its potential both for creation or for rediscoveries . The aging writer who , despite a long series of personal tragedies and illnesses , kept writing until the end , and belied his unfair reputation for oracular fuzziness and rhetorical hollowness with an extraor ? dinary attention to detail , a scrupulous reconstruction of the essence of great men 's lives , words and works , and the most dazzling conversation , will remain an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Those famous ellipses and flashes of lightning which have jolted his listeners and his readers were the natural expression of one of the most incisive minds in the history of French literature . If intelligence is the art of illuminating a subject by binding together aspects that no one had yet linked or sought out , nobody has been more intelligent . But above all , after this or that aspect of his life has died down , he will at last be seen for what he is : both the greatest literary genius of a new kind of literature that tried to make sense of the experiences of a horrible and tormented era without despairing of the power of artistic creation , and a man who , in all his activities , served and exemplified a country , France , of whom he said , almost 30 years ago , that " it has never been greater than when it spoke for all mankind , and this is why its silence is so poignant to hear . " Malraux deserves the same epitaph ; but in both cases , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways of " astonishing the world , " and taking full measure of Malraux has only just begun . He gazes back at us from the faded , forgotten pictures of the 1960s . Usually he is the younger unplaceable figure a step behind the recognized men , the faces and reputations so soon to atrophy . He stands a bit stooped on alien , windswept airfields beside bloated briefcases and McGeorge Bundy . Slightly blurred , he listens from the discreet back row of chairs around the wall of the Cabinet Room , while at the table ( the front row too visible , as it happened , to survive the corporate disaster ) Robert McNamara and Dean Rusk and Walt Rostow exchange earnest looks with Lyndon Johnson . Later , with the same group , he sits erect and alert on the shadowed patio of the LBJ ranch as Curtis LeMay admonishes them on the nuances and rewards of imaginative targeting . Now he is back . The close dark hair is ripened gray . Exile has put wrinkles into the angular , immobile face . He comes from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He is henceforth to be captioned Secretary of State . 14 Those awkward , set-piece photographs are impor ? tant , of course , much as we would like to forget them . They hold the few public tracks of Cyrus Vance and the ethic he represents . His record , it is true , has often been faint , in part because in that world , too tangible records are liabilities , in part because such men never leave much behind anyway . In 672 pages disrobing the more conspicuous of the best and brightest , David Halberstam accorded him only three passing paragraphs , less than one each for the four years Vance was McNamara 's deputy secretary of defense and among the half dozen principal executors of the war policy . In its editorial hailing Carter 's appointment of Vance , The New York Times pronounced it " bizarre " even to have thought of ruling out such a man . That observation followed logically , no doubt , from the fact that " Punch " Sulzberger had put Vance on the Times ' board of directors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pan Am , and a Lehman Corporation mutual fund . A trustee of Yale , the Rockefeller Foundation , New York 's Presbyterian Hospital , his clubs are the best : Century and Links in New York , Metropolitan in Washington . The obligatory word here is " sound . " According to Averell Harriman , Clark Clifford , assorted former Vance associates , and the anonymous consensus consulted by the President-elect , Cyrus Vance is " sound . " In the sociology of establishment power , it is faint though nonetheless annointing praise , more emblem than adjective . It subsumes bright , attentive , reliable , diligent , loyal , cautious , discreet and , as needs be , unquestioning ? all of which there is ample evidence the new Secretary of State will be . It also customarily excludes brilliant , imaginative , original , independent , publicly candid , and as needs be insubordinate or repentant ? and , true to form , no peer or editorial writer has accused Vance of being any of these . He won the badge with an impressive career , ascended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and an austere ability to cling to the right contacts . His father died when he was only five , and he was soon sent away from home in Clarksburg , West Virginia to a private academy in Switzerland , the Kent School in Connecticut , and on to Yale and Yale Law , graduating into the Navy in 1942 . He returned in 1947 to a prestigious Manhattan law practice where he served the ritual firm apprenticeship for the next 10 years . What today makes the failure of the critical instinct among journalists all the more mindless is that , in many ways more vividly than any of the other establishment careers long since ruined by Vietnam , Vance 's career joined and embodied the worst historic currents of our post-war folly . Like the nervous combativeness of the time , Vance was launched by Sputnik . When , in October 1957 , Senate Majority Leader Johnson revived a musty defense preparedness subcommittee to study the The New Republic Soviet space program , he hired a prosperous New York Democrat named Edwin Weisl , who happened also to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thacher and Bartlett . Vance came along as an assistant investigator . The inquiry was efficient , short-lived and did n't strain LBJ 's relations with the Eisenhower administration . But it placed Vance with Johnson , and it identified him as one of the legions of in-and-out Democratic lawyers available for the Executive office in a restoration . Vance and Weisl returned to Washington briefly in 1960 to do a similar special inquiry for Johnson on the next national alarm , the " missile gap . " Though comparatively slipshod , this study at least uncovered the basic nonsense of the term ? a discovery they tactfully spared the public . Meanwhile in the 1960 campaign , strategic issues degenerated into the hysteria which fueled the next round in the arms race . Later that summer , as Johnson pondered in his Los Angeles Convention suite Kennedy 's offer of the vice presiden ? cy , Vance was there , again in tow to Weisl . But , unlike his sponsor , Vance urged LBJ to run . Vance 's distinction over the next eight years was to combine this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Kennedy regime , the technocracy of style and credentials which then seemed an adequate equivalent for genuine knowledge and sophistication about government . Among our buried memories is the caprice of it all . Asked which service secretary he wanted to be , Vance , then a 43-year-old general practice lawyer , replied that he guessed the navy , since that 's where he was in the war . Just then McNamara thought some administrative experience essential for the service jobs , so Vance became instead general counsel of the Pentagon . There he hired another new and eager New York lawyer , Joe Califano , who remembered later the exhilaration and dash of their gifted amateurism as they began the consolidation of the anarchic Pentagon intelligence agencies by reading the National Security Act ! ( The agencies had been consolidated by law already , of course ; only the anarchy and the distortions and the duplication remained . ) Presumably having proved his ad ? ministrative skills , Vance became Secretary of the Army in 1962 ; in 1964 he became McNamara 's LBJ ? certified deputy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncanny frequency an almost unnoticed , always discreet presence at fateful junctures . When the first volatile and controversial intelligence on the Gulf of Tonkin attacks came to LBJ , Vance was among those who bought it and vouched for it . When Bundy made his famous February 1965 telephone call from Saigon after the rocketing of Pleiku , the call that recommended bombing Hanoi while Kosygin was there , Vance was the man on the other end of the line in Washington who promptly . relayed Bundy 's proposal to Johnson and the rest of the advisers , and then voted unanimously with them to call in the air strikes . The following summer , December 18 , 1976 Vance was acting secretary of defense when LBJ summarily ordered , in McNamara 's absence , the commitment of 175,000 troops to Vietnam that would make the eventual half million nearly inevitable . At the close of 1966 Vance was one of the tiny handful of senior men responsible for the " Marigold " debacle in which the uncoordinated bombing of Hanoi destroyed an authentic and long-cultivated mediation effort through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back ailment in 1967 , Vance was called back by a beleaguered Johnson for a special mission to mediate a Cyprus dispute and later to calm the South Koreans after the seizure of the Pueblo . In March 1968 Vance was one of the establishment " wise men " telling Johnson the war would not be sustained after Tet by either Wall Street or the country at large . Finally , in the twilight of the regime , he was Harriman 's deputy ( and once more Johnson 's man among the Kennedy people and the bureaucrats ) at the futile byplay of the Paris peace talks . From all this he returned to the prescribed exile in his old New York firm , quietly advised Senator Muskie in 1972 , became president of the New York Bar Association ( where among other local duties he has deplored an obstreperous public campaign to open the Rosenberg files ) , joined the right committees , signed the right bland reports , met and endorsed Carter , and generally said as little as possible about foreign policy in time-honored preparation for the appointment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ record is entwined in contradic ? tions . He was insistently courageous in ending racial discrimination in military base housing . Yet he administered the army at the same time with no apparent instinct , let alone remedy , for its malignant institutional rot in other respects . He stood by McNamara faithfully in battles with the joint chiefs over competing technology and missions in Vietnam . Yet in 1967 , by Ernest Fitzgerald 's testimony , " CRV " were the initials that approved , without even a routine check with the auditors , a huge chunk of the air force 's billion-dollar spending scandal on the F-111 , an episode Fitzgerald later called in understatement " high-priced , high-level hankypanky . " Out of office an advocate of arms control , in office Vance was instrumental in McNamara 's 1968 decision to buy a worthless anti-Chinese ABM as a sop to intramural Pentagon politics . Now in favor ( like Carter ) of limiting conventional arms traffic , Vance as deputy secretary of defense presided personally and enthusiastically over a lavish program of Pentagon arms sales promotion that has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The most fashionable cliche about Vance is that he has been , no matter what his faults , a successful diplomatic " trouble-shooter , " the technical virtue that excuses past vices in a foreign minister . The reality , alas , is more ambiguous . In January 1964 Vance flew off15 to quell a Panama Canal Zone riot that eventually petered out without benefit of diplomacy , and , as the Carter administration will discover all too soon , the underlying crisis remains . In 1965 Vance went to the Dominican Republic with Bundy and State Department assistant secretary Thomas Mann ; the cables recorded conflicting substantive views between Bundy and Mann , nothing for Vance , and a local crisis that dragged on long after the US negotiators left . Over Cyprus in 1967 he bravely shuttled between Ankara and Athens with a painful back , but all the while on a tight leash of instructions from Rusk and Rostow , and with a " diplomacy " that amounted to the same old arms-aid ransom to the Greek junta and Turkish generals , weapons shipments over the ensuing years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a parent of the 1974 disaster . In Korea after the Pueblo incident , his task was to proffer the same sort of arms pay-off to the Koreans , sweetened by an implicit silence on the mounting human rights outrages of the Park regime . In Paris later in 1968 , as deputy at the Vietnam peace talks , there is simply nothing of the man himself visible through the ceaseless bickering and bureaucratic makework ; when Kissinger took over the secret talks with Hanoi months afterward , he would discover to his disgust that Vance and Harriman had led their delegation to Paris without even rudimentary position papers on a political settlement . Over it all , from the " missile gap " inquiry to the Paris talks , there is the recurrent , unmistakable odor of gentlemanly submission . There is no palpable achieve ? ment beyond the endurance and promotion of the man himself , the classic survivor . No outrage , no spirited defense , no remorse , no abiding conviction , indeed no visible view clutters the trail . It was a career studded with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ myths that tyrannize foreign affairs . Left behind is only the debris of foolish policies . The void is frightening . Even the most gentle reading of the Vance resume shows he knows next to nothing beyond what he learned by osmosis at the Pentagon or in corporate law offices of international economics , of the new generation of strategic weaponry , of currents in the Middle East . In the new Secretary of State , the bureaucrats , especially Vance 's old colleagues in the Pentagon , have a familiar and congenial institutional adversary . Vance 's intelligence is the alert but disembodied shrewdness of the caretaker , unanchored by the sense of substance and history that alone rescues politics from fey or tragic administration . He got here , of course , by the want of competition in a decaying establishment , the residue of a failed generation . At 60 and as Secretary of State , however , he will survive nicely for a time , if only by the stunningly superficial journalism of papers like The Washington Post and The New York Times , in whose editorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much less what the man had done or been , what he represented beyond the titles . Henry Kissinger , hardly missing the point ( or the favorable comparison that 's coming to help exculpate him ) , heralded Vance as " outstanding . " In truth the new Secretary is precisely the sort of sometime bureaucrat Kissinger detested in his books and defeated with no quarter in the west basement of Nixon 's White House . Vance would have been no match there . And this raises the question ? the same one that was asked when William Rogers became Nixon 's Secretary of State ? of how Vance will indeed deal with Carter or Carter 's man for foreign policy in the White House . To the question of whether Cyrus Vance would , based on past performance with LBJ , stand up and cross Jimmy Carter any time soon , the answer can only be a tremulous " no . " When he turned on LBJ with the " wise men " after Tet in 1968 , the corpse of the regime wasalready cooling , and Vance was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now celebrate Vance 's dullness as some cathartic to Kissinger 's flamboyance , as if undemocratic habits , furtiveness and self-protection were not common and fundamental faults . Ultimately , what will be lost is only virtuosity ? some flair amid the deception . Vance invites instant and justifiably favorable comparison to William Rogers , Nixon 's pathetic first Secretary of State . The real model is much worse : Dean Rusk . It was Rusk , Vance 's bitter rivals mutter , who secured the appointment ; it is Rusk 's bureaucratic legacy and style that he now takes into office , bereft only of the costly tool of military intervention . It would have been " almost ridiculous " to appoint someone without Vance 's experience , said President-elect Carter . Vance may be what Carter wants ; can he be what Carter and the country really need ? Mind you , I am not complaining . Why should I complain ? Who are we SS'ers ? Social Security beneficiaries ? to complain ? We are grateful , believe me . We are grateful , honestly and truly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be without it . And you , all of you youngsters under 65 , are good children , and you are taking care of your papas and mamas . So why should we complain ? Only sometimes , on the third of each month , as we finger that brown envelope , there is a little sorrow in our hearts , because ? it 's hard to explain ? but somehow we feel that it should be different . How different ? Well , let 's start at the beginning . Take me , for example . So I went to the SS office to apply for my benefits . Tell me , have you ever been to an SS office ? No ? You have n't ? Of course not . You are young . Well , then , have you ever been to an employment office ? Looking for a job ? During a time of depression , I mean . When there are no jobs . Well , that 's what an SS office is like . Those rows of hard chairs . That calling Shlomo Katz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of numbers . That waiting and waiting and waiting . Why could n't you young people arrange it a little different . After all , we are not as young as we used to be . Show a little regard for us . I mean have soft upholstered chairs ? even used ones would do ? and coffee served , and maybe a little music in the background , and maybe the receptionist should be a little less gruff . Why not ? Would it cost you much ? A little graciousness never hurt anybody . But like this , you make us feel like it is the ' 30s all over again . And why should you rub it in like that ? We remember it only too well as it is . Do I mean to say that we love you youngsters under 65 any less for this ? God forbid . How could we ! After all , you are our very own offspring . But we must have failed ? I mean we must have failed to bring you up properly , otherwise you 'd show a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our feelings . For it 's the little things that count . Take for instance those brown envelopes in which you send us our monthly pittance . Nobody will persuade me that the color was n't chosen intentional                     