@@493661

Last year there were 25,000 welfare abortions in Illinois , at a cost to the taxpayers of about $3.3 million . Last month , the state legislature ? both houses controlled by Democrats ? put a stop to that . No more public aid funds for elective abortions , it said . LeRoy Lemke , a cog in the Chicago Democratic Machine , led the fight in the Senate . " The taxpayers do n't want to have their dollars used for something immoral , killing a child , " he said . The vote in both houses was lopsided . It had to be , because this was the second time the legislators voted to deny state funds for abortions to women on public aid . This time they needed a three-fifths majority to override the veto of Republican Governor Jim Thompson . Most of Thompson 's First 11 months in the statehouse at Springfield have been uncontentious , marked by a cautious , eye-on-the-ball approach designed to secure his two most important goals , a balanced budget and a tough crime bill . Thompson campaigned hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now serving Only a two-year term ? occasioned by a constitutional change to get state elections out of the presidential cycle ? he wanted both objectives locked up before running for a full term next year . Equipped with a set of charts , tables aid a blackboard pointer , Thompson conducted 21 budget briefings around the state . Accusing his predecessor , Democrat Dan Walker , of " reckless overspending and fiscal quackery , " he convinced both the public and the legislature that they had three options ? a balanced budget , new taxes or bankruptcy . The assembly , which normally appropriates more money than it expects to be available , then counts on the governor to cut it hack , accepted Thompson 's budget . With increasing revenues , Illinois will be back in the black next year . The crime package , setting mandatory minimum sentences and no parole for a group of felonies branded " Class X , " ran into competition from a Democratic version of the same idea during the regular session of the legislature , but passed substantially as Thompson wanted it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easygoing , conciliatory , aw-shucks style has gone over well in Springfield , partly as a contrast to the steely confrontation and battling that marked Walker 's four years . " I think of myself as a pragmatic fellow , " he says . " My number-one goal was to get through the first legislative session , so we only put in what we really wanted . Then I devoted my time to working with the legislature and did little else until that was accomplished . I 'm a rookie governor , and I did n't want to bite off more than I could chew . " Thompson also says that he avoids criticizing 10-month incumbents , but he sees in his own success where Jimmy Carter has gone wrong . Too much ambitious legislation dumped into a slow-moving institution , then not enough attention to follow-through Thompson 's modest approach to government ? along with a winning margin of 1.4 million votes , the largest in Illinois history ? have made him an object of interest in some GOP circles . A doctor 's son with an enthusiastic flair for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hoots campaigning in the mud at county fairs , as well as in pinstripes and what he terms his " presidential red " tie in the banks and boardrooms of Illinois Republican politics . Either place , at o ' ? " and 220 pounds , he 's a hard man to overlook . And at age 41 , Thompson is not one to turn aside ambition . He once proclaimed that he has wanted to he President from the age of 11 ( a fact herewith published for the thousandth time ) and has admitted that he 's interested in the nomination of 1980 ( a fact that will hound him all over Illinois in his re-election bid next year ) . The day of his inauguration , Thompson won high marks for forthrightness on this score from Paul Harvey , the conservative radio commentator who is beamed into every barbershop and pickup cab in middle America . " At least there is one honest politician left , " Harvey said . Others of Paul Harvey 's stripe are certain that Thompson is after the top job , but claim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's the way one COP strategist sizes it up : " With the backing of no one in the Republican establishment , Ronald Reagan came within 59 votes of unseating an incumbent President ? and in the process his people took over a few more state party organizations . Now the money , the energy , the issues and the growth potential are all with the right . And lam Thompson is part of the Nelson Rockefeller-Chuck Percy wing of the party . Besides , he has a tendency to push people 's hot buttons . " " Hot buttons " refers to items like Thompson 's position on medicaid abortions . When that bill arrived at Thompson 's desk , he was advised that a veto would be politically unwise , and probably could n't be sustained . Gerald Ford 's 1976 pollster , Robert Teeter , was called in for soundings From around the state , and he reported that the public agreed with the views of Senator Lemke . Thompson 's Washington-based political adviser , Doug Bailey , put it more bluntly . " Abortion is a litmus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you probably ca n't be nominated in 1980 . " He did veto it . " This bill is not only unfair , " Thompson told the legislators , " it is cruel . It denies a constitutional right to some women because they are poor . I can not , in conscience , put my name on such a bill . " And the veto was indeed overridden . Abortion is not the only conservative hot button that Thompson has knowingly pushed . He also vetoed a bill intended to legalize the sale of laetrile in Illinois , Thompson said the bill would have opened a black market in a dangerous drug . Laetrile is rapidly becoming another litmus test for right wingers on the general topics of freedom of choice and excessive government regulation . Again , Thompson 's veto was overridden . And , of course , Thompson has endorsed the ERA . Right there in Phyllis Schlafly 's bailiwick he made a special point of saying , " I favor the amendment . i favor its ratification . I Favor its ratification now . " Thompson came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Schlafly still holds the upper hand in Illinois . On one of his first trips out of state , Thompson violated conservative orthodoxy at the GOP governors ' conference by opposing a proposal by New Hampshire Governor Meldrim Thomson to make the 1976 party platform , dictated by Ronald Reagan , an official statement of Republican principles . The vote was 12 to one ; Thompson of Illinois lost . Jim Thompson will have no primary opposition next year , but not everyone in the Illinois Republican party is overjoyed about his performance . He was very slow to make appointments , and has outraged county chairmen in his handling of patronage . " They care more about jobs than I 'd anticipated , that 's fair to say , " the Governor concedes . Thompson also has been a little error-prone . A Chicago Suol-Time ! ; reporter discovered that despite his strong endorsement of the ERA , Thompson held memberships in two private clubs that restrict women ( he has since resigned from one ) and , moreover , defended their right to do so . Then , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for personal use , and Thompson himself had to apologize for an illegal junket on a plane owned by a state-regulated corporation . Those on the Republican right in Illinois who observe Thompson up close are more generous than those on the national scene in assessing his performance so far . Conservative state representative Don Totten , who was Ronald Reagan 's cochairman in 1976 and led the fight to override Thompson 's laetrile veto put it this way : " If his administration has had a philosophical bent , you would have to call it conservative . But that 's due to the budget deficit . If we had a surplus , you can be sure he would have spent it. - In his first I1 months in office , Thompson has been out of state an average of twice each month . Many of the trips obviously are intended to get him a little useful exposure , though they usually wear the beard of state business or of helping out some fellow Republicans . In his political speeches , he outlines the lim Thompson Modest Genius Scheme for Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state airplane recently , he delivered that message to about 500 prosperous party folk in Grand Rapids , Gerald Ford 's old home town . " We 're the party outside looking in , " he told them . " There are n't enough Republicans in any state to elect our party 's candidates with Republican votes alone . We need Independents and Democrats . So run on tried and true Republican principles like limited government , balanced budgets and strong national defense . The Democrats are doing it and winning elections . And criticize your opponent and his record . But do n't insult the Democratic voters you need by expanding that criticism to a generic indictment of the Democratic party . " They do n't clap at that advice , but they think about it and nod their heads . Thompson gets most of his applause when he echoes the conservative credo . ( " Capital punishment may not deter the majority of murders , or even very many of them . But if it deters even just one . . . . " ) But he 's not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party of Mississippi , he proposed a GOP version of national health insurance and earned himself this headline in a Chicago newspaper : " Big lim Rings No Sale in Mississippi . " And in Arizona , where moderate Republicanism is all but extinct , he departed from his prepared text to launch a lengthy defense of the abortion veto . Some of the chips collected on these out of state ventures obviously are being stacked up for cashing in during 1080 . On a trip East last summer to sell Illinois to the New York banks and bond houses , for example , Thompson Found time to visit privately with Nelson and Laurance Rockefeller . He then attended a luncheon hosted by Maxwell M. Rabb , who was secretary of the cabinet under Eisenhower . Rabb is president of Manhattan 's Temple Emanuel and a power in New York Republican politics . Mixed among the eminences of the Wall Street financial community were incidentally useful people like Andrew FL Heiskell , chairman of Time , Inc. , Arthur Ochs Sulzberger , publisher of the New York Times , and Theodore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regretted . Rabb admits that Thompson was under scrutiny as a presidential prospect , and speaking for himself , he liked what he saw . " Sure there 's a conservative trend in the country , " he says , " hut in the final analysis ideology takes a back seat to winning and winning requires abroad party . I never discount a great vote getter. - IF lim Thompson does get into the active running in 1980 ? m event lid lit v that most observers regard as all but certain , Maxwell Rabb has just turned over his trump ca rd ? electa bl i Li ty . Moderate Republicans wherever they are concede that if one of their stripe is to win next time , he has to demonstrate an indisputable ability to " draw above the base , " as they say , to attract independents and Democrats . It 's a tough message to sell to the ideologues ? " putting winning above philosophy " ? but Jimmy Carter did it , and not so long ago , " If I were Thompson 's manager in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Howard Phillips , " I 'd run him everywhere . He has to establish his claim as a winner , because that 's his only claim . " The first test of the rookie governor 's staying power will be his re-election campaign in 1978 . Part of Thompson 's success up to now is due to his relationship to the Chicago Democratic machine and a little luck in the matter of timing . He began as a crusading US Attorney and made his name by sending mainstays of Mayor Daley 's political organization to jail . In all , he nailed seven aldermen , two state legislators , 85 Daley election day workers , 19 employees of the county assessor 's office , 54 Chicago cops and former Democratic Governor Otto Kerner. in the 1970 gubernatorial campaign , he tagged his opponent , jowley , gruff Michael Howlett as Daley 's handpicked candidate , a label that does n't make for voter appeal outside the 50 wards of Chicago . Thompson never slipped below a 20-point edge in the polls . Recognizing that Jimmy Carter was the only chance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ identified the slumping Howlett so closely to Carter that they produced a negative reverse coattail effect : Howlett lost and dragged Carter down with him . Then , before Thompson was inaugurated , Mayor Daley died , and his heirs , facing a special election For mayor , opted for a period of relative calm . They cooperated and compromised with Thompson to assure continuity on the home front . Meanwhile , the rookie governor was banking his points in the polls and getting most of what he wanted out of his first session in Springfield . By autumn , Thompson looked sufficiently invincible that his most prominently mentioned Democratic opponents , Dan Walker and Secretary of State Alan Dixon , both announced their disinterest in making the race . The man who got the Democratic nod is the attractive , aggressive State Comptroller Michael Bakahs , 3c ) . Bakalis heads what is widely regarded as the weakest group of Democratic candidates in Illinois memory . The slate is dominated by Chicago , tinged with sexism ( Bakalis refused to accept a woman as a running mate for lieutenant governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Metropolitan Sanitary District , two of whose trustees are part of the Democratic team . Thompson can not afford to underestimate Bakalis . He is by far the strongest Democrat in the field , and he 's knocked off popular Republican incumbents in his two previous campaigns for statewide office . Nevertheless , you get very short odds right now on a second term for Big Jim Thompson . No one expects that he 'll do as well as 1976 . Bakalis , after all , is not Howlett , and at 58 percent , there 's a little fat to be trimmed . But Thompson 's prospects allow him to look a little bit beyond 1978 , and his campaign will be a model of the prescriptions he offers Republicans nationwide . It also will fit with the program national GOP chairman Bill Brock has devised for the salvation of his party . For 1978 and 1980 , Brock has instituted a local elections operation designed to capture for the GOP a majority in at least one house of enough state legislatures around the country to stave off the disaster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ district lines are to be redrawn , if this process is left entirely in the hands of Democrats . So , Thompson personally has targeted eight suburban and downstate Illinois senate districts where he 'll campaign actively in an attempt to win the Illinois senate back for the Republican party . He wants to demonstrate coattails , you see . Brock also has begun a $250,000 program to raise the Republican 's paltry share of the black vote ? usually about 10 percent . Part of the reason it remains that lowis that Republican candidates routinely concede the black vote , a pattern that Thompson declines to follow , In his last campaign , he went right to the black wards of Chicago , normally bastions of the Daley machine where the vote is mobilized by Democratic precinct captains and organization jobbers , and where Jimmy Carter was a strong attraction at the top of the ticket . Thompson wound up with 26 percent of the black vote , which is two-and-a-half times the normal Republican base . Thompson 's reelection effort will be tied closely to that of Senator Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past , and the combination could make Illinois one of the big Republican success stories of 1978 . For right-wing true believers , the ticket inevitably will have a too-liberal tinge , and Thompson surely will be saddled with Percy 's heresy , on the Panama Canal treaties , for example . But Thompson 's advisers figure their own campaign themes will offset the image . He has been tough on crime , has balanced the budget , has whacked welfare fraud and has not raised taxes . If he wins , he 'll have run twice in a state with an electorate as complex as you 'll find anywhere in the country , and governed successfully with a legislature dominated by the opposition . With all that , Thompson 's supporters hope to persuade the Republican right to think about electability in 1980 , and to excuse a few deviations like ERA , abortion and laetrile. 