@@490716

KEFLECTIONS IN Washington . D.C. , during the May anti-war protests , police in autotnohiles and on scooters aimed their vehicles directly at demonstrators and drove toward them at high speeds in order to herd them off the streets . If One of the protesters had been hit and killed , the police officer driving the vehicle would have been guilty of murder . Not accidental killing or manslaughter but murder . Thus , every one of these officers was potentially guilty of a crime similar to that for which Lieutenant Calley was tried and convicted . The applicable principle is deeply embedded in our common law . A leading early example is Halloway 's Case ( King 's Bench , 1628 ) . Halloway was the woodward of woods belonging to the Earl of Denbigh . He discovered a boy named Payne in a tree , attempting to steal wood . Payne had a rope tied Around his middle , probably to aid him in climbing trees . Halloway ordered the boy down from the tree , and when he descended struck him two blows on his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of the rope to the tail of his horse . The frightened horse dragged Payne three furlongs , killing him . The question was whether this was manslaughter or murder , and the court held it to be murder , for Holloway knew , or should have known , the reckless and wanton risk he was taking with the boy 's life . In such a case , the specific intention to kill is not required . The deliberate taking of the risk is enough . Holloway was hanged . Students at Yale , where I teach in the law school , tell me that District of Columbia bus drivers also aimed their buses toward protesters at high speed and drove ahead without slowing down . How strange that those long-suffering civil servants the bus drivers are now guilty of reckless driving and assault , and , but for the agility of their potential victims , would be guilty of murder . Yet this is not an aberration . It is a pattern that is crucial to understanding what has gone wrong with America . Evil now comes about not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty but , more and more often , when they are conscientiously doing what is expected of them . And for this evil the question of individual blame seems almost irrelevant . Two of tankers collide on a foggy morning in San Francisco Bay . The THE LIMITS OF DUTY bay and ocean are contaminated , beaches are coated , wildlife is exterminated , a fragile beauty is destroyed for millions of people . Yet the tanker captains were doing their duty to move the oil on time , and behind them were company officials concerned with the maintenance of production schedules . No investigation , no technical fixing of blame would he likely to disclose what we have normally imagined to he the root of crime  --  a guilty mind or a malign heart . And what is true of the San Francisco oil spill is true of the other major evils that we see around us . From wiretapping to the prosecution of the Vietnam war , our crimes have been started and carried out by men zealously attempting to serve as they have been taught to serve . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us in the Calley case . I believe that Calley was properly convicted of murdering Vietnamese civilians , even though the same result produced by different means is officially held to by wholly legal . Yet we must all believe that Calley , in his own wrong and frightened way , was seeking to perform his duty  --  to do what was expected of him . The enterprise upon which he was engaged is not condemned , only the means he chose to carry it out . Hence the profound disquiet among so many Americans , taught to serve employer or country , who can not understand why the law apparently no longer cares about goals but only about a nicety of method . our long-accepted criminal-law concepts do not fit the crimes of today . THE central reality is that evil today is the product of our system of organization and our technology , and that it occurs because personal responsibility and personal awareness have been obliterated by a system deliberately designed to do just that  --  eliminate or minimize the human element and insure the supremacy of the system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the human component ; that is why we have organization charts , a hierarchy of supervision , divided responsibilities , specialization . In the main , it is this rational organization of human effort that has brought us to our present stage of civilization , but we should realize that inherent in the very design of the system is the disappearance of individual blame , and hence the obsolescence of our concepts of individual criminal responsibility . Let us follow the process of creating an evil more closely . A scientist who is doing his specialized duty to further research and knowledge develops the substance known as napalm . Another specialist makes policy in the field of our nation 's foreign affairs . A third is concerned with maintaining the strength of our armed forces with the most modern weaponry . A fourth manufactures what the defense authorities require . A fifth drops napalm from an airplane where he is told to do so . The ultimate evil is the result of carefully segmented acts ; the structure itself guarantees an evasion by everyone of responsibility for the full moral act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combined with advanced technology , makes it unlikely that those who participate in the process will have any real awareness of the ultimate consequences . Neither the scientist nor the man in the State Department nor even the pilot actually sees the horrors of burning napalm on human flesh . The basic result of our system of doing things is to destroy awareness , alienate all of us from the consequences of our actions , and prevent the formation of that very responsibility which has been at the center of our idea of criminal justice . Our traditional criminal law is based on a standard of conduct that assumes each individual to be a morally responsible human being . A man who runs a speedboat carelessly and kills someone is guilty of manslaughter if his actions fall below the standard . A man who allows his passions or desires to direct his actions so that he harms another person is guilty of assault or murder if , according to the standard , he should have controlled himself . The standard represents an ideal . Sometimes it is a cruel and unreasonable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measuring up to it . But the ideal does have a vital function . It establishes a large , even exalted , concept of man . In the famous case of The Queen v. Dudley and Stephens , decided in 1884 , four English seamen were cast away in an open boat on the high seas sixteen hundred miles from the Cape of Good Hope . After eighteen days , they were reduced to the utmost state of desperation , with neither food nor water . Dudley and Stephens then said that if no hope of rescue appeared one of the four should be sacrificed , so that the others might live . A third man refused to consent to the plan . The fourth , a boy of seventeen or eighteen , was not consulted ; he was then in a helpless and weakened state . Dudley and Stephens spoke of their having families , indicating that the boy should be chosen . On the twentieth day , no help appearing , the defendants , after praying for forgiveness , killed the hey , and the three men fed upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were rescued . Dudley and Stephens were brought to England and tried for murder . It was acknowledged that if the boy had not been killed all four would probably have perished before rescue , and the boy would probably have died first . Yet the two men were found guilty . The opinion of the Queen 's Bench was delivered by Lord Coleridge , the Lord Chief Justice of England . Acknowledging that the temptation had been great and the suffering awful , he declared , " We are often compelled to set up standards which we can not reach ourselves , and to lay down rules which we could not ourselves satisfy . " And he went on : Though law and morality are not the same , and many things may be immoral which are not necessarily illegal , yet the absolute divorce of law from morality would he of fatal consequence ... Rather than kill the boy , said Lord Coleridge , the men should have been willing to lose their own lives : To preserve one 's life is generally-speaking a duty , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . War is full of instances in which it is a man 's duty not to live , but to die . The duty , in the case of shipwreck , of a captain to his crew , of the crew to the passengers , of soldiers to women and children , as in the noble case of the Birkenhead ; these duties impose on men the moral necessity , not of the preservation , but of the sacrifice of their lives for others , from which in no country , least of all , it is to he hoped , in England , will men ever shrink , as indeed , they have not shrunk Although the circumstances make this case unique , the basic ideal is found throughout the Anglo-American common law . Commonwealth v. Pierce ( 1884 ) , a classic American case , written by Mr. Justice Holmes , then a member of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts , dealt with the problem of a physician whose patient died after he had treated her by keeping her wrapped in flannel saturated with kerosene for three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Holmes said that if the treatment was morally reckless , judged by the standards of a reasonably prudent man , then the defendant must answer for consequences that he neither intended nor foresaw . If the treatment was dangerous according to common experience , " we can not recognize a privilege to do acts manifestly endangering human life , on the ground of good intentions alone . " Holmes also wrote : The very meaning of the fiction of implied malice in such cases at common law was , that a man might have to answer with his life for consequences which he neither intended nor foresaw ... his failure or inability to predict them was immaterial if , under the circumstances known to him , the court or jury , as the case might be , thought them obvious . Recently , I was watching the C.B.S . evening news when a few minutes were devoted to films of one of the favorite antipersonnel weapons used by Americans in Vietnam . It consists of a rocket tightly packed with many ordinary nails . The rocket is fired from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force that they will go right through the body of anyone in their path . One of the advantages of the weapon , it was explained , is that the gunner does n't need to see the target at all . The consequences can only be imagined , but what can they he except the reckless maiming of all human beings , old or young , innocent or guilty , who happen to be in the way : Lieutenant alley is guilty , we are told , but the men who designed these instruments , the men who built them , the men who ordered them to be used , and the men who actually used them were all simply doing their duty . What a diminished view of man this purported version of the law gives us ! It tells us that we are all " universal soldiers , " in the phrase from one of Donovan Leitch 's recordings , morally oblivious of the consequences of our actions . Lord Chief Justice Coleridge completed his argument for full moral responsibility by saying , " It is enough in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we profess to follow . " What has happened when the hard-working , God-fearing people of America are expected to be moral robots , making and firing the nails for mass killings ? Obviously , our thinking has been strained to adapt itself to the realities of technology and organization . That is why all those fixtures of the old criminal law , the guilty mind , the malign heart , actual or presumed malice , the common experience of prudent men , seem so out of place -- indeed , ironic  --  in the Calk ) , case . We all understand that such standards of responsibility are not expected of any of us . Nor would we feel more comfortable about the prosecution of high-ranking generals or political leaders under the Nuremberg theory . They , too , would he found to have been doing their duty . The Calley case represents a momentary , vestigial reminder of the old law of responsibility . It was unfair to single out one man for such a revival of the old law , to be sure . Still , the reminder sent a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home . It was not surprising that President Nixon hastily intervened . What led to his intervention was not just his seeming unconcern for legal processes , or his desire , as the Nrzt ; Republic put it , to coddle this particular criminal . The President insists , in every speech he makes , that we should do our small , segmented duties while he  --  or those in authority  --  assumes responsibility . The President 's intervention was no surprise , because the Calley case confronts us with standards of responsibility that do not fit what the President and others insist are our duties and the limits of our duties . We are all supposed to be motorists on a highway where the maximum speed is sixty and the minimum speed is fifty-nine . PERHAPERHAPS the best way to under- PS those who have resisted the draft  --  by seeking conscientious-objector status , by going to jail , by fleeing to Canada  --  is to acknowledge that they are demanding to live and to be judged by the old standards as fully responsible moral beings . They are seeking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of conduct available in today 's organizational society , they have gone to standards that are not their own personal fiat but the old , traditional standards of religion , ethics , and common law . They are saying that they refuse to act in a way that common experience tells them will produce evil  --  evil that we know about or should know about . Theirs is a revolt for a larger view of man . And for all of us it poses a necessary question : Given that we must all live and work within large organizations , that we must all take a small part in a large enterprise , how can we restore the awareness , the responsibility , and the law that are the moral essence of free men ? An organization is a hybrid form of machine  --  one part a tool or system , the other part human . We have mach too little use of the human part . We have thought of the humanness as something to be suppressed for efficiency 's sake , not something to be valued because it might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of us who work in organizations should begin to assume a responsibility that is larger than the particular job we do , and this responsibility should ultimately he recognized , protected , and enforced by law . It might take many forms . Perhaps there should he a right  --  analogous to the long-recognized right to strike for economic objectives  --  to refuse , on a selective moral basis , to do certain work and perform certain duties . Perhaps this right should be guaranteed to individuals as well as to organized groups . Perhaps the organization should be answerable , on a democratic basis to those who work within it , for its policies and their probable consequences . Surely the present rigid hierarchy of authority must give way to a concept that in an organization all the members have a share of authority A corollary to this is that law should he based on the assumption that institutions , far more than individuals , are likely to go astray . Perhaps the primary regulatory work of law should be shifted from that of managing people to that of managing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Because organizations are the most characteristic element of our civilization , the scope of action by the members , employees , or consumers must he widened , and the scope of action by systems and machines must be narrowed and must be supervised by law . In the deepest sense , the purpose of such changes is nothing less than a restoration of one of our richest and most neglected resources --  the human potentiality of the great mass of our people . Government by a managerial elite deprives us of the humanity of the many . Polk ) is made by a Few , and the rest are coerced into following by laws that speak in the name of duty . The assumption is made that those who get to the top are naturally qualified to manage and plan for the rest of us , that we must accept what they require of us without allowing our moral knowledge to intervene . Such a neglect of our moral resources is as great a loss as our now well-known neglect of our environmental resources . We need the full participation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a people who unthinkingly serve . THIS brings us back to what happened in Washington . The procedures used against demonstrators who tried to block traffic were flagrantly un-Constitutional . There were arrests without cause  --  mass roundups , which often included any young person , however innocent , who happened to he visible to the police . Prisoners were not subject to normal arrest procedure . Many were kept at detention centers without being afforded the basic rights of arrested persons . All this , like the murderous driving , was not the product of officers gone berserk but was part of coldly rational plans sanctioned , and later praised , by high authorities . Indeed , the same high authorities have recommended that similar tactics be used again . Can the policemen and bus drivers M question say they are doing all they can to respect the fundamental law of the land if they simply follow orders ? Can the civil servants who drove to work that morning , maybe sympathetic to the peace movement but afraid of a demerit , call themselves law-abiding ? I am suggesting that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us  --  not if we want our Constitution preserved . Each of us has a permanent and personal duty to the supreme law of the land . I do not mean the " law " that the Nixon Administration speaks of  --  something that I would call " force , " or " state power . " I think the Nixon Administration is deeply contemptuous of law . We can not count on Attorney General Mitchell to preserve the law , nor , I fear , can we count on the courts . And , from a certain point of view , that is as it should he . It is our Constitution , not theirs .                     