@@280593

Since man first appeared on this planet , he has been at the mercy of earthquakes , which over the ages have devastated wide areas and killed millions of people . While scientists may never learn to prevent quakes , they may soon be able to forecast them accurately , giving inhabitants a chance to flee a threatened area in time . Early this month , for the first time , scientists predicted an earthquake-and then felt it rumble beneath their feet right on schedule . <P> The earth tremor , which occurred in the Blue Mountain Lake region of the Adirondack Mountains of New York State , was forecast by Yash Aggarwal , 33 , a seismologist at Columbia University 's Lamont-Doherty Geological Observatory . Aggarwal and another Lament scientist , Lynn Sykes , began to study the Blue Mountain Lake area two years ago , intrigued by the fact that in a generally calm region it experienced frequent small tremors . In mid-July , when two moderate quakes jolted the area , Aggarwal and colleagues from Lamont set up seven portable seismographs in addition to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aggarwal drove 100 miles every day to check the instrument readings . His routine paid off . On Aug. 1 he telephoned Sykes , head of the seismology group at Lament , and predicted that a quake of magnitude 2.5 or more should be coming " in a couple of days . " Two days later , the earth dutifully complied with an earthquake that registered about 2.5 on the Richter scale . " I was so excited , " recalls Aggarwal , an Indian who was born in Kenya , " that I nearly drove into a tree . " <P> Geophysicist Gordon Greene , of the U.S. Geological Survey , was equally enthusiastic . He had been with Sykes when Aggarwal phoned in his forecast and had driven to Blue Mountain Lake just in time for the quake . " If you can do this three times , " he told Aggarwal , " you will all be famous . " <P> The prediction technique was devised independently by the Lamont researchers ( TIME , Feb. 12 ) and Stanford University Scientist Amos Nur . It is based upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zone in the earth when stresses reach a critical point . This cracking creates many tiny cavities in the water-saturated rock . That slows the passage of P ( pressure ) waves , which travel faster through liquid-filled cracks . Another kind of seismic wave , the S ( shear ) wave , however , is less affected by the newly opened cracks ; thus the usual ratio of P-to S-wave velocity drops sharply . Then , as ground water gradually seeps into the new cracks , the ratio returns to normal . But the water increases pressure within the rock , causing one wall of the fault to slide along the other . It is this slippage that creates the shock . In a paper submitted to Science , Sykes , Aggarwal and Christopher Scholz assert that in the Blue Mountain region the seismic-wave phenomenon occurs before every sizable earth tremor .                     