@@431813

 | Tackling Today 's Laundry Problems With the many fibers , fabrics and finishes , updated laundering techniques are often needed for best results . Here , GH 's answers to current problems Considering the large number of fabrics and laundering aids on the market today , doing the wash has become a complicated business . If your automatic washer and dryer are spanking-new , like the pair on the opposite page , your instruction booklets are probably up to date and all the help you need . But if your appliances are several years old or older , you may need some supplementary advice for solving problems that have arisen since the booklets were prepared . Starting here : today 's most common laundry problems and how to solve them the up-to-date way . Grease stains on durable press . Greasy or oily stains ( from salad dressing , a dab of butter or blob of ice cream , etc. ) require soon-as-possible handling because they set with age . This calls for pretreatment of the stains before laundering . Cleaning fluid , which has been the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but we welcome the development of two laundry pretreat sprays that help remove stubborn soil and greasy stains from durable press as well as other washable fabrics . After a quick shake of the container , all you do is spray the stained area , saturating it thoroughly , then wait a minute or two to allow the product to work . Then the stained articles can be tossed in your washer , along with the rest of the load , for a normal wash cycle with your regular detergent . Note these safety points : If you use cleaning fluid for pretreating stains , be sure to rinse out the solvent before the fabric goes into the washer ; and never place anything in a dryer that has been spot-cleaned with cleaning fluid without washing it first . The reason for these precautions : the solvents in the cleaning fluids are flammable and must be completely removed before the fabric comes in contact with any electrical appliance . Stains from deodorants and antiperspirants . In view of the differences in composition of these products , and the type and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , finding the right way to remove the yellowish and sometimes stiffened underarm stains on underwear , men 's shirts , etc. , can be quite a problem . Chlorine bleach , unfortunately , does n't handle this type of tough job . Here 's the best solution we 've found for machine-washables : Using an enzyme presoak , make a paste of the presoak by adding a little water and rub this into the stained areas . ( If the item is colored , color-test the fabric on a shirttail or other inconspicuous area . ) Let the item stand overnight . The next morning , wash it in your automatic washer on normal setting but be sure to use hot water ( the cold-water setting wo n't do the job ) . If , after the fabric has been dried , there is any stiffness from a deodorant deposit , soak the stiffened areas in cleaning fluid 15 to 20 minutes . Using household gloves , remove garment from fluid , wring and let the fabric dry . A stiff-bristled brush can be used to flake off dried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hot water . Excessive lint in laundry . Make a routine practice of following these six anti-lint suggestions : ( 1 ) Sort clothes , keeping dark fabrics out of white and light-colored loads , in both washer and dryer . ( 2 ) Shake each article before it goes into the washer . Search the pockets and make sure they 're empty ; even one paper tissue can cover an entire load with lint . Turn down cuffs of pants and brush them well . Turn lint-catching garments , such as corduroy trousers , inside out . ( 3 ) Wash typically linty items with each other in individual loads . Worn towels , chenille bedspreads , diapers , mattress pads , flannels , and shag rugs are lint spreaders. ( 4 ) To be sure all items move freely during washer-agitation and dryer-tumbling : do n't overload the washer or dryer ; combine large and small items in each load . In the washer , be sure to use the full water level . ( 5 ) For white cotton loads , the lintiest of all , be sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water and add a little extra detergent . ( 6 ) Use a fabric softener in the final rinse , if fabric has a tendency to lint . It helps to restrict linting from napped fabrics as well as make them soft , more luxurious . On synthetic fabrics it reduces static electricity , which attracts lint . Use and misuse of fabric softeners . These helpful laundering aids are , of course , used in the last rinse ? alone . They should not be mixed with any other product you might be tempted to introduce at this stage of the washing cycle such as packaged water softener or even bluing . And never add them to the wash cycle ; their effectiveness is completely lost when they are mixed with detergent or bleach . When using a fabric softener , pour the softener into the last-rinse water . Avoid direct contact with the clothes ; the softener may stain them unless it is first diluted with water ; and a second wash or two , possibly with chlorine bleach , may be required to remove the stains . Also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is particularly important with towels , diapers , cotton T-shirts and shorts , etc. , the fabric softener should be omitted every fourth or fifth wash with these items . @# The proper way with knits . Washable woolen knits , whether sweaters , skirts , or dresses , are best washed alone , by hand . Cold-water washing compounds give specific directions for soaking and handling these items to preserve their color and fit . But sometimes the recommended short-soak period of three minutes or so is not long enough to remove the soil , particularly on children 's and teen-agers ' clothes . If this has been your experience , do n't hesitate to extend the soaking period up to half an hour if the soil conditions suggest it . There will be no more shrinkage or color loss than in the shorter soak , providing you follow the label instructions , including careful blocking for drying . Synthetic knits are so varied , not only in fiber but also in dyes and construction ( some , for example , are textured or bonded ) , that only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , GH has found that nylons and polyesters are often machine washable ; acrylics and triacetate sometimes are machine washable ; acetates usually must be hand washed or dry-cleaned . If hangtags are not specific or are lost , here is the procedure we follow for the machine washables : Use cold or warm water in the wash cycle , gentle agitation and spin speed , a short wash of five minutes , normal rinsing and spin times . A liquid or powdered detergent designed for cold water works well , regardless of the water temperature you decide to use . A fabric softener cuts the static electricity so often troublesome in these synthetics . To dryer-dry , use a low-to-moderate setting and remove the knits just before they are dry . Lay flat on countertop to dry . 220 White wash that turns gray . The graying of white wash is a gradual process over an extended period of time , caused by one or more insufficiencies in t - washing procedure . As soon as you notice the beginning of that gray look : s your white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following factors that may be causing it : ? Too-low temperature . Hot water ( 140 ? to 160 ? F. ) in the washer is normally needed for su : white cottons as sheets , pillowcase towels , handkerchiefs , diapers and ev durable-press men 's shirts . If necessary reset your water heater temperate : control to provide the required temper ature . ? Overloading the washer . Eighteen pounds of clothes in an 18-pours washer may be too much . The volume 3 what 's important . If the load has too many large items ( sheets , for example in relation to smaller items , and each article fails to circulate freely , the washer is overloaded . ? Not enough detergent . Recommended amounts of regular detergents and the newer phosphate-free detergents are for average soil and water conditions . Larger loads , heavy or greasy soil , or water that is more than seven or eight grains hard ( check your local water department ) will require extra detergent ? Failure to use a bleach . An occasional use of a chlorine bleach in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bleachables has always been a necessary part of good laundering . Now , the work that we 've done with a number of the phosphate-free detergents suggests not only that bleaching may become more important than ever but also that it may he needed more frequently . Scum and little black spots on laundry . These laundry problems most often occur when you launder with soap . rather than detergent , and your laundry water is hard . And they 're most apt to happen when you 're dealing with greasy soil ? from baby oil , face creams . hair oils , suntan lotions or ointments. etc . When the scum produced by the soap combines with the grease , the result is the little black spots , which are difficult to remove in subsequent launderings . You wo n't be troubled by this problem if your water is mechanically softened ; you can keep the problem to a minimum by using packaged , nonprecipitating water softener . The precipitating type , which does not contain phosphates , is far less effective than the nonprecipitating , which is based on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the phosphates in detergents , and therefore also want to avoid nonprecipitating water softeners. mechanically softened water is the answer to the problem . Also , be sure to use a soap designed for family laundry rather than the fine-fabric type . It will be more effective in soil removal and will also help reduce the black-spot problem . When the spot situation gets out of control , we know of no solution except to wash the spotted items in plenty of hot water , detergent and a nonprecipitating water softener.                     