@@494905

White House Watch Ford in China by John Osborne Whatever else may have happened to the government of the People 's Republic of China since Richard Nixon 's visit in 1972 signaled and formalized the eagerness of the US government to come to terms with it , the Peking regime has surrendered to the insistence of American Presidents that they be allowed to take absurdly and outrageously large entourages with them whenever and wherever they travel abroad . The wishes of host governments , their plaintive reminders that no other chief of state or head of government is trailed by so many people and demands such extensive accommodations , and the limits upon available accommodations in the visited countries are permitted to matter very little if at all . American Presidents , including the incumbent , are served by a corps of security agents and general advance arrangers who are taught to be restrained and courteous but on needful occasion can be savage and ruthless in pressing their demands . In 1972 , for instance , information officials at the Chinese foreign office told Timothy Elbourne , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that no more than 12 reporters , cameramen and television and radio technicians could possibly be admitted . Elbourne produced a list of 280 persons and got about half of them including the pathetic total of 20 writers admitted . The strains upon Chinese facilities caused tension but both the media and official aspects of the Nixon visit went off well . This time , as if resigned to the inevitable , the Chinese hosts did not argue much . One hundred and sixty-three American journalists , technicians and executive freeloaders plus some 30 members of the White Housepress and transportation office staffs were lodged at the Minzu Hotel , a recently redecorated and quite comfortable hostelry normally reserved for low-level visitors from African , Asian and other countries that the People 's Republic is cultivating . President Ford 's deceptively small " official party " of eight , his wife and daughter , a listed supporting staff of 19 , and a much larger unlisted support and security staff brought the total media and official party to well over 300 . After the President 's Air Force One and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reporter who noticed an enormous pile of luggage in the Minzu lobby was told by a White House official that the pile would have been much larger if a baggage master at Andrews Air Force Base , the departure point near Washington , had not refused to load scores of empty suitcases in which members of various staffs hoped to bring home , at government expense and without customs duty , goods bought at Peking 's hard currency " friendship stores . " The journalists and technicians traveling on two chartered press planes were told as usual that they could pack " limited numbers of personal packages " into the cargo holds . God knows what the enormous media party would have done for a story sufficient to justify its presence and the expense to its employers of arranging the same if Chinese Vice Premier Teng Hsiao-ping , the tiny and nut-hard successor to ailing Premier Chou En-lai , and the increasingly characteristic ineptitude of the Ford White House , whether on the road or in Washington , had not combined to provide what many reporters regarded as a whizzer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banquet for President Ford in the immense Great Hall of the People by saying in clearly implied effect to the President 's face that he and his government were fools for failing and refusing to perceive that " the factors for both revolution and war are clearly increasing " ; that the Soviet Union is " the most dangerous source of war " ; that the US is suffering from " illusions of peace " and stupidly enhancing the chances of another world war with its policy of accommodation with the Soviet Union ; and , in sum , that " rhetoric about detente can not cover up the stark reality of the growing danger of war . " It was a shocker , to me and to other reporters in that magnificent hall , drinking with our Chinese hosts to American and Communist Chinese friendship . As one knew then in general , and as hasty research confirmed , the essence of it had been said before ? in public toasts to Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and to West German Chancellor- Helmut Schmidt in October , by Chinese Ambassador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 11 , and by Teng Hsiao-ping in Peking on November 15 . In a brilliant speech in Detroit on November 24 , a review of what American foreign policy had been since the Second World War and is becoming now , Kissinger had said of the impending Peking visit that " Disagreements in national ideology exist , there will be no attempt to hide them . " At a pre-China briefing in Washington on November 28 , first talking in the guise of a " senior American official " who was disclosed by Press Secretary Ron Nessen on the public record to be Henry Kissinger , the Secretary of State recalled the lecture on the perils and illusions of US-Soviet detente that he got in Peking in October andsaid : -I consider it possible that either publicly or privately we hear substantially the same Chinese analysis that was made then . " That was all very well when it was said , but it did n't have much relevance at my table in the Great Hall when Vice Premier Teng said it straight to President Ford . When a young Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an American columnist that most Americans simply would not understand what Vice Premier Teng was talking about , the Chinese official said with evident sadness and seeming sincerity , " I am amazed , I am really amazed , that you do not understand . " When I said ! did not understand what the Chinese government did or did not want the US government to do , a freeze settled . President Ford had said in his reply to Vice Premier Teng that the US would pursue its policy of accommodation with the Soviet Union " without illusion . " The young Chinese fastened on this remark and said that all his government asked was that detente be pursued without illusion that it would remove the danger of war ? by implication , though he did not say , war instigated by the Soviet Union . Two points , one minor and one major , strike me . The minor point is that the official Ford party in Peking , beginning at the top with the President and Kissinger , knew in advance of the Great Hall banquet that Teng @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anticipated the American press corps ' reaction to it . They did not anticipate it , or if they did , dismissed it before the fact as the negligible reaction of what Kissinger later called " masochistic maniacs . " The texts of the respective toasts , Teng 's to the President and the President 's to Teng , were submitted to each party in advance . There was serious and prolonged American debate over whether to write a direct answer to Teng into the President 's text . The decision was not to do so . It was a wise decision , but the serious discussion preceding it made nonsense of the subsequent official sneer that only news-hungry maniacs in the traveling press corps would take the affair seriously . The major point is buried in Chinese rhetoric concerning the alleged follies and illusions of detente with the Soviet Union . Henry Kissinger made the point in secret briefings For White House and department officials before President Nixon visited Peking and Moscow in 1972 . Kissinger said then , as I reported then , that Communist China 's leaders lived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counted each day that it did not happen a gain and a salvation for them . The fear persists and in my judgment it suggeststhat nothing short of outright and egregious American insult to the People 's Republic and its leaders could drive the Communist Chinese leadership to reject American cooperation and protection . Vice Premier Teng said in the seeming challenge to President Ford : " ... The consistent policy of the Chinese government and people is : dig tunnels deep , store grain everywhere , and never seek hegemony. - Hegemony in Chinese parlance means military domination of regional areas and the Soviet Union and the US are impartially accused of seeking it . That is by the way . Ponder the " dig tunnels deep " passage . Allowing for the historic Chinese reliance upon the notion of safety in tunnels and in the vast expanse of their land , the reference in a modern context is paranoiac . Communist China is a weak and frightened country and its leadership looks to the United States to protect and save it from the Soviet Union . Remember that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     