@@494823

Democratic Reform For a week or two after the wolf in the White House had gobbled up George McGovern , there were bleatings from the sheared flock , and some Democrats were nearly ready to accept the President 's judgment that " this election was decided the day he McGovern was nominated . " If Mr. Nixon was right , something must have been radically wrong with the way the Democratic candidate was chosen . In that case the reform rules which made McGovern 's nomination possible ought to be scrapped so that the poor little lambs would not again lose their way between the first primary and the national convention . Fortunately , this view of what went astray and why has made little progress . For when the losses and gains had been pondered , it appeared that the Democrats had done quite well in congressional and state contests . McGovern himself began to be more pitied than censured , and it became commonplace to say that although another candidate might have done better , no Democrat could have beaten Mr. Nixon this year . Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remember the exhilaration of that unorthodox assembly in Miami Beach . By now there is general acceptance of the rules which made the openness of that convention possible ? the requirement of posting notice of local party meetings , timeliness in the sel &tion; of convention delegates , enlargement of the Democratic National Committee and other organizational changes . The second thoughts were summed up by a Humphrey Democrat : The party needs " symbolic if not substantial changes . " A new national chairman may be one of those " symbolic " changes , but the replacement of Jean Westwood will still leave up in the air a great many questions of structure and substance ; for example , the prickly " quota " controversy which will keep the new commission on delegate selection headed by Leonard Woodcock of the UAW busy for months . It is supposed to start work in January and perhaps the public hearings it will hold around the country will clear up some misconceptions that have prevailed during the past 18 months . Even staff members on the old McGovern commission now concede that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McGovern commission had not , after all , fixed any mathematical formula for convention representation . Instead , it had laid down the objective of eliminating past discrimination against blacks , women and youth , affirmatively encouraging wider participation by assuring places on state delegations for those special three groups . The " guideline " talked in terms of proportions reasonable to percentages in the population . Other " minorities " were not mentioned in the new rules for the simple reason that they had not been the subject of recent litigation . The McGovern commission did not foresee the growth in black militancy and among women , nor passage of the 26th Amendment giving the vote to 18-year-olds . The three encouraged groups became overwhelming forces , propelled not only by rule reforms , but by their own enthusiasm and the publicity that came with their support of a particular candidate , George McGovern . Though not specifically mandated , numerical quotas came to be fastened upon some state delegations , and these quotas are bound to be weeded out . What will probably emerge is the requirement that every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minority involvement , and since the American electorate can be thought of as a collection of minorities , the requirement has nearly limitless application . There are other procedural changes in the offing which are of special interest to " organizational Democrats , " those who spend week-in-and-week-out on party business . They want some protection against one-day Democrats who enlist simply to pack a caucus on behalf of a presidential candidate . That sort of invasion could be prevented by pre-registration for 30 or 60 days as a condition for attending a caucus to select national convention delegates . Another change ? one favored by all factions of the party ? is the elimination of winner-take-all primaries , though as yet there is no agreement on how these primaries are to be replaced . There is agreement on outlawing crossovers in primaries , and for a sound reason . Under some state election laws , Republicans can vote in Democratic primaries , giving them a legal way to sabotage the true expression of Democratic opinion . For instance , in Michigan this year , where crossovers are permitted , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numbers of voters for Wallace in the Democratic primary , which votes then went straight Republican in the general election . Whatever decisions are reached on the structure , officers or rules of procedure for the national Democratic Party , there remains of course the fundamental question : what 's it all for ? Many politicians still think of their party as a coalition of state organizations and sympathetic interest groups which gather every four years around a presidential candidate . In the off years , attention focuses on Congress , and often the priorities become regional rather than national . When the Democrats have the White House , the question of what they stand for is easily , though perhaps not satisfactorily , settled by the wishes of the President . Out of power but controlling Congress , they come to resemble a patchwork rather than a party . It does not have to be that way . During the recent campaign , Senate Democratic staff members met each week to coordinate floor speeches in support of the national ticket . Comparable coordination among the legislators themselves could produce a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Senate and House that could , if they would , define and defend legislative priorities . In addition , Democratic governors and state chairmen have their own national organizations , and it would take little effort to bring together the Democratic mayors . Common ground on key national issues could be found among them . More important , Senate and House committee chairmen , those who have open , inquiring minds , should initiate investigative hearings in 1973 and 1974 for the purpose of finding out how well the old Johnson Great Society and the new Nixon Tight Society programs are faring , spotlighting the weaknesses and using what they learn to reshape proposals that are being drafted in the White House . To get closer to what ails the country today , not what bothered it 10 years ago , the hearings should be taken out of Washington . We know that many of the remedies of the past have not worked well and in some instances have had nasty side effects . It is an elementary rule of diagnosis ? and politics ? to begin by asking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance the DECEMBER 2 , 1972 afflicted . Housing programs could be explored in Detroit , Chicago and Los Angeles ; agriculture in the Midwest and Far West ; education in big cities and small ; transportation where the crises are most serious . In short , legislators who seek change as well as the confidence of the electorate , ought to shake loose from Washington lobbyists , bureaucrats and political appointees who nowadays act as expert witnesses . They should take congressional government 's most potent weapon ? the open hearing ? to the people . These on-the-spot inquiries would not only provide a forum for the members of Congress , they would also expose national lawmakers to needs and sentiments outside their home states and districts . If carefully prepared , the investigations would help the Democrats reestablish their credibility and be a long step toward a new public understanding and appreciation of Congress .                     