@@494906

White House Watch Making Ford 's Mark During a period when President Ford was making the most for himself of his arms discussions with Leonid Brezhnev at Vladivostok and conferring or preparing to confer with West German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt , Israeli Foreign Minister Yigal Allon and French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing , Mr : Ford also was approving the final details of a White House staff reorganization , agonizing over how far to go in replacing the Cabinet that he inherited from Richard Nixon , thinking about how to use Nelson Rockefeller in the vice presidency without being overwhelmed , and working out with advisers and assistants some substitutes for manifestly inadequate economic and energy programs . It was a fantastically busy time at the White House , a time when the President was observed in varied forms and degrees of stress . It therefore was a good time for a reporter to seek impressions of how Gerald Ford appeared to associates at the end of the first four months of his unprecedented and accidental presidency . Afrequently remarked impression is that Mr. Ford was more strongly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than he had previously been with the spoken and printed criticism , in Congress and in the media , of the leadership he has provided since he replaced Richard Nixon on August 9 . The new President is said to be more puzzled than troubled by the criticism , and at the same time determined to alleviate and disprove the criticism . He is said to be determined above all to place the mark of Gerald Ford upon the Ford administration without succumbing to the advice and temptation to sacrifice , at the risk of lifelong harm , good men who served his discredited predecessor and the country well His puzzlement goes to a feeling , one that says much about Mr. Ford , that under the most difficult circumstances he offered Congress , the media , the public a leadership that has not been fairly recognized and followed . New Presidents normally have nearly three months between election and inauguration for planning their presidencies . Mr. Ford had a few days at the most , a few hours at the least , depending upon whether you believe his account or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Haig in particular ) of the specific notice he had that Richard Nixon was about to resign . In terms of expectation and secret preparation he had more time than most new Presidents have . But it 's fair enough to claim , as his people do , that in terms of hard notice he really had no transition time at all . It is from this perception that Mr. : Ford 's sense of injury is said to rise . He feels that he has tried every known form of leadership and that none has worked . He left it to Congress to act , and Congress did n't . He offered it an anti-inflation program on October 8 , and : Congress ignored it . He revived and supported President Nixon 's energy supply and conservation proposals and added some , none very impressive , of his own , and they were largely neglected . So what is he to do ? ? the presumably re-Elective complaint among his assistants runs . He is damned if he does and damned if he does n't . That has never been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ else , but the inquirer hears a lot of it at the Ford White House . One hears more of it , in fact , than I heard in five and one-half years at the Nixon White House . A survivor of the Nixon time at the White House , a fellow who has lived with ( though not in ) Congress for many years , said in comment upon the tendency among both Republicans and Democrats in Congress to blame Mr. Ford for a failure of leadership without offering any of its own , " the best thing that Congress does is nothing . " He meant that Congress as an institution , and particularly the next House of Representatives with its host of first-term members , is inherently unequipped to provide the leadership and the programs that Mr. Ford is taxed with not providing . The merits of Mr. Ford 's performance to date apart , and it seems to me to have been pretty feeble , the quoted White House assistant had a point that is all too likely to be proved sound in. 1975 . One of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he returned from his visits to Tokyo , Seoul and Vladivostok was his effort to show himself independent of Secretary of State Henry Kissinger without disassociating himself from Kissinger or undercutting Kissinger . It was a difficult act , rather like a dog on two legs sniffing at its trainer , but Mr. Ford brought it off with considerablerace . In an interview with Newsweek after he returned from Vladivostok , Mr. Ford in his account of the arms negotiations with Brezhnev seldom mentioned Kissinger and suggested that the negotiations were in a deadlock at a point ( the midnight of the first evening 's talks ) when Kissinger indicated in Vladivostok that they were close to sensational success . Kissinger was in Peking finding out what if anything was left of the US-Chinese accommodation built upon his personal standings with sick Chou En-lai and aging Mao Tse-tung , when Mr. Ford briefed the joint Republican-Democratic congressional leadership upon the Vladivostok negotiations . Several of Mr. Ford 's assistants were pathetically proud of the skill with which they thought he did it without the company or assistance of Henry Kissinger . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once to Lieutenant General Brent Scowcroft , the President 's deputy assistant for national security affairs , to check a point and Scowcroft answered , " That 's right , sir . " If General Scowcroft said it was right , it was right . The Ford White House relationship with Nelson Rockefeller in the weeks and days preceding his prolonged interrogation and confirmation may have been very different from the personal Ford-Rockefeller relationship . About the latter , I know nothing . The White House relationship with Rockefeller and his staff was in effect nonexistent . Hugh Morrow and James Cannon , the Rockefeller assistants who were principally available to Mr. Ford 's staff coordinator , Donald Rumsfeld , and his assistants said that Mr. Rockefeller had forbidden them to discuss with anyone at the White House anything connected with his functions and the staff structure that he intended to install when and if he became the nation 's second appointed Vice President . Rumsfeld and his assistants had to devise a theoretical structure derived from the one authorized originally for Vice President Agnew and adapted , with considerable pain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he succeeded Agnew . The start of the estrangement between Mr. Ford 's chief assistant in the vice presidency and one of his chief assistants in the presidency , Robert Hartmann , and Mr. Nixon 's second and last staff chief , General Alexander Haig , lay in the argument between them over what staff level Vice President Ford should be allowed . The outcome of that hassle ? in essence that Vice President Ford could have about 10 more professional assistants than Agnew was allowed if Mr. Ford was willing to do without substantial secretarial and other supporting help ? provides the basis of the staff projected for Vice President Rockefeller . Because of his refusal to indicate any staff nominees before he is confirmed , his people will come aboard as consultants and be put as fast as possible through the security and other checks that must be completed before they attain the status of salaried federal employees . So far as I could determine in mid-December , the inescapable question of whether Rockefeller will be allowed to supplement his federally paid staff with a personally paid staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The assumption at a high staff level was that he would not be allowed to do it or want to do it in view of his difficulties with personal beneficence at his confirmation hearings . Mr. Ford and Donald Rumsfeld , sweating out the Rockefeller problems , more or less simultaneously worked out a series of senior staff and Cabinet changes . The primary object of the staff exercise , which Rumsfeld intends at this , writing to explain at a White House press conference , is to put the President in a position to say that no Nixon assistants remain in responsible positions at the White House as of Jan .. , uary 1 . That is a mildly absurd claim , the chief Nixon holdovers at the White House being Messrs . Ford and Rumsfeld , not to mention Rumsfeld 's chief assistant , Richard Cheney ; his personally chosen White House and government-wide personnel man , William Walker , and others too numerous to list here . They are capable people , no reflection intended , apart from a profound weariness , on my part , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the fallacy that they are inherently disqualified . My infor-mation as of December 10 is that Mr. Ford has decided to replace two members of his Cabinet and is resisting the arguments of Donald Rumsfeld , Robert Hartmann and John Marsh among others on his senior staff , that he ought to replace several more department heads in order to put the Ford stamp on the Ford administration . Here you have to distinguish between Cabinet members and assistants with Cabinet status . Roy Ash , director of the Office of Management and Budget , has Cabinet status by grace of the President and is to be replaced . I 'm authoritatively advised to believe reports that James T. Lynn , a Nixon holdover who was Secretary of Commerce and lately has been Secretary of Housing and Urban Development , will replace Ash . I believe these things when they happen . Kenneth Cole , who succeeded John Ehrlichman as director of the Domestic Council , is resigning at his own initiative . His deputy and another Nixon holdover , James Cananaugh , deserves to succeed him and it 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he will . He wo n't and that is too bad . My impression is that the Domestic Council directorship is being reserved for somebody chosen by Nelson Rockefeller , the council and its staff being among the very few areas of government where a Vice President may reasonably be expected to do much of use beyond presiding over the Senate and continuing to breathe with constructive regularity . Rumsfeld is about to announce the areas of responsibility that he and the President have assigned to nine members of the senior staff , along with assurance that it 's all in the interest of orderly presidential procesSes and a damn sight better than what went on when Rumsfeld was an assistant to Richard Nixon . What interests me more is the essence of the explanation offered as to why Mr. Ford is so reluctant to clean out the Nixon Cabinet . An amalgam of several opinions heard at the White House is that President Ford is instinctively and fundamentally opposed to abrupt and cruel change . In time , yes , which is to say well and usefully before the 1976 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compromiser , accustomed in those capacities to making do with what he has . What he has and Mr. Nixon left him is n't too bad in most instances . He intends to follow his better or anyhow his true nature , which is to go slow and easy with Cabinet changes . So I 'm told , and how wrong I and my informants could be !                     