@@485148

JUDAH STAMPFER Jewish creative writing in this country has developed a sour taste . That does not necessarily diminish its quality . From Jacobean satires to C , eline 's novels of diatribe , and indeed from ancient times , sour writing has had its own kind of usefulness . But the Jewish voice has grown pathetic as it has turned sour in recent times  --  full of howls , complaints , self-mockery , black humor , involved in a burlesque of older works and public events , with a haze of bathos hanging over it all . Elizabethan satire burlesqued a savage society ; modern Jewish writers burlesque their own experience as observers of a corrupt society . The literary instrument that has gone Judah Stampfer is completing a book entitled A Landscape of American Taste . He teaches at the State University of New York at Stony Brook . using all the tools of their scholarship ? sour is the Jewish voice of sanity . A povierful tool in the yet recent past , that voice has broken up into berserk associations , has been possessed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contact with the workings of American society . The process may be sobering to contemplate , but it should come as no shock . The Jewish voice became autonomous fairly recently in history and is necessarily vulnerable to every kind of mannerism .. Jewish consciousness was once the instrument not of the voice but of the Word . The obsession with the Word is a curious aberration , in Jewish cultural history . In the Bible , personal integrity is achieved through the voice-to-ear channel . Plato 's vision of a supreme arrival at selfhood is one of climbing out of the cave to gaze on the sun . Isaiah arrived at comparable authenticity by a word : " Also I heard the voice of the Lord , saying , Whom shall I send , and who will go for us ? Then said I , Here am I ; send me . " The obsession with the Word accounts for certain eccentricities in the composition of the Bible . The text concentrates so narrowly on rendering the Word undefiled , slighting the roundedness or structure of a book , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the next begins . The First Isaiah was separated from the Second only in the 18th century ; the original texts flowed one into the other without clarification . It seems likely that Genesis consists of three clusters of material : origins , the patriarchs and the Joseph story , with vast differences in style and source ; yet they are iblended together to form one book , Genesis . The various voices in the Song of Songs are so run together that one can only with difficulty establish if the poem is a play or a medley of fragmentary love lyrics . The experience of exile confirmed the cultural bent expressed in these structural oddities in the Bible . It is significant for the tenor of traditional Jewish thought that God extended a scroll of parchment to Ezekiel , the first prophet of exile , which Ezekiel literally ate and digested . The prophet of exile took the Word inside his body to be to him a mysterious new homeland . The episode is full of paradox : a prophetic scroll is announced , and then eaten up with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feels sweet in Ezekiel 's stomach . The suggestion is that the digested parchment sank into Ezekiel 's consciousness . The Word , deep inside him , became its own excuse for being , a seeding of the life of spirit before the coming life of exile . There is a pervasive sense in Jewish cultural history of an autonomous spirit in double focus  --  the mysterious Word , forever approximated and never made ' final by the voice of the believer . In the Gospel of John , the Word is reified and made a transcendental entity : " In the beginning was the Word , and the Word was with God , and the , Word was God . " In the Old Testament , its nature is more elusive , the timbre of a voice of truth making authentic communication , truth as inspired utterance , prophecy as illumination . ' The ambiguity in the Word lies behind the loose term Torah , which also has a double focus , representing both the core books of the Bible and anything uttered by a man of dedicated spirit . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voice box Adam 's apple . Good and evil lie not in the act of sex but in the knowledge thereof  --  in the act of giving it a name . At the close of the 19th century Sigmund Freud broke the voice free of the Word , and made-it its own master . The peculiar therapeutic instrument that Freud hit upon , the analytic session between analyst and patient in the privacy of the analyst 's office , is as pure a voice-to-ear experience as the communications of the prophets , and as painful . Freud labored to cleanse and refine this new-found tool . He quickly retreated from free association under the influence of drugs to ordinary communication , shifted his seat so that he was out of the patient 's view and neutralized all distractions that might affect the voice-to-ear channel . Ferenczi and others experimented with body contact , holding the patient as if he were an insecure baby . Freud was severe in his rejection of the practice . However carefully Freud preserved the pure voice-to-ear experience , he never fully articulated the meaning of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the libido and electrical energy , however helpful in investigation , created a- block here . The powers of the voice take effect by a kind of psychic contagion ; but Freud 's metaphor was electrical energy , which is not a contagion . My feeling is that here Freud practiced better than he preached . From the standpoint of sense experience , the traditional analytic session is not one of touch or vision but of hearing . Now , Freud ends Totem and Taboo with the words , " In the beginning was the deed . " His view is that history began as a psychic sickness , in the original crime of parricide and cannibalism . The reversal and healing of that sickness lie in the analytic session . There , too , the beginning is the , Word , for the analyst shapes , aligns , forges , and makes effective the patient 's communications . But that process is only a means to an end . Freud 's career was a life-long exercise in lancing , and draining the poison from the Word itself and making it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the patient 's full personality is effectively opened to consciousness . In a curious footnote to this shift , David Bakan , in Sigmund Freud and the Jewish Mystical Tradition , remarks that Freud called his first analytic patient Dorah in his writings , but would not explain that choice of a masking name . As Bakan points out , Dorah is close to Torah . Whether or not it is a pun , it expresses the release of the voice from the Word . When Freud analyzed his first patient , the Word , or Torah , was withdrawn from its sphere and reduced to Dorah , an anarchic presence rooted in human functions . The Word was thus humanized and secularized in the voice . Modern Jewish writing , from Sholem Aleichem to Saul Bellow , takes this stance of a voice emancipated from the Word as being the touchstone of sanity . The emancipation is from the ghetto into the public square , from medieval piety to secular mistrust , from scripture to open speech . The literary voice is the skeptical , autonomous instrument that tastes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human experience . There is strength in this voice , the voice of secular consciousness  --  learned , humane , aware of every injustice and every outrage . The trouble with the instrument is that it is loose , half outside the body , prone to narcissism and self-mockery , having a most unstable relationship with unconscious process , having no instinct for force and no necessary relation to the forces that shape society . The voice belongs to secular consciousness , but consciousness itself is suspect in our culture . Herein lies some of the strength and weakness of Saul Bellow , whose style is a continuous learned truculence . His extraordinary voice box , rooted in Yiddish , maintains an equilibrium of consciousness in a world in which the Word is no longer possible . His fiction is at its strongest in its somber , difficult , multifaceted heroes , all of whom have an absolutely believable consciousness whose speech can not express any kind of resolution . Their unfolding meditations suggest a frightening power ; they can confront anyone , send letters anywhere , make demands of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ineffectuality as their sprightly meditations go on . This central character in Bellow has , for all his power , a certain narcissistic pathos ; the other characters stand flatly , two-dimensionally alongside him . Bellow 's endings are tricky , inconclusive , enigmatic , the exhaustion of an emotion without an arrival anywhere ; it is the unstilled voice , rendering the hero 's mind , that gives a ghostly finality to his books . But that voice remains in suspense in Dangling Man ; it expresses the pathetic awareness of an intellectual narcissist in Herzog ; it becomes self-mockery in Humboldt 's Gift . The first step in secularization that made the Word a voice in writers like Saul Bellow , has already reached its second stage , , where the voice of sanity has grown demonic . Neither the name nor the impact of Allen , Ginsberg 's Howl is a coincideice . Ginsberg has steadily changed his position . Society has long accepted him as a sort of Shakespearean clown , but his raw , disembodied voice of outrage has steadily evolved into that of the bearded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eccentric family . The howl of outrage , mockery , fixated adolescence and flamboyant exhibitionism in which Ginsberg first expressed himself is the Jewish voice disembodied and gone demonic . - The nearest parallel to Howl is not another Beat work but Philip Roth 's Portnoy 's CoMplaint , again a disembodied voice of outraged mockery , of immaturity and of a demented demand for justice . Ginsberg was obsessed by Moloch , the Canaanite god of avaricious plunder . His poem is a work of demonic prophecy , with no Jehovah to fall back on . Portnoy 's Complaint is the flailing of a voice narcissistic and possessed , a voice of adolescence with no adulthood to arrive at . The evolving Jewish voice has a bracing power of movement . Its defect is that as the voice gets farther away from the Word , it becomes increasingly trivial , self-mocking , loose , fragmentary . It does on paper what a good borscht-circuit comedian does orally , offering a series of skits that make up in verbal excitement for their lack of believability  --  something they never aspired to in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to resemble such a series of skits . Indeed , his successors are already emerging  --  cooler , thinner , even more fragmentary . A succession could be drawn from Bellow through Roth to Woody Allen 's Without Feathers . At the turn of the century , Pirandello wrote a play about six cha'racters ' in search of an author . Modern Jewish writing has turned into six witty voices in search of something significant to say . 0                     