@@494763

Failed Federal Housing The US as Slumlord The administration has a pressing reason for wanting to build virtually all subsidized rental housing from now on in the outer and not the inner city . In explaining HUD 's new policy of scattering subsidy apartments , Secretary Romney tells us a lot about the scarcity of land in the inner city , about legitimate demands for social justice , and about the flight of jobs to the outer city necessitating new , lower-rent housing in the suburbs . But he does n't publicly admit the motive of government self-interest : the Department of Housing and Urban Development will have accumulated , by 11 , 1978 , a multibillion dollar investment in subsidized apartments ( estimates range up to $80 billion in total obligations over the 40-year life of the mortgages ) and those in the ghetto ? about one-third of the present total ? are going sour at an alarming rate . In short , HUD faces the grim prospect of becoming the nation 's No. 1 slum landlord when privately developed but federally guaranteed and subsidized projects belly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ management or disposal . Having only barely recuperated from the recent speculation scandals of the homeownership program , HUD is now sifting the early but dreary returns on interest-subsidy programs for apartments , particularly projects for low- and moderate-income families . The news is bad from Boston , where , for example , the rate of default on mortgages is 80 percent for the 8022 inner-city apartments rehabilitated three years ago . Housing consultant Hortense W. Gabel took a reading on New York City subsidized projects less than three years old and found that many were " already exhibiting mild to severe maintenance problems . " HUD 's own statisticians have warned Romney to brace for a five percent default rate . George Sternlieb , an expert on inner-city housing at Rutgers University , says flatly " the bulk of all the housing that was built under interest subsidy in the central cities is essentially bankrupt . " Real estate entrepreneurs , with large profits already pocketed in many cases , say the problems are too severe in the inner city , and they wo n't take the plunge again without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a community-based organization . " Why should we go into an area where we know we 'll get our brains knocked out before we 're in round two , " said Gerald Schuster , president of Continental Wingate , a Boston construction firm . Schuster and like-minded businessmen have difficulty coping with the demands of community groups for heavy minority representation on construction crews and for a voice in the direction of the projects . They are also unsophisticated about the slum syndrome of crime , drugs , despair and decay that only too readily engulfs their units . To the surprise of no one familiar with past Federal Housing Administration programs , the real beneficiaries of the subsidies are not low- and moderate-income families ( $4000 to $12,000 a year ) but the housing business and a new breed of real estate investor . " The housing being produced , by and large , is a disaster , " said Roland L. ( Sam ) Larson , executive director of the Inter Faith Housing Corp . of Boston , one of the nation 's leading nonprofit housing packagers . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jail for it . The programs make the rich richer through subsidies but the tenants get only higher rents and modestly improved housing . " This from Anthony Henry , executive director of the National Tenants Or . ganization : " I think it 's going to be worse than public housing and in a shorter period of time . " Inspection of numerous inner-city subsidy projects by this reporter found appalling instances of shoddy and inept construction . Plumbing backups , severe water leaks and chilling drafts are common . Walls are generally paper thin , doors poorly hung , windows of the cheapest design . The builders , with some justification , blame Congress for unrealistic cost ceilings that prevent quality building . Tenants , with more justification , blame the FHA for inadequate inspection that allows corner cutting in construction . Rents for these apartments - most of them located in seedy , crime-infested neighborhoods - approach middle-class levels , despite the government 's covering all but one percent of the interest charges . Rent scales at Methunion Manor in the South End of Boston run up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within the means of even a " moderate " income family . A five-city HUD survey of subsidy projects found the average tenant paying 34 percent of income for rent . The goal was 25 percent . Adding insult , many sponsors have felt forced by soaring operating costs to extract rent increases from these already hard-pressed tenants shortly after the projects opened , the survey showed . The predictable result has been a coast-to-coast wave of tenant strikes and law suits . The main tenant complaint is about the large profits generated by the special tax preferences given subsidized housing in the 1969 tax revision act . The tax shelters , plus the congressionally mandated goal of 6 million subsidized units by 1978 , plus the dire depression of the housing industry in the late 1960s , all combined in a volatile mix that allowed HUD to drive subsidized housing starts to a record 500,000 this year . ( Some subsidized projects are occupied with another 2820 under construction . ) The tax shelter , says Boston entrepreneur Max Kargman , is the key to understanding the financial dynamic of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole deal work ; it 's what makes it profitable for the builder . Otherwise why should he put in all this time and effort , with all the risks and struggle . For what ? " The builder-developers make their profit by selling shelter equity to rich professionals and businessmen . For a percentage of the 90 percent federally guaranteed mortgage , usually between 12 and 20 percent , the investors purchase the right to offset taxes on other earnings with the rapid depreciation losses permitted on tie full value of the apartments . In other words , on a $1-million project , they would pay between $120,000 and $200,000 for $1 million in depreciation used over a five-to-ten-year period . The return in federal income taxes avoided can run as high as 30 percent a year for the investor in the 50 percent tax bracket . These absentee landlords , known as limited dividendpartners , have no hand in management , which remains in most cases the responsibility of the builder-developer . The investors often do n't even know where their investment is located unless their broker tells them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to subsidized housing , especially so-called easy fringe and suburban projects catering to young , white professionals with low but rising income . With actual cash equity of only $33,000 - a not unusual proportion - a developer of a $1-million project can get a cash return in less than two years equal to five times his investment , if not more , depending on his sophistication . The inequities and distortions are blatant in the shelter dynamic . When operating costs increase , builder-developers resort to rent hikes and wo n't dip into front-end profits from the sale or use of shelters . The public hears only about the current $175-milliona-year cost of interest subsidies on the apartments and is ignorant of the millions lost to the Treasury each year because of the tax writeoffs . Furthermore , because profit dominates the process , private enterprise is drawn to the safest location possible for building subsidized apartments - fringe areas where 61 percent are located . " The guy who makes the most money is the guy who builds the projects where they do n't need them anyhow , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the taxpayer guarantees the mortgage , puts up the interest subsidies , and supplies the financial coal , says Milton Semer , a former HUD official in the Johnson administration , private interests are determining where this new brand of public housing will be built , who will live in it , and under what circumstances . And most profits are front-end , meaning that while the government has a 40-year stake in the mortgage , the money men are home free from possible recapture of profits by the Internal Revenue Service if the project remains viable for ten years . " There 's nothing to keep their feet to the fire , " said an aide to Romney , worrying about a massive bailout of the money interests in the 1980s . Even nonprofit housing sponsors are thinking up ways to harvest a share of the dollars spinning out of the program . Fearing a loss of their preferred tax status , the nonprofits until now left the tax gimmicks unused when they launched a project . But at least seven of the community-based and church groups have recently launched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the shelter proceeds to support social services in the projects . " We have a low-income housing program in this country and we are going to use it , " said Larry M. Lefkowitz , director of public affairs for the Non-Profit Housing Center in Washington . " You can either do nothing or use the tools in your tool box . " What went wrong with a program once hailed as the ideal way public seed money could generate private sector enterprise of social worth ? For one thing , HUD officials , pressured by Romney until recently to meet production goals , have shaved operating and maintenance cost estimates 1O-to-20 percent to bring proposed projects within federal cost limits . Since initial rents were pegged to the unrealistic estimates , the predictable result has been increases shortly after , or even before apartments are occupied . Needless to say , general inflation has added to the cost squeeze . For another thing , builders say they ca n't construct durable subsidized projects because Congress has set unrealistically low cost limits in the mistaken belief that there is such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor . And Congress made niggardly allowance for amenities , really necessities , such as playgrounds , day care facilities , teenage recreation centers , and counseling . Particularly important in the government 's view is the short supply of competent housing managers . All these problems are intensified by crime , drugs and decay in ghetto projects . The most desirable tenants tend to leave at the first opportunity for something safer . Finding the right replacement tenant becomes more difficult . Slowly , the project becomes poorer . Repair costs rise , rent receipts decline . Deterioration accelerates . " I just do n't have the dollars to stem the tide , " complained one hard-pressed housing manager in the Roxbury section of Boston . " Society asks him ( the manager of low-income housing ) to take on all its problems - drugs , alcohol , and welfare dependency - then blames him when he fails , " said Edwin D. Abrams , a Boston housing consultant who also manages subsidy units . " But the government provides none of the social services money that might make this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about a deteriorating situation , the government has the option of tinkering with the interest subsidy formula or changing direction completely in housing the poor . One first-aid method might entail operating subsidies , such as those recently instituted in public housing , to keep rents down and projects afloat . A variant might be infusion of money for social services . A third could be a return to direct , low-interest federal loans for construction . Radical surgery might entail abandoning interest subsidies and moving to direct stipends , allowing poor families to shop for shelter that does n't carry the social stigma of a " project . " Tony Henry and the NTO would have tenants themselves manage and control subsidized units . Norman V. Watson , the assistant HUD secretary for housing management , voiced the government 's confusion on just what to do when he observed : " We 've got to look at a housing strategy real quick . "                     