@@494747

Getting the Goods On the Government Early next year , a congressional committee will hold hearings on the Freedom of Information Act , the 1967 law that , with a few narrow exceptions , was supposed to raise the blinds so that outsiders could see what 's happening inside government . The hearings may be more of an autopsy than an examination , for it has been demonstrated that the government ca n't be forced to disclose important information it wishes to keep secret . Three recent law suits illustrate the difficulty of enforcing the act . First , in September , shortly after the Congress had killed the supersonic transport plane , several environmentalist groups filed suit in a US district court to obtain a secret government study that was said to have condemned the SST . The White House did not deny its existence but refused to release it , claiming that the report was advisory , for executive use only . It finally did release the document , but only after the issue was moot - the SST was dead - and it became clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead to far greater public accessibility to government records . Then , on October 8 , " concerned citizens " filed a federal suit to obtain several government studies allegedly concerning contingency plans for US military intervention in the Middle East , plus studies pertaining to the history , nature , and extent of American involvement and commitment in that area . The State Department denied the existence of some of the studies and refused to release others on the grounds that they contain information vital to national security . Finally , in a publicized attempt , the Committee for Nuclear Responsibility and six other groups tried to get a report submitted to the President on the environmental effects of the Cannikin nuclear test . The Atomic Energy Commission refused to release the report , though it delivered sections of it for Judge George L. Hart Jr . ' s inspection . These three suits and more than 100 others have been brought to court under the Freedom of Information Act , passed by Congress as an amendment to Section 3 of the Administrative Procedure Act ( 1946 ) . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law that only persons or groups " properly and directly concerned " with a government agency 's documents or records were entitled to them . Most records , it said , should be available to " any person . " The amendment also gave individuals or groups the right to appeal to a US district court if their requests for information were denied . It also set up nine categories of information exempt from public disclosure : internal instructions to agency staff ; confidential information about private individuals ; trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information ; geological and geophysical data , including maps ; and information specifically required by Executive Order 10501 to be kept secret in the interest of the national defense of foreign policy . The three law suits mentioned above and the most controversial suits involved the last category - executive exemption . In 1969 , Ralph Nader and a team of associates harshly criticized agency compliance with the act , in some instances charging deliberate concealment and falsification of records and information , and more generally , agency favoritism and delay . In preparation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subcommittee of the House Committee on Government Operations sent a questionnaire to government agencies on their methods of responding to requests for records and ' materials under the act . It asked , for example , how many formal requests for access to records each agency had received , granted , or refused and the refusal 's cause ; the time involved in the granting or refusal of records ; the legend used to identify records unavailable outside the government but not classifiable under executive exemption ; the number of agency officials authorized to classify material " Top Secret , " " Secret , " and " Confidential " under executive order ; and agency directives , orders and rules implementing the Freedom of Information Act . Although replies have not yet been formally analyzed , more than two-thirds of the questionnaires have been returned to the subcommittee , and certain trends are visible - the most crucial being , according to one subcommittee staffman , the absence within many agencies of a willingness to comply with the intent of the act . Hundreds of requests for information have been refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University , found that charges made for copying government documents differ widely and that the variation . can not possibly be explained on the grounds of differing labor or other costs . " Copying charges range from 10 cents or less in agencies such as 0E0 and the Securities and Exchange Commission to 40 cents a page in the State Department and 50 cents in the Department of Transportation . The fee most often charged is 25 cents a page . The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission , the Atomic Energy Commission , and several other agencies charge a special fee of up to one dollar for the first page copies . Although the Freedom of Information Act allows agencies to charge a " reasonable fee " for record searches , the search fees , like copy costs , vary from $2.50 an hour ( Veterans Administration ) to $8.00 an hour ( Post Office ) . The search fees most often charged by the agencies , according to Giannella , are $3.50 and $5.00 an hour . The high fees charged for copying and document searches in some agencies are explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct costs involved in the provision of information requested , indirect costs including building and equipment depreciation , rent , management and maintenance costs , and in some cases , the cost of the average time an agency employee waits in line at the duplicating machine . Agencies have argued that the charges tend to discourage " frivolous requests , " but the spirit and language of the act do not support this policy of discouragement , nor the delays often encountered . Consumers Union reported that it waited 10 months for a final decision on information requested under the act . Others have waited up to a year for requested documents . Time-consuming standard request forms and other administrative procedures act as deterrents . Often , agencies do not specify and make known the person or persons responsible for handling requests for information . An individual unfamiliar with an agency 's procedures does n't know how to appeal an initial refusal , before resorting to the courts . The cost of taking a refusal to court can be prohibitive . Exempt and nonexempt information under the act are inadvertently or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critics of government operations have long recognized , that classification systems within many agencies are capricious and tend to produce overclassification . Not all the blame , however , rests with the agencies . The courts have been reticent about exploring this relatively new area of law . In the suit involving the Cannikin nuclear test , Judge Hart rejected the request for the AEC study , but the US Court of Appeals reversed the decision and ordered him to examine the report . Hart called the higher court 's decision " outrageous " - one which would allow the courts to ask the President for virtually anything . In Epstein vs . Resor , the district court judge did not wish to review the documents in question . His decision was reversed on appeal and his attitude criticized when the House subcommittee held hearings touching on the act last June . But even if the courts decide that the executive 's or an agency 's refusal to grant information is not justifiable , how can the court 's decision be enforced ? " We could write the strongest freedom of information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man , " but it would only work if there were a willingness within the executive to carry out the law 's intent . " Hostility toward public scrutiny of government records is probably a result of several factors : a penchant for playing cards close to chest , inherent in most governments ; the extra cost and effort of satisfying requests for information ; the executive 's wariness ,                     