@@494724

Correspondence Full Employment Sirs : I am writing to salute Melville Ulmer ( " The Non-Answer to Nixonomics , " NR , Dec. 11 , 1971 ) , for a penetrating and courageous analysis of the default of the Democratic Party on the issue of employment policy . Economic journalism of this calibre is hard to come by . Thus , the following comments are intended to embellish rather than to criticize . Ulmer assumes that increases in the demand for private goods and services do not get translated into significant increases in the derived demand for unskilled labor because of a " twist " in the technology of producing such products , a " twist " which has made unskilled workers obsolete ( this is an idea first developed by a distinguished labor economist , Charles Killingsworth ) . There is , however , mounting evidence that many private companies employ less of such labor than would be dictated by an unbiased consideration of technology andrelative costs , especially when this labor is black , female or teenaged . It is their fear of unorthodox allocations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private employers are responding to , rather than ( or ? to be more precise ? in addition to ) the objective dictates of technology . Ulmer believes that there exist alternative technologies for producing public goods and services , that some of these alternatives are intensive users of unskilled labor , and that the government can ( and should ) select such " techniques of production " as a deliberate matter of political-economic policy , whether or not they are the most " efficient " of the alternatives available . I would add that the government has it within its power to forcefully reduce ? and over a reasonable period of time , to completely eliminate ? race , sex and class discrimination within its ranks . The choice of **25;2240;TOOLONG techniques will expand total ( public ) employment . The anti-discrimination efforts will generate a more equitable distribution of the earnings flowing from that employment .... At least one policy instrument for enforcing nondiscriminatory practices in private industry comes readily to mind : the vigorous use of government contract cancellations . The analogous instrument for the public sector would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ulmer 's article and this letter have emphasized the employment issue . It is worth noting , however , that there are some extremely high costs which will have to be paid in order to purchase full employment in the manner suggested by Ulmer , and his exercise in social accounting ( e.g. add in the extra wages , subtract out the savings in unemployment insurance and welfare ) fails to identify these . A policy such as that which he advocates would have the effect of substituting public for private output . Under realistic assumptions about future rates of real national growth , this probably implies a redistribution of national income from profits to wages . Since the public and piivate sectors do not ( for the most part ) produce the same things , it also implies a shift in the composition of GNP , which means that not only will owners of capital suffer as a class , but individual businessmen will undoubtedly carry a disproportionate burden . Finally , the imposition.of a constraint on production ? that full employment must be maintained , even at the cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not grow as rapidly as it might under less than full employment . These are revolutionary changes , going far beyond a mere " reordering of priorities . " One may well join Ulmer in wondering aloud whether there exists a Democrat ( or any other national politician ) with the courage to espouse such a program . Bennett Harrison University of Maryland In reply : Mr. Harrison 's comments go so weirdly astray on two elementary points that I can only suppose that he wrote and mailed his letter before reading the last word in the title of my article . His first error relates to the difference between a proportionate and an absolute change . My plan would result in expanding the output of public goods ? environmental care , mass transportation , and the like ? not only as a proportion of the nation 's production , but as a net addition to the total . The new public goods would be provided by the efforts of formerly idle resources : the unemployed who would be given jobs in government . The output of private goods ? food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same , temporarily , but later would increase . Hence the total GNP would rise at an unprecedented rate and through this full use of the nation 's potential , for the first time outside war periods , economic growth would be vastly accelerated . Good sense , not courage , is required for politicians to support such a plan , and many of them have already indicated that they will . All this , of course , is just the opposite of the picture Mr. Harrison draws . His second error relates to discrimination . My proposal would provide jobs in government for those who can not get them in private industry , whatever the reason , including prejudice in race , sex , creed or age ( affecting , the over 50 , as well as teenagers ) . Yet the tragedy of discrimination must be distinguished from the evils of economic instability . Discrimination determines who will be unemployed , not how many . Although poverty is often equated with black ghettos , and blacks obviously do suffer the most , relatively speaking , it is worth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 80 percent of the unemployed , and of the poor generally were white . Full employment without inflation , toward which my article was directed , would help men and women of ? all colors.                     