@@490754

LETTER FROM THE MIDDLE EAST IT la-as Ramadan , and Secretary of State Henry Kissinger was in Cairo , finding ways to kill time until he could see Anwar al-Sadat at the end of the President 's day of fasting and prayer . Kissinger was scheduled to meet with the staff of the American Embassy , and it was getting late , so Victor Girguis , the curator of the Coptic Museum , which the Secretar ) was visiting , was anxious to get him through the exhibits and out . The curator was rattling off a thousand words of broken English a minute , hoping to tell the entire story of his museum at once , Kissinger paused occasionally , to examine a fresco here or to study an ancient , tattered fragment of cloth there , and chided his host for rushing . " I know nothing can happen until I get there , " the Secretary said . " So I 'm relaxed . " Here , in a dozen words , I realized , was the key to Kissinger  --  to the way he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ die press , and , most of all , to the way he conducts international diplomacy . He had come to the 141itldle East six times since the October war of 1973 , always with the notion that nothing could happen until he got there . Now lie was in Cairo to initiate at new round of negotiations , and he had not been in the Middle East one full day before he was talking of yet another swing through the area . Ahead of him were at least four other trips , with or without President Ford , including one scheduled twelve days from then which would take him to the Soviet Union , Bangladesh , India , Pakistan , Afghanistan , Iran , Rumania , Yugoslavia , Italy , and possibly Turkey , and he was suggesting that he might tack on perhaps half a dozen additional countries in the Middle East . Because nothing could happen unless he went there . Events , presumably , would await his presence . From the time Kissinger started his secret trips to Paris in 1969 to meet with the North Vietnamese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personally in the day-to-day business of negotiations . Had the Vietnam talks been an isolated episode , they might have been regarded as an aberration  --  a special assignment for a special assistant . But theta he went to Peking and to Moscow , and even after he became Secretary of State he continued to act as a special assistant , travelling to the Middle East again and again . Kings and Presidents around the world have , as a result , come to believe that Kissinger is the only American official worth listening to  --  so much so that the Secretary could now say , with some credibility , " La diplomatic , c'rst moi . " Kissinger has logged well over two hundred thousand air miles in his year as Secretary of State , and about an equal amount during his four years as Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs . but not necessarily because he has been eager to get out of Washington , and not because he has any love of flying . ( I have seen terror cross his face when his plane hit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is convinced of the alchemy of his personal contact with foreign leaders , especially in the Middle East . Arab leaders , he has said fiequently , need to relate policies to people they trust , and he has succeeded in making them trust him . He has apparently forgotten , and made us all forget , that there was a time not long ago when competent , trained American ambassadors also enjoyed intimate contact with foreign leaders , when a call from an American ambassador was regarded as an important event even h ) the head of state of any of the world 's most powerful nations . Only one other Secretary of State in modern times  --  John Foster Dulles  --  has perceived himself as the indispensable center . But where Dulles saw himself as the Almighty 's instrument to preserve the world from godless Communism , Kissinger sees himself as the statesman and strategist who stands between international tranquillitl and thermonuclear holocaust . TN the Middle East , Kissinger has 1- been able to draw the maximum advantage from the position of the United States as tile one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was any single belief that Arabs and Israelis held in common over the past few years it was that the Nixon Administration would help their cause , and Henry Kissinger was its instrument . During Kissinger 's most recent trip to the area , from October 9th to October 15th , the first since Gerald Ford became President , one of the Secretary 's main tasks was to convince his hosts  --  Arab and Israeli  --  that American policy remained unchanged . Only if both sides were assured that the United States would continue to serve as an honest broker could the radical Arabs be neutralized and the Soviet Union be kept in diplomatic limbo . Kissinger 's seven-day , seventeen-thousand-mile trip to seven countries , therefore , had one major , if unstated , goal : to make the world safe for shuttle diplomacy . All he had to do was keep the Rus-sians out of Middle East negotiations while preserving atente , convince President Sadat that he had been right in moving away from Mos-cow even though he had not yet received one penny of promised American aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was hope for further Israeli withdrawals on the Golan Heights , persuade King Hussein of Jordan that the Palestinians would not take over an important part of his kingdom , neutralize the Palestinians , fend off another oil embargo and price increase while insisting that this was not the purpose of his trip , and provide the Israelis with a sense of security about their future . More immediately , he hoped to line up Aral , leaders behind a new round of negotiations , giving each of them a stake in further talks and furnishing a scenario that everyone could justify to every constituency , in order to head off a radical explosion at the Arah summit in Rabat on October 26th . Extreme demands for immediate Israeli withdrawal from all Arah territory and for the reconvening of the Geneva conference , at which the Soviet Union serves as co-chairman with the United States , would preclude the type of bilateral negotiations , including a Kissinger shuttle , that the Secretary believed could lead to an agreement by stages . It was the kind of multifaceted operation , with complicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the master of diplomatic prestidigitation , delights in . As Kissinger and the customary contingent of fourteen reporters left ' Washington , he reflected on the logistics of the trip , on the fact that he could see most of the leaders only after sunset , because of Ramadan , and on the realization that he would have to go to a couple of countries more than once , and declared that this journey was going to be " an unbelievable nightmare . " Then , when he had begun his round of meetings and had discovered that the Arab leaders were far more tense , and were torn by far greater dilemmas , than he had thought , he lamented , " It 's like making your way through a minefield . " Still , his most recent Middle East venture was , after all , not so very different from other diplomatic exercises . There are always contingencies and countervailing forces . What makes his operation appear such a bravura performance is that Kissinger insists on acting alone , Like a Leonard Bernstein of diplomacy , he writes the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and then narrates what he is doing as well . Tr is his style . Special Air Mission 86970 took off at one in the morning on October 9th . To insure Kissinger 's safety , Secret Service men were already fanning out in all the cities he would visit . The Secretary arrived at Andrews Air Force Base , in Maryland , about an hour late  --  just minutes ahead of President Ford , who came in the evening clothes he had worn at a White House been retired to San Clemente , Assail was convinced , American policy had changed . No longer could he count on pressure to push Israel back to its 1967 frontiers . Was n't it clear , therefore , that Nixon 's removal was caused not only by his own corruption but also by the Jewish-Zionist conspiracy , whiclI wanted him replaced by Ford , whose record in support of Israel was unblemished : How long could Kissinger himself survive , since he had shaped the Nixon policy on the Middle East The questions were to he the same , in Saudi Arabia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the some thoughts , but Kissinger figured that he was too polite to express them . In Jordan , too , there were underlying doubts . Even on tile surface , this was a trip different from all other Kissinger trips . From the outset , he had said there would lie " no concrete results ... or dramatic announcements . " There were none . Accordingly. , hr rarely made the front pages hack home . There were the usual American reporters on his plane , but on the ground the usual crush of cameramen and photographers was missing . For the first time in five trips I had made to the area with Kissinger , I did n't get trampled and poked each time Sadat and the Secretary made their ritual joint appearances . There were rumblings that the magic was gone , that Kissinger could no longer work miracles . Kissinger insisted he had come to the Middle East this time " at the urgent request of the Arabs . " But no Arab was prepared to admit having extended an invitation . Prime Minister Zaid al-Rifai of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ timing the preliminary round of negotiations , and he had told me that even then Kissinger was preparing his trip , at the request of no one . Nevertheless , with typical Arab hospitality , Rifai had told him , " 21 hifin sahlan " ? " You have become a memher of the family , " " Your stay with us will be peaceful , " " Our house is your house . " The phrase is an abbreviation for a dozen terms of welcome . Anti Kissinger would he welcome even during the month of Ramadan , although it is a bizarre time to go to the Arab world , especially when one is no longer a miracle worker . President Sadat could make five thousand explanations to his people about why two hundred and fifty million dollars in promised American aid and thousands of tons of American wheat still had not arrived . He could attempt to explain why the nuclear reactor that President Nixon had so graciously . bestowed was not on its way and might never arrive -- because of congressional reluctance and arguments over safeguards . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Syria was getting nevi and better arms from Moscow , and who were ready to demonstrate that Sadat had gravely miscalculated when he exchanged Soviet For American support . Congress had refused to approve a new aid package , so Kissinger was in the unenviable position of having to elucidate the realities of the American executive-legislative balance and the mysterious workings of Washington 's bureaucracy . There were mutterings around Cairo about John Foster Dulles and the Aswan Dam . tip of the Suez Canal , which have been occupied , and improved , by the Israelis since 1967 and are gushing oil worth at least four times what it was a year ago . Sadat even appears to he willing to pay part of the price being demanded by Israel  --  a lowering of the level of belligerency between the two countries . But it is here that Sadat 's personal inclinations collide with the compulsions and requirements of the rest of the Arab world , because the Palestinian problem constitutes a major obstacle to the fulfillment of his desires . Many influential Egyptians will admit privately that they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wars for them , lost Egyptian territory , and got nothing in return but bankruptcy . No Arab leader , however , can afford to abandon the Palestinian cause in Sadat tried to find some middle ground last July when King Hussein made an official visit to Egypt . But their joint communique was immediately attacked by the Palestine Liberation Organization as insufficiently orthodox . Within days , Foreign Minister F'ahmy was explaining publicly that Egypt supported the P.L.O . The Arab leaders , who agreed to establish a united stand on the Palestinian issue at the Arab summit of October 26th , floundered around in search of a formula . Although the Palestinians are divided among themselves , radical and moderate Palestinian groups generally agree that they want a state of their own , in territory that Hussein considers his own . It is not surprising , therefore , that the Jordanian monarch has been receiving mixed signals from his Arab brothers . One report reaching Amman had it that Sadat and Assad would back Hussein as the leader who would negotiate with Israel on the return of the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then agree to a plebiscite to determine the status of the reclaimed territories Another report designated Hussein as the negotiator and the Palestinians as the recipients of every piece of land given up by the Israeli occupiers . The latter arrangement , of course , would mean no deal . No Israeli government is going to relinquish territory to the Palestinians , many of whom are dedicated to the destruction of the Jewish state . Anyway , Hussein has said in the past that he would not negotiate tinder such conditions . It would he a no-win situation . He would recapture no territory for himself and could only further alienate the Palestinians , who would complain that he had made too many concessions . For months , Hussein has said that if the Arabs should collectively decide that the ' West Bank is the province of the P.L.O. , he would wash his hands of the whole business and turn his attention to what remains of his kingdom on the East Bank , making it a viable state . The value of his rich reserves of phosphates , used in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovered in Jordan . For the Arabs , here was the classic dilemma . In reality , only Hussein can hope to get even a part of the West Bank , but there is public pressure in all Arab countries to support the Palestinians . If the Arabs give then support to the P.L.O. , there is chance of progress toward a settlement ; if they want progress , they must back Hussein . " They have a choice between making declarations and making progress , " an American official concluded recently . But it is an Arab dilemma . Kissinger spent the greater part of his time in Jordan recovering from what he called " the Damascus hug . " Still , he insisted upon demonstrating his strength in adversity by climbing over the dusty sandstone of ancient Petra , the " rose-red city half as old as time . " Rifai , in a loud blueand-yellow sports shirt and looking not at all like a proper Prime Minister , playfully offered Kissinger the choice of a camel , a donkey , or a mule for the trip from Amman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helicopter , and toured Petra in a Land-Rover , which gave him a good bouncing around . When the helicopter came to pick him up in Petra , Kissinger looked at it with dismay , his face showing the misery he felt , and remarked , " If it were n't for the honor , I 'd take a camel . " THERE was no sightseeing in Damascus . President Assad was ready to talk at length , even during his fast , which had not visibly weakened him . Besides Watergate and what he thought it proved about the strength of the Jewish-Zionist conspiracy , Assail had other things on his mind . He had made a deal with Israel when he agreed to a disengagement along the Golan Heights five months before , despite the fact that the statutes of the ruling Arab Ba'ath Socialist Party require him to pledge not to acknowledge the existence of Israel . Unless he can demonstrate that the disengagement was only a first step toward a complete settlement , he may be in real trouble . Syria is the one front-line Arab state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one front-line state that has little prospect of regaining much inure territory through negotiations . The Syrians present an odd combination of Western outlook and Middle Eastern fanaticism . You can talk to Syrian officials  --  many of whom , incidentally , are employed by one or another branch of the secret police  --  and discover a finely tuned sense of humor , even whimsey . As you walk down tree-lined streets of the kind you find in so many cities that were once part of the French colonial empire , it is easy to think you are in the heart of Burgundy instead of in one of the most radical , secretive capitals of the Middle East . There are abrupt reminders . On Monday , October 14th , during Kissinger 's second stop in Damascus , I went to lunch at the Versailles with a West German television correspondent who was in the city on temporary assignment . We had barely sat down at the restaurant before Don Mudd , an officer of the American Embassy , walked in , feigning surprise to find me there . " How @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him when it was clear that he had come to tell me Kissinger might leave ahead of schedule . " I asked the Syrians , " he replied . " You got here in a very fast white Citroen . They knew how you got here , when you got here , whom you were with . " " This is Syria , " my German friend reminded me gently . Kissinger was still lobbying to forestall any Arab summit decisions to demand an immediate and total Israeli withdrawal and a revived Geneva conference , where all Arabs  --  including the Palestinians  --  could press their demands at once in the presence of the Soviet Union . The summit loomed as the ideal arena for the impassioned rhetoric so natural to the Arabic language , which can whip tip a frenzy for unity behind the most radical of Arab causes . Such pressure could scuttle the Kissingerian strategy , which consists of breaking off those parts of a problem which are immediately soluble , leaving the rest for the future , with each successful step creating an opportunity for taking further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is possibly the most moderate of all Syrians , was not prepared to go along with . From Damascus , Israel appeared to he an expansionist nation . Assad could pin nothing from the next stage of negotiations , so why should he compromise his principles ? Hussein 's choices were limited . He was solidly behind Kissinger but pessimistic about the prospects of regaining lost territory . Sadat was willing to go along with Kissinger , provided that the Arab summit did not tie his hands . American officials like to think the moderate Arabs will realize that the ideal of unity makes good rhetoric but that self-preservation is good politics . But it is dangerous for Western statesmen , in predicting the course of action that might result from the Arab summit , to assume that decisions will be taken in accordance with Western standards of rationality . In a society driven by the Word , Arab leaders must outbid each other in demonstrating their orthodoxy . The imponderable in the Arab world is that it has a dynamic of its own , and leaders can become the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to make life easy for Kissinger . On October 1 1 th , the da ) Kissinger went from Cairo to Damascus to Amman , Secretary Brezhnev , speaking in Kishinev , the capital of Soviet Moldavia , called for a renewal of the Geneva conference at " the earliest date . " At first , American officials shrugged his words off , saying that Brezhnev could not he expected to support a mission in which the Russians were not participating . Kissinger supposed ) ) had a strategy to bring them in , but there were no details as to how or when . Brezhnev lashed out at Israel and her " traditional foreign patrons , " who , he said , were trying to avoid the framework of multilateral negotiations which had been set up at Geneva . That was the appropriate place to find solutions , Brezhnev said . The disengagement negotiations that Kissinger had conducted between Israel and Egypt , and then between Israel and Syria , were " useful " as initial measures . But , Brezhnev said , " everybody can see now that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlement . " He called fur recognition of the Palestinians ' " legitimate interests " and of " their  --  right to their national home , " and for their participation at Geneva . " To prolong the present situation , which is of benefit only to the Israeli occupiers , means to sit on a powder keg that may blow up any minute , " Brezhnev said . In the American view , Geneva is a prescription for failure . In addition to all the Arab status pressing their claims , the Palestinians , who have won the right to he heard at the United Nations , would cause endless haggling about their own representation . The Russians , whose dedication to a peaceful settlement is at best suspect , could play the role of spoiler , Events would be out of control , and Kissinger likes to he in control . Failure could not be covered up , and the likely consequence of failure would he further bloodshed . WHILE courting the Arabs , even to the point of permitting a redand-white bike ' , to he draped over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had worked themselves into a state of alarm , . LS rho have done each time he has paid a visit to Jerusalem . Syria was being beaviI ) armed , I was told repeatedly by Israelis . Its forces were on constant alert . Syrian-Egyptian militan , ciZrdination was better than ever . The Arabs had convinced themselves that they had won the October war militarily its well as politically , so they believed they hitd a military option . That war would come in the spring was the grim prediction heard everywhere . A prei:mptive strike was openly discussed . Young Israelis had moved Lo the West Bank to stake claims against an possible withdrawals . The Israeli government had just sent in troops to remove them . The No. 1 question in Israel was : Could Kissinger he trusted ? How could he he , when he had to appease the Arabs because they had the oil and he was concerned about the potential devastating effects of the oil-price crisis on the Western world ? And would n't he sell out Israel if it meant the avoidance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could sell out the Jewish state . Look at what he had dime during the October war . Was n't it Kissinger whit . had stopped the Israeli advance , who had agreed to a ceasefire when the Russians demanded it , just to set the stage fur own brand of diplomacy , which required a stalemate in the battleficIdii Did n't some reports indicate that Kissinger had actually held off on American arms deliveries to Israel just long enough to make a clean , lightning victory impossible ? Could this man he an honest broker Why , it was asked in return , should Kissinger , who had lost twelve members of his own family to the Nazis , sell out Israel ? Kissinger understood that insecurity and suspicion were huilt into the Israeli situation  --  into Israel 's history , its national psyche . Each time he came , he had to demonstrate that these fears were unwarranted . This time , as he left , he announced an agreement on " the principles and procedures that might he followed " in the next stage of the negotiations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of relief throughout Israel . During all Kissinger 's previous trips to the Middle East , he had concentrated on disengaging Arab and Israeli farces , in the belief that this would diminish the chances of war by accident or by design . Any battle , once started , could spread , bringing the two superpowers into a confrontation like the one that almost occurred during the October war , when the Soviet Union threatened to send in its own troops to break the siege of the Egyptian Third Army , and the United States responded by putting its forces on worldwide alert . It was an exercise in classical Kissingurian diploma cy , aimed at the avoidance of nuclear war . But now the infinite complications of the oil crisis had drawn Kissinger into a field that was not his own . Admittedly lacking the requisite expertise , he nevertheless insisted once again on playing all the instruments himself . Nuclear diplomacy had been his academic specialty and had become his governmental province , leaving no time for international economics and finance . Oil , however , now underlay every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to everyone , and persuading no one , that the oil-price crisis and the Arab-Israeli conflict were " not inevitably linked . " Just before he left Washington , he told reporters at a State Department news conference , " We are negotiating these two issues separately , because the high oil prices affect many nations an a global basis that do not have the remotest connection with the Arab-Israeli conflict , " and added , " We believe that , to some extent , these negotiations should be conducted in separate forums , and we are conducting them in separate forums . " It was at the same press conference that Kissinger announced he had added to his itinerary Saudi Arabia , which holds the world 's richest known nil reserves beneath its desert sands , and Algeria , whose assent would he required for any price reductions . Kissinger repeatedly insisted along the way that he was not in the Middle East to get the nil producers to roll back their prices  --  that his only purpose was to get peace negotiations itartcd . Oil , he seemed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not a primary interest . Yet at the Papyrus Institute  --  a museum on a barge anchored in the Nile  --  Kissinger was given a tour by the founder , Hassan Ragab , a former Egyptian ambassador . Ragab is an engaging diplomat who has elevated his historical interest in the ancient Egyptian art of making papyrus into a part-time profession A huge grove of papyrus had been discovered in the Sudan , he told Kissinger . There would be more papyrus  --  a perennial plantas time went on , when the oil was depleted . " Just do n't raise the prices , " Kissing . replied . " M ) nerves are not good . " And on the steps of Sadat 's Giza residence on October 14th , just before Kissinger 's final departure from Cairo , an Egyptian correspondent , not having heard the Secretary 's protestations that nil had nothing to do with his negotiating strategy , asked Sadat , " Mr. President , did you discuss the oil problem with Dr. Kissinger ? " President Sadat replied , " The oil problem  --  well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but I am not an oil producer . " The oil-price crisis had demonstrated to Kissinger that potential global political and economic instability could cause problems almost as grave as those caused by nuclear confrontation . Inflation was tearing into the social and political fabric of Western Europe . Economic collapse in a number of counthes suffering severe balance-of-payments difficulties would lead inevitably to political crises . To the most disciplined and organized parties  --  the Communists , in almost every case  --  would go the spoils . Portugal was already swinging to the left ; Spain would soon have to deal with succession ; Italj was inn ) / ing from serious disorganization in the direction of chaos ; Greece was organizing itself on a foundation of anti-Americanism ; Turkey might be taken over by left-wing radical 's ; leftists in France could gain power . Before dealing with the price squeeze , Kissinger considered it imperative to organize the consumers to get them to cooperate to reduce consumption and seek alternative sources of energy , and only tiler to deal with the producers , jointly . Until the consumers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries whose vast reserves of oil bad given them unprecedented power The habit of coi ; peration , however , did not come easily to a loner like Kissinger . Thus , he took off for Riyadh protesting sal that he was going to talk only about the pc-ace negotiations h , was trying to get started . Probably , he conceded , he would n't he able to avoid the subject of oil , but it was n't on his agenda . KESSINGER 'S arrival in Saudi Arabia was timed to coincide with the setting of the sun , marking the end of A day of fasting in the country that follows the most fundamentalist interpretation of the Koran . A fleet of red Chevrolet convertibles met the plane and took Kissinger and his entourage to Gast- al-Riasa , King Faisal 's office . On his last trip here , Kissinger had made it to al-Maazar , the King 's residence . This looked like a downgrading . Faisal was dour and unsmiling , as always ; he divides his preoccupations between his unsullied hatred of the Zionist-Communist conspiracy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with his millions as a defense against the sabotage of his oil wells and his throne . The American Ambassador , James Akins , accompanied Kissinger during his audience with the King . Akins has grown a heard and a mustache clipped precisely in the style of all the Saudi sheikhs . The Saudis were tense . Kissinger 's speech at the United Nations on September 23rd , and President Ford 's at the ninth World Energy Conference , in Detroit , on the same day , had contained overtones of military threats about protecting the oil supph Vetowtek had published an edition forthrightly discussing the military option ; it had been censored in Saudi Arabia . The deputy chief of the American Embassy had been called in to explain . " It 's too but here for the Marines to land , " one Saudi official suggested hopefully . Anyway , he explained , oil prices have only kept pace with inflation . His problem now was that shipping costs had gone up on the Toyotas the Saudis were buying . " It 's the price of fuel , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blame us , " the Saudi official responded . " That 's consumer-producer cooperation . " After an hour and a half with Faisal , Kissinger pronounced His Majesty 's attitude on oil to he " constructiy , and enlightened . " He said , " I believe the policy of the kingdom will he in a constructive direction , keeping always in mind what we also believe , that the ultimate solution must be found on a multilateral basis , and can not be found by isolated actions . " Omar Saqqaf , the Saudi Minister of State for Foreign Affairs , promised " a sense of responsibility toward the welfare of the world community . " He went on , " As part of the world , we want to build the world and not destroy it .... We hope that the other members of the world comm nit ) come to appreciate the gravity of this responsibility .... Oil is not everything , but it is a great thing . " That was n't bad , considering that Kissinger went to Saudi Arabia only because skipping it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been persuasive in his description of the potential for Communist takeovers if the oil crisis was not brought under control . For another set of reasons , Houari Boumedienne , the dedicated revolutionary who is the President of Algeria , also gave Kissinger reason to hope that he would not hack a price increase . Boumedienne was said to be cognizant of the dangers for the Middle East which could result from a semi-confrontation between producers and consumers . And , as a self-proclaimed leader of the Third World , he was concerned about the suffering of the poor countries that can not afford the new fuel and fertilizer prices . It looked as if Kissinger had scored some points , but then he had miscalculated before . He had expected the Egyptian-Israeli disengagement to he the key to the lifting of the embargo earlier this year , and he had been wrong : he had first had to demonstrate progress on the Syrian front as well . In any case , the Arabs tend to look upon the oil price as far less important than the oil weapon . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East , the Arabs could always clamp down an embargo , and that is one of the reasons Kissinger has been so anxious to get the consuming countries working together . A war would force the Europeans into a choke . During most of the October war , not a single country in Europe would permit the United States to use its facilities for refuelling during the airlift of arms to Israel . None of the Europeans , heavily dependent on Middle Eastern oil ( about eight per cent of their imports ) , wanted to alienate the Arabs . Only Portugal consented , and then onl ) after considerable pressure was applied . But now , with leftists taking control in Lisbon , the likelihood that Lajes Field , in the Portuguese Azores , could ever again he used as a refuelling base seems , at bust , diminished . During the last war , Portugal was less dependent than it is now on Middle Eastern nil , since it was supplied by its own wells in Cabinda , on the West African coast . As its program of decolonization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choice , and this freedom will be further limited by the fact that it is trying to establish normal relations with the Arab world and with the Soviet bloc . All this went into the hack compartment of Kissinger 's mind . Of more immediate professed interest to him was the support he was rounding up for his peace-negotiating plans . " At the outset , I used to have inhibitions , and I might even sal doubts , about the method followed by our friend In his peacemaking efforts , " Saudi Foreign Minister Saclgaf said " But with the passage of time and as events unfolded I began to be sold on his efforts toward solving problems . " Another ally for the Rabat meeting . Even Boumedienne , who has claims to leadership among the radicals , indicated that he would not raise obstacles to Kissinger 's step-by-step approach to peacemaking . But Saqqaf also stressed the point that the greatly improved relations between Saudi Arabia and the United States had been made possible because the Saudis had " discerned a clear light pointing in the direction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  a solution based on complete withdrawal of Israel from territories occupied in 1967 , including Jerusalem , and the restoration to the Palestinian people of their riglIts . " How long would King Faisal wait ? And how much were the hospitable Arabs telling Kissinger only what he wanted to hear ? AKissinger 's jet crisscrossed the Middle East , Yasir Arafat , the head of the Palestine Liberation Organization , was also on the move . He left Cairo the day Kissinger first arrived there , and arrived in Rabat just as Kissinger was leaving . He , too , was trying to set the stage for the October 26th summit . But Kissinger was not uneasy . He left the region satisfied with his own orchestration , convinced that the trip had been necessary , and confident that he had helped to focus the summit in a " positive direction . " He was still keeping his fingers crossed , but , as it turned out , that was not enough . Once Kissinger left for other world capitals , matters took a decidedly negative turn at Rabat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has prevailed . Whitt : this may be a triumph of rhetoric over practicality , it still remains to he seen whether the pressure will he turned on for Geneva or whether Sadat will go it alone  --  and if he does , whether the newly e m hcd den ed Palestinians will create obstacles to any further negotiatinns . To make matters worse , billions of dollars have been pledged to build up the armies of the front-line Arab states , increasing the potential for war in the Middle East and , thereby , the prospects for a very cold winter in the United States and possibly Western Europe . Kissinger may have misjudged his accomplishments in thinking that nothing would happen until he returned to the Middle East . But lie is going to come back anyway , figuring that he alone can pick op the pieces .                     