@@491351

I joined the Board of Directors of the Public Broadcasting Service about a year ago so that I could get a show called " Black Journal " off the air . I found the program destructive and racist . It systematically traced all of the blacks ' problems to a government run predominantly by whites ? who supposedly cared only for the welfare of the white majority . I had already seen evidence in my own city , Detroit , of the ways that public television could make constructive contributions in the community . For example , a beautiful-spirited black woman who calls herself Martha Jean the Queen has a show " Buzz the Fuzz , " on which the police commissioner appears live to answer viewers ' telephoned questions . ( This is , however , on commercial TV . ) Some of the questions are suspicious , even hostile , but the show itself is always constructive ; it 's entertaining , and it fosters better understanding by closing the communications gap between law enforcement and the public . I wanted to see more programs with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Well , " Black Journal " is now back on public television and both of us have mellowed a bit in the past year . The program is taking a more positive look at problems , and possibly this next year might even find some solutions . In finding my way to that conclusion , I also developed a new awareness of the problems of American television  --  and the importance of having genuine alternatives on the television screen . If you 're like most Americans , you watch a lot of television . The average adult in this country spends over six hours each day in front of a set ; the average child will spend more hours with television than in the classroom during his first eighteen years . TV is the babysitter of the next generation . And whether we care to admit it or not , the fact is that most of us pay attention to television , rely on it , and  --  for better or worse  --  learn from it . But television does not always present a clear picture of our country . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , aberrant and destructive , and to slight or even ignore the healthy , caring , constructive forces at work in this country . " Television " in America means , above all else , the three commercial television networks , each offering substantially the same kind of news and entertainment , and each geared to the real or imagined desires of a mass audience . " What 's the use ? " you may have asked , while dragging your child away from a Saturday morning of cartoons . " What choice do we have ? " The spokesmen for television 's establishment have one answer : If you do n't like what 's offered to you , turn off the set ! How constructive . Fortunately , there is another answer  --  a genuine alternative . The other choice is public television . It is relatively new , sometimes difficult to receive , often faced with severe political problems , and always troubled by a lack of money . Yet in recent years , public television has been responsible for some of the most innovative , worthwhile television programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regular viewers of public television , and you may be one of them . Even if there are no children in your household , you 're probably aware of its superb children 's programs : " Sesame Street " and " Mister Rogers ' Neighborhood " for the preschool set , " Zoom " and " The Electric Company " for those in their early years of schooling . You may also be familiar with the consistently excellent dramatic presentations of " Masterpiece Theatre , " the thoughtful consideration of current issues on programs like " The Advocates , " and such special programs as " VD Blues " ? which by communicating essential information about venereal disease in a contemporary , arresting , entertaining way , may have had more direct , positive influence on human lives than any comparable television program in years . ( After " VD Blues " was shown , the clinics recorded an increase of 75 percent in those seeking help  --  because young people had been made aware , without sensationalism andwithout scare tactics , of the truth about VD . ) These programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speak merely as an observer . As mentioned earlier , I 've served for eleven months as a member of the Board of Public Broadcasting Service , which distributes programs to 238 public television stations across the country . That board is composed almost entirely of lay people , not professional broadcasters  --  people whose only reason for involvement in public television is a shared interest in better programming . I believe that this young , growing broadcasting system is notable for its high percentage of successes , not for its occasional failures . I believe that it merits the active support of concerned viewers throughout the country  --  and , as a practical matter , that means nearly all of us . But we have discovered in practive that in order to relate to it in an active way , however , you have to understand it . What is public television ? Public television is simply television without the profit motive . Its financial support comes not from commercial advertisers , but from the public  --  through contributions , educational institutions , corporate underwriters , and ( in recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is noncommercial , its programs do not stand or fall according to the gross numbers of people who watch them . Its purpose is not to draw the largest possible audience every hour of the day , but to serve special needs in special ways . Public television complements commercial television ; one tries to do effectively what the other can not . We do not need one or the other ; we need both . Ever since the early days of television , most stations have been operated as commercial enterprises . But the Federal Communications Commission , which grants licenses to operate broadcasting stations , also sets aside some channels for the use of educational organizations , universities , state school systems , and school boards . These stations , known collectively as educational Continued on page 83 television , broadcast both instructional programs for classroom use and cultural programs for a wider audience . These efforts provide a real service for American education , and occasionally produced some interesting programs for the public . More often , however , the programs were dull , pedantic , and widely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens that these educational stations represented a great potential resource-an alternative to commercial broadcasting - if only they could be given the means . A group of distinguished Americans-constituted as the Carnegie Commission on Educational Television-addressed themselves to this problem . They called for a " well-financed and well-directed system , substantially larger and far more pervasive and effective than that which now exists in the United States , " to serve " the full needs of the American public . " A key phrase was " well-financed . " Educational television had been a hand-to-mouth operation hanging on by its fingernails due to lack of funds . The Commission knew well that none of educational television 's sources of money provided a firm base for expanding educational television into something of nationwide importance . It therefore recommended a carefully limited but vitally important role for the federal government-which would support , but not control , the system . As the Commission envisioned it , public television would also need some national leadership to coordinate its development into a national service . But it did not recommend the creation of a giant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throats of Americans-or to direct the destinies of stations . The Commission proposed a carefully structured system of checks and balances in which the ultimate powers of decision over all programs , national and local , would remain with stations in their local communities . The Carnegie Commission also recognized that the very name " educational television " was a handicap . It sounded too much like - well , like education , in a narrow and pedagogical sense . So it was that the Commission coined the name " public " television , to denote a system that would be supported by the public , responsible to the public and programmed to answer the myriad needs and interests of the American public . The Carnegie report won the enthusiastic support of President Lyndon Johnson-himself an educator and a broadcaster-and many of its recommendations were enacted into law in the Public Broadcasting Act of 1967 . That legislation paved the way for the public televisionsystem that exists today . It is a system run by and for the stations themselves . Whatever happpens in public television-local or national-begins , in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's how : First of all , public television is 238 stations , serving communities across the country . Whatever happens elsewhere , it is these stations that decide which programs to run . They produce programs for their local communities , and they receive programs from the national service . Some of them also produce programs for national distribution . For example , WG BH - TV in Boston is responsible for such programs as " The Advocates " and " The French Chef " ; WQED in Pittsburgh is the home of " Mister Rogers ' Neighborhood . " And a group of public broadcasters in the South are responsible for getting William F. Buckley , Jr. , and his " Firing Line " on public TV . If these stations are to pool their resources effectively in a national service , they must have a coordinating point-a place where a list of programs gets transformed into a schedule and distributed to stations . These are the jobs of the Public Broadcasting Service . PBS is not an alien structure , imposed from above ; it is run by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its policies , and approve its schedule-which again is composed primarily of programs from the stations themselves . But where does the federal money fit into all of this ? That is where the Corporation for Public Broadcasting comes in . CPB was established by Congress as a private corporation , for the purpose of putting that money to work in the most effective ways , It is forbidden by law to produce programs or operate a network ; instead , CPB functions as the system 's planner and developer . It grants money to local stations , conducts research , funds experimental programs , and performs other tasks that are designed to insure the future health of public broadcasting . It was also responsible for setting up PBS and its radio counterpart , National Public Radio . That 's the basic structure of public TV . It 's a federation of local organizations , working together to produce programs that are better , different , and not chained to the needs of mass audiences . Its goal is to become truly independent - of commercial pressure , government pressure , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to serve specialized needs and to speak the truth . But to do so , its independence must be guaranteed . It will need to weather continued assaults on its independence , particularly from those who are made uncomfortable by its presence . Anyone who doubts that need only review the following episode in public television 's recent , turbulent history . In the spring of 1972 , public television appeared to be on the verge of a breakthrough . The stations and national agencies had a common sense of purpose , the national programs were attracting a growing audience , and Congress had just approved a generous funding bill for CPB . The legislation would have guaranteed two years of funding for the corporation , at higher levels than ever before - $65 million the first year , $90 million the second . Victory was at hand . Right ? Wrong . Then President Nixon vetoed the CPB bill . Ile recognized the excellence of many public television programs , but expressed a fear that the system was becoming too " centralized " in CAB 's hands , instead of being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of community stations . Supporters of public broadcasting were shocked and dismayed by the President 's veto . Although his principal spokesmen in communications matters-especially Clay T. Whitehead , director of the White House Office of Telecommunications Policy - had sounded the same themes in speeches for months , all indications had been that the President would sign the bill , however reluctantly . But even if one disagreed with the President 's assessment of the facts , he was at least raising a legitimate issue . CPB is the politically sensitive arm of public broadcasting : It is responsible to Congress , and its board is appointed by the White House . Replacement of a healthy , locally based system with a national service imposed by a bureaucratic elite has always been one of the nightmares of those who care deeply about American public television . Public broadcasting 's supporters disagreed with the White House over whether CPB really had assumed too much power , but they agreed with him that such a thing should never be permitted to happen . Then the story took a turn that would have strained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period of months , CPB began to move in on the national programming process . The corporation 's old leaders resigned after the veto , and the new ones- either appointed by the administration or selected with its tacit approval- began to move in the very direction the President had said he opposed . At the helm of this effort was Henry Loomis , a former deputy director of the United States Information Agency who was brought in to run CPB . Loomis is a capable , enormously self-assured man , and an ti4 THE SATURDAY EVENING POST January /February ' 74 independently wealthy one  --  a man who seemed to feel initially that what public broadcasting needed to set itself straight was a stiff dose of efficiency , administered from the top . Finally , in January of this year , the CPB board announced that it would simply abolish PBS as a programming service , take over its functions , and run the national system . I was almost out of a job before it started . Spokesmen for CPB said that these moves were necessary because the corporation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and therefore had to exercise a firm hand over every penny of it . That is like arguing that the government must create an agency to oversee activities in classrooms across the country because the government assists American education . The fact is , of course , that the government was supposed to be funding an independent system  --  and , if the system is truly independent , it will inevitably produce some programs that the government does n't like . It was not and is not the government 's job to schedule the network . Fortunately , the stations and PBS responded forcefully . Several representatives of local stations ' governing boards launched a series of long , difficult negotiating sessions with the CPB board . The leading spokesman for the stations was Ralph B. Rogers , a multimillionaire industrialist from Dallas . Rogers , who had been chairman of this local public television station ( KE RA-TV ) for several years , is a man who is accustomed to getting what he wants . A lesser man would have been bowled over by the pressures and disappointments that followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement between CPB and PBS to guarantee the legitimate interests of each . Eventually , he got it  --  hut not before months of up-and-down negotiating , during which the chairman of CPB 's board resigned . The resignation came with special force because the individual was Thomas B. Curtis , a former Republican congressman from Missouri , now vice-president and general counsel of Encyclopaedia Britannica , and a man who had at one time been considered sympathetic to the administration 's position . At that point , the board appointed as its new chairman Dr. James Killian , known to many as the " father " of public television . A former president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , he had served as chairman of the Carnegie Commission and had been a member of the CPB board since its inception . One result was that , late it . May of 1973 , the hoards of CPB and PBS agreed to a partnership that left control of PBS in the station 's hands , while affirming CPB 's authority in certain areas relating directly to the expenditure of federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to date . As for me , I still held my unpaid job . Now the leaders of public television , local and national , are turning their attention to ways of guaranteeing the future health and independence of the system . A method of long-range funding , to secure insulation from government pressure , is  --  more understandably than ever  --  near the top of that list . But that is only one part of the solution . Another is to increase the independence of local stations in their own communities , by winning a broader base of active community support . This means , first of all , that the forty million Americans who already watch public television must become more vocal in their support of its work . I emphasize again that this support need not imply total acceptance of every program on public TV . No one should be able to enjoy or accept because the system 's main purpose is to present different kinds of programs for different kinds of people . There is room , and there must be room , for the views of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Besides : In public television , you are the broadcaster 's constituent . If you want to change things , in the interest of better and more diverse television , it is your right  --  your obligation  --  to speak up . What public television ( and American television generally ) needs is not passive , unaware viewers . It needs people who care enough about what they see , and what they might see , to participate in making those changes possible . The great potential gift of public television is that it offers each citizen the opportunity to do just that . ZS                     