@@281281

Arab-Israeli disengagement talks shifted to a new front last week . Not surprisingly , there was an accompanying drop in optimism for quick agreement . On the Israeli-Egyptian side , where discussions had been successful , withdrawal was under way with few minor hitches . But there was no joy on Israel 's other , snowy battle line with Syria . There artillery and tank gunners from both sides carried on a daily long-range duel along the El Quneitra-Damascus road . The Syrians said that four of their soldiers had been wounded in the exchanges . Israel reported one killed and three wounded . They were the latest casualties in ceaseless sniping that imperils the cease-fire arranged by the U.S. Secretary of State . <P> Muddling Along . Even so , Henry Kissinger last week described himself as " moderately optimistic " about chances of continuing Middle East diplomatic momentum and achieving disengagement on the Syrian front that would be similar to the pullback under way on the Suez west bank . Privately , however , U.S. officials who accompanied the Secretary on his visit to Damascus last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that agreement will be reached easily or early . Assad has so far shown neither Sadat 's willingness to negotiate nor his freedom to maneuver . The U.S. is prepared to play middleman , as it did with Egypt and Israel , but , said one official last week in Washington : " At the moment we are just muddling along . " <P> Assad 's socialist Baath regime maintains a no-compromise position toward Israel , which captured chunks of the Golan Heights in 1967 and extended its gains in the October war . But in secret meetings in Damascus last week , hardliners and moderates in the Baath National Command engaged in fierce debates over how Syria should act . The hardliners , headed by Foreign Minister Abdel Halim Khaddam , insisted that the cease-fire agreement should be Syria 's only concession until Israel withdraws from all occupied territory . The moderates , led by Premier Mahmoud Ayoubi , reportedly were agreeable to a phased Israeli withdrawal . In exchange for commitments to withdraw , moreover , they would provide Israel with a list of the estimated 90 Israeli P.O.W.s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come down on either side . <P> Conflicting Advice . Jerusalem refuses to negotiate with Syria until it receives a list of the P.O.W.s . The Israelis worry that prisoners have been badly treated by Syria ; they note that 42 Israeli soldiers captured during the fighting were later found shot to death . <P> In addition to its internal debates , Syria was getting conflicting advice from other countries . Visiting Damascus last week in the course of an oil-hunting , arms-dealing swing through Arab countries , French Foreign Minister Michel Jobert told Syrian officials that he " understood " their positions . Jobert cautioned them against depending on " foreign efforts " to obtain a settlement . Palestinian guerrillas were also vocal in urging Syria not to settle . Their newspaper Falastin al-Thawra called for Arab solidarity against Israel and said , " Victory will be the lot of those who are long-winded and capable of enduring . "                     