@@494760

The Nixon Watch Talk and Travel The consultations that the President is having between December 13 and January 7 with the chief executives of France and Portugal in the Azores , of Great Britain in Bermuda , and of West Germany , Canada and Japan in Key Biscayne , Washington and San Clemente , would have been arranged , though probably not concentrated in so short a period , even if Mr. Nixon were not going to Communist China next February and to Moscow in May . As the " White House official , " whom attentive followers of the news have come to identify automatically with Henry Kissinger , said aboard the President 's airplane , on the way back to Washington on November 28 from a four-day interlude in California , the world and the power relationships that dominate it are changing with unprecedented speed . The pace of change gives Mr. Nixon ample excuse to satisfy his itch for summitry and travel and , in the course of doing so , to appease the vanities and allay the concerns of other chiefs of state and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Peking and Moscow ; and fortify himself for the presidential campaign in 1972 . The announcements on successive days , in Washington and California , of the preliminary journeys and consultations aroused a suspicion that the President was engaged in a transparent political and publicity ploy . He is surrounded by professional promoters who are prone to that sort of prostitution of large events , but the facts in this instance tell more about the nature of the world and its statesmen than the suspicion would if it were justified . Mr. Nixon originally intended to have his meetings with Pompidou of France , Caetano of Portugal , Heath of Great Britain , Brandt of West Germany , and Sato of Japan announced simultaneously , in one package . The meeting with Trudeau of Canada was an afterthought , initiated from Ottawa and squeezed into the schedule without great enthusiasm . At the last moment , in Thanksgiving week , the White House staff was made forcefully aware that a packaged announcement would offend the other conferees . They wanted individual notice , with due priority accorded the facts that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to be Prime Minister Heath 's guest in British Bermuda . Prime Minister Colombo of Italy was omitted by mutual and thoroughly discussed agreement that the parliamentary and presidential elections in Italy in early December would introduce a period of prolonged uncertainty . Colombo or his successor may yet be favored with a Nixon meeting , before the President sets off for Peking in late February . Although the December-January meetings are billed primarily as preludes to the Peking and Moscow trips , they also are intended to provide discussion of issues that are judged in themselves to require high-level consultation . A widely accepted impression is that they are particularly intended to give the President opportunity to pull back from the extreme positions taken and abrasively asserted by Secretary of the Treasury John B. Connally in the aftermath of Mr. Nixon 's shattering blows on August 15 at the international monetary system and at the prevailing terms of international trade . His imposition of a 10 percent tariff surcharge on goods imported into the US and his suspension of the redemption of foreign-held dollars with gold did , among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations of the US with all of the governments involved in the coming round of talks . It is true as reported that the President 's paramount security adviser , Henry Kissinger , has been telling Mr. Nixon that it 's time for him to intervene personally and to soften the impact of the August actions . It is not true , as also reported , that Secretary Connally overplayed his hand and went beyond the President 's intentions in demanding that other governments not only revalue their currencies to the US advantage but assume a greater share of the costs of allied defense and give US exporters a better break in their markets in return for removal of the 10 percent tariff surcharge . The President explicitly set forth those demands in his August speech and indicated that the surcharge would be lifted only when they were met to his satisfaction . His intention in the December-January meetings is not to repudiate Connally in any way . It is , on the contrary , to make the most of the shock that the President 's August 15 announcements and Connally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the desired effect has been had , to tie down and validate the compromises that are already in train . Kissinger 's cautioning advice has run , not against the shock tactics in themselves , but against any temptation to let the tactics become permanent features of the administration 's foreign policy and posture . As far back as last July , it may be worth noting in passage , Kissinger was known to feel at least as strongly as Connally does that such trading partners and competitors as Japan , France , and West Germany were getting a free ride in American markets at a no longer bearable degree of American expense and that , as both the President and his Treasury secretary have been saying , it was time to even out the monetary , defense and trading imbalance in the non-Communist world . The purpose of the consultations , such immediate issues aside , is to give the invited officials a sense of participation in the President 's preparations for the Peking and Moscow visits . Very little of his substantive intentions can be imparted to the conferees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal diplomatic exchange . But the process of personal consultation is designed to make them feel better about the exercise than they otherwise might . If it enables them to share a bit of the anticipated glory ( as with Pompidou and Heath ) or ( as with Sato in Japan ) to assure their restive home constituencies that their national interests have been taken into full account , so much the better . If the preliminaries also diminish any hope in Peking and Moscow of creating new divisions or widening old ones between the US and what Mr. Nixon 's press spokesman has been calling " our major allies , " that will be accounted a worthwhile gain . An incidental effect of the recent announcements has been to disclose a new arrangement between the President and Henry Kissinger . Three times since October , before and after his second exploratory visit to Peking and in conjunction with the announcement that Mr. Nixon will arrive there on February 21 , Kissinger has talked to the press for quotation and on the record instead of holding to his previous talking only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " White House officials . " During his latest exposure on November 30 , Kissinger called himself " a briefer who is very reluctant not to be identified , " thus playing for the pleasure of reporters upon his DECEMBER 11 , 1971 reputation for adequate pride in his expository prowess . His change of mode had actually been the subject of serious discussion with the President , who was persuaded that the previous Kissinger cover had been so thoroughly penetrated that any attempt to continue it as a regular practice would be futile and silly . The essence of Kissinger 's message on the Peking trip was that nothing much in the way of concrete and announced accomplishment should be expected . Nixon 's unannounced hopes are a good deal more ambitious . For instance , no declared agreement upon a settlement of the Vietnam war or upon a ceasefire applying to all of Indochina is either expected or to be sought . But discussions that imaginably could lead to announced agreement on either or both scores two or three months after the visit are intended , and the preliminaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his July and October visits to Peking and in other communication with Premier Chou En-lai . Similarly , there is no conceivable language in which the Peking leaders and Mr. Nixon could publicize any understanding that they may reach about the future status of the Republic of China on Taiwan . But an undeclared understanding , based upon mutual recognition of the certainty that Peking will never accept separate sovereignty for the Taiwan nationalists and that Mr. Nixon will not totally abandon them , is among the President 's main objectives . Given that understanding , the goals of a negotiated accomodation between the Peking and Taiwan governments and of progress toward full and normal diplomatic relations between the US and the People 's Republic should be attainable.                     