@@491232

// Marshall McLuhan. one of the liveliest seers of our time , is also one of our most gifted phrasemakers . He has the happy knack of paring down a fresh thought to its barest essentials . Thus , to twit the advertising fraternity , he advises them that the original medium of mass communication was a road . The wheel , he avers , is merely an extension of the foot . The book , an extension of the eye . In the spirit of a McLuhanism , therefore , we might say that Joshua was the founder of the modern city . In one heroic blast , he blew down the walls of Jericho , simultaneously changing it from a fortress into an open center of commerce , and also becoming the father of noise pollution . But the time could well be here to re-erect some walls , at least some symbolic ones , which will keep the best things of the modern city  --  including its middle classes  --  from leaving its inner structure and abandoning its heart to the very rich and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ walls  --  walls of thought and action and inspiration  --  which is at the heart of the All-America Awards idea . The American city was at first a creature of water . The age of exploration put it at the mouths of rivers and bays , on the Hudson and the Delaware . the Chesapeake and the Narragansett : the age of expansion placed our cities on the water routes of the Great Lakes , the Ohio and the Mississippi , and the Pacific Ocean . But then the city became a thing of steel , as the railroad and the factory took over the right of domain on every Main Street in America . Until what had made our cities great suddenly began to make them sick . The Hudson River , glorious rival to the Rhine , became an open sewer . " The Great Wall of China , " the hideous embankment of the Pennsy Railroad , humbled the city of Philadelphia by cutting its heart in two . Pittsburgh was one huge blast furnace , and the rain of soot blackened its reputation as well as its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Walter J. 1-lickel , formerly the Governor of Alaska , as well as Secretary of the Interior , describes the situation succinctly in his book , Who Owns America ? : The whole issue of urban environment fascinates me because it is in the urban areas that 85 percent of America lives . Some peo- ple have wrongly imagined that the battle to improve our environment involves simply ocean front and forest , or mountain range and meadow . In reality , the environment means the surroundings in which a person may live . It could be a junkyard across the street . For this reason , the urban environment is a top priority in America . The urban problem has as its central core the fact that people need to live with reasonable access to their work but still crave the open spaces of country living . The inner-city problem is created when we force a man to come into a metropolitan area for his economic survival  --  and live there unhappily The battle has already been joined , of course . The waters of the Hudson are growing cleaner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a seal swam from the ocean 150 miles up to Albany to have a look at the capitol . Philadelphia has razed the Great Wall and beautified its inner city . Pittsburgh has cleared the air and shined up its murky image . But megalopolis strikes at every city in the United States with different problems . And the answers are not always so easy to find . Nickel is right when he says , " The solution goes far beyond man 's environment . It lies in the environment of the heart , the mind and the soul . If we solve the problems of the inner man , we will solve the problems of the inner city . " The inner man . That is what Shakespeare was saying , too : " The people are the city . " And that in a nutshell is what the AllAmerica Cities Awards are all about . It all started in 1894 , when the National Municipal League was founded as a nonpartisan organization to promote good government . A long line of distinguished members motivated it . The idea of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the League , headed by former Governor William W. Scranton of Pennsylvania , sees the cities program as more important than ever before . " Each year , the awards have honored citizens for outstanding initiative in perceiving the particular challenges human , physical , and fiscal  --  to their communities , and for taking informed , purposeful action in solving their problems . Yet , despite change , the basic criteria of the awards have not changed .... A city need not be a model community to win . Successful action , not perfection , is the criterion .... A community must show major achievement of benefit to it as a whole . It must give evidence that these achievements resulted from effectively representative ' citizen action ' that is , the initiative and effort of a substantial number of citizens acting to improve their community . The specific actions , whenever started , should be at least approaching successful conclusion this year . If it is a continuous program in an area such as human or race relations , evidence of constructive results this year must be shown .... @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judging . " And well that population and resources are taken into account - consider , for example , the disparate size and urban characteristics of last year 's winners ( 1970 ) : Ardmore , Oklahoma , 20,696 . Birmingham , Alabama , 297,364 . Dallas , Texas , 836,121 . Enfield , Connecticut , 44,682 . Fitchburg , Massachusetts , 42,906 . Gainesville , Florida , 4 1 , 1 46 . Indianapolis , Indiana , 742,613 . Lakeland , Florida , 41,146 . Lumberton , North Carolina , 16,495 . Shelby , North Carolina , 16,904 . This year 's winners offer the same contrast in size : // Santa Fe Springs , California 14,874 Twin Cities of Minnesota 1,874,380 It all comes about this way . A maximum of twenty-two cities were chosen as finalists by an impartial screening committee of the League , and invited to send spokesmen to the National Conference of Government held in Atlanta , Georgia , November 14 to 17 , 1971 . The city delegates were spread out over a schedule of several days to address the All-America Cities Jury of twelve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs . The jury foreman is Dr. George H. Gallup , Director of the American Institute of Public Opinion , and Chairman of the Council of the National Municipal League . The city delegates arrived girded for battle . Some of them were armed to the teeth with impressive visual exhibits dramatizing their city and their program as comprehensively as a major manufacturer might set up his pet product at an important business convention . Some brought color slides and movies to accompany their verbal presentation : others relied only on the spoken word . But all came on with a bang and a whoosh . These people love their cities and they do n't mind saying so . The delegates included mayors , college presidents , firemen and policemen , teachers , doctors , lawyers , students , businessmen , housewives , and just plain people . Sometimes their speech was by a single member , at other times they spoke in relays . Each team was allotted the same period of time , followed by a searching volley of questions from the jury , also under a time limit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conviction they all displayed ! These people could better be called cheering sections than delegates . They sat on the edges of their chairs during the presentations , eyes glistening with pride as pictures of their cities floated across the screen , each a veritable Athens , at least in their view ! They searched the expressions of the jury for the slightest sign of response , as if their lives hung in the balance over the verdict . And when the question period opened up , the cheering section for each city would often send two people to their feet at once to answer the same question . It was entertaining , instructive and often very touching . " Home " indeed is a word with a myriad of meanings . One wished that all of the finalists could win : they deserved to , at least on the basis of their presentations . So now the winners are announced . Nine cities with perhaps only two things in common . They have problems and they are inspired to overcome them . But beyond that they are scarcely alike at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be similar . Take , for example , both Beloit and Placentia  --  both worrying about the opportunities and the quality of life offered to their minorities . But the minority is black in Beloit ; in Placentia it is Chicano . The actual problems , and the successes , of the two cities are as different as their climates . Another two of the winners are equally opposites : Jamaica , and The Twin Cities . One , Jamaica , is an ancient community dating back to the seventeenth century , with the Dutch and British settlers striving to control it for themselves . But today it is geographically a part of New York City , and its problem is how to create a separate community which can act independently of the giant mother city , itself strangled in the entangletnent of massive problems and spilling them over into the smaller community without any way , or thought , of helping . The Twin Cities , on the other hand , are historically separates  --  Minneapolis and St. Paul are traditional rivals , glowering at one another over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And yet suddenly they have recognized themselves as the hub of a huge Minnesota community that has regional problems which can only be solved by regional action . The Twin Cities got out the pipe of peace and smoked it together : their answer had to be in the exact opposite direction to Jamaica 's . The word was union , rather than separatism . It would be fruitless to try to summarize the entire situation in each of these nine admirable communities and attempt to detail the answers these vigorous and concerned citizens found to their particular problems . Because most cities have certain problems in common , and since these in so many ways are all typical American cities  --  in spite of their dissimilarity -- their inner conflicts interlap one with the other and solutions must joust on the side with various adversaries as well as go forward at the same time with the main thrust . Students of urban problems in 1972 could do worse than to inquire  --  of the powers that be and the citizens ex officio that be , in these nine award cities  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their bootstraps in such heroic fashion . Their answers may not be the ones for your community , but their methods might well be . In this article we can only spotlight the action in the center of the stage . Behind the scenes in each case are months and even years of sacrifice , dedication , and frequent frustration . But the flags are out in each of these communities , and the victory has been well earned . Beloit points to " what citizen involvement can do for a community , " and states that " People are problem solvers in Beloit . Working through an interlocking system of action groups , Beloiters have found that no community mission is impossible so long as it is understood that people who are part of a problem must be part of the solution . " Beloiters mean what they say . Three leaders in Beloit were Robert Gilliam , a fire fighter whose quietly dynamic influence as Coordinator , Black Resource Personnel , has persuaded black Beloiters to become active participants in problem solving ; Miller Upton , President of Beloit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems too serious to attract private investment but not serious enough to qualify for most government programs . Growth and prosperity were bypassing it , occurring all around it , but not within it . Lacking the power to act in its own behalf , it was curiously suffering from inclusion in perhaps the most dynamic metropolis in the nation . Jamaica 's black citizens were struggling to purchase their homes and retain the community qualities which attracted them there . Its white citizens were struggling with their fears and the decline which the transition threatened to bring . " Now , with several years of hard work , persistence and exceptional leadership , Jamaica is a community on the verge of resolving its major problems , of rebuilding itself to provide new opportunities and services for its residents , of regaining its identity and sense of worth . " Simultaneously , business , civic and community leaders are moving it toward a regional consciousness and developing a constructive partnership with the government at several levels . The considerable resources of the city and state have been brought to bear on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jamaica and environs total about $300 million , including rail service to JFK Airport , a new Family Court , and a Civil Court which was initially to have been built elsewhere . Three private projects are underway : New York Telephone will open its Queens headquarters office building in the fall of 1971 ; a 730-car public garage opened in 1971 ; the site for a large commercial office building is being assembled by the City for a prominent developer . " In the best traditions of American drive and public-private cooperation , Jamaica is moving ahead . " The whole idea has been to turn Jamaica into a regional center for business , education , health , the arts and government , via an organization , the Greater Jamaica Development Corporation . And Jamaica has developed greatly . The citizens successfully blocked the city 's plan for a housing program because the program was not good enough . They insisted that the city come back with a comprehensive plan which included schools , street improvements , good sewers and the other necessary services . The city government did as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scored two notable and rather dramatic victories which could only have happened in a metropolitan area . The first was in the matter of a city subway . New York City had planned to run a subway line through Jamaica to Manhattan , but only touch an outlying portion of the Jamaica area- in other words , just a by-stop . The Jamaicans not only succeeded in having the subway rerouted so that service to Manhattan will now be via Jamaica Center ; they also swung their weapon of citizen concern in the other direction , and in the same swoop caused the removal of a blighting elevated transit structure from Jamaica 's main street . Ten acres were cleared around the site of the planned subway station , to be privately developed for new offices-and new jobs - for Jamaica . Even more contemporary is their problem with York College . This is to be a big one , some 10,000 students , and it was originally planned to put the campus on a scenic but remote site , actually the grounds of an old U.S. Army post at Fort Totten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an ivy-covered college somewhere in the vicinity , they thought far more highly of bringing York right into the center of their community , and inter-involving students and faculty with the life of the inner city . The Jamaicans persuaded the college to move plumb into their midst , into what had once been a lost and blighted site of fifty acres , but one which was still convenient to the business and residential neighborhoods of their community . It is a transfusion of new life and new community blood to Jamaica . Blight has given way to an educational center , with alt of its vitality and cultural advantages . The Twin Cities area is similar to Jamaica at least in its enormous size . This is a fast-growing distributing , manufacturing , finance and service center for a five-state region . About 3,000 square miles , centered on the re-developing cores of the cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul , fifteen miles apart along the Mississippi River , envelope a population of 1,975,380 . The governmental pattern can not help but be complex in such an area , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a multitude of special districts . The problem is just the other side of the Jamaica coin-how to develop a sense of regional unity out of these separate community entities . And then to translate that sense of unity into governmental institutions and programs in which the basic control of policy is still in the hands of the citizens . The size of this area precluded any quickie solutions . The action was not " organized " in the conventional sense , since neither the outcome nor the process was clearly envisioned at the start . There was no foundation grant , no metropolitan survey , no committee , and the community hardly knew at the beginning that it was undertaking a " project . " But a start was made in 1965 among a whole set of existing institutions in the community . In the report writ-ten by Wayne H. Olson , President of the Citizens League , he states : " It is important to include among these institutions the associations of municipal officials , acting essentially as citizens . For in Minnesota citizen participation exists in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside , them . It is neither possible nor useful to guess at the number of individuals involved , but t he organizations most conspicuously a part of the discussions from 1965 to 1971 have been The Metropolitan Section of the League of Minnesota Municipalities ; the Citizens League ; the Urban Study and Action Committee of the Minneapolis , St. Paul and suburban Chambers of Commerce ; the Council of Metropolitan Leagues of Women Voters , and the Upper Midwest Research &; Development Council . " People from various parts of the region were deeply involved . Dennis Dunne is an executive of a Minneapolis corporation ; Charles H. Clay , an attorney with the Soo Line Railroad ; John Finnegan , Executive Editor of the St. Paul Dispatch Pioneer Press ; and James L. Hetland , Jr. , who was from 1965 to 1971 the first Chairman of the Metropolitan Council . State Senator Kenneth Wolfe went to Atlanta to represent the Twin Cities area . " M inneapolis and its suburb , were almost literally at war with each other .. .. A Metropolitan Planning Commission had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority . Minneapolis and St. Paul were fighting with each other over a major-league baseball franchise . And everyone cities and suburbs- was engaged in a divisive scramble for development and tax base . " Today , what other areas envy most about us is our sense of regional unity . " Reflecting this unity , our big , specialized facilities are now orga nized as the Minnesota Twins . Minnesota Vikings , Minnesota Symphony , Minnesota North Stars , etc . " A Municipal Commission , created by the Legislature , has brought order to the process of extending municipal government : Hundreds of square miles have been incorporated in the past ten years , with scarcely any net addition to the number of municipal units . " A new Metropolitan Sanitary Sewer District has taken over ownership of all sewer interceptors and treatment plants . It is rapidly ex tending central service to the unsewered areas , at the same time closing down old , small plants that discharge into the area 's lakes . " A Transit Commission has been established . It has taken the major Continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is moving fairly rapidly toward some major new transit system . " The first area-wide public refuse disposal system has been established . It will eliminate our existing dumps . " A new Metropolitan Health Board has successfully negotiated a $50 million joint development between the major county public hospital and a large private hospital complex . " The Safe Streets money is funneling through a Metropolitan Criminal Justice Planning Agency . " Over all these specialized agencies , and over such pre-existing regional agencies as the Metropolitan Airports Commission , is our Metropolitan Council . It is a policy-making body composed of fourteen members representing equal population districts and a chairman as the fifteenth member representing the area at large . " We have , therefore , a brand-new definition of ' metropolitan government . ' It is not a consolidation of municipal or county units . I t is an integration of the larger-than-local special districts which it had proved almost impossible to coordinate , either with each other or with any area-wide or local development plan . " The Twin Cities people believe that they have found certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wolfe thinks that the " Council 's great success in developing its programs through state legislation underscores what is perhaps the single most neglected fact about urban problems today . Most of the authority to change the rules of the game , ' in urban government , resides in the constitutional authority of the State Legislature on local government organization and finance , and on the police power . Action by the legislature is the basis of our success in Minnesota . " It could hardly be said that Chickasha , Oklahoma ( pronounced Chicashay , by the way ) is a community imperiled by the big-city blues . It is rurally oriented , forty-seven miles west of Oklahoma City , located in the Washita River valley , with a population of barely over 14,000 . One would imagine that there was plenty to do , but the rural-to-urban migration was chewing away at Chickasha . Farm homes had been left empty . Thirty-eight downtown businesses had called it quits . The per-capita income was down to less than $2,500 . Time was running out on the little community . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two shots in the arm . The first necessity was for new industry and expansion of what was there . The second was to expand present social programs so as to fulfill the new workers coming in  --  as Mr. Hickel had remarked , there is no use bringing labor into the inner city if the workers are going to be un ha ppy there . For example , the Chickasha League of Women Voters , led by Mrs. William H. Rose , was dismayed to learn that 50 percent of the labor pool available were women , and yet Chickasha had no licensed child care facilities . The League had to get out and establish child care for children of working mothers . In its Atlanta presentation , Wes Watkins , a Chickasha home-builder , described how the League got it done : " Today , these efforts have resulted in the establishment of a Comm u nity Coordinated Child Care Council , better known as the 4-C Council . The 4-C Council , last week , received full recognition from the Office of Child Development , and was named @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than a year ago there were no licensed child care centers , today three such facilities are serving more than seventy children . " There were other steps forward in child care . " Follow Through " was initiated in the public school system . An Opportunity Workshop and Training Center was organized to serve and help the physically and mentally handicapped . Many of the trainees were placed in competitive employment . The Jane Brooks School for the Deaf , " founded on the philosophy that deaf children can be educated and taught to speak with oral skill , " has the hearts and attention of the entire community . A Cerebral Palsy Day-Care-Center was organized . A Human Relations Council was formed to provide more understanding and concern for race relations , inspired by people like Mrs. Wallace Glasscock , Coordinator of Human Relations . The work of others such as John B. Harris , President of the Chamber of Commerce , and Mrs. Wesley Watkins , a Chickasha housewife , had results in other directions as well . Mr. Watkins reports : " An industrial site was located @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible dream possible  --  the development of the $1.4 million , 100-acre Industrial Park that when filled to capacity will serve 3,500 new employees . Access roads had to be developed . A new water system was installed from Fort Cobb Reservoir , instead of service from the unpredictable Washita River . The sewer system was extended to serve the industrial tract . New housing was developed for employees . The New Hope Housing Authority began construction to provide housing for low-income families . The Canadian Valley Vocational Technical School was built to provide skilled training for prospective employees of industry . " Investments and efforts paid big dividends . " The Maremont Corporation announced a $9 million manufacturing plant to employ 562 people . Sentry Manufacturing Company , a local industry , announced a new expansion to the Industrial Park . Pet , Inc. , and Perdue Housing Industries also announced expansions . The expansions will provide 250 additional industrial jobs . These companies , along with Chickasha Mobile Homes , Chickasha Mattress , American Optical , and other local industries , form a solid industrial base . The movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mr. Watkins speaks proudly for all Chickasha : " The fires are burning in Chickasha today , not from riots , but from a fire in our hearts , especially for those less fortunate . " The community of Placentia , California , met special problems with a special kind of dedication and warmth . Placentia was originally an agricultural community built around its role as the birthplace of the Valencia orange , with a population predominantly Mexican-American . It had a population of only 5,000 in 1960 , and today it is over 20,000 . The location of the aerospace industry nearby necessitated what to Placentia was an urban explosion , and when that employment receded , the environment deteriorated rapidly . Specifically , in the community of Atwood , adjacent to Placentia , there were thirty-six Mexican-American families living in a depressed area lacking paved streets , lighting , sewer facilities , and recreation opportunities for the residents . Sal Zavala , one of the leaders facing up to the Atwood problem , describes it as " the drama of unrest , born not of violence but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Why did our children have to play in ditches or on railroad tracks instead of a park ? We were surrounded by dirty oil fields and frustrated because no one seemed to care . We had long hoped for a better community . But county zoning ordinances favored oil companies and prevented residential improvement . The Atwood Steering Committee was organized to motivate the community to fight both the oil companies and a deaf county government . We organized a voter drive to annex our community to the City of Placentia which had extended a helping hand , even though we had little to offer in return . Oil companies and another city took us to court to try to prevent the annexation . Months of litigation passed before we became a part of Placentia . Among the many on the fighting line were such as housewife Esther Gonzales , contractor Alfred V. Agiurre , teacher Virginia Farmer and welder Phil Montano , President of the Atwood Development Committee . " Placentia , in effect , annexed Atwood over the howls of those who thought a more attractive section should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the involved citizens in Placentia were thinking of those Atwood people , not themselves . The Atwood Steering Committee acquired federal funds to build homes , to provide proper sewage facilities , and for the building of a recreational park . What happened must have astounded even the Placentians who were hoping for the best . Victor J. Michel , a businessman of the area , reports that William Zures , a student , became the first Teen Commissioner in the United States and then set out to organize the teen scene . And speaking in Atlanta during the Awards presentations , teenager Jan Thomas , a former Beautification Commissioner of Placentia ( imagine being an ex-Commissioner while still only a teenager ! ) tells how it all came about with characteristically youthcontinued from page 156 ful verve and dash : " There 's a proverb that says , ' if there 's no wind , row . ' Rowing mades waves , but in our case they were all good waves . " As a Beautification Commissioner , I served on committees concerned with open space , environment study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meetings as a representative of the Commission , acted as a liaison with student ecology clubs , helped to organize a community clean-up and recycle drive . During this drive students removed truckloads of trash from streets and vacant lots . They collected newspapers , bottles and cans to be recycled . " During this past summer , thirty-five Volunteens donated over 300 hours each to the City 's Recreation and Park Department . Over a period of three years 115 Volunteens have donated 34,000 hours valued at $70,000 . They enabled an additional 3,000 young people to participate in recreational programs . " We also have a teenager serving on the police oral review board , which included the selection of the new Chief of Police . As it stands now , we 're still rowing  --  the City , the adults , and the young people  --  and we all have an oar . " No wonder that Mayor Bob Finnell of Placentia is proud that his city has adopted the quotation from Coriolanus which adorns the opening page of this article . " We have 22,000 citizens whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City ' . " In Placentia , that 's the way it is , because they did something about it . Today , Placentia 's minority children play in parks rather than in the streets and on railroad tracks . In this study of urban problems , we notice that often the same problem takes on different aspects in one community or the other , calling for new approaches by way of solution . Santa Fe Springs , in California , is a case in point . The city background is interesting , and part of the major problem . Santa Fe Springs is located only thirteen miles southeast of downtown Los Angeles , but it has at no time  --  nor is it today  --  been particularly influenced by the big metropolis . Its original character was simply that of a typical Southern California ranching and cattle community . But then mineral springs were discovered early in the 1900s and developers came in to stake out a spa to capitalize on the waters . However , when they found oil bubbling out of the ground as well as the springs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The area became a kind of a boom town . Santa Fe Springs sits right on the San Gabriel River , which residents are aware can be mighty wet in spring and flood time , but is dry the rest of the year . A spot right on the river is known as Flood Ranch , and in the twenties the developers managed to foist off the un desirable land on Mexican laborers , who for their part were enabled to buy their own property cheap and settle down on it , however uncomfortable it might be due to the floodand-dry tides . It took only a good rain to inundate the place entirely . But the Mexicans stuck it out at Flood Ranch , and in due time it became the nucleus of an ethnic colony . Today , the population of Santa Fe Springs is 50 percent of Mexican extraction . They are scattered throughout the city , but the Flood Ranch section came to be recognized as a ghetto some years ago . Being so emphatically ethnic , however , it did draw more and more Mexicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so they were in a certain sense entrapped by their own sense of belonging . They were also trapped in another way by the same instincts . The city authorities and indigenous Americans as well as Mexican-Americans elsewhere in Santa Fe Springs wanted to do something about the Flood Ranch society problem . But the people there were suspicious of being helped , in a way , and resisted to a degree which hampered and slowed down efforts on their behalf . One thing favored the well-meaning city fathers and the other citizens working with them : Santa Fe , a highly industrialized section with a relatively small residential community , has a splendidly healthy tax base and the economic strength of the city is the envy of its neighbors . But it took a little work to put this money into action . When things started to perk , though , the move to bail out Flood Ranch resulted in the establishment of facilities which benefitted communities on the county level as well as Santa Fe Springs itself . Miss Rosemary Zarate , who had been Student Mayor while still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ College ( President Nixon 's Alma Mater ) , summed it all up in Atlanta : " The people of Santa Fe Springs are proud today  --  proud of their city , proud of their neighborhoods , and proud of themselves . There was a time , perhaps , when this was n't true  --  not for all the people of Santa Fe Springs . In a city whose population is low and middle income , Mexican-Americans comprise the majority of the poor ; the majority of the culturally disadvantaged . " What they accomplished has made them proud . It has made an entire city proud , for it benefitted not only those disadvantaged who fought so hard and so diligently for its creation , but it has reached out to enhance the entire community , to bring to Santa Fe Springs services , unity and pride that the city had only approached before . " This may be seen in the variety of our thirteen residents who are here today to support what we think is an exciting accomplishment . We are represented by Councilman William J. McCann , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and by John Hoge , President of our Chamber of Commerce , which so strongly supports this project . " This is the story of the Santa Fe Springs Neighborhood Center and the people who made it live . Several years ago the city found itself embroiled in a bitter controversy centering around a redevelopment plan for the barrio at Flood Ranch . The people there distrusted City Hall  --  as it is with people of almost any ethnic minority who have suffered from discrimination . When the city held out a promise of a better life through redevelopment , many slapped that promise away , asking , " What strings are attached ? What do you gain and what do we lose ? " They found it difficult to believe that a government agency could work to their benefit . Many hard-fought months later , that distrust began to chip away , and although the people of Santa Fe Springs had disliked the bitterness and problems that the conflict may have generated , they saw emerging something new , something exciting . In fighting City Hall  --  whether with good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learned a lesson that the most expensive college education could not have taught them . They learned how to make the system work for them . They learned that not fighting City Hall , but guiding , moving , and using City Hall was the answer to their quest for a better life . The people organized , first within their neighborhood and then citywide . They came to a city and a county government  --  both of which were faced with serious financial problems  --  and these undereducated , unsophisticated people convinced the politicians and bureaucrats that their desires , their needs , should be met . The redevelopment plan was changed to meet those needs and the project today stands completed  --  accepted with the community 's full support . But more than just a better redevelopment project resulted . Today , we have the Neighborhood Center . Mrs. Mary Gingras was a moving force in the creation of the Neighborhood Center . These are her words : " I am a resident of Santa Fe Springs , and was one of the people who began work for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the support of the Club Cultural Mexican and others in the city , petitioned the City Council , and together we rented a house in our neighborhood . We offered our people social services , using all volunteer help . The Coordinating Council oversaw the services . Continued " But we were n't satisfied . We knew we needed more . In 1969 , a 7,500-square-foot building-a beautiful building costing $300,000-was built . The City gave one-third of the money and the federal government the rest . This enabled us to greatly expand our services . The people not only overcame these obstacles , they excelled . Listen to the words of Mrs. Candalaria Cor-ral : " I am another of the Center 's original proponents , and I too am proud of what we have done . Today in our Neighborhood Center we offer sixteen different social , economic , educational and medical services . Our greatest pride , perhaps , lies in the Youth Clinic , which now counsels and treats about 800 young people per month not only from Santa Fe Springs but from cities and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Neighborhood Center , through its Intake and Referral unit , has handled about 800 cases ; the manpower center has handled 701 cases ; the Youth Clinic has seen 11,222 patients ; Inter-community Child Guidance has seen more than 200 patients ; the Catholic Youth Organization has worked with more than 300 children ; and the education programs have benefitted more than 400 residents . Some evening classes from a local community college are now being offered at the Center . Concludes Mayor Ernest R. Flores : " Two major things resulted from the citizen-government cooperation that emerged from the redevelopment project and the Neighborhood Center . The city began a rent-subsidy program as a means of helping the people stay in their improving neighborhood . The federal government has since helped greatly in this . And , as a by-product , today nearly 38 percent of the people buying homes in part of the formerly 100 percent Mexican-American neighborhood are of Anglo descent , breaking down a wall of de facto segregation . " As the city government and the residents of Santa Fe Springs work to meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that neighborhood in the northern part of the city where people with their own needs-very major needs-not only rose to meet them , but succeeded in much , much more . " It is pleasant to know that the city of Scottsdale , Arizona , after visiting the Santa Fe Springs Center and others in the West , mentioned that they were planning to pattern their own Center after the Santa Fe project . In many ways , the problem facing the city of Lowell was a more discouraging one than those confronting some of the other All-America cities . The others had something specific to face-the monster was there , figuratively speaking-out ofhis cave and stalking the streets-and they could pick up their weapons and go forth to slay him . Lowell was simply being bypassed by time . Mrs. Lillian Palefsky , President of Lowell 's League of Women Voters , was especially concerned with edu-cation : " The Lowell Federation of Civic Organizations on Education was formed to combat a widespread dissatisfaction with the Lowell public schools . Feelings of hopelessness had caused a sizeable migration of homeowners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system discouraged new industry and new residents from locating in the city . " L.F.C.O.E. was created as a federation of civic organizations with the common purpose of resolving Lowell 's educational ills and of serving as a bridge between the citizens and the school system . Our goals have been to foster professional leadership , qualified faculty , imaginative curricula , more extensive personnel services , and improved school housing . " In addition , through our public meetings we have advocated and will continue to support the expansion of library services , more extensive special education programs , improved vocational education , curriculum development , better pupil personnel services , a more innovative approach to education , and the adoption of a long-range building program . " L.F.C.O.E. presented a new idea to Lowell-citizen involvement . This has been the moving force in whatever measure of success we have en-joyed . " Rev. Bernard BeHey tells how Lowell turned to neighborhood improvement : " We believed in average-citizen involvement in the betterment of community life . The Lowell Model Cities Program offered a test of the hypothesis and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cr e - Lowell 's Model Neighborhood Area-turned out to elect forty fellow residents as representatives to the Acre Model Neighborhood Organization ( AMNO ) , Inc. , formed for the purpose of providing citizen input and citizen sensitivity within the Model Cities programs . If the pose struck today is one of close cooperation between citizens and city officials , it is because the identity crises and role definitions have been fought over and negotiated but never has the Model Cities Program suffered . " Some precise examples of the citizen 's role : All Model Cities programs are first reviewed and approved by the AMNO prior to submission to the City Council ; Acre residents participate in program planning , monitoring and evaluation ; and , as a very unique responsibility , citizens have a direct role in selecting candidates to fill Model Cities-generated positions . To date , all citizens ' first choices have been selected . " And what is the record of participation ? Since June 1 , 1970 , an individual AMNO Member has attended 77 percent of all Board meetings ; and over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two-thirds or more ofthe membership in attendance . No meeting has had less than 50 percent attendance . The average Board Meeting has seventy-one percent of the Board Members present . " Beyond the Program the citizens have established a community center , elderly drop-in center and a teenage drop-in center ; have raised $1,000 in two weeks for relief of fire victims ; have sponsored free camping for sixty boys of the Acre and Community clean-up campaigns ; have provided outreach and referral services ; a low-cost bus for recreational trips , and a monthly newsletter mailed free to all residents . A third stride forward in Lowell was in the sad area of increasing urban intensity-drugs . Dr. Paul S trudler tells how Lowell faced up to its own local situation : " SHARE , a nonprofit corporation , was formed in 1970 by civic and professional groups with a mandate to create a comprehensive drug abuse program for the Lowell area . Three local hospitals and the community mental health center provided the clinical backbone . Seven separate contiguous municipalities have each appropriated 60 cents per capita in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Lowell provides $54,000 of a total $130,000 . Local businessmen and professionals give technical assistance to insure an efficiently run program . " Sitting on the SHARE Board of Directors are selectmen , city councillors , representatives of local drug-action committees , and hospital spokesmen . Nonvoting officers are volunteers from the business community . " This program is the only one of its kind besides that of CODAC , the drug-treatment complex in Phoenix , Arizona . These cities are not the only ones facing such problems of our time and conquering them . But these nine have acted with unselfish generosity in terms of time and brainpower and muscle , often shedding buckets of tears as well as sweat to better their communities for themselves , their neighbors , and for the children of all of them . They deserve tribute far more than we can give them in these pages and through other symbols of recognition for their valor and vision . Perhaps more than anything their reward will come back to them in new forms both physical and spiritual . There is an old saying that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away . We hope that these determined and dedicated citizens find out that , in giving to others in their community , the bread that was cast upon the waters will return and , in the end , the benefits will be theirs also . And richly deserved , say we .                     