@@292146

After the hours of arguing in the Cabinet Room at the White House last week , Israeli Premier Menachem Begin slowly started massaging the pectoral muscles on the left side of his chest . It was a nervous habit that betrayed the anxiety of a former heart-attack victim enduring new stress . In the wake of Israel 's invasion of southern Lebanon , Begin had gone to Washington to defend his belligerent policies , and he had found little support in the White House . At one point , in what Begin later called " difficult days , " President Carter tried to summarize the state of disagreement in concrete terms . Begin protested gently that the President was " putting everything negatively . " Carter pursed his lips in obvious annoyance . <P> Nobody raised his voice or displayed any sign of anger . But after six hours of intense talks between the two leaders , Begin had not budged an inch . After a final , hurried handshake , Carter failed even to walk his guest to a waiting limousine . He turned back toward the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shortly afterward declared to a group of Congressmen : " The negotiations are at an end as far as the present time is concerned . I need your help and advice . " <P> Not even the most optimistic U.S. officials had expected any dramatic breakthrough in last week 's Begin-Carter meeting , their third in eight months . Begin 's hard-line pronouncements were only too familiar in Washington . He had refused to concede , as his predecessors had done , that Israel 's acceptance of United Nations Resolution 242 meant that it was committed to an eventual withdrawal from the West Bank of the Jordan River , as well as from the Sinai and Golan Heights . He had declined to accept Carter 's formulation , proposed in January on a trip to Aswan , that the Palestinians have the right " to participate in determination of their own future . " He had adamantly opposed Carter 's plan to sell advanced F-15 fighter-aircraft to Saudi Arabia . Washington officials were quite aware too that the Palestinian terrorist raid into Israel and the powerful Israeli retaliation in southern Lebanon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. had hoped to keep Begin 's mind focused on the need for overall peace negotiations and to persuade him that Israel had not yet responded adequately to Egyptian President Anwar Sadat 's peace initiative . The result : nil . <P> The deep differences were evident from the moment Begin arrived . Fearful that the visitor might make some inflammatory remark on deplaning without Carter present for a rebuttal , the State Department had asked him to forgo any statement upon landing . He did so , striding silently past waiting microphones and reporters . <P> In a quiet welcoming ceremony on the south lawn of the White House , Carter praised Begin as " a man of destiny . " He gave no hint of whether he judged that destiny favorably . Begin 's aides were quick to note that this vague accolade contrasted with the President 's greeting of Sadat only a month before at a similar White House ceremony as " the world 's foremost peacemaker. "                     