@@283090

Purse-size electric cattle prods . Lipstick cases that are really tear-gas guns . Canes that double as daggers . As muggers across the nation are discovering , these are the latest additions to a growing James Bond arsenal of protective devices used by city dwellers to fend off would-be assailants . <P> Demand for such hardware seems greatest in New York City , where scores of muggings occur each day . " The number of people looking for a good defensive weapon has really exploded lately , " claims Norman Simon , who owns three Manhattan umbrella stores . Catering primarily to law-abiding citizens who are reluctant to tote a handgun , Simon has since last December sold 200 steel-knobbed umbrellas and canes , 300 metal swagger sticks and 400 walking sticks weighted with buckshot . <P> Zap . Perhaps the most common devices now being offered to fed-up Manhattanites are inexpensive ( $5 and under ) tear-gas sprays , available in many drugstores . Often combined with dye that marks an attacker for police identification , these sprays come disguised as everything from cigarette lighters to lipsticks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a gadget that operates on four ordinary flashlight batteries and , according to the firm that markets it , releases " enough power to stop an angry bull in its tracks . " The rod is more likely to prove shocking to the user when it fails to deter the attacker . <P> Most law-enforcement officials agree that besides being illegal , many of the protective devices are of questionable value . Sharpened canes , electric cattle prods and steel-knobbed umbrellas can be wrestled from the grasp of a struggling victim and turned against him . Sprays , for all their sophistication , have a nasty and altogether self-defeating tendency to blow back in the user 's face . There is even a drawback to " Super Sound , " an ear-piercing air horn attached to an aerosol can and designed to summon help while startling attackers . It can damage the hearing of mugger and muggee alike .                     