@@251591

The war of wills between World Chess Champion Boris Spassky of the U.S.S.R. and Challenger Bobby Fischer of the U.S. took a subtle but significant turn in Reykjavk , Iceland , last week . Boris , rumored to be suffering from defeatism , professed a new-found determination : " The first half of this match was not very interesting for me . The second half will be . " The usually difficult , demanding Bobby , on the other hand , seemed downright congenial . After taking a commanding lead in the match , Fischer at one point uncharacteristically consented to attend a cocktail party at the U.S. Information Agency in Reykjavk . Reports that he " mixed well " worried Fischer fans . As Bobby watchers know , the more complacent he be comes , the less effectively he plays . <P> Sure enough , battling Boris attacked benevolent Bobby with a vengeance in the eleventh game . Fischer , playing black , followed the same risky , pawn-snatching opening that he had got away with in the seventh game , apparently believing that Spassky and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reply . Fischer was wrong . On the 25th move , Bobby suffered the humiliation of having his ambushed queen cut down by a lowly pawn . Though hopelessly lost , he played on for six more moves before resigning . " Fischer has never been knocked out as he was by Spassky , " gloated one Soviet grand master . <P> The twelfth game was a shocker of a different sort . For the first 16 moves , Fischer and Spassky duplicated a game played in 1936 between World Champion Jos Capablanca and Swedish Grand Master Gideon Stahlberg . Then Spassky , playing black , deviated and skillfully held off Fischer until both players agreed to call the game a draw after 55 moves . Before the 13th game , Fischer began complaining about the air-conditioning and the autograph hounds . Because of what he called " excessive spectator noise " in the playing hall , he demanded that the first seven rows of seats be left empty . Fischer , the Bobby watchers were quick to note , had again become his old surly , unbeatable self . <P> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Apparently surprised by Fischer 's Alekhine defense , a variation the challenger rarely plays , Spassky faltered in the early going and Bobby seized and held the initiative until the game was adjourned after 41 moves . After a long night of analyzing the position , the two players resumed play the next day in the most harrowing , hard-fought encounter in the match so far . Though behind , Spassky repeatedly countered the menace of Fischer 's advancing pawns with some brilliantly conceived threats of his own . Finally , however , after 74 moves and nearly nine hours of play , Bobby 's multifaceted assault proved too formidable and Boris resigned . That gave Fischer an 8-to-5 lead ( as challenger he needs 121 points to win ; Spassky needs 12 ) and a seemingly insurmountable advantage - barring any further attacks of congeniality , that is.                     