@@479060

NATith an assurance born of twentytwo felicitous years in the political opposition ? " we do very well there , we get bigger and fatter " ? Italy 's Cornmunist leader , Giorgio Amendola , recently described his party 's prospects as follows : " Let it be clear that it is the others who are making advances , sending ambassadors , trying to arrange deals with us under the table . We always say No . Not that we must stay out of the government to preserve our revolutionary purity : a party like ours can hardly evade the governmental responsibilities accruing to it . But we 're in no hurry . Time has shown that it is not only impossible to govern this country against us , but impossible even without us . We have only to wait for the right moment and join the government the right way , not sneaking in through the servants ' entrance but walking up the front stairs . " He could be wrong , but supposing he is n't ? What if Italy , highly industrialized and increasingly affluent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least exigent of the United States ' friends in Europe , and practically the last one we have left in the Mediterranean , should finally come to terms with its huge Communist Party ? Considering the state of Italy 's democratic forces , one might reasonably expect the worst . Not since the war has the governing class here been reduced to such squalor . The center-left coalition is finished ; having set out to change the course of Italian history , it managed to get no more than three bills of any importance through Parliament in going on seven years . The Christian Democrats , trying to govern alone now , are divided into eleven shifting factions . Their former Socialist partners have broken op into three separate parties , no two of them on speaking terms . No sensible explanation has yet been given for the Socialist schism which killed off the center-left last sumuner , or the Christian Democratic change of guard in the fall which may ( or may not I help to revive it . Neither , certainly , had mulishto do with substantive political issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their ferocious struggles for power and patronage are somehow related to the public welfare . Evidently the public no longer sees much of a connertion either . This past autumn in Italy was not so dramatic as May in Paris in 1968 , but nearly as instructive . Five million workers were striking on and off starting in early September , losing four hundred million man-hours of labor ? a world record ? crippling industry , commerce , and every essential public service : buses , streetcars , trains , ferries , post and telegraph ? a hundred million undelivered letters piled up during the October postal strike ? telephones , garbage collection and street cleaning , aqueducts , hospitals , lunatic asylums , cemeteries , customs collection , traffic police , the whole Interior Ministry , nurseries , high schools and universities , prison administrations , magistrates ' courts , football stadia , bars , cafes , bakeries , restaurants , tobacco shops , newspapers and printing plants , pharmacies , banks , gas stations , even the Automobile Club , not to mention the automobile , metal-working , steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cement , brickmaking , glassblowing , and stonecutting industries . Students occupied and forced the closure of their schools for the second straight year . Disinherited migrants from the countryside burned down their shantytowns and squatted in vacant new apartments . Entire cities joined in general strikes ? Turin , Milan , Pisa , Mantoya , Potenza , Caserta , Naples , Forli , Rimini , Modena , Ferrara , Piacenza , Reggio Emilia , Latina , Pavia , Varese ? often winding up in riot , cobblestones flying , ears overturned , railway stations sacked , the city Mrs. Sterling lives in Rome and has covered politics in many European and African countries as a correspondent for The Reporter until 1968 and now for Harper 's . Her hook , The Masaryk Case . was published last fall by Harper &; Row . hall in flames . Violence was particularly ugly in the factories , where bands of extremists smashed machinery , beat up office workers , literally booted company directors off the premises . The unions claimed to be leading all this but were in fact mostly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its French counterpart , did manage to keep things from getting as far out of hand here as in France in 1968 . But this was primarily a wildcat movement , eluding the grasp of Communist , Socialist , and Catholic labor leaders alike , demanding not just more money ( up to 45 per cent morel. but more houses , schools , hospitals . pensions , security , comfort , leisure : everything that a society able to put a new car on the road every five minutes can presumably afford , and a sclerotic Establishment has been unable to produce . Faced with this riotous defiance , the Establishment did nothing . The workers got a substantial raise , which they 'd expected all along . Otherwise , the public is back where it started . One might live in Rome for years and still marvel at the Establishment 's immobility . How is it that a country of mounting wealth and extraordinary vitality ( last year 's growth rate was a whacking 6.8 per cent ) lacks nearly half a million classrooms , while a billion dollars allocated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ministry approval in less than three years ? That two out of three millionaires get away with paying no income tax ? Thai thousands of workers from the south are dossing down regularly in northern railroad and bus terminals because there is n't a spare bed in all of Milan or Turin ? That fearful cave-ins in Naples could topple twenty-seven new apartment houses and swallow up nine people alive ? their bodies never to he found ? because no measures were taken to shore up the sewers and curb real-estate speculators ? That a ninemonth-old baby could die of pneumonia in a debtors ' prison where its mother . wife of an unemployed laborer had been sent under a penal code dating back to Mussolini , for want of ninety dollars to pay a fine for disturbing the peace ? It is largely because these things do happen that a quarter of the electorate votes Communist . There is no better way , often no other way , to expose an injustice , avenge an indignity , blackmail the mighty , nudge Rome . Nor , for this purpose , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tattered its revolutionary credentials , tedious its Marxist tracts , snug its members of Parliament , dubious its declared independence of Moscow , the Italian Communist Party still performs su ? perbly as the great trade union of the poor . How it might perform in any other capacity is a subject of interminable debate . Can and should a party purporting to speak for the working class , and at any rate polling R.5 million votes , be kept in the opposition forever ? Would it do what any other Communist Party would probably do , if allowed into the government arena ? Are Italian Communists truly unlike other Communists ? Different enough to pass as " democratically mature " ? Fr these were more or less academic questions until not long ago , since nobody of importance in Rome thought seriously of changing the Communist Party 's status , the Communists least of all . As Signor Amendola pointed out , they were doing very well in the opposition , a privileged sanctuary where they could wield immense power with very few responsibilities . Besides , they had no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea was dropped even before World War II ended , when the late Palmiro Togliatti returned from Moscow with Stalin 's orders to that effect . There has been no question since then of challenging Western title to this country by force , still less of counting on the Red Army 's intervention . By now almost any Italian Communist would blanch at the prospect . Peaceful conquest by the ballot was out also . Even if they did pick up a million more votes at every election , the Communists could never expect to win an absolute majority . There remained only the possibility of joining a government coalition with one or more of the existing parties . a not altogether tantalizing possibility and in any case comfortably remote . It is not so remote any more . For different but equally cogent reasons , big business and the Vatican ? both primary sources of political power here ? are not the implacable opponents they used to he . Italian industrialists , commuting to Moscow to look after their multi-billion-dollar contracts there , have naturally acquired a new tolerance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million Catholics in Eastern Europe and the Third World . renovated by a fresh ecumenical spirit , and caught up in the complexities of a vast aggiornamento since Pope John 's day . has taken a growing if still oblique interest in maneuvers which might some day lead to a truce . Neither factor might have changed the Italian situation tangibly if the governing parties had managed , however haltingly , to get on with their job . As it is. with the center-left a shambles and no workable democratic alternative , a number of Catholic and Socialist leaders are indeed making advances to the Communists these days . Among them , incredibly , is former Premier Aldo Moro , a Christian Democrat rooted for years to the dead center of Italian politics . Most of them mean no harm . More often than not their allusions to the need for " new relations with " or a " strategy of attention toward " the Communist Party are merely a tactic to outflank some other center-left politician with something similar in mind . Few are prepared to offer the Communists a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cabinet . What they would like is merely a discreet arrangement whereby 177 formerly untouchable Communist Deputies would be allowed to help then ! pass the laws which they have promised the country since 1963 , and have been too weak to pass themselves . Obviously , the Communists laugh at them . But as time goes by with no change in the dismal outlook , they are bound to make more tempting offers . The greater their need , the less inclined they are to dwell on the Communist Party 's distasteful features . After all , it is two decades and more since sinister bands of armed Communist partisans were poised to swarm down from the Lombard and Tuscan hills . and great crimson gragti on the walls of Rome announced impending triumph : " Ha Da Vent " Bafione ! " ? " Big Moustache Stalin Is Coming ! " The Italian Communists have long since renounced armed conquest , rejected Soviet Russia as a guide-state. challenged its right to interfere in their affairs . They sharply condemned the invasion of Czechoslovakia and still do , begrudge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Soviet-dominated world labor federation , concede that Leninist theory is unsuitable for advanced industrial societies , even hint that they would settle for appreciably less than a neutralist Italian foreign policy : the de Gaulle type of semi-neutrality ( including withdrawal from NATO 's military structure ) might do . internally , furthermore , the Italian Communist Party is nothing like its old self . Discipline is lax , dissent freely voiced , factionalism rampant . There is ( or was , until December ) even a dissident magazine called Manifesto , published in 50,000 copies , which in a single issue last autumn attacked Giorgio Ameudola 's up-the-front-stairs thesis as a " degradation and historic defeat " ; ridiculed the Party 's methods , administration , relations with the masses , political line ; and concluded from the invasion of Czechoslovakia that Soviet Russia 's leaders were too far gone for " self-correction " and must accordingly be overthrown by the Soviet masses . Yet it is hardly fair to commend the party for the thing it loves least . The group publishing Manifesto is an exiguous minority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spokesmen were , in fact , expelled in December ? harried to distraction by the hierarchy and denounced for scurrilous deviationism by old-timers in the provinces who are the Party 's backbone . The Italian Communists ' ties to Moscow , though strained , have nevertheless withstood the shock of Prague . Their middle-ranking bureaucrats are still as openly Stalinist as the times permit : and their highest leaders , having directed a brutal assault on the democratic parties since 1947 , are encrusted with the political detritus of their lifelong battles . One does n't readily picture them rushing to democracy 's rescue . In point of fact , that does not seem to be their intention . it is conceivable that the Italian Communists may be forced to join the government sonic day , but quite a lot of them do n't really renal to . This is partly a matter of mental habit and honest disapproval of the company they would have to keep . It is also a question of cowardice . Once they have set foot in the government camp they could never be sure how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( it has happened before ) ; whether or when the United States would intervene t as it threatened to do in the 1948 election ) ; how they themselves would come off in a contest of wits with the Catholic Church on its home ground ( in effect , who would end by eating whom 1 ; what the Italian working class might do as soon as their backs were turned . Certainly they could not be sure of carrying their enormous electoral following with them , a problem familiar to their erstwhile Socialist allies who , upon joining the government , lost half of their voters . For the Communist Party has never had a mandate to collaborate with the democratic parties here . On the contrary . its attraction for Italians to whom all governments in Rome look alike , has been a consummate ability to articulate their protest , orchestrate the contestazione , in short put the screws on the Establishment . Lately , even this strategic position has been none too secure . As the editors of Manifesto note , " renunciation of armed action for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Italian Communist movement : that it would " degenerate " into a banal pressure group . confuse a " shuffle in the governmental majority " with a fundamental shift in power , sue ? eumb to " social-democratizing pressures " which ruined the Socialist Party - in other words , be tamed . Evidently a good many younger Italians think this has already happened . From 2,140,000 members in 1954 . Party membership has dropped to 1.500,000 . The average age of these members has increased by ten years since 1956 , one in every three being over fifty and only one in five under thirty . Membership in the Communist Youth Federation is down to 125.000 . Membership in the whole northern industrial triangle has fallen to 320,000 , and to barely 200,000 in the biggest northern cities : 31,000 Party members in all of Turin , 63,000 in Milan . The number of workers enrolled in the Party is no more than 617,000 nationwide , of whom only half are employed in industry . it was not in collusion with the Communist Party that five million Italian workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have long since written it off as part of the Establishment . Should the Communists join a bourgeois government in these circumstances , any number of contestatori would be glad to fill the vacancy in the opposition . There is the PSIUP , formerly the extremist fringe of the Socialist Party and now an independent formation well to the Communists ' left . polling 1.500.000 votes . Then there are 30 the Marxist-Leninists , the Communist Workers ' Party , the Trotskyites. the " Chinese " Maoisti , the Rank-and-File Unitary Committees in the factories , Workers ' Power , and so forth . It is an intrepid Communist who would not only abandon the field to these assorted rebels but walk deliberately into their line of fire . f course there is always the chance that once in the government , the Communists would take it over . That is probably what intrepid Communists like Amendola have in mind , though one would hardly think so after meeting him . I. ew politicians could be more soothing than this bluff , blue-eyed , fatherly Neapolitan who , in his long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democrats that was n't clearly for their own guild . What were his Party 's conditions for collaborating with the government ? Merely a commitment to carry out the center-left 's long-delayed reforms . Were n't these capitalist reforms , and therefore inadequate ? No , " you might call them popular reforms , since the people want them , " What reward would the Communist Party expert for its services ? Nut much , " perhaps something in foreign policy . " But there need be nothing like a " brusque " shift : total withdrawal from NATO , for instance . A token change of heart ? recognition of East Germany , say , and a kind word for the Vietcong ? might he enough for a start . And would n't one or two seats in the Cabinet be necessary ? Not at all , " at least riot right away . " Still , the Communists are unlikely to entrust such an operation to Arnendola , a convivial soul whose strong governmental vocation plainly gets in the way of his judgment . If they do get a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of everything . they will obviously put their coolest minds to work , for objectives with which the world is all too familiar . " What guarantees can I give you ? " says the designated heir-apparent to the Communist Party 's secretary-generalship , Enrico Berlinguer . " Strictly speaking , none . " All the same , it would not be a pushover . There would be one roughly comparable situation in Communist history : Prague , in 1948 . There , too , the Communists were supposed to be unlike all other Communists : they joined in a coalition with the democratic parties , and ostensibly respected the Parliamentary rules for three years before closing in with stunning brutality to take over . But Czechoslovakia was on Stalin 's side of the Yalta line , no Western state would have lifted a finger for it , Red Army troops lined the country 's borders , and the Czech Communists controlled the army and police from the start . In Italy 's easel , the Red Army lies far to the east beyond Yugoslavia and Romania . and an American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he waiting if it came . The Pope 's invisible army would probably also have to be reckoned with ; and surely a part of the Italian armed forces would resist a Communist takeover , above all that proud arm of the Republic , the carabinieri . It might be argued , then , that democratic politicians here are not taking inordinate risks in making overtures to the Communist Party . Obviously they would have to accept a neutralist foreign policy , though none of them ( - arcs to speak of it yet ? least of all Aldo Moro. who happens to be the incumbent Foreign Minister . Beyond that , cohabitation with the Communists might he less calamitous than it would seem . At worst they would fie circumscribed and at best diminished . Time and again , strong opposition parties have been lured to Rome only to be dismembered limh by limb . The Christian Democrats , adept in the uses of power , are particularly good at this , the wretched Socialists their latest and most illustrious victims . Yet it is extraordinarily sanguine to suppose that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all , Palmiro Togliatti ? " /1 Migliore , " " The Best " ? would allow themselves to be dismembered . They would never leave their safe haven for Rome unless they were confident of reversing the procedure . For that matter , they may never leave their safe haven at all , or at least until there is a meeting of minds on the subject between the United States and Soviet Russia . Short of this , they would live in perennial danger of American intervention , probably with no more expectation of Russian assistance than the Czechs had of getting help from the West in 1948 , and in 1968 . Since very little actually happens in Italian politics , whatever the frequency , length , and depth of ministerial crises , the matter might be left at that . Should the governing parties deteriorate much further and more quickly , however , something may happen at last . The Communists might get offers too tempting to resist . Or a frightened and exasperated middle class might come up with an alternative solution : " The Colonels ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  