@@487927

control over statutes and bureaucrats . " Who makes the laws of this country , " asks Rep. Elliott Levitas , " the elected representatives of the people or the unelected bureaucrats ? " It is understandable , but also unworkable and probably unconstitutional . As with so many simple solutions , the legislative veto loses its appeal the closer one examines it . The Burden of Congressional Review . Members of Congress  --  a record number of whom are voluntarily retiring  --  already complain of their workload , of the trivia that burden their desks . Congress digests 8,000 bills a year and the average member casts about 700 votes annually . To load onto this structure the responsibility to review tens of thousands of agency decisions seems both cruel and unworkable . Does this " anti-bureaucracy " Congress really want to establish itself as a super-regulatory body , involved in day-to-day agency decisions ? ( Congressional review would then follow agency review and precede possible court review ; proponents may next clamor to review systematically not only agency decisions but judicial decisions as well , since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bureaucrats affecting our lives " ic . Surely the same . ) It took the Food and Drug Administration seven years and a hearing record of 24,000 pages to decide that peanut butter should be made of at least 87% , not 90% , peanuts ; a Library of Congress study found that in one typical month , February 1976 , nine agencies within the jurisdiction of the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee issued 149 rules or proposed rules . Could Congress review such complex proceedings and still perform its primary constitutional job of passing laws ? Does it want to assume political responsibility for all the rules it does n't veto and which turn out to be unpopular ? The Politics of Congressional Review . The legislative veto would turn a chamber of Congress , or the relevant committee , into a kind of political court of last resort . Wealthy , well-organized and experienced special interests would have the resources and motivation to lobby massively against an unfavorable ruling . But nonwealthy , unorganized , individual citizens affected by that rule could not comparably make their case . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than persuade a key subcommittee chairman or panel  --  to whom it perhaps gives money in what are euphemistically called " campaign contributions " ? who in turn could tilt a full committee and chamber . With corporate " political action committees " proliferating and dollars in the tens of millions at stake over specific rulings  --  as , for example , when the FTC rules that optometrists ca n't prohibit price advertising , HEW promotes the use of generic name drugs , OSHA issues strict brown-lung standards  --  one would expect optometrists , drug houses and textile companies to pour millions into last-ditch lobbying campaigns . " Rather than increasing Congressional control , " says Rep. Robert Eckhardt , " this legislation will simply provide more business for the high-priced Washington lobbyist . " Representative Levitas answers this criticism with , " I think it is naive to say that federal agencies are not now ' politicized . ' Rule making involves legislative decisions , and most legislative decisions are political . " But surely that is too facile a comparison : politics can of course creep into agency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the appointment process does n't screen out rigid ideologues . This , though , is small potatoes when compared to a system of pure politics that presumes secret meetings and the exchange of money betyPeen interested parties and Congressional " judges . " The Effect on the Agency Process . Congressional veto plans promise to plant several land mines in the path of effective agency decision making . Adding two or three months ( the sixty- or ' ninety-day provisions ) to the final promulgation of all rules , while only a few are legislatively reviewed or vetoed , would delay the entire regulatory process . Since the legislative review could apply only to rule-making proceedings ( involving general policy setting ) and not adjudications ( involving individual disputants ) , agencies will have a new motivation to engage in more adjudications than rule makings  --  at the very time that the latter are seen as more efficient use of agency resources . There is also the overall " politicization " of the agency process . Mr. Carter predicted in a July 1 , 1977 statement that " regulators operating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They would therefore tend to give more weight to affected groups ' perceived political power and less to their substantive arguments . " Rep. John Moss , chairman of the.House Oversight and Investigations Committee , told the House Rules Committee in testimony that " lobbyists could argue that if an agency fails to change a proposed rule , they would go to ' the Congress and seek a veto . Two options are then available . Either the agency , could submit to the threat , and drop or weaken the , rule , or the agency could seek public and Congressional support . These options undermine the nonpartisan nature of administrative agencies . " Actually , a third and more probable option would be for the agency staff to test out its possible rule with the staff of its oversight committee . The committee staff and chairman could then quietly let the agency staff or commissioners know what they would consider acceptable , a judgment of obvious weight . Expert regulatory judges sifting through the evidence , would then become about as relevant as the electoral college . S uch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history of five federal programs subject to legislative , veto prepared for the Administrative Conference of the United States ; legal scholars Harold Bruff and Ernest Gellhorn document how regulators second-guess themselves about political ramifications of their rules and how legislative vetoes would " exacer'bate current problems of the ' capture ' of the independent commissions by their regulated constituencies . " The Constitutional Issue . Constitutional arguments rarely arouse members of Congress , who worry more about the voters in 1978 than about the Founding Fathers in 1787 . Still , it should be hard to forget that Article I provides that legislation , to be enacted , must pass both houses of Congress and be signed by the President , unless a veto is overridden by two-thirds of each chamber . The legislative veto simply erases. the President from this process . Also , the principle of separation of powers of Articles I and II ? that Congress passes the laws and the President executes them  --  is ' stood on its head when the President proposes and Congress disposes . Advocates of legiSlative veto argue that if Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can condition that delegated power with a Congressional veto , and that this approach has been around a long time without constitutional repudiatiorr ( and so , it should be noted , were racial segregation and the death ' penalty until 1954 and 1975 ) . The " Supreme Court has never definitively ruled on the issue . Support for the legislative veto in the House has been broatand unyielding . Two years ago , for example ; ' ' a ? generic bill to apply it across the legislative board came within two votes of passage on the suspension calendar , 265 to 135 ( two-thirds needed to , pass ) . In both April and September of this year , in what may be . a harbinger of future stalemates , the House , ouos , ed a conference report on an FTC amer4Ments-authorization package because it lacked a legislative veto provision . - Although the House has been unyielding in its support of legislative veto/ the popularity of the idea is now colliding witll ' some substantial counter-trends . There is the ' reality of unblinking Senate opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hysteria may well recede in a LEGISLATIVE VETO Some Case Histories ? When Transportation Secretary Brock Adams announced a phase-in of tacit restraint systems ( air bags ) on 1982-84 cars , , auto safety advocates were dismayed by the delay Auto engineers themselves had said that such life-saving devices could easily be installed on 1980 models . However , the air bags had been made subject to a legislative veto provision . As a result , says Clarence Ditlow , head of the Center for Auto Safety , " DOT issued a ' standard so lenient that Congress would have no grounds to overrule it The department was definitely looking over its shoulder at the legislative veto problem . " ? Despite complaints about foxes guarding chicken coops , the House of Representatives in 1975 vetoed a Federal Election Commission regulation requiring that campaign ' disclosure reports be first filed with the commission ; that same year the Senate vetoed a regulation requiring the disclosure of so-called " office accounts . " This process offended Judge George MacKinnon , who dissented from a decision that refused to rule on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ v Valao , he argued , that FEC would be pressured into making deals ' with the very politicians they were supposed to be overseeing , " eadingj the commission into the possibility , or temptation , of subordinating its best executive judgment to that of Congress . " ? HEW 's Office of Education , because of a legislative veto provision in its statute , each year submits to Congress a schedule of expected family contributions for various levels of family income as part of an educational grant program . The House then routinely introduces a " resolution of disapproval " and later , just as routinely , tables it . This ritual increases the political leverage of a handful of staff on key House committees who negotiate these schedules , with O.E. ? The House , led by Georgia Democrat Elliott Levitas , has twice this year refused to adopt a routine " conference report " on the Federal Trade Commission 's authorization because it lacked the veto provision . And at the end of this past session of Congress , Levitas threatened to attach a legislative veto amendment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is well known that the Senate would never accept such a provision . ( He dropped his threat when the chairman of the Public Works Committee , Harold Johnson D , Calif , promised to vote against the FTC conference report. ) - Editorial reaction , including comment from The New York nmes , Washington Post , Washington-Star and Wall Street Journal , has been overwhelmingly critical of legislative veto . The President is-dead set against it , as is the House leadership . And many members , admitting privately what they can not say on the hustings , agree that the idea sounds great but is overkill . Or , as an influential House sponsor of this measure admitted candidly , " It 's an easy way for these guys to demagogue against the bureaucracy . " Still , legislative veto will survive as long as the problem that propels it remains unanswered how to oversee the bureaucracy . A majority of the House now sees it as a way to give the agencies a conscience , using Mencken 's definition of conscience as the feeling that someone may be watching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidency with an Imperial Congress . As Harold Laski wrote in .1940 , " No democracy in the modern world can afford a scheme of government the basis of which is the inherent right of the legislature to paralyze the executive . power . " A nd there are more effective ways for a frustrated Congress to monitor or curb agency actions . If the legislators do n't like the decision of an executive or regulatory .. agency , they can pass a law to reverse it or pressure the agency through the oversight process . Thus when the Department 01 Transportation implemented Henry Ford 's unpopular suggestion of a buzzer-interlock system in new cars , Congress voted its disapproval ; when parts of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act proved ineffective , those parts were simply repealed . And hearings by Senator Kennedy on the Food and Drug Administration and by Senator Metzenbaum on the Department of Energy have recently coaxed these agencies to make desired changes . - Before Congress pursues the radical surgery of vetoing the executive , it should at least vigorously pursue that antibiotic called " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to abolish an agency it thinks is performing poorly ( as it appears about to do to the Renegotiation Board ) or to deregulate it in whole or part ( as it is about to trim the Civil Aeronautics Board ) . It can refuse to confirm nominees whose views it finds uncongenial . It can pass the legislation , now pending , that would provide " public participation funding , " and thus encourage citizen groups to take part in agency proceedings when they have a contribution to make but lack the funds needed to put in An appearance . As House Government Operations Committee chairman Jack Brooks has said , " Congress is not a pitiful , helpless giant in its dealings with the bureaucracy . " There are alternatives that would not make the cure worse than the disease , that would not involve Congress in reversing a forty-year tradition of delegating day-to-day decisions in complex- aiteas to expert agencies already subject to Congressional review . Attacking the bureaucracy may be good politics , but legislative veto is bad law . ?       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     