@@493689

That is why the only sensible policy is to encourage any form of negotiations that offers a chance of free elections . If the present negotiations for an internal settlement produce early results , it is by no means unlikely that Joshua Nkomo might be drawn into the talks at a later stage . In fact , there are some signs thatsecret negotiations may already be going on in London to bring Nkomo into the negotiations . Surprises can not be ruled out . But nor can the danger of a cruel civil war be ignored . Nuclear agreements with the Soviet Union used to be politically popular in the United States . In 1963 , John F. Kennedy 's atmospheric test ban treaty was ratified by the Senate , 80-19 . The nuclear issue helped Lyndon Johnson trounce Barry Goldwater in 1964 . In 1968 , Richard Nixon got elected declaring ( in spite of the Russian invasion of Czechoslovakia ) that the era of confrontation with the Soviet Union had given way to an era of negotiation . Nixon got re-elected four years later at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his policy of detente , his SALT I accord , his anti-ballistic missile agreement , his promise of a " generation of peace . " Gerald Ford reached an agree ? ment at Vladivostok in 1974 that he claimed would put a " cap " on the arms race . He probably would have signed a new SALT treaty with Leonid Brezhnev but for the 1976 Republican challenge from Ronald Reagan and his right-wing rejection front . Jimmy Carter campaigned on both sides of detente . " I support the objectives , " he told the Democratic Platform Com ? mittee , but he said detente had been " exploited by the Soviet Union . " In the end , he rejected " the strident and bellicose voices of those who would have this country return to the days of the Cold War " and he promised " hard bargaining " for weapons ceilings lower than those Ford had agreed to . Early next year , probably in March and probably at a summit conference with Leonid Brezhnev , President Carter will formally unveil the product of his efforts . Owing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own national security adviser and then from his critics ? the outline and many of the details of the anticipated SALT II agreement already are known , and the pact has become the focus of withering controversy within the United States even before it has been concluded withthe Soviet Union . Right now it is not at all certain that two-thirds of the Senate will ratify the new Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty . If it does not , the conse ? consequences could be devastating . The era of detente could end , and something approximating a new Cold War could begin . Carter , particularly if he is defeated both on the Panama Canal treaty and then on SALT , would be rendered impotent in the foreign policy field . He also would be crippled politically , and open to 1q80 challenges from right and left in his own party . Underlying the Carter predicament is a significant rightward shift of intellectual and political power on the issue of cooperation with the Soviet Union . it is respectable again to be hardline . Senator Henry M. Jackson and Paul H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Johnson , are leaders of a swelling band of anti-detentists . Their followers are not only hot-eyed nitras of the type usually attracted to such perpetually panicked groups as the American Security Council , and the US Strategic Institute . The rightist Conservative Caucus is not leading the campaign against SALT , as it is against the Panama Canal treaty and the continued tenure of UN Am ? bassador Andrew Young . The Committee on the Present Danger , of which Nitze is chief spokesman , is a serious endeavor comprised of ex-diplomats , ex-liberals , lawyers , scholars and businessmen capable of convincing a wide spectrum of American opinion that the Soviet Union genuinely presents a menace to the security of the United States , which we are not doing enough to protect ourselves against . The prospective anti-SALT coalition includes such political and intellectual heavyweights as Lane Kirkland of the AFL-CIO , the editors of Commentary and the organizers of the Coalition for a Democratic Majority , a group which formerly promoted the presidential candidacy of Senator Jackson and which now includes Senator Moynihan as an equal honorary co-chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new SALT agreemen t was " apparently achiev ? ed at the expense of imbalanced US concessions , " and that the Carter administration was " softening its stand on human rights. - it also blasted the joint US-Soviet statement on the Middle East and declared in what seemed a thinly-veiled political threat , that Carter was returning " to the very approach to US-Soviet relations against which we Democrats campaigned . " The assault on SALT does not appear to be tightly coordinated , but it is well financed , broadly based , sophisticated , sincere and often deeply thoughtful . Some hardliners still deal in simple Russians-gonna ? get-us polemics . But others are fully at home in the latest detail on nuclear capabilities , and have studied global grand strategy and history . Right now , the hawks have more ergs of brainpower focused on SALT than even the Carter administration does , and vastly more than their arch-foes in the arms control com ? community . The hawks also got started early , a year in advance of the expiration this past October of the SALT I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective early propaganda offensive , the American Security Council obtained dramatic Soviet military films from the Pentagon in the closing days of the Ford administration and fashioned from them a horror show of Russian prowess that has been distributed to 300 local television stations . The Committee on the Present Danger got organized in early 1976 , the brainchild of Nitze , Eugene Rostow , a Yale law professor and former Undersecretary of State under Johnson , and Charls Walker , a former Undersecretary of the Treasury under Nixon . In May 1976 , another hawkish group , New York-based National Strategy Information Center , opened a Washington office and budgeted one million dollars to ? in the words of its president , Frank R. Barnett ? " crank up an all-out effort to meet the current and growing threat from the USSR . " An equivalent array of organizations exists on the pro-SALT side , but it has barely been mobilized . The Carter administration seems to have done little to begin a concerted educational campaign of its own . The groups available to help include the Arms Control Association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Scientists , all of which have been involved in past efforts to defeat this or that weapons system . There is also a new group , called the American Committee on East-West Accord , whose slogan is that US-Soviet relations should be put on a " businesslike basis . " About half the new committee 's $145,000 income , in fact , comes from companies doing business with the Soviet Union , just as funding for anti-SALT groups tends to come heavily from defense contractors . The new committee 's co-chairmen are George Kerman , John Kenneth Galbraith and Donald Kendall , chairman of Pepsico . The committee is hastily trying to put together a movie and to win equal time from stations that ran the American Security Council film . But Carl Marcy , executive director of the committee , acknowledged that " sorry to say , Jackson 's experts are having greater impact than Carter 's experts .... I think there 's no question but what we 're behind in the propaganda race . " The Committee on the Present Danger has emerged as the most widely noticed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ironically , out of the same suite in a seedy building on Connecticut Avenue in Washington which once was occupied by Adlai Stevenson , Eleanor Roosevelt and Paul Butler 's Democratic Policy Committee , the liberal conscience of the Democratic Party during the out-of-power years of the 1050s . The memory of those liberal heroes is preserved on brass nameplates affixed to a table in the CPD offices where now Paul Nitze holds learned , low-key seminars on what he perceives to be the inade ? quacies of Carter administration SALT positions . In his latest critique , Nitze charged that by 1985 , the Soviet Union might enjoy a ten-to-one advantage over the United States in ' ' prompt counter-military potential , " the ability to knock out the other side 's land-based missile force in a surprise attack . The Carter administration has yet to respond to Nitze in anything like equivalent detail . Officials claim they are constrained by the need to maintain confiden ? tiality while negotiations are still under way . Senator Gary Hart , who is expected to be a leading pro-SALT spokesman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " smother the infant in its crib- and to defend the package under negotiations as " promising and soundly conceived . " But both Hart and a " high defense official- who briefed reporters at the Pentagon were forced to concede one of Nitze 's major points ? that sometime in the mid-1980s , existing Minuteman land-based missiles will be vulnerable to Soviet attack . The defense official said , " You know , the survivability of the Minuteman is not exactly the same thing as the survival of the United States , " and he is correct . A good case can be made that the United States would be better off without any land-based missiles to attack in a crisis . But concession of their vulnerability is at least a debating point won by the hawks against the arms control community . For years , arms controllers argued that the Soviet Union was not bent on attaining first-strike potential against US land missiles . Now they have been proven wrong . The long-range military merits of the prospective SALT package are hard to judge yet , and laymen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chiefs of Staff once an agreement is actually signed and awaiting ratification by the Senate . The basic outlines of the pact include limits until 1Q85 on the number of missiles the US and USSR can deploy , which are a bit lower than Ford negotiated at Vladivostok ; a three-year protocol limiting the range of air-launched cruise missiles to 1500 miles and ground- and sea-launched cruise missiles to 360 miles , and forbidding testing of land-mobile missiles ; plus pledges by each side to negotiate deeper arms reductions by 1980 . Carter 's critics are attacking the President more on political grounds than on military ones , though deciphering their accusations does require familiarity with technical detail . One complaint is that Carter retreated under Soviet scowls from a strong SALT position the administration advanced in March , requir ? ing deep cuts in the Russian arsenal , to one that would perpetuate US inferiority in significant categories of missile power . Carter 's foes are warning him to win more concessions from the Soviets than he has so far , or face an effort to defeat SALT in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process of getting a good deal , the best it can and far better than no deal at all . Carter 's critics also charge that the dovish inclinations of such administration officials as arms control negotiator Paul Warnke and State Department SALT expert Leslie Gelb will cause the United States to extend the three-year protocol , preventing develop ? ment of a new land-based missile and full development of cruise missiles . The administration declares that when the protocol is ended , it is ended , unless the Soviets are prepared to offer major concessions in cutting back their arsenal . There are even deeper differences involved in the SALT debate than either military or political ones . Two philosophical schools are contending here over the question : What are the Soviets up to ? Arms control advocates have maintained in the past that nuclear superiority was unattainable for either the US or USSR , that nuclear wars could not be " won " and that neither side would contemplate starting one so long as the other side had weapons with which to destroy the aggressor 's cities in return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there never has been any doubt that the Soviet Union was striving for strategic superiority to use either militarily or politically against the US . According to our hardliners , the Soviets are wedded to Clausewitz 's maxim that war is merely an extension of politics by other means . Soviet planners do not find nuclear wars at all unthinkable , according to the hawks , and are preparing to fight and win them in the hope that their power will be sufficient to blackmail the United States and its allies into submission . Of late , the hawkish persuasion has hardened into a conviction that a parallel exists between Soviet military buildups in the 1970s and Nazi Germany 's war preparations in the 1930s , The charge has been made explicitly by the Committee on Present Danger , by Air Force Chief of Staff General David ' ones , syndicated military affairs columnist Robert Heinl and retired Lieutenant General Daniel Graham , former head of the Defense Intelligence Agency . Frank Barnett of the National Strategy information Center has asserted that the United States now " is about where Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany darkening all of Europe . " In an article in Commentary , the defense intellectual Edward N. Luttwak likened Henry Jackson to Winston Churchill . So far , the only attempt to analyze and rebut these assertions has been made by Representative Les Aspin , who studied 14 separate categories of war preparation made not only by the Soviets and the Nazis but also by Israel and her Arab adversaries prior to the 1973 Mideast war and China in the aftermath of the Sino ? Soviet split . " The Nazi expansion dwarfs the Soviet expansion by every measure , " according to Aspin , and so did arms buildups by the other countries , though to a lesser degree . Aspin found that Hitler boosted overall defense spending by 868 percent in the five years before 1g39 , whereas the Soviets have increased spending only 13 percent in the past five years . The Soviets ' spending level , he said , he has been going up at about three percent per year , while the Arabs ' was 16 percent per year , Israel 's was 18 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ US defense spending had been declining until recently and was not reciprocated by Soviet restraint . Aspin , a member of the House armed services and intelligence committees , a former Pentagon official and a moderate on defense issues , cited other grounds for concern about Soviet behavior . " There has been a Warsaw Pact buildup , " he wrote . " The Soviets have been promoting some kind of civil defense program and increasing their strategic capabilities . They stretched SALT I agreements to their limits , have played a nefarious role in Africa and are sending their Navy around the world getting political mileage out of it . " In addition to increasing anxiety , these actions have shattered previously held assumptions about Soviet behavior. it used to be said that as a great power the Soviets would be satisfied with strategic parity with the west , but now that appears not to be true . We used to postulate that the Soviets shared in our belief in the strategic doctrine of assured destruction ; now people think that the Soviets do n't even think in those terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get involved in areas beyond adjacent territories , but policies in Africa are beginning to make us think otherwise . " Such uncertainties about Soviet intentions are part of the reason for a hawkish ascendancy that threatens to defeat the SALT treaty . The hardliners may have the stronger case , but thus far , the Carter administration has not yet begun to educate the public concerning its assumptions about what the Russians are up to . If it delays the process , as it did its public relations effort on behalf of the Panama Canal treaty , it may find itself losing both contests , and its hold on the government as well .                     