@@488001

As proposals to set up a comprehensive medical care system . go forward in the United States , more and more Americans look to Canada as a model . The U.S. Government has subsidized American university research to study different aspects of the Canadian health care system , and at its November meeting in Atlantic City , the American Public Health Association will devote a session to " issues arising from the experience of the Canadian health insurance programs . " Why is Canada singled out from the vast number of countries whose health services are available for the United States to emulate ? Mainly , I suppose , because , it is a nearby , familiar place that has been supplying doctors and nurses to the American market for years . People south of the border naturally wonder whether Canadian Medicare can be imported too . But Americans who set themselves to learning how and why the Canadian health-care system worki must also bear in mind that , with respect to its politics and the temper of its people , Canada is different . It is n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pint of water weighs a pound and a quarter " instead of " a pint 's a pound the whole world round . " The differences are big enough to make me wonder whether the Canadian healthcare system , admirable as it may , be , could exist in an American context . Canada is a confederation of ten provinces , plus the Yukon and Northwest Territories . Whether or not it is a loose confederation depends on who is Prime Minister at the time and which province we are talking about . The British North America Act of 1867 , which serves as a Constitution , explicitly identifies health as a provincial , responsibility and  --  as in the United States  --  the national government deals itself in by providing money . Federal-provincial revenue sharing is the key to the political structure in all areas . The national government levies income taxes , roughly one-third of which are earmarked for the provinces . The provinces also receive federal ' grants for specific programs , and can raise revenue independently with sales taxes and fees of various kinds ; in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if they so wish . Sharing out the revenue involves federal-provincial conferences , at which the national leaders try to jockey the provincial ones into line . Premiers of poor provinces are usually docile ; those from provinces that put more into the national treasury than they receive from it tend to go their own way . There is usually a " special arrangement " for Quebec . If by Medicare we mean outpatient or physician care , organized government programs were pioneered by the old Socialist ( CCF ) government of Saskatchewan in the 1940s . The present-day system results from soundings taken by a Royal Commission on Health Services that was appointed by a Conservative Prime Minister ( Diefenbaker ) , and reported to a Liberal ( Pearson ) , with final legislation coming from another Liberal ( Trudeau ) . The national legislation permitted the provinces to set up Medicare programs and provided for federal cost-sharing when they did . The provinces came into line in the usual order ? Saskatchewan had its program off and running five years before the national legislation was passed ; Ontario came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it could not do its own thing instead ; Quebec , after something of a confrontation between the government and the doctors , entered last and with a set of radical proposals for organizing health care that will be described below. , ? Even in the larger cities , Canadian politics is a participatory matter . The provincial constituencies ( ridings ) are small , and anyone who really wants to can know his member personally . Sometimes the ordinary member of parliament ( national or provincial ) finds that he has little to do except act as a sensor of local opinion . As a backbencher he has no real say in deciding policy , nor is he free to vote against his party 's position on major issues . From the point of view of executive decision making , it is a convenient system . It could be brutally undemocratic in the ' wrong hands , but that is where the nature of the people comes in . No law forces a Prime Minister to resign if he loses a vote of confidence , but he usually does . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to worry about public opinion until close to election time , but nonetheless it does . A few months ago , the Ontario government ( elected with a big majority and no election in sight for three or four years ) decided to drop a $150 Ontario scholarship that was given to certain outstanding students . There , was a howl in the newspapers , and within days the minister in question performed a rapid about-face , postponing the cut to the following year . At the administrative level , rules and regulations never seem to be as tightly construed in Canada as in the United States , and more concessions are made for the sake of good will or convenience . People who go out of their way to be nice can be found as clerks in Medicare offices , or working in hospitals , as elsewhere in Canadian society . They are no more efficient or diligent than their opposite numbers in other countries , but they are more accommodating . Perhaps they can afford to be , in a country where people are fairly apt to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Even organized interest groups show this accommodating tendency . Despite the continuing rise in the cost of living , the Ontario Medical Association arits meeting last May decided to postpone any discussion of increases in the fee schedule to 1974 . A surprising number of doctors actually feel a bit uncomfortable about the amount of money they have been making ( as much from harder work as from higher fees ) since Medicare came in . Here is how the Canadian health-care system works . A few weeks ago I had to consult a doctor . I might have gone to a family doctor ( the number of general practitioners , . though declining , is still large ) , but I am a patient of the Family Practice Service at the Toronto General Hospital , mainly because it is a four-minute walk from my office . The doctor examined me ( the clinic gives ' an appointment every fifteen minutes , which is a more leisurely pace than is maintained in most office practice , and as a first visit this one lasted a half hour ) , took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changed hands , except that I paid the hospital pharmacy 650 for an item that would have cost $1.50 at retail . The doctor submitted a claim for this visit in his monthly statement to the Medicare plan . If it had happened to be included in the sample audit , I would have been asked to verify the service provided . Computerized " practice profiles " are also used to identify errors and cheating , and disciplinary sanctions include payment of the doctor at a reduced rate . The fee for each procedure is set in a schedule prepared by the Ontario Medi-370 cal Association . By " opting in " to the Medicare plan , doctors agree to accept 90 per cent of the fee schedule as payment in full . Doctors who " opt out face collection problems , since the province then pays the patient directly , and most doctors prefer the 90 per cent . Fee schedules , originally promulgated unilaterally by medical societies , are increasingly matters for " collective bargain= ing " with provincial Ministries of Health . The cost of the laboratory work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budget . That is approved each year in advance by negotiation between the hospital and the province , and in recent years the province ? has used a " global budget " in which they give a lump sum of money to , each hospital to cover increased costs , new services , etc. , and the hospital administration decides how it is to be spent . If I had gone to a private laboratory , the pathologist would have billed Medicare at the rate set for these tests in the OMA fee schedule . The fee separates the " technical " and " professional " components ; the pathologist , for example , would be paid the entire , amount if all the work had been done in his office , but only the " professional component " if all , he did was produce a report on a test made elsewhere . For all physician and hospital services ( there is no ceiling on medically indicated treatment ) a single individual in Ontario pays a premium of $132 per year and a family twice that amount . Roughly one-half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( poorer , provinces get more and the richer ones less ) and the remainder comes from provincial tax sources . Premiums are lower in most provinces than in Ontario and the tax contribution is consequently higher , The total cost per capita is probably a bit more than $250 per year now ; the 1972 figure is not yet available , The premium in On-tari o is high enough so that a surplus is accumulating ; this , under the name of the Health Resources Fund , helps to support medical education in the province . In aggregative terms , Canadians are devoting 5.5 to 6 per cent , of gross national product to health care , compared with ' perhaps 0.5 per cent more in the United States , though " it 's hard to be precise because the definitions vary . When an affluent country like Canada undertakes to provide its people with comprehensive health care , the ' first flush of enthusiasm tends to result in overspending . Canada may have slightly fewer physicians per capita ( one , active , practicing physician per thousand ) than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of shortage in most of the country , although nurse-practitioners are being trained for service in remote and sparsely populated areas. - There are , if anything , too many general hospital beds , and bed targets are being lowered rather than raised . This in= , volves the closing of small and uneconomical institutions and a general rise in standards of care offered by the ' remainder . In an attempt to rationalize the operation of the healthcare system and control the inevitable rising costs , a number of shifts are taking place . Nursing homes are being taken into the hospital-care system in more and more provinces ; home-care programs are being developect Hostels are being put up to lodge patients in experimental programs of ' day surgery and for other types of care . There is also a growing feeling that an organized system of outpatient care ( patterned somewhat after existing community clinics ) may be able to handle a still greater number of patients on an ambulatory basis , and further reduce the hospital bill . Such economies , of course , can be realized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ converted , in phase with declining demand . Canadian Medicare can still be viewed as in a transitional period , with public financing , but with traditional kinds of health-care institutions and styles of practice persisting . Reorganization and consolidation of the system is beginning , however , and perhaps the proposals for Quebec give a foretaste of the future . The ' Quebec plan is based on establishing -a provincial network of local health centers where it is felt that primary physician care on an outpatient basis , under the same roof with social and family services , will meet 85 per cent of all health-care , requirements . These centers are linked with hospitals for specialist services , and finally with the university hospitals in Montreal , Quebec City and Sherbrooke , for " super-specialty " service . About a dozen centers are already in operation , staffed largely by enthusiastic younger doctors who have accepted " sessional payments " rather than a fee-for-service arrangement . The planners hope that all general practitioners will be practicing on , a salaried basis in health centers within fifteen years . Local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to regional boards that cover both health centers and hospitals . The old religious and voluntary hospitals , with their independent boards of trustees , have " gone public , " though not without a struggle . The more prosperous medical specialists ( particularly the English-speaking ones , who would have no trouble finding jobs elsewhere ) are resisting the pressure to change their style of practice , and Quebec Medicare still makes provision for fee payment on the traditional , basis . The new program , while comprehensive so far as medical care is , concerned , has been criticized for making insufficient provision for public health activities . in the Canadian system of " unity in diversity " no prbvince can go it alone , and the federal government has recently tried to control rising costs by limiting its , financial commitment for health . Basically , the proposal is to freeze the federal contribution in an early year , and thereafter to tie increases to ( 1 ) growth in population ; ( 2 ) ability to pay , as measured by increases in gross national product ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " that can be concentrated on specific programs which the Department of National Health and Welfare wishes to stimulate in the provinces . After considerable discussion , and the adoption of a compromise formula whereby no province will receive less than it gets under present arrangements , it looks as if this formula will be accepted . While medical and hospital care have been made widely available , there are still worrisome , gaps in coverage . In province 's that collect premiums  --  even in token amounts  --  those of the poor are paid by welfare ( Ontario also charges no premium to persons over 65 ) , but some people still are not covered . These may be healthy youngadults employed in firms too small to come under the formal collection mechanism , who gamble on continuing good health by not paying their premiums . Some may let their payments lapse because- of forgetfulness or senility . The administrative tendency is to " forgive and forget " and to grant coverage provided that individuals able to , do so pay their delinquent premiums . After all ' , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show a profit . Outpatient prescription drugs are a sore point because , for many individuals , they are the only out-of-pocket expense for health care . Drugs for hospital inpatients are covered by the hospital budget , and hospital pharmacies sell to their registered outpatients at or near cost , but the average person who sees a doctor in his own office must pay for the prescription either directly or through membership in a voluntary insurance program . Deductible drug insurance of 25 ? and 500 ' has become a popular fringe benefit in collective bargaining . Finally , dental care is not covered . The dental profession in Canada is much more wedded to free enterprise than is the medical profession , and there is in scarcity of dentists  --  only one for ' more than 3,000 Canadians . Also , geographic disparities are severe . Toronto , Montreal , Vancouver and other big cities may approach the U.S. ratio of dentists to population , but some communities of 15,000 or 20,000 receive no ' dental services except for the periodic visits of the Northern Ontario dental ental ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dentists have shown reluctance to grant hygienists greater responsibility , or to ' accept intermediate level personnel on the lines of the New Zealand dental nurse . Since dental schools are few and have high professional standards , the personnel to deliver mass dental care will have to come from the ranks of hygienists and technicians , and for the present " denticare " can not be considered because the workload could not be handled . There has also been ' a recent flap in Ontario over " denturists , " who bypass the dentist and sell false teeth directly to the public at lower prices ; this practice is now to be legalized . The other major gap is posed , by geography . Some communities are too small to keep even one doctor fully employed , and current opinion would base medical services on catchment areas of 5,000 to 6,000 , the minimum that could justify a medical group of three doctors and supporting staff , phis a small community hospital . Ntirsepractitioners ? and nurse-midwives ' are being trained for outpost duty in areas where public health nurses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is bad and planes can not land , when communities can not be reached during break-up in the spring and freeze-up in the fall , when auroral disturbances knock out the radio link , there are limits to what even the best-trained nurses can do unsupported . Finally , at the periphery of settlement , there are small clusters of Indian or . Eskimo families whose access to medical care is limited to the drug chest administered by their chief , or possibly by a clergyman , a storekeeper or a Mountie . The arrival of Medicare in the different ' provinces provides a fascinating spectrum ranging from painful confrontation to painless transition . In Saskatchewan , when province-wide Medicare was proposed in 1962 after two decades of build-up , there was substantial physician opposition to some of the government 's proposed regulations . This culminated in a doctors ' strike . Before the dust had settled , a lot of ill will had been generated . However , the final system was not so far removed from the proposals that had provoked the strike , and a community clinic movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike . Eight years later , the province of Quebec seemed to be moving toward very much the same kind of showdown , with the government sticking to every clause of its original proposal . A strike of medical specialists , in this case without the support of many general practitioners , ended abruptly when the flurry , of FLQ violence occurred ? proving once again that nationalism is , a very efficient distraction from the gut issues . , In Ontario , the old physician-sponsored plans were liquidated when Medicare came in , and the provincial government was deprived of their accumulated experience . Private insurance companies were used as carriers on a temporary basis , and administration was not consolidated in a single provincial program until April 1972 , By contrast , when Medicare started in Nova Scotia , the physician-sponsored plan ( Maritime Medical Services , Inc. ) simply began to report to a provincial medical-care commission rather than to its previous board of directors , and the main problem was the ' mechanical one of shifting from the manual processing of 60,009 claims per month to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provinces that transition was relatively painless , and a number of reasons may be adduCed . In the first place , the physical effect of the change was small . , People had already been covered by provincial hospital plans for at least ten years , and when Medicare was introduced through national legislation a number of provinces already had comprehensive Medicare ( as in Saskatchewan ) , a limited public program ( as in the Cottage Hospital system of Newfoundland ) , or flourishing schemes sponsored by the medical profession or private insurance companies . This meant that the physician workload did not rise inordinately , although doctors are somewhat busier today . The need for additional physicians that did arise was met by expanding medical school enrollment , building new medical schools , and attracting physicians from abroad  --  mainly from other Commonwealth countries . In general , immigration requirements for doctors are less stringent in Canada than in the United States , and the provinces that feel the greatest need make it relatively easy for a qualified foreign physician to set up practice . s The emotional adjustment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases . Doctors were already accustomed to the billing requirements and control measures Of insurance companies and professionally sponsored medical-care plans . Comprehensive Medicare was generally viewed for what it was  --  a change in the payment mechanism , rather than a threat to the professional independence of practitioners , though there were inevitably a few holdouts . By and large , organiied medicine proved amenable to reason . Physicians took their responsibilities for health care seriously , and learned early that there was more to be gained from cooperation with government than from blind opposition . Some provincial medical societies are clearly stuffier and more conservative than others , but the Canadian Medical Association is a far more progressive body than its American counterpart . Group practices and community clinics have been around too long to be called experimental , but innovative changes continue to crop up . The typical Canadian medical group  --  more common in the west than in the east  --  comprises from five to nine doctors , usually general practitioners or some combination of general practice with internal medicine , and one or two other specialties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members put up the capital ( or borrow ) to set up a small management company that owns the premises . A partnership agreement specifies how the income of the group is to be distributed  --  most commonly in some relation to the billings generated by each member , but sometimes a flat sum like an annual salary . Groups are popular among doctors because they provide more leisure time and the chance to get away for vacations and refresher courses , and among patients because they usually maintain a duty roster so that a doctor is always available in case of need . I The most common type of " community clinic " differs from the physician-sponsored group mainly in the existence of a board that owns and manages the premises . The medical practice is much the same as with other groups , although community clinics are more likely to undertake health education and preventive work and to provide ancillary staff such as social workers or psychologists . Occasionally consumer-sponsored groups have been started on the American " prepaid group practice " model . These have found it hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because the " members " are free to go to any other doctor they wish , since the bill will still be paid by Medicare . Experiments are currently going on with formulas whereby the provincial government pays such groups a " capitation " amount per member . The group then contracts to provide total medical care for its members and to meet their outside doctor bills . This , it is hoped , will result in- savings because the consumer-involvement groups have been found in a number of studies to have lower hospitalization rates ' than other forms of practice . A few medical practices have taken the form of true community enterprises offering a range of medical and social welfare services , with the entire operation under the control of consumer-directors . Problems have arisen when low-income consumers were confronted with the cost of hiring physicians at six or seven times their own income level , - and when the physicians felt that the consumers were not competent ' to make technical judgments . , ' - Other experiments that are being tested include the use of nurse-midwives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where they either screen cases for physicians or share their practices . Public health nurses have in some areas been attached to solo or group practices for follow-up and home-visiting assignments . Hospital-based practices and home-care programs are other approaches . There haVe been experiments that get double mileage out of psychiatric institutions by running , day-care programs for one group of patients and night scare for those who " work out but sleep in . " Canadian experience shows that a country can provide medical and hospital care for its population thrOugh public financial mechanisms while at first leaving the structure of private fee-for-Service medical practice largely untouched . The same could be said for a number of countries in Western EurOpe . Canada , among other countries , is now entering a period of administrative consolidation and reorganization of health-care services , stimulated by the politicians ' apprehensions about rising costs . New questions are being raised about traditional structures like hospital boards of trustees , local boards of health , and fee for service . It can not yet be forecast whether this second transition will be painless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Once again , Canada is not alone ; rethinking and reorganization of service is going on in Britain , Denmark , Sweden ' and a number of other countries . ) As to whether the Canadian ? or the more general West.etn , model of Medicare can be adopted . in the United States , some questions remain to be answered : Canadian political parties have all , to , a substantial degree , espoused the welfare state . In the parliamentary system of government , the party in power typically commands the votes , necessary to pass legislation that has been drafted as a " complete package , " with technical considerations in mind . The vast , majority of voters of all - parties support The health-care system , and that has been the indispensable factor . Has anything approaching this voter or poli- tician consensuls been reached in the United States ? Could a technically ( satisfactory Medicare plan be ' adopted llider the ' adversary system of a contending legislature and Executive ? - Canadian ' experience , shows that some restraint can be placed on hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under " global budgeting " is mainly the freedom of the hospital ' to choose where it will cut back when the ' financial situation is tight . ' Would American state and voluntary , hospitals be willing to give up their autonomy to operate under similar constraints ? Canadian , ekperience shows that physicians ' fees can also be restrained . It is possible because the medical Societies had detailed fee schedules in the first instance , because fees are now discussed or actually negotiated with Public authorities , and because both sides are reasonably cooperative and continue ' to communicate with each other . If the doctors did not go along ' with the system , it could not work ; if it were open-ended the cost would be prohibitive . Are American doctors and their professional associations similarly disposed ? ' The majbr Canadian insurance companies lost a lucrative field of business when Medicare came in . They did some advertising and some lobbying for their , side , but failed . ( Incidentally , in Manitoba and Saskatchewan the government has also taken over automobile insurance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do so soon . ) What is the relative bargaining strength of insurance companies and government in the United States ? Of , all these ' points , I think that the need for consensus is the most important . Consensus was achieved in Canada , as it was in other countries around the world . ' The pros-% pects for Medicare , in the United States are just as good or bad as the prospects for consensus . 