@@315572

No profession finds self-analysis easy . This is particularly true of journalism , whose practitioners regularly evaluate the performance of others . We have been scrutinizing our colleagues-and sometimes ourselves-in our Press section since our first issue in 1923 . This week in our cover story , we undertake the admittedly difficult task of examining the role of the press in the Watergate affair , a topic that arouses considerable passion among readers as well as journalists . In an accompanying Essay , we further consider the moral problems faced by the press , its future tasks and its role in the American system . It is a subject about which TIME , as a participant , can scarcely claim neutrality . But with the help of TIME correspondents across the U.S. , who reported their own assessments as well as the views of editors , news executives and fellow reporters , we have attempted a serious and dispassionate accounting of both the shortcomings and the accomplishments of our craft . <P> The senior editor of the Press section , Laurence I. Barrett , put aside his editing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joining TIME in 1965 . For him , it represents a return to his earliest professional concerns . After graduation from New York University and the Columbia School of Journalism , Barrett went to the New York Herald Tribune as a political reporter in 1958 . He wrote a weekly column on New York 's city hall ( accumulating grist for his 1965 novel , The Mayor of New York ) , then moved to Washington to cover the Pentagon and national politics . When the Trib , with Barrett on the story , was among the few papers to expose the Billie Sol Estes scandal , President Kennedy angrily canceled his subscription . He felt that the Herald Tribune , a Republican paper , was giving undue coverage to a Democratic scandal . " Covering public affairs at all levels , " recalls Barrett , " I saw myself as kind of an honest cop trying to keep public officials straight . Now I 'm trying to do this with my own kind in the cover story , and it poses certain conceptual difficulties . You almost have to step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sort of problem for Gail Eisen , who spent several weeks sifting through mountains of Watergate reportage . She was especially interested in locating White House denials of specific Watergate stories and then ascertaining whether the stories or the denials had been correct . " It was often frustrating , " she says , " but having begun digging on any one of them , I could n't give up . It turned out that the press had committed precious few errors . "                     