@@281492

Self-scrutiny by the press has grown in recent years , partly as a response to the Nixon Administration 's efforts to discredit journalists . The monthly More is perhaps the most tendentious practitioner of the new criticism . Its circulation is modest ( 15,000 ) , but it at tracts a number of salty , savvy contributors who regularly needle their colleagues in the trade for specific failings . <P> More articles are often amply documented . Once in a while , however , Editor Richard Pollak seems to suffer a total lapse of judgment . <P> Four months ago , Pollak published a broadside by Novelist Sol Yurick that blasted U.S. journalism for not accepting the Symbionese Liberation Army on its own terms . Yurick pursued the absurd argument that if the S.L.A. called a kidnaping an " arrest , " the press should go along ; otherwise , journalists were guilty of Establishment bias . For the current issue , Author Joseph Epstein ( Divorced in America ) has written an essay called " The Media as Villain . " In dis cussing journalism 's problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The media , " he said , " flourish under scandal , disaster , tumult in any form they can get it . . . " Further , U.S. journalism virtually alone caused the " death of the civil rights movement . " Epstein rapped newsmen for the decline in the quality of presidential campaigns and objected to " those odious Exxon and Mobil ads " on TV . <P> Epstein raised some vexed questions , but reduced the answers to stereotypes . He cast " the media " as a monolith instead of the collection of diverse organizations and individuals that is American journalism . In hanging the civil rights movement 's troubles on sensation-seeking press coverage , he ignored a host of political , social and economic factors . The piece was a paradigm of the opinionated mush that More attacks when it appears elsewhere . To cap the inconsistency , the same issue of More carried a full-page Mobil ad of the kind that Epstein deplored .                     