@@491606

" Ireland is a fatal disease  --  fatal to Englishmen and doubly fatal to Irishmen . " The strange political malady afflicting the two people is as virulent today as when Irish author George Moore uttered these fateful words eighty-four years ago . Worse yet , the protracted violence in Northern Ireland indicates that the disease may be reaching its terminal stage , unless drastic measures are taken . Stop-gap Measure When the British government assumed direct rule over its strife-torn province in March of 1972 , most observers believed that , at best , London had only bought some precious time in order to cool the blistering passions of Ulster 's battling Protestant and Roman Catholic factions . But time has never really been on the side of peace in the Emerald Isle . Here , time , history and the present are rolled into a curious whole . In Ireland , writes Richard Rose in Governing Without Consensus , " the troubles of the past are relived as contemporary affairs , " The Battle of the Boyne , that epic battle which sealed Protestant control in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Northern Ireland as the latest bomb blast in Belfast . Wall slogans in Protestant sections of Belfast intone : " Remember 1690 . " It 's as if Boyne 's victor , William of Orange  --  lovingly revered as " King Billy " ? were alive and ruling from Stormont Castle today . For many native Catholic Irish on both sides of the border , the " Easter Uprising " in 1961 , which led to ultimate independence for at least part of Ireland , is as dynamic an event  --  relived constantly in folk ballads  --  as the latest troubles in Londonderry 's Bogside ghetto . Street names in Dublin comprise a virtual register of fallen martyrs who succumbed in the endlessly recurring struggles for Irish freedom . To the English , of course , the names smack of nothing but rebellion . Papal Grant In order to understand the grave crisis in Northern Ireland today , one must understand the key events in Ireland 's living history . How and when did the English become involved in what they monotonously call the " Irish problem " ? Equally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the majority Protestant Scotch-Irish or Ulster Scots , a people whose characteristics , names , history , and religion are radically different from the majority of those living in southern Ireland ? The trouble began in A.D. 1155 when Pope Adrian 1V granted the English King Henry 11 . lordship of Ireland and authorized him to invade the country for the purpose of " reforming evil manners , planting virtue and increasing the Christian religion . " For a while Henry did nothing concerning his papal concession . Adrian , ironically , was the only English pope in history , having been born Nicholas Breakspear in Hertfordshire . Adrian wanted a tighter control over the " saintly eccentricities " of the Irish Church . Catholicism had been introduced into Ireland in A.D. 432 but had progressively developed some non-Roman patterns and traditions . England 's Henry crossed over to Ireland in 1171 with 240 ships and 4,000 troops and conquered the southeastern portion of the island to prevent a possible rival Norman state from arising across the Irish Channel . In 1172 the native Irish kings recognized Henry as Lord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to establish authorityin Ireland . But the English conquerors were never able to secure full support and compliance throughout the whole island . War and killing became almost continuous in succeeding decades and centuries . Laws were subsequently introduced in attempts to secure English predominance . The statutes of Kilkenny of 1366 outlawed intermarriage between Anglo-Norman settlers and the native Irish . The " Plantation " British monarchs of the Protestant faith finally decided that the way to solve the " Irish Problem " was to devastate Ireland and drive the native Irish leaders out of their homelands  --  especially in the North  --  and then " plant a contingent of staunch , loyal Protestants from Scotland and England . Queen Elizabeth I ( 1558-1603 ) initiated the plantation program . For over a decade she was opposed by Hugh O'Neill and Red Hugh O'Donnell who were aided by the Spanish . In 1603 , after the Battle of Kinsale , the Irish leaders abandoned their cause and fled to the Continent . Elizabeth 's successor , Protestant James 1 , took away much of the better land from the Irish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leased large tracts to Protestants from England and the Scottish lowlands . The land was divided among Scottish and English Protestants , most of whom had to promise to take no Irish and no Catholics as tenants . They advertised in England and Scotland for subtenants . In the next thirty years about 20,000 English and 100,000 Scots were successfully settled in Ulster . The Ulster " plantation " occurred at roughly the same time as the beginnings of colonization in America . Jamestown , Virginia , was chartered by James I in 1607 , the year before the Ulster " plantation . " Writes author Richard Rose : " The argument for introducing colonists into Ulster was far more immediate than that for introducing them into Virginia or Pennsylvania . Ireland was of great strategic importance . In the hands of a Continental enemy it could isolate England both from Europe and America . The point had occurred to the Spaniards at the time of the Armada , and was later noted by French and German enemies . " " The Curse of Cromwell " Displaced from large areas of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catholic priests were to be branded on the cheek with a red-hot iron if they failed to register their names and their parishes . Because the priests suffered the same deprivations as their people , the Irish peasantry became even more attached to the Catholic Church and the parish priest . Catholics were excluded from political life , being denied the franchise . In the economic sphere , the selling of Irish goods  --  except for linen  --  was prohibited in Britain and on the Continent . By 1700 , the native Irish had been reduced to serfdom . They owned only one seventh of their own soil . Much of the rest was in the hands of absentee landlords . Pitt 's Plan At the turn of the eighteenth century , William Pitt ( the Younger ) , the famous British Prime Minister , wrestled with the continuing " Irish Problem . " Pitt believed that the only solution to the Irish problem was political union between Great Britain and Ireland . This would mean , of course , giving full political rights to the Catholics . So on January @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into union with the rest of Great Britain . The Great Famine No Irish issue has provoked so much anger or plantation settlers , the Irish Catholics rebelled in 1641 , unleashing the " Great Massacre of Ulster . " The best estimate from historians is that approximately 4,000 Protestants were slain in the uprising , while an additional 7,000 or 8,000 lost their lives due to cold and hunger . The rebellion provoked the vengeful wrath of Oliver Cromwell who had come to power in England and abolished the monarchy . In 1649 , Cromwell unleashed a reign of terror upon Ireland , totally destroying the towns of Drogheda and Wexford and slaughtering the Irish without mercy . He confiscated nine tenths of Ireland and distributed it among English Protestant settlers . After Cromwell 's wars , only some half million Irish were still alive . Yet an Irish nation still existed  --  separate in mind and more hostile in spirit than before : " The indiscriminate inhumanity with which fCromwell 's revenge was exacted ... became indelibly impressed upon the folk memory of the Irish . " ( Adrian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the death of Cromwell , the British government collapsed and the Stuart line was restored to the British throne in 1660 in the person of Charles II . His son was a Catholic , James II , who was deposed in 1688 in the " Glorious Revolution " at which time the Protestant William of Orange ( " the Dutchman " ) assumed the British throne . In an attempt to regain his throne , Catholic James 11 fomented rebellion in Ireland against Protestant King William . James ' following was especially strong in the north of Ireland . James passed the Decree of Attainder in which over 3,000 Protestants were sentenced to death . Many of these condemned Protestants fled to thewalled city of Londonderry ( Derry ) for refuge in 1689 . They were besieged there by Catholic forces under James for fifteen weeks , but were able to hold out until William of Orange could send relief . The Siege of Derry was lifted when the British ship Mountjoy arrived with provisions for the city 's starving inhabitants . The Protestants achieved final victory in 1690 at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever fought in Ireland . Defeated , James fled to France . Generations of Protestant Ulster-Scots have never forgotten the slaughter which their forefathers received at the hands of the Catholic Irish . What Cromwell was to the Catholics , James II was to Ulster Protestants . The Boyne victory firmly established Protestant ascendancy in Ireland . But ruling a largely hostile and subject race proved much more difficult than gaining a decisive military victory . Control of the new Irish Parliament established in Dublin was placed in Protestant hands , with the ultimate authority residing with the Crown in London . Various penal laws were passed by the Dublin Parliament to ensure the continued supremacy of the Protestant minority . These laws were very harsh and greatly restricted Irish freedom . Catholics were forbidden to purchase or hold land on long lease . Catholic landowners were forbidden to hand their property down intact to one son , but instead were forced to divide the land among their progeny . This broke down the larger Catholic estates . A Catholic could not wear a sword or possess a horse worth more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be of the Protestant faith . Catholics could not establish their own schools or send their children abroad to be educated . Catholics were not permitted to marry so embittered relations between English and Irish as the Great Potato Famine . It is an indisputable fact that during this period huge quantities of food of all types were exported from Ireland to England while the people of Ireland were dying of starvation due to the failure of what was almost their sole source of food  --  the potato . The exported food was grown and shipped to pay rent to the absentee landlords . To not pay the rent meant eviction  --  and eviction was tantamount to a death sentence from starvation . There were extenuating circumstances , however , which temper the tendency to accuse the British of heartlessness . Distributing famine relief food , which eventually came in great quantities , especially from Britain , was extremely difficult in primitive Ireland . And cooking any food other than the potato had become virtually a lost art . Bread grains were scarcely ever used . Even ovens were virtually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blame but themselves . " Ulster Will Fight " In 1886 , Liberal Prime Minister Gladstone became convinced that Irish home rule was the only solution . Lord Randolph Churchill , Sir Winston 's father , led the opposition in Ulster to Gladstone 's proposal . He declared in Belfast : " Ulster will fight ! Ulster will be right ! " This became the slogan of the opposition . Gladstone 's bill was ultimately defeated , and the Irish question remained unsolved . Anti-British feelings finally boiled over in 1916 with the " Easter Rebellion " against British rule . The Sinn Fein nationalist movement spearheaded the uprising which was timed to take advantage of Britain 's deep involvement on the Continent during the world war . British authorities dealt swiftly with those who took part in the rebellion . The uprising was crushed and its leaders executed . About 3,000 Irish nationalists perished . The British government , feeling very much in the middle of a mess , had nearly as much trouble with the Ulster Protestants who began to train a militia to preserve English rule . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We will fight to remain British if we have to fight the British . " In 1920 , war broke out between Catholic forces  --  now known as the Irish Republican Army ( I.R.A. )  - -  and the British . After two years of fighting , a compromise was reached that established the Irish Free State but left Ulster in the United Kingdom . Even after the treaty , civil war continued to wrack Ireland until 1923 . The independent southern regime in Dublin acquired dominion status with the British Commonwealth . But the required oath of allegiance to the Royal Crown remained a grievous sorespot to many Irish Republicans . Finally , in 1949 , the Irish government made the final break , reforming itself as the Republic of Ireland . Successive leaders in the South have steadfastly refused to accept the partition of Ireland . Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Ireland states : " The national territory consists of the whole territory of Ireland , its islands and the territorial seas . " The Republic of Ireland 's External Affairs Minister , Dr. Patrick Hillery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1969 : " We regard it as our territory . We regard them as our people . Our constitution recognizes a thirty-two-county Ireland , and until reunification we only have a state of twenty-six counties . " A Protestant Government The government in the North , granted its own parliament at Stormont Castle , was determined , by every manipulation possible , to keep rulership firmly in the hands of the two-thirds Protestant majority . King George V opened the first Northern Irish Parliament on June 22 , 1921 , with an appeal for moderation and fairness : " I appeal to all Irishmen to pause , to stretch out the hand of forbearance and conciliation , to forgive and forget .... " But reality was quite different . The province 's first Prime Minister , Lord Craigavon , spoke of the Stormont regime as " a Protestant government " and called it " a Protestant Parliament for a Protestant people . " Catholics inside the new " Protestant state " foresaw a rather bleak future . They were expected to comply with the new government laws , but their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excluded by gerrymandering tactics from letting their voice be heard in the Stormont government in proportion to their numbers . Shut off also from equal job opportunities and newer housing facilities as they came along , the Catholic minority settled back , sullen , into their crowded urban ghettos . Thus the seeds of Ulster 's present plight were sown . The reaping began in 1968 with the initiation of a civil rights movement spearheaded by the Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association . Initial Catholic attempts to win equal rights through peaceful demonstrations rapidly degenerated into brutal riots when Protestants tried to break up the marches and rallies . In August 1969 , ten months of tension erupted into a weekend of horror in which eight people were killed and more than 200 wounded in Belfast and Londonderry . Within hours , the first combat contingent of British troops was rushed to Ulster to restore order and keep the two communities apart . Initially , the troops were greeted as saviors by the Catholics and scorned as invaders by the Protestants . Continued on page 122 But the protector image did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarded by Catholics as preservers of the despised Stormont regime . Much of the credit for the image switch must go to the provocations of the Irish Republican Army which had not been heard from much since the collapse of its futile 1952-56 campaign of terror . Though split into two rival camps  --  the Marxist-oriented " officials " and the terrorist " Provisionals " ? the I.R.A . bounded back with renewed vigor . The rest of the tragical tale  --  the bombing , the sniping , the indiscriminate maiming of both the Protestant and Catholic population , the threat of a massive Protestant backlash against the I.R.A . which would mean open civil war- all this is current history . The question now is : Can civil war be prevented ? Is there a solution to the crisis in Ire/and ? Endless Proposals ? N o Solutions Endless proposals have been advanced for solving the 800-year-old " Irish problem . " But each " solution " only presents new problems . Here briefly are some of the proposed " solutions , " ( 1 ) A United Ireland . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But it is also the most unlikely , given the uncompromising nature of many of Northern Ireland 's Protestants , who are quick to point out that they would be in a three-to-one minority in a unified Irish state . Their treatment of Catholics in the North , they secretly fear , might come back to haunt them in a united state . So far , the southern Irish government has shown little willingness to alter those parts of its constitution considered to be most offensive to the Protestants ? proscriptions against contraception and divorce and the privileged position enjoyed by the Catholic Church . It is painfully obvious the Unionists in the North would fight to the bitter end to prevent annexation by the South . ( 2 ) The creation of a new , more proportional and representative government in Northern Ireland . Protestants , especially hard-core Unionist Party members , would likely be reluctant to " share " such a government with a Catholic minority pushing hard for social reforms . It is now doubtful whether the Catholic population could place its confidence in another government in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cede the largely Catholic areas in North Ireland to the Republic . If Londonderry , Strabane and the Newry district were ceded to the Republic , the worst security problems would be over . Protestants , however , would generally view such a move as the first step in the dismantling of their state . On the other hand , staunch Republicans , especially the I.R.A. , would never be satisfied . Their pressure for a totally unified Irish nation would not cease . ( 4 ) An enlarged Ulster . A rather strange proposal at first glance , this plan would provide for a better balance between Catholics and Protestants , with nearly half of Northern Ireland 's population drawn from each group . The new Ulster would be governed as a condominium by Great Britain and the Irish Republic with the populace perhaps granted dual citizenship or choice of citizenship . Apart from constitutional complexities , there are two principal obstacles to this plan . First the Irish Republic again would not be disposed to ceding territory and might do so only if this were to be an interim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secondly , the Unionists would not agree to be separated , even in a halfway sense , from the United Kingdom . ( 5 ) A suddenly announced British pullout . By this method , the British Government would declare that its troops will be withdrawn by a given date . It means telling the Dublin Government and the Unionists that they have six , twelve , or whatever number of set months in which to agice . If there is no agreement , they would be left to fight it out  --  or to bring in the United Nations or anyone else they care to find as peacekeepers . The chief objection is that they will not agree and civil war would be inevita ble . Britain tried a similar plan once before  --  with disastrous results . In 1947 , the British gave Hindu and Moslem leaders seventy-two days to come up with a plan on how to divide British India among the two rival religious factions . Millions were slaughtered in the chaotic mass migration of peoples to and from India and the new nation of Pakistan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government a direct breach of all previous promises to protect Northern Ireland and to let its people freely decide their own future by majority decisions . Clearly , the crisis in Northern Ireland must rank with the continuing Jew-Arab struggle as the world 's most nearly insoluble problem . ? ? ? A Plain Truth correspondent on the scene in Northern Ireland details a little-reported aspect of the tragedy in Ulster , that of intimidation . " Please , mister , tell the world the truth of what is really happening over here , " pleaded the middle-aged woman . She was a Roman Catholic who was talking to me while I photographed some burned-out houses in the Ardoyne district of Belfast . With tears in her eyes , she poured out her heart , telling how some of her best friends had lost their homes . And she was talking about Protestants as well as Catholics ! She described one Protestant neighbor as " a good Christian woman who would n't harm a soul , " One of the biggest problems for the authorities to combat is intimidation . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with special telephone numbers for people to ring , yet many citizens of both communities have been too fearful of reprisals to make use of this service . During a two-day strike called by Protestant leaders , many people told of having to stop work because of threatening telephone calls . Earlier , the Catholic-dominated Civil Rights Association called for a " rent and rates " strike in protest against the government . This has been very effective in Catholic areas , Again , some people have been intimidated into support of the C.R.A. cause against their will . Some people send their money to the local council by post because of the fear of being seen visiting the office or having the rent collector call . One collector told me that many said , " Yes , I want to pay , but I dare not . " Others said , " Here 's the money , but do n't mark my rent card , so when I 'm ' checked on ' t hey will not know I paid . " Some people would be willing to inform on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them back . The use of intimidation is just another proof that many do not support violence or even the claims of their own group . Over the years before the present troubles began , great efforts had been made to integrate the two sides in housing and communal life . Most new estates , and many old ones , were " mixed . " People got along well together . They lived together ; their children played together , with the main distinctions being in separate schooling and , of course , separate churches . Even today there are still areas of Belfast , such as Ligoniel and Whitehouse , and towns and villages , such as Kircubbin , Co . Down , where Protestants and Catholics live together happily . Anyone trying to cause division is ignored , or perhaps told to leave . Numbers of people with moderate views are becoming hardened . Even in some of the integrated firms , the workers now sit at opposite ends of the canteen at mealtimes . However , the majority of the people in Northern Ireland still wish to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it all and have kept the flames alive . The real troubles only come from the " hard-core " areas . A Catholic man told me , " A number of Catholics would acknowledge the Union Jack tomorrow if they were allowed to . " Most I have talked to , both Catholics and Protestants alike , say , " We were all doing well and learning to live with each other . Why did others have to disturb us ? "                     