@@487995

Today , to an extent previously unknown , the apparatus and findings of musical scholarship impinge on the world of practical music making . Some performers , at least , have become aware that a written score rarely conveys all the information necessary for a ' stylistically intelligent performance , and that errors minute and gross may have interfered with the transmission of even that inadequate written text . Perhaps because various forms of improvisation have assumed a role in recent music , we have come to accept the notion that the establishment of a " definitive " text may - not be an appropriate ideal for music of certain periods and traditions . Even where this ideal does seem reasonable , as among the posterity-oriented composers of the 19th and early 20th centuries , it may sometimes turn out to be unattainable because the composer , for personal or psychological reasons , or through the intervention of force majeure , never himself succeeded in achieving such a text . With public consciousness of such possibilities , arguments about editions and Urtexts now appear regularly in the non-scholarly musical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make much ado about the authenticity , or at least novelty , of their source material . With particular reference to novelty , we frequently encounter performing versions of a work that predate the " definitive " text ; these may provide fascinating glimpses into the compositional process , while at the same time serving  --  perhaps not incidentally  --  to stretch the standard repertory without imposing unduly on the audience 's supposedly limited tolerance for the unfamiliar . The recovery of such earlier versions may also involve a considerable degree of hypothesis ( as does also the editing of a work that survives only in a form palpably not definitive ) . The , possibility that first thoughts may have been superior to later ones certainly can not be ruled out ; for example , many pianists draw upon Schumann 's first versions in preference to his revisions . But in all such cases , accurate scholarship , clear attribution of sources , and detailed reporting of editorial decisions and assumptions are paramount . Among the more celebrated works that have been entangled in the thicket of problems adumbrated above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Metropolitan Opera raise some pertinent issues . Before its 1875 premFere at the Opera-Comique in Paris the opera underwent a stormy rehearsal period , during which Bizet modified his score in various ways , in particular by omitting some music . For a subsequent performance at the Vienna Opera , he intended to replace the spoken dialogue that originally connected the separate musical numbers ( in the tradition of the OperaComique ) by orchestrally accompanied recitatives , but his sudden death prevented this and the task was carried out by his colleague Ernest Guiraud . Since then , the Guiraud version of Carmen has been the accepted text , to the almost complete exclusion of Bizet 's original , although spoken dialogue is now seen as perfectly practicable at our major opera houses ( e.g. , in Mozart 's ZauberflOte ) , and such similar expediencies as Artur Bodanzky 's recitatives for Fidelio and Freischiitz were long ago discarded at the Metropolitan . The present restoration of the dialogue at the Met , albeit in considerably abridged form , is certainly a gain ; as one who has campaigned in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theatrical confirmation of my belief that , it is viable in performance . Furthermore , the fact that Bizet clearly composed the speechto-music transitions with the greatest of care argues that his recitative settings for Vienna , had he lived to carry them out , might well have entailed recomposing some of his original material in the absence of such transitions ; this would have been , naturally , a license that Guiraud did not feel able to take . Beyond this , however , the assertion that the Met restored the opera " as originally performed at the 1875 Paris premiere , " is most emphatically not so . What Leonard the conducted was substantially the edition recently prepared by a German scholar , Fritz Oeser , incorporating the music removed before that premiere , but omitting an episode in Act I that , for better or worse , was played then ( and included in the published vocal score , for which Bizet read the proofs before he died ) . The validity of this " Ur-Carmen " has been seriously questioned , especially by the leading Bizet student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " new " material ' is concerned , the argument hinges on whether Bizet made cuts in the opera under duress or in order to improve it after the experience of actual rehearsal : was he a Bruckner who conceded , at least temporarily , to the counsel of expedience , or a Rossini who adapted himself immediately and enthusiastically to the realities of the theatre ? Dean argues the latter , and adduces considerable evidence to support his view that in many details Oeser has played fast and loose with the source material , making " an arbitrary selection from almost every stage of Bizet 's work . . . . If a conductor performed the score as printed here , he would in hundreds of cases be resurrecting what Bizet specifically  --  and often for the clearest possible artistic reasons  --  rejected out of hand . " Thus , aside from that initially inaccurate description of what was played , the Met 's failure to intimate its controversial nature is disappointing . Without access to the sources , one can here hardly delve further into this question , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of Oeser 's more notable solecisms , the concoction of a sequence of musical events at Carmen 's death that Bizet certainly never wrote ( although the final version of this passage seems to me arguably superior to any of the alternatives ) , and did some patching elsewhere . What can be considered , however , is the aesthetic effect of at least the substantive additions that the Ur-Carmen makes to the work we know . Most of these are in Act I , and most of them are on a par with the best of the score , for as we have long known , Bizet 's invention and sense of color are as evident in the smallest details as in the celebrated set pieces . I am delighted to have heard it all in context on the stage , and yet I eventually became acutely conscious of the length of this particular act ( at Bernstein 's tempos , anyway , it ran to nearly an hour ) . Probably because most of the interpolations concern the general ambience rather than the affairs of the protagonists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And where the protagonists are involved , as in the extended presentation of the " Fate " music following the Habaiiera , the difficulties of staging an extended pantomime ( Carmen " exerting her wiles " on Jose ) within an essentially realistic production induced the director to lapse into an exceptional and unconvincing patch of expressionistic lighting . On the other hand , the troublesome duel duet in Act III has been salvaged by a considerable cut and effebtive direction . Happily , this Carmen production is in most respects a musically and theatrically admirable enterprise ; how much of its quality stems from the original conception of Goeran Gentele , the late general manager , can hardly be assessed by an outsider , but whether as transmitter or originator , Bodo Igesz , the stage director , deserves great praise for putting together a show that is generally first-rate drama and spectacle , in something like the appropriate proportions . His handling of Marilyn Home ( Carmen ) and James McCracken ( Jose ) is especially skillful , for neither would seem to be endowed by nature for such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt to place Jose centrally in - the drama ( which included an opening tableau during the final part of the Prelude , showing him spotlighted on a darkened stage ) was less than successful , for McCracken was at a disadvantage in the relatively intimate encounters of the first two acts ; only later was he able to bring to bear the brute force that his bulk implies and the intensity that his voice can command . Miss Horne , on the other hand , surprised everyone with a canny portrayal that wisely sidestepped the usual seductress clich  --  s ; she gave us a saucy , salty , slightly vulgar , vivacious if net beautiful woman who had no qualms whatever about letting the world know what she enjoyed and with whom she would like to enjoy it . Alvin Ailey 's lively choreography in the tavern scene worked around her to splendid effect , and elsewhere she was content with a few simple dance steps , which proved more intriguing than all those fancy flamenco routines that past Carmens have labored so hard to master . And , most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressively , with particular finesse in handling all those little ornaments that give Carmen 's lines such character and fluency ; the lesson that the character is in the music , not in the singer 's physical endowment and flexibility , could not have been more clearly stated . Another valuable point was made by the scenery of Josef Svoboda and the costumes of David Walker ; in subdued grays , browns and blacks , they allowed the occasional dramatic use of color : the red rose that Carmen threw at Jose in Act I riveted the attention , for no other tone so intense was seen during the entire act . Only one set was a failure : the mountain pass , figured by a large carpet hanging down in a loop , on which was projected a " rocky " texture . A few visual details want further attention , perhaps : in the intense " Spanish sunlight " of Act I , the soldiers and passersby began by furiously mopping brows and fanning , but thereafter quite forgot their discomfort ; similarly , since cigarette smoke curls through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one soldier allowed to smoke during the opening chorus , instead of saving the effect for the cigarette girls ' chorus , which is all about smoke ? However , the contrast with the vulgar display of recent Met productions was nothing short of bracing . Bernstein contributed enormous ? lan from the podium , the rhythmic impetus never flagging even in some decidedly slow tempos . Although at the third performance ( September 30 ) there were still some patches of poor ensemble between stage and pit , most of the choral and orchestral work was uncommonly enthusiastic and accurate . Given the emphases of the production , Micaela and Escamillo found themselves reduced in significance vis- ? - vis the principals , but Adriana Maliponte sang with great sweetness and musicality ( although her function in Act III was rather ill-defined , for she wandered into the mountain gorge without the prescribed guide , and faded into anomalous darkness at the end of her aria ) . Tom Krause , on the other hand , had every opportunity in the Toreador Song , but his woolly , thewy sound offered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capitalized on his increased opportunities as Zuniga , and the smaller parts were well taken ( it did rather seem as if Frasquita and Mercedes had been cast with an eye to making Miss Home appear as small as possible ) . ?                     