@@491654

? Ito 4 The Author is Personal Photographer to President Richard Nixon and Chief White House Photographer A. Aubrey Boi t'y Editor 's Note : Mr. Atkins personally knew A. Aubrey Bodine and admired his photography . He has gratuitously contributed this introduction to the salon of Bodine photographs presented here to honor the man he regards as the greatest photo-journalistic pictorialist of our times . " I make some of my best photographs when most other photographers are asleep , " Aubrey Bodine once told me . I knew this to be the truth for he loved to make pictures at daybreak when the sun was just a large red ball of fire resting on the Atlantic horizon . Even when the sun is concealed by morning fog or cloud cover , there is a very special magic about " crack of dawn " lighting and this Bodine took advantage of to get dramatic lighting in his photographs . This great American photographer was a very special person in American photo-journalistic history . His first real job was with the Baltimore Sun papers  --  specifically the Baltimore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , over fifty years later , he died following a stroke while working there in the darkroom . Bodine shunned New York and the national picture magazines to concentrate his efforts in the Baltimore and the Chesapeake Bay region . The selected photographs on these pages exhibit Bodine 's talents as a master pictorialist . For a quarter century he was one of the most successful exhibitors in the world and was always an important exhibitor in this country . He had what amounted to a weekly salon in the rotogravure section of the Baltimore Sunday Sun . Unlike most professionals , he worked closely with amateur camera clubs . One of these  --  the Photographic Society of America with some 13,000 members  --  bestowed its highest honor , an honorary fellowship , on him with a citation which read in part , " for his talent , accomplishments and encouraging influence in photography as an art . " A few realists were critical of Bodine 's work for the liberties he took in putting clouds in Continued on page 126 Grecnspring Lane " in the City of Baltimore . Nancy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He also doctored the negatives with various darkroom techniques to " improve " the pictures . Bodine argued that the author doctors his text and the painter dubs all sorts of extras into his sketches , so as an artist-photographer he had every right to do whatever necessary to make the photograph worthwhile . This is all very interesting , for Bodine got his first break when , as a messenger for the newspaper , lie was hired as a photographer when the man who had the job was fired for making a picture of what purported to be a wild turkey slyly photographed in the woods when , in fact , it was a domestic fowl not so cleverly tied to a nearby tree . I agree with Bodine . Truth in photographic reporting can not be distorted . Pictorial photography is artistic and the rules which permit the writer and the painter to alter the facts apply . His old friend and coworker Harold A. Williams , in a new book , A. Aubrey Bodine-A Legend in His Time says , " I think that what continued from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people develop at anything like comparable rates . It is this change in the statistical odds against love that accounts for the high divorce and separation rates in most of the techno-societies . The faster the rate of change and the longer the life span , the worse these odds grow . Something has to crack . In point of fact , of course , something has already cracked- and it is the old insistence on permanence . Millions of men and women now adopt what appears to them to be a sensible and conservative strategy . Rather than opting for some offbeat variety of the family , they marry conventionally , they attempt to make it " work , " and then , when the paths of the partners diverge beyond an acceptable point , they divorce or depart . Most of them go on to search for a new partner whose developmental stage , at that moment , matches their own . As human relationships grow more transient and modular , the pursuit of love becomes , if anything , more frenzied . But the temporal expectations change . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delivering on its promise of lifelong love , therefore , we can anticipate open public acceptance of temporary marriages . Instead of wedding " until death us do part , " couples will enter into matrimony knowing from the first that the relationship is likely to be short-lived . They will know , too , that when the paths of husband and wife diverge , when there is too great a discrepancy in developmental stages , he leaves out of a picture is almost as important as what he allows into it . " Although locally famous wherever the Baltimore Sun circulated , he never gained national recognition . This was not true in photographic circles where he was well known by amateur and press photographers . His photographs have won a host of honors and awards . Of 51,038 entries in Popular Photography 's 1948 annual contest , a Bodine picture of oyster dredgers took first prize and $5,000 . The next year he copped second prize in the same contest with 53,554 entries . in 1953 the National Press Photographers ' Association named him a " Fellow . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most successful of which is Chesapeake Bay and Tidewater . However , his photographs have been widely used in all kinds of publications . I am delighted that the Saturday Evening Post is reproducing these fine examples of Bodine 's photography through the courtesy of his widow , Nancy Tait Bodine. a they may call it quits-without shock or embarrassment , perhaps even without some of the pain that goes with divorce today . And when the opportunity presents itself , they will marry again , .. and again ... and again , In one sense , serial marriage is already the best kept family secret of the techno-societies . According to Professor Jessie Bernard , a world-prominent family sociologist , " Plural marriage is more extensive in our society today than it is in societies that permit polygamy- the chief difference being that we have institutionalized plural marriage serially or sequentially rather than contemporaneously . " Remarriage is already so prevalent a practice that nearly one out of every four bridegrooms in America has been to the altar before . It is so prevalent that one IBM personnel man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in filling out a job application , paused when she came to the question of marital status . She put her pencil in her mouth , pondered for a moment , then wrote : " Unremarried . " Even young people who most passionately seek commitment , profound involvement with people and causes , recognize the power of the thrust toward transience . As serial marriages become more common , we shall begin to characterize people not in terms of their present marital status , but in terms of their marriage career or " trajectory . " This t rajectory will be formed by the decisions they make at certain vital turning points in their lives . For most people , the first such juncture will arrive in youth , when                     