@@490795

IT is almost universally conceded in the electronic data-processing industry that , even with the help of auditing teams , it is extremely difficult to detect acts of embezzlement , fraud , or thievery in which computers , or the processing routines employed in their operation , arc used as the principal tools of crime . It seems to be also agreed that the number of undetected computer-related crimes is probably far greater than the number of those on record . Of course , a considerable amount of fraud occurs under manual accounting systems , and the computer unquestionably offers , through its instant and wide-ranging memory-search devices , internal controls over data that were not possible in the past . However , manual systems of accounting , although they involve great quantities of slow-moving paper , offer a certain security in that the paper goes through many different clerical and supervisory hands , which means that a successful fraud has to pass the repeated scrutiny of a number of people . But with computerized systems , in which literally tons of paperwork may be compressed into recorded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of people in the chain is vastly reduced . This tends to put far more information than before into the hands of far fewer people than before , and the capacity for abuse thus tends to be increased . Furthermore , the manual system requires clerks to sign vouchers , whereas computers impose anonymity . " When I type a computer entry into the record from a keyboard terminal , it looks just the same as if you had typed it , " one computer-security man with considerable experience in banking systems said to me recently . " In a multi-terminal computer system , there is simply no way of telling with certainty who is pushing the keys at the other end . " Also , because of the extreme complexity of any computer system , it is difficult to check on just what a computer programmer , designer of a particular program , computer-tape librarian , or computer user may have been doing . Certainly , such matters tend to be almost entirely opaque to top management people in many organizations , and they are difficult even for auditors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientist at the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration of the University of Virginia , wrote two years ago in a Harvard Business Review article on computer crime , " computer technology tends to confound auditors and managers to the extent that they are rarely in a position to detect or prevent computer-based embezzlement . " Indeed , the number of successful computer frauds that have been committed against companies whose books have been found in order by reputable auditing firms has raised some serious questions in the financial press and in government about whether the auditing profession today is adequately protecting the public interest . These questions were underlined when , last September , after a three-year investigation into the many-dimensioned fraud at the Equity Funding Corporation of America , in Los Angeles  --  which involved the fraudulent resale to bona-fide insurance firms of faked Equity policies bearing the names of " policyholders " whose sole existence was within the corporation 's computers  --  the Securities and Exchange Commission accused the well-known accounting firm of Seidman &; Seidman of negligence when it audited the Equity Funding books and declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial position . ( The firm was also accused of negligence when it audited the books of three other companies in trouble with the S.E.C. ) The S.E.C. made clear its belief that although the actual deceptions  --  primarily the practice of listing fictional dead souls as holders of live insurance policies  --  had been carried out by Seidman &; Seidman 's client , the conduct of the accounting firm itself " represented a breach of its ethical and professional responsibilities . " The Commission maintained that , contrary to the representations of the accounting firm , the audits of Equity Funding were not carried out in accordance with generally accepted accounting procedures , that critical areas of the audits had been undertaken by inadequately trained people , and that the firm had placed " unwarranted reliance on management representations . " The S.E.C. issued a formal administrative order instructing Seidman &; Seidman to improve its auditing procedures . A vice-president handling computer security in one large New York bank has little faith in the idea that the auditing profession can improve its ability to detect computer crimes in the making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told me . " They may confirm it after it happens . " Other computer-security people are even more skeptical on this score . " The beautiful part about a computer crime is that if you 're intent on committing one you can always make Column A equal Column B for the accountants , " Lindsay L. Baird , Jr. , an independent computer-security consultant , remarked some time ago . Donn B. Parker , a computer-security expert at SRI International ( formerly the Stanford Research Institute ) , in Menlo Park , California , who has compiled extensive information on compute ' crimes and is the author of a hook called " Crime by Computer , " has observed that one basic problem affecting the auditor 's detection of irregularities in computerized accounts is that in dealing with digitized material the auditor is at least once removed from the contents of the original record ; he is essentially examining data representing the work of computer-terminal operators , computer programmers , magnetic-tape librarians , and electron ics engineers . " Dealing with a computerized system tends to destroy the independence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is supposed to be auditing are standing between hint and the documents of record transmitted by these people , " Parker has said . In computer systems , what accountants call " the audit trail , " by which auditors are supposedly able to trace transactions backward and forward , is at times inadequately marked . In manual systems , the audit trail consists of journals , ledgers , and other documents , all present before the auditor 's eyes . But in a computerized accounting system , as Foster Brown , a **28;5539;TOOLONG expert , wrote in an article in the Journal of Systems Management in April of 1975 , " the form , content , and accessibility of records frequently are such that the auditor is unable to follow a single transaction completely through the system . " The impediments , Brown wrote , include the problem that source documents , once put into computer-readable form , tend to become relatively inaccessible , and in some computer systems are even eliminated . Brown also noted that " ledger summanes may be replaced by master files that do not show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Above all , Brown said , the ability of the auditor to take a direct look at the figures involved is hindered by the fact that " files maintained on a magnetic medium can not be read except by use of the computer and a computer program " ? and , as Parker , too , pointed out , the computer and its program are generally run not by the auditor but by the people being audited . He has said , " The system is sufficiently complex so that if an auditor of the computerized books of a large corporation were to be truly independent in his examination , he would have to bring with him for the auditing process not only his own team of computer specialists but even his own computer . " Not long ago , I called on Donald L. Adams , managing director of administrative services for the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants , a trade association , about half of whose members are auditors , and asked him to explain his group 's position on the problems of auditing computerized company books that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as far as the auditing profession is concerned , " basically , our goal is to come up with a representation of the fairness of the financial statement set forth . " He went on , " As a result , we have disclaimed that it is our responsibility to detect fraud . Certainly , many of the things we do in an audit might uncover fraud , and if we do we bring it to the attention of the client . " A " Statement on Auditing Standards , " issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants , limits the responsibility of the auditor in even more determined language . It states , in part , " The auditor recognizes that fraud , if sufficiently material , may affect his opinion on the financial statements . " It goes on , " However , the ordinary examination ... is not primarily or specifically designed , and can not be relied upon , to disclose defalcations and other similar irregularities , although their discovery may result . " And it insists that the responsibility of the auditor to detect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearly results from failure to comply with generally accepted auditing standards . " Adams said in his talk with me that , with certain exceptions , the financial impact of computer-related fraud is not great . " The sort of frauds that have taken place , while the amounts involved might seem high , have not been what in our parlance we term material ; that is , they have not had a major impact on the fairness of a financial statement , " he said . This , he made clear , was the official position of the auditors ' association . Speaking unofficially , he conceded that it might be difficult to sustain that position in all cases of computer fraud , and certainly in the case of the Equity Funding affair . He asserted that most large accounting firms had people on their staffs who specialized in the auditing of computer systems and who were highly qualified to audit data from computers . THE handling of more and more computerized information  --  or digitized money , so to speak  --  by fewer and fewer people and the increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eliminating the few human beings left in the computer-communication chain . This trend is apparent both in the area of electronic fund transfers , notably between banking institutions , and in government accounting systems , in which many hilling and payment functions are carried out almost entirely by computer . One of the largest banks in New York is estimated to engage in computerized fund trans fers of about thirty billion dollars a day . A significant part of this traffic has now been completely automated . " We will guarantee to some of our customers that the transactions in which they are involved will not be touched by human hands , " a vice-president of this bank told me a while ago . He added , " The reason the customers like the service is that computers do n't make errors ; people do . " However , a report issued last spring by the General Accounting Office , an investigative arm of Congress , on the automated decision-making by computers in government was not sanguine about heavy reliance on the untouchedby-human-hands approach at least , on the federal level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue , on an automated and unreviewed basis , authorizations for payments or checks ( not including payroll checks ) totalling twenty-six billion dollars ; the computers also issue unreviewed hills totalling ten billion dollars and unreviewed requisition orders , shipping orders , repair schedules , and the like valued at eight billion dollars . Altogether , according to the G.A.O . report , federal computers are involved in more than one and a half billion separate payments and other actions a year " without anybody reviewing or evaluating whether they are correct . " The G.A.O . found that designers , programmers , and users of electronic dataprocessing equipment made numerous errors , which were the cause of millions of dollars of wasted expenditure ; it also found that the data being processed were not subject to adequate internal audits . Concerning the latter aspect , the G.A.O . report observed , " We learned that certain internal-audit groups rarely became involved in the computer applications ' logic because they lacked the expertise to effectively make such studies . " In a separate report , the G.A.O . noted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as in the private sector is cause for concern about how well systems are being controlled . " This report said that the G.A.O . had learned of sixty-nine computer-related crimes or other incidents occurring within the government , and that these crimes had resulted in losses of more than two million dollars , but it emphasized that the sixty-nine episodes were only those that had conic to light , and stated that " we can not be sure whether ... we simply have not uncovered larger crimes . " Concerning the adequacy of internal controls within government agencies , the G.A.O . report said that " federal agencies ' internal audit groups vary greatly " in how they review the integrity of computer-processing systems , and that in nine of twelve cases studied " auditors had not reviewed controls in the systems involved . " Further , it observed , " Agency internal auditors often had not been informed about computer-related crimes so they could consider their effect on audit procedures . In several of the cases we reviewed , auditors told us our inquiry was the first time they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elsewhere , most of those in government involve the doctoring of data fed into the computer and the manipulation of programs so as to have funds deposited in dummy corporate accounts and checks sent to unauthorized people . Lindsay Baird gave me one such example . " The incident happened a few years ago in a town in southern California , " Baird said . " A woman had gone to a hank there to cash an Internal Revenue Service tax-refund check made out to her . She had all the proper persona identification with her , but a bank employee happened to recall from other checks the woman had cashed there that she was on public assistance , and felt puzzled by the federal-tax refund . She told her superior at the bank , the I.R.S. was notified , and the I.R.S. looked into the matter . They found that they had no record of having sent such a check to the woman , An investigation  --  in which I had a part , followed . It turned out that the woman had a niece working in California for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ niece asked her aunt if she would like to have some government money . The woman said she would .. So her relative at the I.R.S. got the woman 's Social Security number from her , and with that she created in the I.R.S. computer system a fictitious tax record for her . The niece knew the sequence of the I.R.S. computing process . The I.R.S. uses ten regional computers around the country , and maintains a master computer in West Virginia . Hung on the ten regional computers are terminals . Through one of these terminals , the operator instructed the regional computer that the woman was owed a tax refund foe a certain amount . She knew just what she was doing . The instruction was registered in the regional computer and passed on from that computer into the master computer in West Virginia . The master computer wrote the woman a refund check at the appropriate time in the programmed check-writing cycle . Then , after the check-writing cycle had been completed , the operator deleted the record from the regional computer , which then updated the master @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fictitious record that had been compiled , and also deleted the record of its ever having written the woman a refund check . In this case , the guilty operator was identified in the investigation . But the question remained as to whether this was the only such case of altering I.R.S. records and affecting its check-writing functions . The I.R.S. people had no practical way of finding out how many operators might have been doing the same sort of thing . The cost of auditing and investigating so many people  --  so many relatives and friends of terminal operators  --  was so monumental that the I.R.S. people just gave up . ' They wanted to find a way of patching up the system to prevent similar incidents , of course , but I told them that it could n't be done  --  that , among other things , the system had not been designed with auditahility in mind . " THE difficulties of catching up with the people who have committed computer crimes is compounded by the reluctance of corporations to talk about the fact that they have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trial . In instance after instance , corporations whose assets have been plundered whose computer operations have been left shattered by wiped-out memory functions or have been manipulated to churn out fictitious accounting data or to print large checks to the holders of dummy accounts  --  have preferred to suffer in silence rather than to have the horrid facts about the frailty of their miracle processing systems come to public attention . Top management people in large corporations fear that publicity about internal fraud could well affect their companies ' trading position on the stock market , hold the corporations up to public ridicule , and cause all sorts of turmoil within their staffs . In many cases , it seems , management will go to great lengths to keep the fact of an internal computer crime from its own stockholders . People who commit computer crimes tend to he aware of management 's extreme sensitivity to publicity on the subject , and when their defalcations happen to he discovered they sometimes take advantage of that sensitivity to bargain their way out of serious trouble . One example of the unabashed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hook on computer crime by Gerald McKnight , a British writer . According to Mc-Knight , a young manager of the sales department of a company in the Eng-lish Midlands voted with other directors of his company to computerize its accounting operations . He thereafter began systematical ) looting the com-pany treasury through its computer by establishing dummy companies , to whose accounts lie instructed the computer to write a steady stream of checks . His crime was eventually uncovered partly through the resentment of a computer keypunch clerk , whom he had bur-dened with unpaid overtime work that happened to consist of entering his fraudulent instructions into the com-pany 's accounting system . Upon being confronted with the fraud , the crimi-nal calmly admitted his misdeeds , but his fellow-directors pointed out to the chairman of the board that any prose-cution would resat in publicity that could have serious effects on the com-pany 's reputation for efficient control of its affairs . The Former sales man-tiger went on to demand coolly that the company give him a letter nf rec-ommendation so that he could find satisfactory work elsewhere . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end gave him the rec-ommendation , whereupon the computes criminal moved to another company as its executive director and , for three and a half years thereafter , steadily manipu-lated its computer to pay money out into dummy accounts , at the rate of about a hundred thousand dollars a year . After a long internal investigation into incon-sistencies that were eventually discov-ered in the company ' s accounts , the crime was brought to light . And once again the criminal admitted his guilt , and managed to walk away with a letter of recommendation to his next prospective employer . But the malefactor 's boldness tripped him up . Before leaving the second company , he had the effrontery to demand that the second company pay him a lump sum of about six thousand dollars to cover " loss of office " ? a separation payment to which , under British law , executives are entitled under certain circumstances . At that , the indignation of the directors of the second company simply could not he contained ; not only did they refuse to pay but they took legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They started a civil suit against him , charging breach of contract . The suit is reported to be pending . The reluctance of corporations to subject themselves to unfavorable publicity over computer crimes is so great that some corporations actually seem willing to take the risk of getting into trouble with the law themselves by concealing crimes or attempted crimes committed against them . Among independent computer-security consultants , it is widely suspected that certain banks , which seem exceptionally reluctant to admit that such a thing as computer fraud even exists in the banking fraternity , do not always report such crimes to the Comptroller of the Currency , in Washington , when they occur , as all banks are required to do by federal law . Bank officers do not discuss the details of computer crimes with the press . Neither do officials at the office of the Comptroller of the Currency , who claim that existing statutes forbid them to do so . Thus the banks seem effectively protected from detailed public examination of the degree to which they really do comply with the law . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security were bad , " one independent computer-security man said to me in explaining the reluctance of some banks to comply with that law . Donn Parker , who believes he has almost certain knowledge of at least one major bank computer clime that was never reported to the federal government , told me that a principal reason for this kind of behavior is the fear on the part of hanks that such a record will bring about an increase in their insurance rates ; and he explained that the terms of their contracts for insurance against robbery or other crimes are among the most confidential and jealously guarded information in the banks ' possession . Then , there are the difficulties of effectively prosecuting computer criminals . In the first place , the police , if they are to collect evidence , have to be able to understand precisely how a crime may have been committed , and that usually calls for the kind of technical knowledge that is simply not available to most police departments . Even on a federal rather than a local law-enforcement level , few members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ data processing to prepare a case against defendants which will stand up in court . The Federal Bureau of Investigation has developed a course in computer criminology at its agent-training center , at Quantico , Virginia , hut , according to commercial computer-security people I have talked with , the training so far offered is not of a very advanced type in relation to all the ramifications of the existing criminal problems . Another difficulty is that not only police and prosecutors but juries and judges must he able to find their way through the mass of technical detail before they can render verdicts and hand down decisions in cases of computer crime , and this alone is a demanding task . In the face of all the complexities involved and all the time necessary to prepare a case that will stand up in court , many prosecutors try to make the best accommodation they can with the defendants ' lawyers by plea bargaining , or else they simply allow the cases to fade away unprosecuted . If they do bring a case to trial , they have the problem of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bequai , who is a former member of the enforcement staff of the S.E.C. , and who , besides being a practicing lawyer in Washington , was once the chairman of a Federal Bar Association subcommittee on white-collar crime , says that the big stumbling block for prosecutors in computer-crime cases is the introduction of digitized information as acceptable evidence . " Suppose you bring a case involving a crime committed through manipulation of a computer , and you try to introduce a computer printout as evidence of the crime , " Bequai explains . " You immediately run into what is called the hearsay rule , which says that at a trial you ca n't introduce into the court record a statement made outside the courtroom unless it represents a record of an act , transaction , occurrence , or event made contemporaneously with the act at issue , and in the ordinary course of business . Such an acceptable record would be the notation made by a nurse in a doctor 's office as to what time a patient came in to see the doctor on a particular day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a record to support a prosecution case , the prosecution has to reckon with the fact that they have n't necessarily been made in the regular course of business or made contemporaneously with the acts at issue  --  they may have been run off some time after the actual crime . In matters of fraud , you have to prove who falsified what records and when , and produce evidence to that effect , but it 's extremely difficult to produce evidence of precisely what happened throughout the whole computing process , with all its stages -- the input at entry terminals , the programming of the data , the storage and all the processing that take place in the computer room itself , the production by the computer of punch-card decks representing the processed data , and , of course , the eventual printouts , which might be made in remote spots thousands of miles away . And then you have to contend with how material these electronic signals are considered to be under the law . Suppose someone steals  --  physically makes off with  --  paper securities . That 's a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is clearly printed on the stolen securities . But what if a thief steals a reel of computer tape bearing the same information as the paper securities but in digitized form Under many state laws , the prosecution may have a hard time proving in court that the thief has stolen money . What he has made off with may he downgraded to a reel of magnetic tape so what is actually grand larceny becomes a case of petit larceny . " The status of electronic data impulses as property is as yet so undefined and unclear in many criminal statutes that the findings of a California judge in the case of the man I have called Eli Bart  --  which involved the theft of a valuable program from the computer of another company  --  is likely to he a precedent in computer-crime jurisprudence . Bart used his employer 's computer keyboard terminal and printout system to extract , via telephone line , the program in question from a competing company 's computer . The judge found that , under a California law protecting trade secrets , electronic data impulses that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ computer did not constitute an " article , " or a tangible form , representing a trade secret . What the court did find was that the material in question was essentially " a private library , " to which Bart had obtained access without a proper library card , consisting of the secret passwords and sn on that were necessary for authorized users . The act of theft , the court found , was not in Bart 's stealing electronic impulses over the telephone line but only in his stealing their tangible form ; in other words , the theft consisted of Bart 's having caused his employer 's computer to make a printout of the pirated program and his physically carrying the printout from his employer 's computer into his nearby office . Even when people who carry out computer-related crimes are convicted , they are seldom sent to prison , and even when they are , they usually receive sentences that arc remarkahly light compared with those imposed on people convicted of commoner forms of larceny . In part , this leniency can he explained by the generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most judges , and , possibly , the impersonal nature of the victims chosen by the defendants . Furthermore , nearly all the defendants are members of the white-collar class , and so are generally deemed to be good risks for rehabilitation ; compared with people accused of street larceny , say , most of the convicted people fare well in the presentencing reports prepared by probation departments , whose researchers tend to work within a structure of solid bourgeois values . Fur a computer embezzlement of a million and a half dollars from the Union Dime Savings Bank in New York , the man I have called Stephen Hamlet , the chief teller in the Park Avenue branch of the hank , received a sentence of twenty months in jail . ( This sentence led one computer-security man to remark , " If a man takes money from a bank teller and does n't even use a gun but only shoves a note at the teller , he 'll get five years . Harmer 's haul of a million and a half dollars is the equivalent of his having committed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rate of the typical branch holdup take , which is about two thousand dollars . " ) For his use of the Pacific Telephone &; Telegraph Company 's computer to steal a million dollars ' worth of equipment , a young computer buff named Jerry Schneider was sentenced to sixty days in jail , and was freed after serving a hit more than a. month . In the case- of Eli Bart , the presentencing report noted , " Computer-program theft is the crime of the future . As such , it has not been referred to this probation office at the felony level in prior instances . Thus , there is no ready frame of reference for determining a proper sentence . " Bart got three years ' probation and a five-thousand-dollar fine . One ringleader of a gang that police charged had , in 1971 , recruited insiders at two credit-reporting bureaus  --  TRW Credit Data and the Computer Credit Corporation  --  to establish false identities and credit records in the computers of these companies was , after pleading guilty to charges of making false financial statements , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ringleader of another gang that penetrated TRW Credit Data , between 1973 And 1974 , and inserted false credit data in its computers was also placed on probation and fined a thousand dollars on similar charges . A computer-terminal operator inside another credit-reporting bureau , called Equifax , Inc. , who was alleged to have participated in a scheme to feed fake credit data into company computers was not even taken to court . According to an article in the /Tall Street Journal last March , " Equifax actually declined to prosecute its suspected insider , " because " prosecution was so difficult , " and because the company had fired the terminal operator suspected of having participated in the scheme and considered her dismissal penalty enough . For the purpose of closing some of the loopholes in existing law that make it so difficult for prosecutors to bring computer criminals to account in the courts , Senator Abraham Rihicoff , of Connecticut , introduced a bill in the Senate in June that would make virtually any unauthorized use of federal computers or computer-processing systems , or similar private equipment or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The hill is designed to cover improper manipulations within a broad range of activities occurring in computer processing : input activity , involving the translation of data into computerized form and its storage on punch cards , magnetic tapes , or other devices ; programming activity , which provides a logical sequence of instructions that direct the computer in solving problems ; processing activity , in which data are handled according to the directions of a program ; and output activity , where the end results of the data processing are made available to the computer user in printout or other form . The Ribicoff bill is also aimed at improper manipulations of computers or their data from remote locations , via telephone line , such as occurred in the Bart case . THERE are certain exceptions to the history of lenient treatment of computer criminals who have been convicted . One such example is the case of a man I shall refer to as James Harlowe . Several years ago , in a northern-California court , Harlowe was convicted of embezzling more than a million dollars from his employer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the computer that processed the company 's accounts . Harlowe had carried out the embezzlement during a period of six years from a position of trust as the company 's chief accountant . In essence , what Harlowe did was to use the computer to play a kind of digitized war game , in which he designed a master program that , when it was integrated into the company 's computerized accounting system , would systematically siphon off large sums into dummy accounts and thus into his own pockets -- all this in such a way that his crime would be virtually untraceable . And the scheme worked , year after year , without his employers ' being any the wiser . It worked so well , in fact , that in the end , when Harlowe decided , for his own reasons , to have it known that an embezzlement had been going on , he encountered difficulty in drawing attention to the fact that his company 's computerized hooks had been thoroughly cooked for a long period . When he was finally apprehended and found guilty of grand theft , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before his sentencing he tactlessly displayed such a lack of remorse that the court was angered and he was given a ten-year term in prison . Of that term , he served five and a half years , in San Quentin . He is now in business for himself in northern California . Some time ago , while I was in California , I met Harlowe and had a long talk with him about his adventures as a computer criminal . I was not able to discuss his case with his former employers , because I had already learned on good authority that they , like the officers of most other corporations that have been victims of computer crime , had no intention of talking with the press . And , of course , what I got from Harlowe is his side of the events in which he became enmeshed . My initial meeting with Harlowe was over a leisurely lunch in a restaurant . He is a rather short , sandy-haired man in his mica-forties , with brown eyes and horn-rimmed glasses . His manner was brisk and attentive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not use his real name in writing about his case , and he answered my questions  --  even those I felt a bit awkward about phrasing , such as " just when did you begin your embezzlements " ? with a cheerful responsiveness . Harlowe comes from a ranch-owning family whose roots were established in northern California over several generations ; he appears sufficiently proud of the social solidity of his family background to hear himself with a faintly patrician air . In college , in California , he majored in economics and statistical theory . After he graduated from college , in the early nineteen-fifties , he worked for a while as a civil engineer . He spent the summer of 1961 on a leave of absence in an area south of San Francisco , where a friend told him that a large produce company nearby was having administrative and accounting problems , because a couple of employees on whom the company depended had left . On the friend 's recommendation , Marlowe went to see the president of the produce company , and he was hired as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations , in which a hundred and fifty people were employed , and took on the responsibility of supervising all the accounting for the company 's operations . He told me that the work was demanding but that he was well paid , and that at the end of his first seven-month growing cycle the president of the company gave him a ten-thousand-dollar bonus in appreciation of the order he had brought into the company 's operations . However , Marlowe said , he found his employers difficult to deal with ; he felt they were " coarse , " " insensitive , " and " bullying " in their relations with their employees . " They simply lacked gentility , " he told me , He decided to leave , in spite of the pay , and with his bonus he bought an interest in a small chemical company . Hut the following year , he said , the people running the produce company asked him to come hack to work , this time on a profit-sharing basis . " The company was grossing about thirty million dollars a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back they 'd give me five per cent of the pretax profit , plus a salary of twenty-five thousand dollars , plus expenses , plus a car and food for my family , " Harlowe said . ( He is married and has a large famil ? . ) He went on , " This was in 1962 , and I felt I could n't refuse the offer . Sa I went to work for them on that basis  --  as their chief administrator and accountant . " One innovation that Harlowe induced his employers to adopt was a fully computerized accounting system . For a couple of years before this , Harlowc told me , he had been studying computer technology and had been taking I.B.M . training courses in rule subject ; he had also developed his own library on electronic data processing .. " After a while , I 'd rented an 4-02 accounting machine and some ancillary equipment , such as card-punch equipment , " he said . " I kept all this stuff in my garage  --  the way , I guess , someone else might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in computing and data processing . " After Harlowe had been back at work with the company for a short time , he began to develop a way of automating the company 's accounting system , using the equipment in his garage . " I wrote all the procedures and wired up the panels in the equipment , " he said . " When I had the system well worked out , I set up an independent computer-service bureau , moved the data-processing equipment out of the garage , and set up in business  --  but not in my own name . I hired a few people and managed to get some data-processing work from various clients . This was quite aside from my regular job . In a while , I went to the management of the company and , without telling them what I had done , I persuaded them to automate their accounting system and to have the work done by a computer-service bureau . I recommended that they use the bureau I had set up . " At that stage , he said , he had no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason for concealing his ownership of the service bureau was that he knew , as an accountant , that the auditors would expect the data processing of the company 's accounts to be handled by a third and entirely independent party , but he really wanted to get the company 's business , which was substantial . He got it , and his sideline computer-service business thrived . " I rented time on an I.B.M . 14-01 computer , then got my own I.B.M . 360 on lease at three thousand dollars a month , " Harlowe said . He also carried on hit official accounting and administrative duties with the produce company . At the end of the 1962 growing season , Harlowe said , he was in for a shock . The management appeared to be as pleased as ever with his services , but he found that instead of getting the expected five per cent of the company 's pretax profit as a bonus he got a greatly reduced figure . Before his fiveper-cent share was computed , the rest of the top management people took their shares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on what remained of the pretax profit after the bonuses of the top management people had been subtracted . " I felt cheated , " Harlowe told inc . " I was angry . I had n't had any liking for the people who were running the company in the first place . And I said to myself , ' There 's one guy in this organization you should n't fool around with . ' I was handling the money . " Harlowe decided that he would find his own way of getting back the percentage of the company 's profit he believed himself to have been cheated nut of . So in processing the company 's accounts he ran them through the computer again , subjecting the data to alterations that gave the accounts the appearance of being conscientiously compiled and properly balanced , hut , at the same time , diverting funds to himself . The diverted funds were accounted for in the computerized books mostly in the form of various increased costs . Harlowe then began to loot the corporation 's gross at what he considered the acceptable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did this by devising a special algorithm  --  a set of rules for making calculations  --  which he used as a master program to alter the company 's accounting data in the computer . " The algorithm allowed me to assess true cost variances in the accounts and to inflate these in a way that seemed reasonable , " he said . " When you 're doing millions of dollars ' worth of business it is n't all that difficult to make alterations in increments of pennies or fractions of cents . I would subject the company records to these variances in the computer in such a way as to diffuse the higher costs throughout the system . " Harlowe kept the true computer records of the company 's financial position ; the company got the altered version in printout form . " What made the elevated cost figures relatively easy to justify was the nature of the produce business , which is subject to many fluctuations , " he said . " For example , you have continuous fluctuations in such matters as freight and labor costs . And you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weather , I would build in a little extra to the naturally increased harvesting costs resulting from this , and could always easily justify these increases . After all , who can tell exactly how muddy a muddy condition is ? I 'd pick other natural phenomena to which , at what seemed the right time , I could attribute some other elevated cost factor . As the chief accountant , I made a weekly report to the managers of the company on the state of their accounts , and I 'd take with me a printout of the altered records . I might tell them at one meeting that the cost of carrots was running at , say , twenty-eight dollars a ton . I might have escalated the cost , through the computer processing , by a factor of seventy-five cents a ton , but the algorithm controlling the accounting data had so spread the added cost through the system that it was integrated into a huge variety of very detailed information  --  so much for row-boss supervision , so much for harvest labor , so much for trucking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fertilizer and pesticides . The increased cost shown penetrated into almost every area of the company 's operations . Once a week , I reviewed the extra costs that I felt I could safely build into the system . I took the company 's true costs , decided on the variances , and , using the algorithm I 'd devised , had the computer spread the costs in such a way as to support the total cost figure I had decided on . I had no elaborate figuring to do . It was all in the design . The whole arrangement was built into the computer system . It would be hard for anyone to believe that the cost figures shown in the finished printout could be wrong when they were supported by such a mass of information , in which all the details seemed to relate perfectly to one another . But , believe it or not , I did n't have to do much more than press a few buttons to achieve the effect . The algorithm was the key to the whole thing . " In the kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems in geometrical or spatial metaphors . I tend to see figures in the shape of charts and graphs ; I tend to see a cost progression as a curve with a cer-tain shape and in a certain motion across a scale . When you see things that way , you do n't need to burden yourself with a million details . Once I had visualized how I wanted the cost curve to go in relation to the real costs of the operation , I made the cost ad-justments I thought appropriate  --  two cents a box of produce now , a cent later on  --  and the computer went through all the details and expanded all the cost minutiae to fit the new cost configuration . I really had what you might call an econometric model of the company 's operations , including the whole banking array . As a matter of fact , some of the ideas for the model were based on principles I 'd learned while I was a student in college . My professor in statistics then was Kenneth Arrow , who is now at Harvard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I do n't suppose it ever occurred to him that he might be training an embezzler . Well , the computer would tell me how much to spend in each cost cat-egory . To receive the dif-ference between the real and the inflated costs , I had opened dummy bank accounts in the names of fictitious corporations that were presumably doing business with the produce company , operating from box numbers  --  a procedure that is very common in the produce business . All told , there were about fourteen dummy bank accounts having supposed dealings with the produce company . The difference between the inflated and the real costs would be funnelled into these dummy accounts . Suppose I decided at the end of a particular month to create eight thousand dol-lars of inflated costs . The computer would break this down into cost categories , such as labor costs . I 'd have a dummy company that would be a labor contractor , which I 'd give a likely sounding name to . I would have a produce-company check of three thousand and sixty-two dollars made out to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  I had a dummy company that was supposedly a supplier of packaging materials . The computer would move the surplus funds into these dummy accounts by check . " Not all these dummy companies would receive money all the time , because I wanted to use some of them only at certain times . However , in order to keep up the appearance of activity in these dummy corporations I would have the computer write what was really a series of kited checks between these accounts and between these accounts and the company . It was a sort of perpetual-motion system  --  a movement of paper for appearance 's sake  --  and to maintain it I would keep about twenty thousand dollars of supposed working capital shifting between the dummy accounts , so that there was always something in the pipeline . The algorithm took care of where to send the money , just as it did in the case of all the money I regularly siphoned off from the company treasury into the dummy accounts . The computer even wrote out the checks to the dummy companies . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , along with the bank-deposit slips . " Harowe said that he gradually stepped up the embezzlement until it was providing him  --  on top of his regular salary of twenty-five thousand dollars and his annual bonus of about fifteen thousand dollars  --  with two hundred thousand dollars a year . During the six-year period of his embezzling , his average annual take was a little over a hundred and sixty-six thousand dollars . He said that although his employers often complained about high operating costs , his accounting appeared to be entirely above suspicion . He told me that sometimes , after inflating the costs of particular types of produce , he would take his fraudulent weekly computer printouts to the management and do some complaining himself . " I 'd go into these meetings with my reports and say , Look at these costs  --  you 've got to bring down these unit costs in these areas . ' " He went on , " And after calling attention to the very conditions I was changing I 'd give them a convincing explanation of why the costs were high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these high costs , and the next week I 'd let the conditions be corrected . But the week after that the cost of something else would go up on the hooks . " I NNumERAtLE as the sands of the sea arc the passions of man , " wrote Nikolai Gogol , musing on the life of Pavel Ivanovitch Tchitchikov , the restless hero of his sardonic masterpiece " Dead Souls , " " and all are different , and all , base and noble alike , arc first under a man 's control , and afterward cruel tyrants dominating him . " Tchitchikov travels about Russia , quietly buying up lists of the names of serfs who have died but whom Tchitchikov intends to represent as living , as part of a devious scheme to obtain a substantial government loan , with these supposedly live laboring souls as collateral . The phantom labor-contracting companies and their electronic dead souls who were registered within the recesses of Harlowe 's I.B.M . 360 exerted at times a direct influence on the fortunes of the live souls who actually toiled in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand-odd laborers in the company fields were Mexican nationals brought to this country under contract as migratory workers through the so-called bracer program . Although such people might not have known much about computo 5 , they knew a great deal about the rigors of field work , and there were times when they had to work harder than ever to satisfy the kind of Stakhanovit : norms established in Harlowe 's computerized accounts . As Harinwe described it , the effects of the manipulated contents of his computer on the lives of field hands began to he felt not long after the company switched to computerized accounting , and at first the Hlanges were made on behalf of the Lompany itself . Harlowe recalled , " The hraceros had all been on piecework in the fields , and then the U.S. Department of Labor came along and laid down regulations that required each bracer to he paid at a minimum guaranteed hourly rate regardless of his piecework earnings . Naturalli , this was n't to the liking of the produce company , because it meant that the basis of pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ braceros did n't understand anything about this guaranteed-wage stuff . One of the functions of the row bosses was to pound away at the idea that they were still on piece rates . The company came to me with the problem . I proposed a remedy . They told me to go ahead . So what I did was to write a computer program that would simulate payroll records . I used this simulation to de-1 vise a way in which we could optimizethe relationship between hours worked and production achieved , and so make it appear that the braceros were working fewer hours than they actually were , and were thus making more than the minimum - hourly wage called for by the Department of Labor regulations . I worked out such a scheme on the computer . In this scheme , I staggered  --  in the computer records , anyway  --  the supposed departure times of the buses that carried workers into the fields and grouped the men in different buses , an that individual workers whom the computer had identified from payroll records as being the best producers would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of hours of work , and that crew 's bus , as I caused the records to show , would he sent off into the fields first . Then I 'd put the lesser producers into buses with later departure times , thereby reducing the number of hours they worked , and when all the time sheets and production records were computerized and compiled into printouts of payroll records the resulting figures optimized the hraceros ' piecework earnings per hour and put them over the required federal minimum . In the first season , that program saved the company seventy-eight thousand dollars . " Put another way , it evidently cost the braceros seventy-eight thousand dollars . " The hraceros were n't aware of the details , of course , " Harlowe said . " They were n't so unhappy . Anyway , they were used to what they call la nwrdiela  --  the bite . It was part of their life . " When Harlow turned against his employers and organized his embezzlement , the concentration of his energies on this project left him little time to attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embezzlement moved along its course , Harlowe was able to use some of his insight into field-working conditions to further his scheme . In explaining how he would rationalize higher costs shown in the hooks , Harlowe told me , " I 'd go into one of these management meetings with my accounts that reflected inflated figures on harvesting costs . If the real harvesting costs for carrots happened to he twenty-five dollars a ton , my figures would show them to he thirty dollars a ton . The row-boss cost figures should come to five dollars and sixty cents a ton , but they would show as five dollars and seventy-five cents a ton . When I presented these figures , management would ask , ' How come the costs are so high here ? ' And I 'd tell them that the figures showed they must be paying the field crews for bags of carrots that were n't full . That 's the sort of thing you watch out for on piecework , you see . If you figure that your one-unit piece pay is equivalent to a bag @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that have only forty-nine pounds of carrots in them , you 're getting only ninety-eight per cent of the product contracted for . And I 'd say to management , ' You 've got to have these guys fill their bags of carrots . ' And management would go out and try to make corrections . They would harass the row bosses , who would harass their crews . The row bosses would tell management , ' We 're doing our best . ' But they accepted management 's explanation . Management would tell them , We 've got it down here in black and white . ' And management itself believed it . The computer figured it out , and who could argue with the facts ? " As Harlowe prospered , he made investments in the cattle business , maintained several cars , and flew his own light airplane , in which he travelled throughout the northern-California valley regions in the course of doing outside , legitimate data-processing business with ranchers and farmers for his computer-service company . He also had two homes , for one of which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He felt he was making the best of the circumstances he found himself in . He told me , " There was the satisfaction of having the last word where the produce company was concerned . There was a personality conflict between the principals and roe , and I 'm an egotist and do n't like to be treated in a manner in which I 'm expected to have a subservient attitude . Then , there was the excitement  --  it all seemed like a daring thing to do . " At the same time , he said , what was happening to him had an unreal character . " Sometimes I- had to stop and think that I was really doing all this . " But there was also a sense of power . " It was as though I were the one in control of the situation . There was a sort of solitary grandeur . " I asked Harlowe whether he had ever dreamed at night about his embezzlement . He said he had n't . I asked him if he daydreamed about the future . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would imagine himself living a life of financial independence . " I wanted to be respected in my field , " he told mc . " I could see myself on the California coast in a new house I had built in my mind . It would have a nice library , and I would be getting visits from prominent people  --  the Under-Secretary of Labor , for example  --  and we would spend half the night arguing about agricultural policy ; or a professor of mathematics I happened to respect , and we would sit in the library and discuss econometric models at length . " Also , Bar-lows thought about how he would greatly expand his legitimate computer-service business , and he saw himself as gaining recognition for computer-programming innovations he felt he could devise . HARLowE 's daydreaming did not prevent him from keeping his eyes open to what was going on around him . At the office where he maintained his commercial data-processing service , he spotted at one point a series of data-processing anomalies not of his own making " I discovered that one of my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He had been padding expense accounts on our computer , and stealing computer time so he could program and run off some accounts of his own . But I had a pretty gond costing system established , and I had written an internal program that reported unit time for programs resident in that computer , and I called the guy in and told him exactly what he was doing . He turned white . That guy thought I was clairvoyant . I could n't find it in my heart to reprimand him . After all , I was doing the same thing on a much grander scale . Also , I would rather have his gratitude than his resentment . So I worked out what I called a rational solution with him  --  a bonus arrangement he could draw against , so he 'd have a little more ready money coming in . He was astounded by my benevolence . " Harlowe had to keep constantly on the alert to insure that his frauds were so well integrated into the produce company 's computer records as to pass muster with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company offices once a year , in March or April . Usually , Harlowe said , an auditors ' inspection took several days to complete . He said that the auditors were unaware that he owned the computer-service company processing the books . The general ledger was in printout form , and Harlowe made a point of being present during the audit . " When the auditors wanted some supporting detail , I would bring it , " he told me . He went on , " Being present , I knew at just what stage of the audit they would leave for the night . There were certain parts of the books that I felt I would rather not have a complete audit on So a couple of times in the course of an audit , when the auditors had gone home for the night , I would go to the data center and run off on the computer new printouts of the whole year of records under review . In the process , I would shift some accounting details  --  the ones I 'd rather not have inspected  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have the computer bury them in printouts that had already been audited . Since the auditors were working from broad totals in their separate work sheets , I kept the new totals in conformity with their figures but changed the supporting details and some subtotals . Then I went hack to the company office and just switched the new printouts of the year 's accounts with the ones that the auditors were working on . Each time , the auditors would come in the next morning and work on an entirely new set of hooks without knowing it . At the end of one audit , I went out to dinner with the auditors . They complimented me on the completeness and detail and general quality of the records I was keeping . What they particularly liked was the way in which I had integrated management information into the general records . They thought that it was a comprehensive system , and they even discussed with me the possibility of using my computer applications for another of their clients , who was also in the produce business . After that dinner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parking lot and laughed until tears came down my cheeks . " As the years of successful embezzlement went on , and the total amount of money that Harlowe had diverted from the produce company 's treasury approached a million dollars , lie began to think of pulling up stakes and moving on . " I had a very tough job at best , organizing the accounts of a company that was run by people I did n't like , " Harlowe told me . " And when you 're manipulating double accounts a job Eke that is even more difficult . In 1967 , I decided that the time had come to stop this defalcation and to go into the next phase of my life , whatever that might he . " But withdrawing from the produce company , he knew , posed some tough problems . " The principal problem was that in order to leave the job I would have to do a lot of readjusting of the computer , " Harlowe said . " I would have to find a way of winding down the inflated cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attracting attention . I could n't allow the costs to drop suddenly particularly in a period of inflation . It would take me a couple of years . " Also , he said , because of some preliminary inquiries by the Internal Revenue Service , he suspected that sev eral companies  --  of which the company he worked for was one  --  were prime candidates for investigation by I.R.S. auditors because of some of their business practices , and this prospect made him very reluctant to leave , since he would then no longer be able to manipulate the company books to keep himself out of trouble . It seemed now that the electronic dead souls that Harlowe had created had not only assumed a stubborn life of their own but were exerting an increasingly dominating force on their creator 's own capacity for action . The idea came to Harlowe that he might find a way out of his dilemma by having at least some of the defal-cations revealed , but without his being blamed for them . He believed he would not he unjustified in making it appear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves si-phoning off money from the treasury , in order to escape taxation . " I had a unique position , in that the princi-pals of the company were very impa-tient about paperwork , " he explained . " They had me balance their check-books , pay their hills , and keep their personal bank accounts . That made it easy for me to salt their accounts , and that 's what I did . I began putting checks from company accounts into their personal accounts , and From there into oblivion via dummy companies . Since I always got their hank state-ments , I would destroy these checks when they came back . But the trans-actions were recorded . I did n't do a lot of this . Just enough to suggest some possible culpability  --  that there was more there than met the eye . " Then Harlowe pondered how the true state of the com-pany 's finances might be dis-covered without his being blamed . He considered going to the chief officer and saying that he was doing so as an act of con-science . " My role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he decided against that . " Instead , " he told me , " I decided to overdraw the bank ac-count of one of my dummy com-panies , and deliberately call the hank 's attention to the dummy company the produce company was dealing with . " He had his computer turn out a check from the dummy company for an amount that the company 's bank ac-count would not cover , so as to alert the hank to the phantom nature of the company . But , to Harlowe 's intense annoyance , the dummy company 's bank paid no attention to the had check . So Harlowe had the computer write another bad check , and then another . Only after about a month , when he had overdrawn the dummy account with checks amounting to seventy-eight thousand dollars , did one of the bank 's officers become suspicious . The hank manager called Harlowe , who expressed puzzlement . The bank manager arranged for a meeting with a vice-president of the produce company  --  one of the people whose personal checkbooks Harlowe happened to be manipulating . Harlowe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a state of confusion , while he remained the only person who understood what was really going on . At that point , Harlowe told me , he calculated that the people running the produce company  --  for their own reasons , connected with company finances  --  would he eager to avoid any intensive examination of its financial affairs . And if by any chance they did press for a thorough investigation , there would he enough evidence around to divert attention from Harlowe 's own culpability . But then , as the atmosphere at his company grew tense and suspicious , Harlowe developed apprehensions as to how well he had really covered his tracks . He went to a lawyer in the area who was noted for his skill in complicated cases , told him the whole story , and paid him a fee of fifty thousand dollars ( a small portion of the funds that Harlowe had embezzled , after all ) after being assured , he said , that he had a defensible case . Harlowe told me that , taking his discussions with the lawyer into account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had him arrested when some of the facts came out he would have a pretty good case in court . " The principals of the company . were not entirely blameless , " he said . " So far as I 'm concerned they really were trying to take money out of the business , overstating expenses to avoid taxes . I 'd he testifying as a naive bookkeeper . The accounting was so terribly complex that no layman juror could understand all these computer-programming technicalities . I felt I could come out pretty well . " But then , after the company management did sign a criminal complaint against Harlowe , and he was arrested and put on trial for grand theft , he had second thoughts about going through with this elaborate plan to shift the blame for his defalcations , and his lawyer persuaded him to plead nolo contendere . " The lawyer had it arranged , he believed , so that with the nolo plea I would get eighteen months , " Harlowe said . " I thought that that was n't so bad . " Before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interview . Harlowe , confident that all was settled , not only refused to tell what had become of the million dollars he had embezzled but , he admitted to me , " was pretty curt with the probation officer . " In large part because of his generally uncooperative attitude , the probation officer 's presentencing report was highly unfavorable , and , in court , the judge grimly gave him not the expected eighteen months in jail but ten years in San Quentin  --  apparently a record sentence to date in any case of computer crime . While he was in jail , Harlowe worked his way up to become a clerk to the warden ( " I was really treated more as a staff member than as an inmate " ) , and also taught a course in basic computer-programming techniques to fellow-prisone rs . Harlowe was released on parole in 1974 . When I talked with him , he said he was on the verge of settling accounts with the I.R.S. , as part of the aftermath of his embezzlement . According to Fladowe , the I.R.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the fact that he had admitted embezzling more than a million dollars from the produce company , and in spite of the fact that embezzled funds are subject to taxes , he was allowed to settle with the I.R.S. people for only a few thousand dollars . Harlowe explained the situation to me by saying , " At some point in my financial maneuverings , the income from the embezzlement had become income in a corporation in which I was the principal shareholder . Through various pipelines , I contributed cash from the embezzlement amounting to close to a million dollars o the corporation , and I listed this income to the corporation as though it represented sales . So in fact it was as though I had made a proper accounting of the funds for tax purposes . The I.R.S. man I dealt with found that most peculiar . He 'd never come across a case before where embezzled funds had been declared  --  if under somewhat different colors  --  as income . " Even so , the corporate tax paid on this sum apparently amounted to very little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government 's satisfaction that the company he had established had kept losing money . How it supposedly lust it was something I could n't get any clear idea of from Harlowe . I had the impression that the money just wafted away through a maze of intercorporate dealings and into  --  to use Harlowe 's word  --  oblivion . Whatever thoughts Harlowe might have about his embezzlement , he clearly did n't have much time for the sort of remorse that seems to be sought as an ideal by sentencing judges and by probation people . He merely observed at one point that " when you get close to a computer , get really involved with it , you tend to lose track of that humaneness  --  you become enthralled by the numbers , you generate them endlessly , and your whole life becomes so hound up with them that you lose a qualitative sense . " Lately , Harlowe , no longer on parole , has been acting as a data-processing consultant to a group of construction companies in northern California , for which he has written a series @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in areas from supplies to accounts payable and receivable . He told me that he also possessed a particular computer program that he had written in prison , and that he thought it had good commercial potential in the area of cost analysis . He said that he had become interested in prison reform , and added that , in part as a consequence of his prison experiences , he was occasionally in touch with some politically radical friends , some of whom had approached him for advice on taking action against computer systems as symbols of the Establishment . " These people consider themselves urban guerrillas , but they are intelligent enough to realize that violence will only bring repression , " Harlowe said . " They feel that the best way to further their cause is to screw up major computer systems , such as the big credit-card outfits and the billing systems of major oil companies . They told me they were putting together a technical task force , and invited me to join it . For obvious reasons , I declined . I 'm not in favor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accelerating incidence of com-puter-related crimes  --  particularly in the light of the continuing rapid growth of the computer industry and the present ubiquity of electronic data-processing systems  --  raises the question of what countermeasures can he taken within industry and government to prevent such crimes or , at least , to detect them with precision when they occur . By far the biggest manufacturer and lessor of computers is , of course , the International Business Machines Corporation , and the I.B.1 ) .4. people can hardly he expected to ignore the increasing attention that the press and the public are devoting to computer crimes . I.B.M . undertook , some years ago , a forty-million-dollar program to examine the whole problem of data security as it applies to the computers that I.B.M . produces and to the operating systems that it designs and sells or leases . In spite of this , however , and although it is a matter of general knowledge within the industry that I.B.M . has assigned teams of specialists to examine in detail breaches of security occurring in I.B.M . systems ( the company is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred cases of computer crime ) , the I.B.M . people resolutely refuse to discuss any specifics of computer crimes that may have come to their attention . In fact , they can he brought to concede only with reluctance that the problem exists at all . Some time ago , when I managed to interview John Rankine , the director of data-security programs for he characterized the incidence of purposeful subversion of computer systems as " minuscule . " He politely declined to discuss either particular cases of computer crime of which the I.B.M . people were aware or general types of cases that the company might know about because computer crime , he told me , was not a subject that he followed in detail . Still , he did willingly discuss the overall issue of data security in computer systems , which , he said , was a fundamental one in the entire history of computer science and had to do primarily with the prevention of unintentional destruction or distortion of digitized information in the computer process . " The accountant does not want his system destroyed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a problem wants to protect his interim results in the computing process without having the next set of computations destroy them , " Rankine said . He went on to say that his company 's responsibility was to have data security as a basic design criterion , and that the issue of computer crime was actually only a very small part of the drive to achieve the integrity of computer systems as a whole . Rankine then discussed some of the procedures that his company had devised or had recommended to organizations using its computers and computer systems . In addition to tight physical security for facilities , these included such internal checks within a system to insure data security as adequate identification procedures for people communicating with the computer by way of keyboard terminals ; elaborate internal audit trails built into a system , in which every significant communication between a user and a computer would be recorded ; and , where confidentiality was particularly important , cryptography , or the scrambling of information . He said that , for example , in the matter of data security , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a way that another terminal in a system would appear to be the one used , I.B.M . is now offering computer terminals activated by lock-and-key devices that , when the keys are turned , emit a signal identifying the terminal site to the central computer . Other security devices in the development stage include a pen that will record , for identification purposes , not only the personal signature of a terminal user but also the dynamics involved in writing the signature our , such as the characteristic pattern of acceleration and deceleration used in forming individual strokes ; and a device that will oblige the user of a terminal , before lie can get a go-ahead from the computer to use it , to press his thumbprint on a special plate in a recess of the terminal for an instantaneous matching of its whorls and loops against an image stored within the computer . But , Rankine said , he did n't want to emphasize the importance of particular devices unduly , for " precautions on behalf of data security are made throughout the system . " The fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will never be done  --  after all , there will never be a bank that absolutely ca n't be robbed . " The main thing , he said , is to make the cost of breaching security so high that the effort involved will be discouragingly great . In this respect , the I.B.M . people  --  as the result of a proposal made to computer manufacturers by the National Bureau of Standards that they develop a procedure for secure encryption of digital information  --  have taken the lead in constructing such a system . The procedure they have produced , after very elaborate work , has recently been adopted , under the name of the Data Encryption Standard , by the bureau as a required algorithm in the cryptographic handling of all federal unclassified information . As the major manufacturer of computers and the major designer of programs to operate them , the I.B.M . organization , while obviously aware of the increasing problems of data security , is careful to place itself at a cool distance from the consequences of misuses of its equipment and systems . In a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , in part , " I.B.M . has developed and is continuing to develop equipment , software , and various tech-niques and procedures to safeguard computer information . It is the responsibility of the user to see that these data-security measures are applied as needed . " computer-security specialists I have talked with tend to be sympathetic concerning the somewhat difficult position that I.B.M . Ends itself in , particularly as the designer of computer-operating systems that may have been misused by unscrupulous employees of other corporations using the systems , they also tend to speak with a certain , though not necessarily disrespectful , skepticism of the value of some of the countermeasures against computer crime and misuse which the I.B.M . people say they have been developing under their data-security program . Donald Adams , of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants , who himself has a background as a computer programmer , told me that he has been unofficially " crusading " for a tightening up of what he considers to be in effect the loose design of commonly used I.B.M . arid other computer systems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacturers try to make their systems so flexible that , in my view , they have made them virtually uncontrollable , " Adams said . He added that it was his personal belief that in selling its systems to users I.B.M . tended to appeal to the needs of technicians rather than to what might sometimes be the best interests of top management . The flexibility of I.B.M . computer systems commonly used in business , he explained , was an attractive feature to the technicians of the user companies , especially in terms of program design , but was likely to make for systems that were relatively insecure . But top management people are n't usually aware of the lack of security that goes with flexible systems , he said , because " the management is dependent on what the technicians tell them about computer systems . " And one independent computer-security consultant I talked with declared that , as far as he was concerned , most of what I.B.M . has accomplished so far in its forty-million-dollar data-security program has been essentially " to fix the little problems but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem of computer crime as a whole , one conclusion that seems reasonable is that although some of the criminal manipulators of computer systems have certainly shown ingenuity , they have not employed highly sophisticated approaches to break into and misuse computer systems without detection . In a way , this fact in itself is something of a comment on the security of most existing computer systems : the brains are presumably available to commit those sophisticated computer crimes , but the reason that advanced techniques have n't been used much may well he that they have n't been necessary . Some glimmering of the more advanced techniques of unauthorized entry into and manipulation of computer systems which may lie ahead is perhaps observable in various exercises that have been carried out within the defense establishment for demonstration purposes , their aim being to penetrate some of the most complex and supposedly secure computer systems used by agencies of the armed forces , by civilian agencies , and by government contractors . There is , for example , the experience of a team of computer scientists from the Air Force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ works largely under contract to the federal govern- ment , on such projects as the National Military Command System and the Worldwide Military Command and Control System  --  in deliberately penetrating and manipulating the contents of what has purported to be a secure computer system . The exercises were carried out , on behalf of the Air Force , by Steven B. Lipner , an information-systems expert at the MITRE Corporation , and Lieutenant Colonel Roger R. Schell , then a computer-security specialist in the Command and Management Systems Division of the Air Force and now a student at the Air War College at Maxwell Air Force Base , in Montgomery , Alabama . The results of their efforts have been described in several Air Force and MITRE , internal papers that Lipner and Schell made available to me when I visited them some time ago at the MITRE Corporation headquarters , in Bedford , Massachusetts . According to Schell , the primal- ) aim of the exercises was not so much to derive technical insights from the penetration of a particular computei system as to demonstrate to defense officials that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one paper that Schell and Lipner prepared for the Air Force , they put their views concerning the security of large computer systems in blunt lan-guage : On numerous occasions , programmers have conducted formal or informal projects aimed at testing the security of operating systems by penetration  --  by writing programs that obtain access to information without authorization .... In each case , the result has been total success for the penetrators . The programmers involved in these efforts have not been " insiders " but simply competent system programmers armed with user-and ( sometimes ) system-level documentation for the computer and operating system under test . Both Lipner and Schell had been studying problems in computer security since 1972 , and between 1972 and 1975 they undertook a series of exercises involving the security of an advanced computer-time-sharing system called Multics , which had been developed jointly by Honeywell Incorporated and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , partly with Defense Department funds . According to Schell , security had been a significant consideration in the design of the Multics system . It was designed to provide protection for numerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in to prevent unauthorized access , and to insure that users having authorized access to one level of privileged information within the computer had no way of obtaining access to a higher level , that the Multics system had been proposed by the Air Force Data Services Center at the Pentagon as a means of handling secret computerized defense information . The security precautions included a cryptographic system to encode user passwords , so as to make the passwords meaningless even if they were copied or physically stolen from the computer storage system . The exercise was carried out first on a Multics system at the Rome Air Development Center , at Griffiss Air Force Ease , in New York , and then it was carried out a second time on a Multics system at M.I.T. For the purposes of these exercises , Lipner and Schell were allowed only the minimal access accorded every user . The penetration atempts were conducted from the basement of Schell 's house in Concord , Massachusetts , where he installed a keyboard terminal connected to his home telephone line . He could , of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Tokyo or Moscow . Lipner and Schell told me that it took them just half an hour to determine that the Multics security system could he penetrated . ft then took them two hours to write the computer program to carry out the actual penetration . Essentially , what they did , it appears , was to take advantage of the inability of a computer to make qualitative decisions . " We provided ways of making unexpected requests of the computer , and then looked to see how the computer responded to unexpected requests  --  things that would be nonsensical to a sensible user , " Schell said . " We watched to sec how the computer might respond by itself doing something unexpected . " In this way , they devised a method of entering from their terminal an informational request that the computer accepted as legitimate , and , proceeding from that , they wrung from the computer compliance with a sequence of other requests . One of the prize targets of any computer criminal attempting to penetrate a computer system has always been the master list of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system in files that are usual-ly protected by the most elaborate security that the system can provide. - Indeed , the mystique of the secret password is such that even the designers of computer systems may not fully take into account the possible reasoning of a sophisticated unauthorized user ; name . ly , that if to get at the hidden list of secret passwords he has to break through the toughest security that the computer can provide , he would do better not to worry about the passwords at all . For if he can break into the system , he does n't need passwords . Another barrier that the computer criminal or unauthorized user of a computer system has to cope with is that of the computer 's audit trail  --  the internal monitoring system that can record all significant actions of the users and is supposed to provide a means of detecting and tracing unauthorized attempts to gain entry . In the Multics system , this audit mechanism was considered , even by Lipner and Schell , to be built in so securely that it was almost impossible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In challenging Multics , therefore , Lipner and Schell chose to ignore the audit-trail mechanism , and to allow it to record their acts as they found their way through the system . Using flaws in the operating system as entry points , they got access to essential programs and to files containing the master list of encrypted passwords . Actually , they did not consider this technically necessary , since they were confident that once they had made the initial penetration of the computer they had established the condition for gaining access to any information they wanted ; they extracted the list of encrypted passwords simply by way of demonstrating what they had been doing . Lipner and Schell did n't deign to use these passwords , since they considered themselves already well into the computer system without them . Instead , they began judiciously inserting in the computer system what are known in the business as trapdoors . In essence , a trapdoor is a special element , or anomaly , inserted in a program or system which allows the person inserting it to bypass or subvert the logical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system . The nature of a trapdoor is that , while it is known to and usable by a penetrator , it is unrecognized by and unknown to other users of the system -- even to the audit-trail mechanism . Through the use of trapdoors , Lipner and Schell proceeded to modify parts of particular programs and the operating system itself , to their own potential advantage , present and future . In fact , they modified the system so thoroughly that even if the particular flaws which had allowed the original penetration were to he discovered and corrected , the penetrators would continue to have full access to the system . As if all this were n't enough , Lipner and Schell also employed what people in the business sometimes refer to as the Trojan-horse technique of penetration . This technique has occasionally been used in computer crimes . It consists basically of providing the computer with apparently appropriate and acceptable information that in reality contains secret instructions for unauthorized behavior  --  instructions that authorized users of the system will unknowingly cause to he carried out at some future time by routinely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Schell fed into the Multics system insured that other users and the operating system itself could give them all the unauthorized information and all the control of the computer that they would ever want . As for the supposedly relentless internal-audit-trail mechanism that had recorded their entry into and progress through the computer system , Lipner and Schell , using their control of the system , simply erased from the audit system all trace of their entry . Thus , a complex computer system , which was the product of at least six years of intensive development to make it exceedingly secure , was penetrated and robbed of its internal controls in two and a half hours . Reporting on these exercises , Lipner and Schell observed , " The only sound assumption that can be made about a current computer system concerning information protection is that any program that runs on the system can access any information physically accessible to the central processor , and can retrieve , alter , or destroy the information as the programmer wishes . " To attempt to correct that situation , the MITRE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system that Schell calls a " security kernel , " whose use they say can vastly improve the security of data in computer systems , and Honeywell has since claimed that it has used such a kernel to make significant improvements in the security of the Multics system . WHILE much of the information stored in the Multics system that Lipner and Schell succeeded in penetrating would be regarded by users of the system as confidential in nature , none of it had any government-security classification . If it had been thus classified , the penetration of the system would obviously have had even greater significance . However , an exercise carried out by three computer scientists at the Naval Research Laboratory , in Washington , D.C. , against an advanced computer system used by the armed forces did involve a large amount of classified information , as well as some that was unclassified . The target of this exercise was the executive , or controlling , system employed to run a Sperry Rand Univac 1108 computer for military purposes . The executive system of the Univac was meant to process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security protection , and was considered by its designers to he highly secure and complex . Indeed , a programmers ' reference manual issued by the Univac people declared , concerning the System 's soundness in respect to any possible intentional or unintentional invasion , " The Executive System has unique features that automatically guarantee absolute protection . " The exercise was carried out by David Stryker , Dr. John Shore , and Stanley Wilson , of the Naval Research Laboratory . Because of the stringent physical-security precautions that the armed forces take on behalf of their computer systems , the men attempting the penetration of the Univac 1108 operated not from a remote telephone-connected terminal but from a terminal " hard wired " to the computer ; that is , one connected in what was essentially a closed-circuit system . A while ago , when I talked with Dr. Shore at the N.R.L. , he explained the nature of the exercise and discussed with me a declassified copy of an official report on it , written by Stryker and entitled " Subversion of a ' Secure ' Operating System . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ computer security . " If you give someone who knows about computer systems enough time and unrestricted access , he 'll find a way to defeat the existing controls , " he said . He observed that the operating system of a large , advanced-model computer , which acts as a master-control program and allocates the resources of the computer to the tasks required of it , is so complex and contains so many instructions that it simply can not he comprehended by a single person . For example , the number of instructions in the executive system of the Univac 1108 is about half a million , and that figure , even though it is enormous , is a good deal smaller than the totals in certain other operating systems . ( One of the operating systems designed for the I.B.M . S ' 370 computer , I found out from the I.B.M . people , contains about six million instructions ; if these were run off on computer-printout sheets , their hulk would he equivalent to one continuous instruction-filled sheet at least fifteen miles long . ) A consequence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that any knowledgeable person attempting to penetrate a supposedly secure computer begins with an advantage , in that he has to find only one significant flaw in order to start working his way into the system , whereas the designers of a system are theoretically afforded no leeway at all in their attempts to make it secure . Dr. Shore said that the exercise to penetrate the Univac 1108 system by the N.R.L. team took place in late 1973 and early 1974 . The particular system against which the exercise was aimed had been modified to improve its security . For example , some of the classified material stored within the computer had been encrypted , and , as a consequence of the design of the system , could he made available to users only under strict security conditions -- including , of course , proper identification of each user In addition to these precautions , the computer system had been given other special modifications in order to increase its security . The three experts involved in the test were allowed only unclassified and unprivileged access to the computer , from a basement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Univac operating system to prevent access to certain information by unauthorized users . Their procedure in breaking through the " absolute protection " supposedly afforded users by the Univac 1108 appears to have been similar in some respects to that of Schell and Lipner in penetrating the Multics , for it involved taking advantage of flaws and inserting trapdoors in the logic of the Univac 1108 . Flow-ever , what the N.R.L. experts exploited was not the existence of " bugs " in the executive program  --  although these certainly existed  --  but rather features resulting from oversights in the design of the executive program . The details of the exercise are complex . What the intruders did , in effect , was to modify certain programs that were shared by many users despite a supposed guarantee against such modifications . As a result , a subsequent user of the now modified shared program " Fell through a trapdoor , " as Dr Shore put it , which enabled the N.R.L. team to take control and impersonate that subsequent user . When they had succeeded in doing this , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ users of the penetrated shared system . They were then able to copy classified information that had been stored in an encrypted file onto their own computer tapes , and in the copying process the Univac 1108 decrypted the classified information . They erased virtually all traces of their entry into and subsequent ravages of the system as recorded in the internal-audit mechanism , and were able with impunity to impersonate legitimate users with classified access rights . Using only thirteen seconds of computer time in a typical subversion of the Univac 1108 , they were able to copy all data belonging to other.users of thcpenetrated shared program for a full eight hours or so . During that period , they possessed effective control over a large amount of the data in the entire computer system . " We could have selectively rewritten any of this information or selectively erased it , " Dr. Shore told me . They extracted so much information from the computer that , he said , " we found we had an information-pollution problem on our hands . " They had to write a computer program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the information that the computer kept disgorging . Their choice of material amounted to between a million and two million words of text , classified and unclassified . And , as a final insult , the computer time during which the stolen information kept pouring out was billed to other users ; the only computer time billed to the N.R.L. team was the thirteen seconds it took them to subvert the system . ( Sperry Rand has pointed out , how-ever , that it has introduced modifica-tions in the design of the Univac pro-gramming system so as to improve its security . ) If these men had attacked this par-ticular defense computer system with hostile intent , the results could clear-ly have been devastating . And yet Dr. Shore and his colleagues at the N.R.L. are convinced , after thorough investi-gation , that by prevailing standards the staff at this particular site did a " good job " in modifying a standard commercialcomputer operating system in order to provide better security for users . Whether in the military , in gov-ernment , or in business the designers of future computer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of data security than chess players are able to foresee games in which White can never be beaten . In the meantime , nobody knows what Trojan-horse programs may he lying M wait in computer systems until , at the appropriate signal , they spill out in acts of disruption and pillage , or what electronic dead souls may be flitting within the recesses of a system until , at the direction of some intent Tchitehikov at a keyboard terminal , they are mustered into ghostly but immensely exploitable legions .                     