@@479556

If Congress flinches now , the Constitution may be inoperative tomorrow long as they take care to avoid the crudities of a Watergate burglary , can expect to inherit Mr. Nixon 's conception of inherent Presidential authority and to wield the unshared power with which he will have endowed the Presidency . Failure to impeach would be a vindication of a revolutionary theory of Presidential accountability . HE TRADITIONAL theory , the the- ory that prevailed from 1789 to about 1966 , was sufficiently clear . The President , as Andrew Jackson put it , must be " accountable at the bar of public opinion for every act of his Administration . " " I have a very definite philosophy about the Presidency , " said Theodore Roosevelt . " I think it should be a very powerful office , and I think the President should be a very strong man who uses without hesitation every power that the position yields ; but because of this fact I believe that he should be sharply watched by the people and held to a strict accountability by them . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed determined to reject , one that manifestly drives him , as he would say , " up the wall . " In his view , the requirements of accountability are sufficiently fulfilled every four years . Each Presidential election confers a mandate , which empowers the President to do whatever he thinks best for the safety and welfare of the republic . Between elections the President has the right to be left alone to carry out his mandate . The mandate , if there were proper " respect for the Presidency , " should shield the President from the Arthur M. Schlesinger , Jr. , is Albert Schweitzer Professor of Humanities at the City University of New York . His latest book is The Imperial Presidency ( Houghton Mifflin ) . harassment of a nosy Congress , an unscrupulous opposition , and a disrespectful press . All these egregious institutions must " get off his back " ! and let him do his job . For better or worse , however , this conception of Presidential accountability does not happen to be the one embodied in the American Constitution . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General de Gaulle . But Mr. Nixon , alas , is not the President of France . And his novel theory of Presidential accountability , ap . plied to the American scene , has lec to a variety of unprecedented execu tive actions , some of which , in nr1 judgment , are impeachable and somt of which are not . Mr. Nixon moved rather systemati tally , for example , to deprive Con congress of the three historic powers tha enabled it during most of America history to play its role in the syster of accountability . One of these is th power of the purse ? the power to de tide how public money should b spent . The Federalist , No. 58 , calle , this " the most complete and effectut weapon with which any constitutio can arm the immediate represents tives of the people , for obtaining redress of every grievance , and fc carrying into effect every just an salutary measure . " The second is tl power of oversight and investigatic ? the power to monitor and discla the activities of the Executive branc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Woodrow Wilso " should be preferred even to its le islative function . " The third is tl power to declare war the pow specifically reserved by the Foundil Fathers for Congress so that , as Li coin said , " no one man should he the power of bringing this oppressi upon us . " These are the powers that h above all preserved the balance 1111 ? ? " the Constitution ? and these are the powers that Mr. Nixon set out methodically to nullify . Through his doctrine of unlimited impoundment , he sought to nullify the Congressional power of the purse . Through his doctrine of unreviewable executive privilege , he sought to nullify the Congressional power of oversight and investigation . Through his doctrine of the unlimited power of the Commander in Chief to take preemptive action to protect American troops from the threat of attack , he sought to nullify the Congressional power to authorize war . If he had succeeded in imposing these three doctrines in the absolute form in which he presented them , he would have effectively ended the power of Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not propose , however , that these doctrines , wrongheaded as they may be and ominous as would be their consequences , constitute per se grounds for impeachment . Mr. Nixon has been perfectly open and aboveboard about these claims . He has avowed his doctrines publicly and given Congress and the people full and fair warning . Moreover , as we should have learned from the Andrew Johnson case , impeachment is not the way to settle arguable constitutional differences in advance of final decisions by the Supreme Court . Of course , if Mr. Nixon persisted in such doctrines in defiance of court orders , this would be another question and would obviously carry him into the zone of impeachability . What matters here is that these doctrines express a state of mind . They express a rejection of Lincoln 's view that under the Constitution " no one man " should exercise excessive power . And this same state of mind , the same resentment of challenge and scrutiny , the same effort to break the Presidency out of the historic system of accountability has led Mr. Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into what Hamilton , explaining the necessity for impeachment , called " the abuse or violation of some public trust . " OREMOST AMONG the public trusts rconfided by the people to the Pres- dent is the constitutional command hat " he shall take Care that the , aws be faithfully executed . " A cruial question in regard to the Waergate matter is whether Mr. Nixon has obeyed this command . One reading of the record would suggest , for example , that , instead of pressing for the detection and punishment of lawbreakers , Mr. Nixon has continuously resisted inquiry- into Watergate : first trying to limit the FBI investigation ; then failing to report to law-enforcement officials crimes of which he had admitted knowledge after March 21 , 1973 ; then withholding evidence from the courts ; then firing the Special Prosecutor , who seemed too ardent about the faithful execution of the law ; then , when forced by the courts to produce tapes he had attested on July 23 last as being " under my sole personal control , " denying that some ever existed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to destroy their evidentiary usefulness ; most recently , declining to submit further evidence to a new Special Prosecutor . When the board of technical experts concluded that one of the most critical tapes had been deliberately obliterated , Mr. Nixon , far from showing constitutional zeal about ferreting out the obliterators , revealed no public concern or even curiosity . This would not seem a convincing portrait of a President taking care that the laws be faithfully executed . Of course , it may well he an incorrect reading of the record . Still , there is surely enough in that record , however read , to raise the question of whether Mr. Nixon 's interest in Watergate has been in the faithful execution of the law or in the sabotage of a criminal inquiry . In a constitutional order , above all when the probity of the President himself is under challenge , that question demands an answer . The Founding Fathers anticipated that such questions might arise and laid down in the Constitution a way by which answers could be found . For no President can withhold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of executive privilege may have in other circumstances , it has none here . James K. Polk was the only President between Jackson and Lincoln to enhance the power of the Presidency ; but Polk conceded with utmost clarity in a message to the House of Representatives in 1846 that , if the House were looking into executive misconduct with a view to the exercise of its power of impeachment , " the power of the House in the pursuit of this object would penetrate into the most secret recesses of the Executive Departments . It could command the attendance of any and every agent of the Government , and compel them to produce all papers , public or private , official or unofficial , and to testify on oath to all facts within their knowledge . " Impeachment , it must be emphasized , is not a judgment on a public official ; it is a process by which a judgment can be reached on the basis of evidence . And this process offers the most expeditious as well as the constitutional way to resolve the question of whether Richard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States . It is a procedure , moreover , that should commend itself quite as much to the friends of the President as to his critics . For , if Mr. Nixon is indeed guiltless , if he is the victim , as Vice-President Ford assures us , of a left-wing cabal organized , according to Senator Goldwater , by " people dangerous to the American way of life , " then what better way to expose the conspiracy and confound the conspirators than to give Mr. Nixon a fair and open trial ? Whatever constitutional scruples may have constrained the President from making public the documents that , Senator Scott tells us , would clear him if only they could be released . would necessarily be overborne in the case of impeachment . Do no ! these true believers wish to dispel all uncertainty and give the Presideni in whom they profess such boundless faith the opportunity to vindicate his character ? This is precisely the ground or which Benjamin Franklin argued it the Constitutional Convention . Im peachrnent , he said , was the bes way to assure not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his misconduct should deserve it " but equally " his honorable ac quittal when he should be unjustl : accused . " Dr. Franklin cited the cas of the Prince of Orange , who wa blamed for the failure of the Dutc fleet to carry out an agreement t meet the French fleet at a state rendezvous . Because the Siadtholds could not be impeached , suspicion were permitted to flourish and ende in " the most violent animosities an contentions " against him . " Had h been impeachable , " Franklin of served , " a regular and peaceable ii quiry would have taken place and h - EMMEN would if guilty have been duly punished , if innocent restored to the confidence of the public . " When there was no process of impeachment , Franklin noted , this might leave a desperate people no alternative but assassination , in which case the leader under fire would be " not only deprived of his life but of the opportunity of vindicating his character . " Worst of all is the signal transmitted to posterity if Congress decides that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not worth bothering to answer . Such a considered expression of Congressional indifference could not but invite Mr. Nixon 's successors to be equally cavalier about their constitutional responsibilities in the assurance that , unless a President , say , murders his wife in the presence of his Cabinet , Congress will be unlikely to insist that he need worry about his obligation to take care that the laws be faithfully executed . Thus refusal to impeach Mr. Nixon would widen the breach in the system of accountability . And that breach would be widened still further if a Congressional failure to act established the view espoused by the new Attorney General and some Republican members of Congress that a President is not to be held accountable for the deeds of his closest subordinates . BVIOUSLY A PRESIDENT need not 11.11 be impeached because an obscure official buried deep in the endless bureaucracy . someone he does not know and probably has never heard of , does something wrong . But it is an extraordinary idea that a President is not responsible to some degree for the behavior of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White House md the Cabinet . No doubt many of he Republicans who deny that Mr. %xon should be held accountable for Vlessrs . Haldeman , Ehrlichman , Stans , Dean , Krogh , Cha ) in , et al . are stockholders in great orporations . One hardly supposes hat they would be equally permissive f the top man in one of these corportions disclaimed all responsibility or a persisting and cumulative patEtrn of offenses that had wrecked the ublic credit of the firm and had een committed by people he personIly brought into the business . On the ontrary : they would hasten to vote him out of office at the next stockholders ' meeting . It is hard to see why Republican Congressmen should have higher standards for the president of a corporation than for the President of the United States . The practical point is irresistible . If Mr. Nixon did not know what his right-hand men were doing , it was only because he did not wish to know . He had every facility in the world for finding out . And if Congress should decide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accountable for the conduct of his most personal appointees , it would obviously encourage future Presidents to wink at every sort of skulduggery so long as nothing could be traced to a specific directive from the Oval Office . The constitutional point is equally irresistible . Madison was the father of the Constitution . The First Congress , because it contained so many men who had been at Philadelphia in the summer of 1787 , has been called an adjourned session of the Constitutional Convention . Madison in the First Congress successfully argued that the President must have power to remove his appointees . Assuring the President this power , Madison said , would " make him , in a peculiar manner , responsible for their conduct , and subject him to impeachment himself my emphasis , if he suffers them to perpetrate with impunity high crimes or misdemeanors against the United States , or neglects to superintend their conduct , so as to check their excesses . On the Constitutionality of the declaration I have no manner of doubt . " If the Ninety-third Congress should now decide that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it concludes that Mr. Nixon has no responsibility for the conduct of his closest associates , it would confirm Mr. Nixon 's success in breaking the Presidency out of the historic system of accountability and in fastening a new conception of Presidential responsibility on the American republic . The refusal to impeach Mr. Nixon would in addition fix on the hapless republic the idea of " national security " which he invoked ? and apparently still invokes ? as justification for secret and lawless behavior on the part of a President and his agents . No doubt Mr. Nixon 's defenders will claim that he did no more than other Presidents ? notably Lincoln and WHAT IF WE DO N'T IMPEACH HIM ? Franklin Roosevelt ? in moving beyond the Constitution to protect the safety of the nation . They will point out that neither Lincoln nor Roosevelt was impeached ; therefore , Mr. Nixon must be in the clear . And certainly one can not deny Presidents the power to take drastic actions at their own peril when the life of the nation is at stake . Madison himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was vain " to oppose constitutional barriers to the impulse of self-preservation . " But there remain signal and decisive differences between the actions of Lincoln and Roosevelt and the actions of Mr. Nixon . The life of the nation , after all , was truly at stake during the Civil War and again during the second world war . Moreover , Lincoln and Roosevelt carefully explained to Congress and the people why they thought the emergency so critical and thereby enabled Congress and the people to be the judge of their actions . Time in their cases was unquestionably of the essence . Their Congresses were unwilling or unable to devise policies of their own . And none of their acts was directed against the internal political process . Indeed , both Lincoln and Roosevelt held Presidential elections in the midst of their supreme national crises ? and did not try to cook the results . Moreover , where Lincoln and Roosevelt did their best to account for their actions to Congress and the people , where Mr. Nixon himself had expounded with relish his theories of impoundment , executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let Congress or the people in on his notion that " national security " gave the President the right to break the law ; this had to await John Ehrlichman 's testimony before the Watergate Committee . Nor did he vouchsafe any public explanation of the national emergency of 1970 , any argument that the Weathermen and the Black Panthers posed a threat to the republic comparable to that posed by civil war or by Nazism . Instead , behind closed doors , he authorized illegal actions ? actions in many cases beyond anything undertaken by Lincoln or Roosevelt in times of authentic and indisputable crisis . Most indefensible of all was the Nixon Presidency 's subversion of the political process itself . Whether this was authorized in advance or covered up afterward , it representedan attempt attempt to deny the American people one of the two constitutional remedies for the abuse of Presidential power . The other remedy , of course , is impeachment ; and , if Congress chooses to deny us this as well , where would it leave the constitutional order ? M R. NIXON 'S all-purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidential right , whatever the surrounding circumstances , a right to be exercised in secret at Presidential pleasure without accountability to Congress and the people , surely represents an extraordinary violation of public trust . Some of his own people have begun to understand this now , even though Mr. Nixon himself thus far has shown not the slightest evidence of comprehension , repentance , or even passing regret . " The key , " the penitent Egil Krogh recently said , ' Is the effect that the term ' national security ' had on my judgment . The very words served to block critical analysis . It seemed at least presumptuous if not unpatriotic to inquire into just what the significance of ' national security ' was . " If Mr. Nixon is not impeached , it will be a message from Congress to future Presidents that they can define national security as they wish , share their definition with no one , and do whatever they claim national security requires . It will be difficult for future Congresses to object when future Presidents act upon the powerful precedent Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tempted most of all to assume that the American people in the end really prefer a regime based on and limited to the idea of quadrennial accountability so long as it is divorced from the stupidity of a Watergate burglary . And Watergate is precisely the sort of excess that more intelligent or less deluded Presidents than Mr. Nixon would take every care to avoid . If Mr. Nixon is still in office in January 1977 , even though his personal reputation may be shattered beyond repair , he will very likely have succeeded in consolidating the imperial Presidency . There may be still another institutional consequence . There are two ways to deal with the abuse of Presidential power . One is to reestablish and enforce the system of accountability . The other is to reduce the powers of the President . Having failed to do the first , Congress would no doubt attempt the second . Since no one in Congress really trusts Mr. Nixon an inch , if he is not impeached there will be a continuing campaign till January 1977 to clip his wings through restrictive legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last word on questions like impoundment , executive privilege , executive agreements ? questions that , before the Nixon Presidency , were worked out by accommodation and comity between the executive and legislative branches . The trouble with wing-clipping legislation is that it would not only restrain Mr. Nixon in his last two years but could do injury , perhaps lasting injury , to the Presidency as an institution . But the Presidency as an institution is really not the cause of our trouble . As an institution , the Presidency has served the republic well during most of the course of American history . It would be fallacious to eviscerate the institution because a recent President or two abused the trust ? or because Congress and the people allowed the system of accountability to fall into decay . The great virtue of impeachment is that it punishes the offender without punishing the office . It would permit future Presidents to use legitimate powers to the full while warning them in an emphatic way that they had better not usurp illegitimate powers or ignore the system of accountability . Impeachment is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , as some citizens seem to suppose , a form of lese majest ? . The Founding Fathers prescribed it in the full expectation that it would be used . Madison deemed it " indispensable " that the Constitution contain a provision " defending the Community ag.st the incapacity , negligence or perfidy of the chief Magistrate . " Monroe called the impeachment clause " the main spring of the great machine of government , " the method of keeping the machine " in motion by its own powers and on a proper balance . " There can be no better means than this of making future Presidents sensitive to the system of accountability ? and of making future Congresses remember that they too have a responsibility in the constitutional order . If there was ever a time when the community needed defense against Presidential incapacity , negligence , and perfidy , it is surely today . If Congress does not act in 1974 , the deterrent effect of the impeachment clause will thereafter be nonexistent. s lIE CONSTITUTIONAL SIDE of the tory is not all , nor is it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to excuse Mr. Nixon 's transgressions would create more than a constitutional model . It would create a moral model . The President of the United States occupies a peculiar but recognized place in the moral organization of American society . Theodore Roosevelt called the Presidency a " bully pulpit . " Franklin Roosevelt said it was " preeminently a place of moral leadership . " Parents used to hope their children would grow up to be President . Children like to see the President , whoever he is , as benign and wise , the national father to whom they can safely entrust their lives and their destinies . What happens to this bond when a President no longer sets a particularly edifying example ? No doubt it is healthy not to see a President as a superhuman figure . Yet it troubles the whole society when he can no longer be seen as any sort of example at all . Few among us can hate our children enough to urge them to model themselves on Mr. Nixon . " He is the most visible and instructive father figure we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " our most impressive teacher . What does he teach our children ? To give almost nothing to charity , to cheat in money matters at every opportunity , to lie , to reject all criticism , to be indifferent to the needs of strangers , to treat laws disrespectfully , to love only close friends and relatives and sports on television , and to carpet-bomb at Christmas . " How to convey the ideals of American life in the face of such a moral example ? Mr. Nixon has succeeded for the moment in turning the Presidency into preeminently a place of immoral leadership . This is not only confusing for children and demoralizing for parents but it spreads its contamination well beyond the White House , bringing American politics in general into discredit . Nothing has been more marked after Watergate than the WHAT IF WE DO N'T IMPEACH HIM ? indiscriminate national revulsion against all politicians . I saw a bumper sticker the other day : BE A PATRIOTIC AMERICAN ? VOTE AGAINST ALL INCUMBENTS . All this is manifestly unfair . Mr. Nixon 's churns were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They were public-relations men , bond lawyers , and the like , with little knowledge of and no respect for the political process . They never understood that democratic politics is a conflict of limited liability in which the opposition must always be permitted to live to fight another day . The crassness and stupidity of their tactics appalled the professionals , in-eluding those in Mr. Nixon 's own party . And it was seasoned professionals like Senator Ervin who took the lead in exposing them . But if members of Congress should say , in effect , that Mr. Nixon and his men did not after all transgress the bounds of traditional politics , that none of their dirty tricks rouses serious Congressional objection , then Congress will only strengthen the popular cynicism about politicians . All politicians will be perceived as more or less out of the same can . Only Congress can redeem the reputation of politics by enforcing a distinction between Watergate politics and the politics of a constitutional democracy . EIN IIE SHRINKING FROM impeach- U meat probably arises from the novelty of abuse of power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the difficulty of visualizing the offenses of the Nixon Administration . Perhaps the situation can be more easily conceived if put in terms more homely and local . A letter in the Ann Arbor News of December 19 , 1973 , did this rather well . The author , Robert P. Weeks , wrote : What would you do , as a citizen of Ann Arbor , if you learned that the Mayor of Ann Arbor . . . had done the following : 1 . Approved a plan by which the Chief of the Ann Arbor Police Department could illegally tap your phone , open your mail , and burglarize your apartment , office or house ; 2 . Directed the Ann Arbor Police and FBI agents to tap the phone of the Ann Arbor News reporter who covers city hall ; directed the FBI to investigate a newscaster for the local radio station ; 3 . Withheld knowledge of a burglary from a local judge trying a case in which , that knowledge was crucially important ; 4 . Secretly taped conversations held in the mayor 's office in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as public officials , then when a confirmed court order required him to turn over nine of these tapes , refused to obey ; then , reversed himself ; then , announced that the two tapes containing perhaps the most critically important material never existed ; 5 . Tripled his wealth while serving as Mayor of Ann Arbor ; 6 . Paid practically no Federal income taxes for several years because he claimed huge and legally dubious deductions for turning over his official papers to the Ann Arbor Historical Commission ; 7 . Surreptitiously used Ann Arbor taxpayers ' funds to make major improvements on two private dwellings of his ; 8 . Twice selected personally as mayor pro tem a man who had bribes delivered to hire in city hall and then had to resign to avoid going to jail ; 9 . Selected and supervised as trusted top officials of his administration seven men who were indicted , convicted or have pleaded guilty ? including the city attorney . The citizens of Ann Arbor , Mr. Weeks suggested , would very likely not be altogether complaisant about such matters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one high standard of conduct but have a much lower , much more lax standard for the President ? ... Our silence is a way of saying to this President and future Presidents , ' There 's practically no limit to the corruption we 'll put up with in the White House . ' It may well be that , even should a majority of the House vote to impeach Mr. Nixon , one-third plus one of the Senate would block his conviction and removal . Some people would feel that this would be the worst outcome of all , that Mr. Nixon would construe acquittal as triumphant vindication , that he would return with righteous vigor to his course of aggrandizement , that he would even reinstitute the enemies list and use all the resources of government to conduct reprisals against all who had dared challenge and criticize him . This is not impossible , though it does not seem likely . Even if Mr. Nixon should eventually beat the rap , the experience of trial before the Senate would inescapably have a chastening effect . The readiness of Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of accountability ? not so much as conviction and removal but a good deal more than acting as if Mr. Nixon had done nothing out of the ordinary . The worst thing , it seems to me , would be to register Congressional acquiescence to Mr. Nixon 's theory of Presidential accountability . It is better to have impeached and lost than never to have impeached at all . Some dream of milder alternatives ? a resolution of censure , for example , that both houses would pass by majority vote . But this would be a cop-out and readily identifiable as such unless the resolution managed to specify exactly why the deeds condemned were censurable but not impeachable . Another suggestion is a resolution calling for the President 's resignation . But this would be purely hortatory , and , if more than that , would introduce an indigestible parliamentary element into a nonparliamentary system . I hardly think it would be wise in the long run to confer on Congress the power to dismiss Presidents without investigation and trial . Think what might have happened , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General MacArthur , or in the period when John Adams was standing up against Congressional agitation for war with France . Yet every one now agrees that these two doughty Presidents never had finer hours . The Founding Fathers were prescient in making impeachment the constitutional remedy . They did not want to make it easy to get rid of Presidents but they were determined to make it possible to do so . If members of Congress really want to restore the historic system of accountability , the means are at hand . If they decide not to hold Mr. Nixon and his successors accountable except once every four years , they will license the imperial Presidency , usher in a new and ominous time for the republic , and transform the balance and character of our constitutional order . Impeachment may have grievous consequences . Refusal to impeach the President will have consequences even more grievous and far more enduring .                     