@@290851

After months of fruitless effort to bring peace to strife-ridden Lebanon , Syria last week upped the ante with a massive military intervention in an all-out attempt to enforce a long-elusive Pax Syriana . Instead of calming the situation , the move at first brought Damascus into bloody conflict with its erstwhile ally , the Palestinian guerrilla movement , and forced it into an unwanted , possibly only temporary , compromise in which other Arab states are sending token forces into Lebanon . <P> By week 's end the Syrian initiative seemed to have brought the conflict to a new stage . As Arab troops from several countries began to arrive in Lebanon , the Palestine Liberation Organization ( P.L.O. ) announced that a ceasefire had been arranged in Beirut and that Syria would begin a phased withdrawal of its forces . By week 's end , Damascus had not confirmed any agreement to a ceasefire , and no observers in the Middle East thought that the Syrians were about to pull out more than a token number of their forces . Nonetheless , reports from Beirut indicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separating Syrian from Palestinian and leftist Moslem forces . Once again , faint hopes for peace stirred in the prostrate country . <P> Cease-Fire . In many ways , however , Syrian President Hafez Assad 's decision to force a solution in Lebanon gave the conflict a potentially more dangerous dimension than it had had during the 14 months of fighting between Lebanese leftists , who are allied with the Palestinians , and Christian rightists . The Syrian incursion openly brought several Arab regimes into an arena in which they had all along been playing covert and opposing roles . There was thus the danger that Lebanon would remain a theater of quarrels between the moderate and radical Arab states now directly intervening in the country . The rightist Christians in Lebanon , meanwhile , were distrustful of the Pan-Arab peace-keeping force . Moreover , with the Palestinian-Moslem leftist alliance worried about a sellout of its interests and the Israelis ever watchful of threats to their security , the emerging new balance remained at best fragile , the most recent ceasefire as shaky and uncertain as all those that preceded it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Assad 's forces of the center of Lebanon 's strategic Bekaa Valley earlier this month ( TIME , June 14 ) . That move , at first conducted with limited forces , firmly convinced the Lebanese left that Syria 's sympathies lay with Lebanon 's hard-pressed Christian rightists . For the bulk of Yasser Arafat 's P.L.O. , it seemed incontrovertible proof that Damascus was intent on emasculating the fedayeen in their last haven in the Arab world , as part of a more subtle movement toward an eventual wider settlement with Israel . As the Palestinians saw it , a " final confrontation " was brewing , the equivalent of King Hussein 's bloody Black September suppression of the fedayeen in Jordan six years ago .                     