@@732935

txt Letters Letters Defense : To Retain Our Margin of Superiority To the Editor : John Pomeroy 's Jan. 20 letter disparaging the B-1 bomber , the aircraft carrier and the Marines demands an answer . The role of the B-1 remains preeminent for the following : ? Survivance . Capable of reacting instantaneously to an enemy launch , the manned bomber can be airborne and far displaced from a target site at the time of impact regardless of the multiplicity of energy-targeted vehicles . o Accuracy . Manned bombers with air-to-ground missiles remain an order of magnitude better than ground-towound missiles where pinpoint accuracy is required . Savings in numbers of launch vehicles and attendant cost due to accuracy alone would more than pay for the B-1. o Readiness . Ability to recall a dispersed airborne force capable of launching against discrete targets immediately upon signal is the single best inhibitor to an enemy first-strike attempt . Arguments ridiculing the Navy 's attack carriers ignore their stability in heavy seas , permitting aircraft launch under any weather conditions . They ignore the redundancy of systems , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endurance at high speed and the advanced aircraft handling capability built into Nimitz . They ignore its airwing flexibility for discrete use against military targets , avoiding unlimited nuclear exchange by ICBM 's . Two self-induced catastrophic accidents during Vietnam validated current carrier design . In both Forrestal and Enterprise between seven and ten 1,000-pound bombs detonated on the flight deck simultaneously with other ordnance and combustibles . In neither case did the damage penetrate the hangar deck . Under battle conditions , both ships could have resumed combat operations following flight deck repairs at sea . Fallacious reasoning by analysts insulated from combat realities stems from their preoccupation with the balance of power prior to the initiation of a general war . Air and naval staffs must be prepared to regain the initiative following the outbreak of hostilities . Given a policy eschewing the aggressor role , war games must test survivance from a pre-emptive strike . Failure to think beyond this point obscures the reason for investing in the B-1 and Nimitz carriers in such numbers as to insure reinforcement from our inventory . The Marine Corps needs little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mission , its very austerity offers the least opportunity for substantial cuts . Manned bombers , carriers and Marine amphibious capabilities are our margin of superiority over the Soviets . How can we maintain that slim margin , and still save money , if we write off the billions in sunk costs for these weapons ? How much will it cost to replace them in new procurement of other equally capable systems ? CLARENCE A. HILL JR . , Va. , Jan. 31 , 1977 The writer is a retired Navy rear admiral . How E.R.A. Would Hurt the Service Academies Nuclear Proliferation : The Lesson of Churchill To the Editor : It is interesting to note that the law requires that females at the Service Academies are to be treated equally " except for those minimum essential adjustments in such standards required because of physiological differences between male and female .... " In debating the Equal Rights Amendment in the U.S. Senate , Senator Sam Ervin proposed an addition to the text . The addition , defeated by a vote of 78 to 12 , provided that " neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the rights and responsibilities of male and female persons unless such distinction is based on physiological or functional differences between them . " Since the foregoing Ervin amendment was overwhelmingly defeated , it Of Teachers , Students And a Course in Cruelty To the Editor : I - read Ivan Goldman 's Jan. 28 Op-Ed article , " Hopelessness , " with a feeling of disgust . The article dealt with his perception a how a child with reading skills should be treated in the face of envious classmates who beat him up because he is eager to learn . Mr. Goldman chose to allow the child to " take his lumps " so the youngster could " learn cruelty " in order to survive . He then describes how the youngster began to hate him because he , Mr. Goldman , refused to show any compassion , or any inclination to raise his voice in protest . Mr. Goldman then states : " That was good . The kid should learn to despise authority . " The Times describes Mr. Goldman as a " teacher . " That is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have nurtured that child 's spark and developed his talent . A teacher would have dealt with the other children 's feelings of envy and frustration , and made them realize that the enemy was not the new classmate but ignorance and intolerance . It can be done ; teachers , real teachers , do it every day . It is the height of absurdity for Mr. Goldman to chastise society with his pious " The rest of us drive past these children on modern expressways and do n't look down . I do n't know how we do it . " I know how you do it , Mr. Goldman . You showed us in your classroom . MICHAEL GELLER Brooklyn , Jan. 28 , 1977 Misread Con Ed Bill To the Editor : If Betty M. Owen ( letter Feb. 7 ) had read her gas bill correctly before writing about " outrageous profiteering , " she would have saved herself embarrassment . The fact is that she used , and was billed for , 70,600 cubic feet of gas  --  not 7,060 cublic feet as she alleges  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was one of the coldest on record in New York City . Con Edison bills clearly state that gas is billed on the basis of each 100 cublic feet of gas used . In her case , the bill for Dec. 16 to Jan. 21 shows " 706 hundred " cubic feet  --  or 70,600 cubic feet . It is not surprising that she has used so much gas in a bitter cold winter which has caused so much national distress . In the same period last winter ( a comparatively mild period ) Ms , Owen 's consumption was 53,400 cubic feet . We can not help but observe also that of the $257 Ms. Owen was charged for the 70,600 cubic feet $32.72 was for sales tax and special revenue taxes levied only on utilities ? a major reason why Con Edison bills for electricity and gas are , as the headline stated , " costly . " PETER ZARAliAS Vice President , Manhattan Division Consolidated Edison Company New York , Feb. 7 , 1977 would appear that it was not the intent of Congress to make any legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Service Academies make adjustments for female students for physiological reasons . Since changes in physical standards for female cadets and midshipmen are both " minimum " and " essential , " it follows that if E.R.A. is passed by the states there then must be a general lowering of standards for all at the Service Academies . This was precisely why many in the Department of Defense objected to women entering the Service Academies in the first place . Obviously E.R.A. should not be adopted . JOHN D. LAWLOR Brigadier General , U.S.A. ( Ret . ) Winnetka , Ill. , Jan. 29 , 1977 Tax-Break Priority To the Editor : In his Feb. 2 " fireside chat , " President Carter said that there would be a tax break for companies that hire more employees . In Long Island 's building industry , the number of employees is of no significance because very few people are able to buy homes . If a tax break were offered to people buying homes , the sales would rise and thus increase the number of employees needed by the building industry . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Before an employer will hire more people to help produce his product , he needs a market to sell it in . SETH LIEBERMAN Great Neck , L.I. , Feb. 4 , 1977 To the Editor : A recent news article on Liberianflag shipping Dec. 31 misconstrued some of the reasons why American companies register tankers and bulk carriers in Liberia . For example , it stated that " American flag ships are subject to corporate income tax ... on their profits " while American companies controlling Liberian vessels " do not have to pay American corporate taxes . " This comment overlooked the statutory tax changes in 1970 and 1975 which placed U.S.-flag and U.S.-controlled Liberian ships on essentially an equal footing . Both are entitled to deferral of U.S. tax on current income but only when earnings are earmarked for reinvestment in shipping . U.S.-flag operations have the added advantage of investment tax credits , accelerated depreciation and interest payments which can be applied to reduce U.S. taxes on income from other sources . In international bulk shipping , deferral of tax on income provides no special competitive advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations . The decisive factors really are comparative construction , repair , insurance and operating costs . U.S.-flag tanker costs are so much higher in each of these categories that , absent substantial subsidization , they simply have been priced out of the market . In discussing operating costs you To the Editor : For Richard Nixon , American foreign policy was to be determined by how other nations treated us , and not by how they treated their own people . The Carter Administration is to be congratulated for its apparent willingness to consider both . Those who warn against ruffling Russian feathers over such " secondary " issues as human ' rights would have us believe that we are endangering the prospects for disarmament thereby . Nothing could be further from the truth . The choice is not either/or , and we can continue occasionally to make our position known , without ignoring the fact that the world must first be made safe , before it can be made " safe for democracy . " The common dangers of nuclear proliferation demand that we deal with the Soviets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Winston Churchill . Still , on June 21 , 1941 , one day before a Nazi blitzkrieg swept through the Soviet heartland , Churchill was questioned as to whether he could bring himself to support the Communists . " I have only one purpose , " replied the Prime Minister , " the destruction of Hitler , and my life is much simplified thereby . If Hitler invaded hell I would make at least a favorable reference to the Devil in the House of Commons . " In this age of nuclear weaponry , the lesson of Churchill should not be lost on us . Yet neither should the fact that he merely made a pact with Stalin ; he did not refer to him as the archangel Gabriel . STEVE OSTERMAN New Haven , Feb. 2 , 1977 estimated an American seaman 's monthly wage at " $700 or more , " compared with $400 for a European seaman . The annual earnings of an ablebodied seaman ( a semiskilled worker ) on a U.S.-flag ship average about $18,000 , including four months ' paid vacation . In meeting foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which last year totaled over $1.7 million per annum for a single U.S.-flag tanker with a unionized crew of 32 . Most foreign vessels had annual payroll costs at least $1 million less for the same size crew . Your article also stated that American companies with Liberian vessels are avoiding " American safety standards , " a pejorative comment which could be interpreted to mean that these ships are less safe and more pollution-prone than their U.S.-flag counterparts . The American companies in our organization ( representing about 90 percent of all U.S.-controlled Liberian and Panamanian tonnage ) have consistently met or exceeded U.S. Coast Guard specifications in ship construction and complied with numerous safety and pollution-prevention requirements imposed by international conventions , Liberian regulations and ship classification societies . PHILIP J. LOREE Chairman , Federation of American Controlled Shipping New York , Jan. 21 , 1977 Liberian-Flag Ships : The Competition Factor                     