@@729183

txt Republican legislators , backed by the Ogilvie administration , will push for enactment of strong legislation aimed at eliminating drunk and drinking drivers from Illintik mark One key measure , just introduced , would require an automatic one-year revocation of driving privileges for anyone convicted of driving while under the influence of alcohol on the first offense. 3 Months Revocation Another , to be introduced for the Ogilvie administration next month , calls for an automatic three months revocation of the driver 's license of anyone who refuses to submit to a breath or other alcohol detection test . Rep. Bernard Epton R. , rhienrol silencer of the oneRep . Bernard Eaton year revocation bill , said he is also contemplating measures increasing jail terms and fines for drinking drivers . The move was attacked by Rep. Raymond Ewell D. , Chicago , a critic of such legislation in the past , who contended it would place an unfair burden on inner city blacks and drivers in rural areas downstate . He said police should place a greater emphasis on curbing major crimes such as murder , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Provisions of Statutes Present statutes call for a one-year revocation of a license on the first offense , but permit a judge to authorize issuance of a temporary license to convicted drunken drivers who can show a justifiable need to continue driving . Epton 's bill would eliminate such permits . Ogilvie 's bill would stipulate that a driver give his " imI plied consent " to undergo a test for alcohol at anytime by I applying for an Illinois driver 's I license . Police would be authorized to halt any person suspected of driving under the influence of alcohol and take him to a police facility for testing . If the driver refused , he i would automatically lose his license for three months . If he refused on a second occasion , the revocation would be for six months . Ewell charged this would give the police harassment powers in the inner city , where he said there is a very low incidence of traffic fatalities caused by drunk driving . He said such a law also would be an unfair burden to downstate drivers , who might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way to undergo a test . Police could use such a measure for harassment even when there was no indication that a driver had been drinking , be said .                     