@@731661

txt Negotiators for the coal industry and the United Mine Workers have agreed " In principle " to a second version of a proposed labor-management contract . If approved , the agreement could end the national coal miners ' strike in about 10 days . The agreement came Sunday night after extraordinary government pressure , with Secretary of the Treasury William E. Simon personally intervening in the dispute . THE COAL operators evidently bowed , to a large degree , to UMW demands for improvements in the original proposal , which was rejected by the union 's 38-member bargaining council . Details of the new contract language were not disclosed , but Simon called it an improvement in the package . A union spokesman said the revisions would be submitted no earlier than Tuesday to the council , which must approve any agreement before . passing it along to the union 's 120,000 striking miners for ratification . The union struck coal mines producing 70 per cent of the nation 's coal on Nov. 12 . It " ' " appeared doubtful the strike could be ended until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the revised proposal , UMW officials say it will take another 8 to 10 days before the ratification process is complete . In a joint statement , UMW President Arnold Miller and chief industry negotiator Guy Farmer said both sides " have tonight agreed in principle on improvements in the tentative contract package . " We intend to devote Monday to the task of finalizing contract language so that a complete and final document can be presented for the ratification process without delay . " A TENTATIVE agreement was reached Nov. 13 , but talks broke down last week when the UMW 's bargaining council instructed Miller to resume contract talks to seek major changes . Council members reportedly wanted a higher wage increase in the first year of the contract and two consecutive weeks of vacation instead of a split arrangement . The Treasury secretary stepped in to break the deadlock Sunday and met with the negotiators for several hours . Simon called the new proposal " an improvement in the package " but refused to give details . HIS ARRIVAL marked the first government intervention in the talks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contents of the new package until the UMW 's bargaining council has a chance to look at it . Simon spent most of his time conferring with the industry 's bargaining team , while W. J. Usery Jr. , chief federal mediator , shuttled between the bargaining teams of both sides in attempts to brea the impasse . The Nov. 13 agreement would have provided wage and benefit increases of about 50 per cent over the contract period , including a 9 per cent pay increase in the first year , but council members wanted Miller to seek a higher increase .                     