@@729987

txt The first thing the man , supposedly on Howard Hughes ' staff , wanted to know was how I arrived on the sealed-off eighth floor of the Intercontinental Hotel . It was easy . I took the elevator with Dr. Roger Miranda Gomez and his photographer , Ivan Cisneros , from La Prensa . We boarded the elevator on the ground floor , pushed the No. 8 button which did not light up rose to the second floor with another passenger and Hughes Sparks Nicaragua Boom Page 6 soon found ourselves back where we had started . Try , Try Again On the second attempt , I punched seven and nine . They lit up around the darkened eight , confirming it was no coincidence that eight had not registered before . We figured on riding up to nine and walking down , but to our surprise ? as much as to that of the three men who greeted us ? we found ourselves on eight . Bingo ! Gary Wrey , who is young , once stud41 fed journalism , speaks fluent Spanish , and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the private floor . " But is n't this a public hotel ? " I asked . Whole Floor Rented He replied they had rented the whole floor . The red-haired fellow , named Carl , confessed be had flown a private plane over from Fort Lauderdale , Fla . But he would not give his last name . He said they people on that floor might Stay for a couple of days , a couple of weeks , a couple of months . " You must be very rich , " Miranda said . " No but I have American Express , " Carl replied . That sort of set the mood . Wrey , Carl , and a third man named John Holmes were pleasant enough , but noncommittal . They did n't strongarm us back into ' the elevator , but neither did they ask us in for coffee . We stood talking in the hall by several open rooms for maybe 10 minutes . I asked Wrey if it was n't sort of fun playing this game of hide and seek with CBS , AP , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lobby . Responds in Kind " Is n't being a reporter exciting ? " was his answer . I asked Carl who they were with , if they were n't with Hughes . " We did n't say we were n't and we did n't say we were , " he replied . I asked if any Mormons were with them . Carl admitted to having Mormon friends , but said he smoked himself . Wrey said he had a gin drink last night . Supposedly that meant they were not members of Hughes ' so-called " Mormon Mafia . " Carl said he had just been to the beach and was returning for an 11 a. m. breakfast . A likely story . He said he had been to Masachapa on the Pacific , less than 45 minutes away from Managua . The story sounded unlikely for three reasons : In Nicaragua , you do n't go to Masachapa to the beach . You go to Pochomil , a few miles south . The distance and the twisting mountain road hardly encouraged an early-morning swim which would have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by 10:30 . Most important , one of the rumors going around is that Hughes is at Montelimar , the president 's beach home only a few miles north of Masachapa . Photographer Tries An Associated Press photographer hurried down to the beach house this morning and saw only the president 's youngest son and a friend in the surf . But that does n't mean the elusive Hughes could n't be in , the house . I stayed there one Saturday night in one of several guest bedrooms on the second floor . The photographer said he did n't see any guards around today , but he could have been fooled . On the morning I was there , I took an early walk along the beach and thought myself completely alone . Later a security guard told me every step I had had taken .                     