@@728792

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Draft Directive ? To the Editor : The Supreme Court decision has now made the conscientious objection deferment available to those who sincerely object to war on grounds other than traditional religious beliefs . Our American tradition of separation of church and state makes this decision a long overdue rectification of a previously intolerable situation . It is unfortunate that the National Director of Selective Service , Curtis Tarr , has seen fit to issue a local board directive ( 107 ) that threatens to open new avenues of inequity in a conscription system already overburdened with inequities . One new element in C. 0 . procedure now makes it virtually impossible for a local board to reach a reasonable decision on a C. 0 . application . Another part of the directive is clearly , discriminatory against those who have not had access to higher education . The local board must now decide for itself whether an applicant is " sincere " in his objection to war . Guidelines for such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided . An applicant for C. 0 . status must show that his own conscience has been informed by " rigorous training , contemplation , study , or other activity , comparable in vigor and dedication to the processes by which traditional religious convictions are formulated . . . " , presumably a condition which can be reasonably met by those trained in philosophy or theological ethics . Since applicants for C. 0 . status will , from now on , tend to be boys who have just graduated from high school , such conditions are obviously unreasonable . We can only hope that the directives which are not only vague but also clearly discriminatory will be fought in the courts . SHELDON R. ISENBERG Princeton , N. J. , July 23 , 1970 Democrats ' Inflation To the Editor : Record standards of living mean little if they are accompanied by record inflation . William V. Shannon forgets this in praising the inflation-ridden Johnson Administration . Editorial page column July 27 . President Nixon has cut defense spending . He is working successfully to control the inflation of the preceding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; so far it has not . Democratic Congressmen seem to be wearing the same blinders as does Mr. Shannon . Like him they protest defense spending ( at its lowest percentage levels in twenty years ) as inflationary , yet they pass such clearly inflationary bills as the Hill-Burton bill . CLAIRE OWENS Washington , July 30 , 1970 ? Captive Nations To the Editor : Your Aug. 3 editorial entitled " Finland Revives the Court " was noted with interest . Certainly no one will argue against the premise that use of the International Court of Justice should be encouraged . However , the subject of your editorial highlights a rather unfortunate trend in current international affairs , i.e. , the tendency to judge an international act not by its essential nature but rather by the identity of the actor . The continued presence of South Africa in Namibia ( South-West Africa ) may present a problem , but quite a few similar questions remain unresolved , as , for instance , the continued presence of the Soviet Union in Estonia . Interesting in this connection is the posture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with its Namibian initiative per se , it is regrettable that Finland has never felt motivated to make a similar move on behalf of Estonia . This neighboring country , culturally and linguistically related to Finland , was a member of the League of Nations , has much closer ties to Finland than Namibia , and suffers the continued presence of an alien authority . Although it might be claimed that Finland has a higher obligation toward its neighbor for this reason than it has to an embryonic entity such as Namibia , whatever obligation exists must be of equal weight , since the principle of self-determination for all peoples is a cornerstone of United , Nations philosophy . It would thus be an inconsistency for the international community to ignore claims for self-determination put forth on behalf of nations such as Estonia , while at the same time proclaiming the absolute moral imperative of selfdetermination for territories whose cultural and historic identity are often not too well developed . Of course the reasons why Finland prefers to espouse the cause of Namibia rather than that of Estonia are not hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the other two Baltic republics and the deprivation of the right of self-determination for these peoples represent a continuing sore in the international body politic . The fact that this situation is totally ignored is at least equally as " damaging to the interests of the United Nations system as a whole and to the structure of international law " as is the decline of the International Court . ENNO W. ERCKLENTZ Jr . New York , Aug. 4 , 1970 ? Second Line on Ballot To the Editor : The efforts by Richard Ottinger and James Buckley to create fictitious " independent " parties to give themselves a second line on the ballot are the latest attempts to implement a political strategy that has become traditional . In recent elections virtually every candidate has sought " equal time " on the ballot by means of a second line . In 1969 , the ballot became so cluttered that ? Mayor Lindsay 's supporters went to court and had two legitimate minor parties , the Socialist Workers party and the Socialist Labor party , thrown off the ballot to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was : to give the Mayor a second line , and which ceased to exist tfie day after the election . The usual justification for . second line is the opportunity given the voter to support . a candidate whose party affilia- , tion displeases him . This contradicts the currently fashionable theory that today 's sophisticated electorate is - indined to vote for the man rather than the party . Perhaps , to assure an unclutz tered ballot , all candidates should abide by a new maxim : - " One man , one line . " JULIAN A. STEIN Queens Village , N. Y : July 31 , 1970 ? To Control Pollutants , To the Editor : Your dramatic pictures of air- ' polluted Sydney and Tokyo ( July 29 ) make it crystal clear . that population density of a , country is not correlative to the pollution of its cities , since in the case of Sydney , Australia . has the lowest density of all : the continents of the world . Curtailment of population through extensive antipeople measures is not the solution : Despite Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fetal deaths from abortion exceed live births  --  Tokyo remains the most polluted of all cities internationally . The answer clearly is the direct control of pollutants at industrial and automotive sources . Those who bracket people with pesticides and air pollutants and confuse population control with pollutant control sidetrack us from the real solutions . HERBERT RATNER , M.D. Oak Park , III. , Aug. 7 , 1970 ?                     