@@734382

txt Jody Powell , the White House press secretary , made clear today that President Carter would definitely seek another term but had not decided when to announce his candidacy . " I ca n't announce the President 's decision for him , " Mr. Powell told reporters , " but I ca n't imagine that there is any doubt in anyone 's mind . Our decision is made . " A Carter candidacy has long been expected . But Mr. Powell 's statement , which was more categorical than any he has made before , came the day after a group of key Democratic supporters urged at a private dinner here that the President declare his candidacy earlier than planned because of a possible challenge from Senator Edward M. Kennedy . O'Neill Alters Prediction In light of the possible challenge , John C. White , the Democratic National Chairman , told reporters that a Kennedy-Carter contest need not necessarily divide the party if it was fought on issues rather than personality . And House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr . retreated from an earlier prediction that Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not run , conceding that Mr. Kennedy was " giving consideration " to such a challenge . The combination of all the statements tended to heighten political anticipation in the capital and make the prospect of a battle for the Democratic nomination seem all the more likely . President Wants to Wait The advice that the President should declare his intentions before rather than after Congress adjourns came from a group of elected Democratic officials and party leaders assembled at a strategy session with top White House aides last night at the Watergate apartment of Robert S. Strauss , the special American envoy to the Middle East , who is also a political adviser to Mr. Carter . The President has said recently that he wants to wait until Congress has completed action on his energy program and the strategic arms limitation agreement before announcing his plans to avoid accusations that he is playing politics . This could delay an announcement until late // December , and the wisdom of that strategy was challenged at the dinner last night . At a televised news conference last spring Mr. Carter said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but did not want to reveal his decision . When asked when he would announce his decision , Mr. Carter grinned and said , " Not now . " " There 's no question that the Kennedy effort has put a terrible pressure on Carter to get into the race as soon as possible , " said Lieut . Gov . Mario M. Cuomo of New York , who was described by the organizers of the session as the most vocal proponent of an early declaration by the President . " I told them that holding back just clouds the Carter record and makes it possible for Kennedy to run a campaign based on image rather than substance , " Mr. Cuomo said in a telephone interview today . " It just encourages rumors and allows a sense of tentativeness to grow up around the Carter campaign . " Mr. Cuomo 's argument was seconded by Mayor Coleman Young of Detroit , Gov . George Busbee of Georgia , Representative Mario Biaggi of the Bronx , Jesse M. Unruh , the California State Treasurer , and others among the guests at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President 's top political strategists : Hamilton Jordan , the White House chief of staff ; Jody Powell , the press secretary ; Tim Kraft , chairman of the Carter-Mondale Presidential Committee , and Mr. Strauss , who is a former chairman of the Democratic National Committee . John C. White , the present chairman , also attended , along with other political professionals assembled by Robert Keefe , the political consultant , who is acting as an unofficial adviser to the Carter-Mondale campaign . Among the other guests , who dined on Irish smoked salmon , ham and turkey , were Representatives Dante B. Fascell of Florida , Bill V. Alexander of Arkansas , John P. Murtha of Pennsylvania and W.G. Hefner of North Carolina ; Edward , Speaker of the Tennessee House of Representatives ; Paul Tipps , Democratic chairman in Ohio ; Franklin Lopez , Democratic chairman in Puerto Rico , and Charles Kirbo , the Atlanta lawyer and confidant of the President . Mr. Keefe said he organized the dinner ? to get some " political muscle " behind the Carter-Mondale effort and give Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was being viewed around the country . He said he would probably organize similar dinners in the future . Mr. White , who earlier had said that a Carter-Kennedy contest could split the party , said today that it " does n't have to . " As long as the candidates do n't get " foolish , " Mr. White said , " they can fight it out on the issues , unify after it is over and then support each other strongly in the election . " Mr. White said he respected Mr. Carter 's reasons for delaying the announcement of his candidacy but said he would prefer that he declare as soon as possible . " Hell , if it were up to me , I 'd have announced him last year , " he said .                     