@@734145

txt The frightening accident at the Three Mile Island nuclear plant in Pennsylvania has had some political fallout in New York . It has already disrupted a promis : ing plan for the nuclear waste storage site in West Val ' ley , near Buffalo . Just two weeks ago Governor Carey 's Energy Commissioner , James Larocca , said the state had struck a bargain with the Federal Government : New York would accept more nuclear waste in the short run and the Federal Government would clean it up in the long run . That seemed to be a sound approach ? if safety could be assured . Then came the scare in Pennsylvania , as well as opposition from legislators who had not been consulted . So now the Governor denies there ever was a final agreement , and a vexing problem that calls for responsible leadership is being contaminated by political posturing . ? The West Valley facility is not a power plant like Three Mile Island . It was originally designed to " reprocess " used nuclear fuel rods to recover material that could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private company , leased the site from the state and did reprocessing there from 1966 to 1972 . Then , finding itself unable to compete effectively , it shut down for expansion , only to run into regulatory troubles . Federal officials required that the facility be strengthened to withstand earthquakes and tornadoes ; the company , unwilling to pay the high costs involved , stayed shut . A reduced staff was left to watch over tanks of highly radioactive liquid wastes from the earlier reprocessing , a storage pool containing spent fuel rods that were never reprocessed , and a burial ground for low-level radioactive trash . The most troublesome problem at West Valley is how to dispose of these wastes safely  --  and who should be responsible . An outmoded contract would allow the company to turn the wastes over to the state , and require the state to safeguard them forever . But waste disposal is now recognized as an enormously complex technical and political problem ? better addressed by the Federal Government than by individual states . Under the agreement originally announced by Mr. Larocca , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them for permanent storage when a national repository is built . That put the responsibility where it belongs . Albany 's part of that now-denied bargain was the acceptance , for perhaps 15 years , of additional wastes at the site , including used nuclear fuel rods and radioactive hospital and laboratory supplies . Some critics denounced this as submission to Federal coercion . But the proposed reopening of West Valley should not be dismissed lightly . It would relieve power plants whose own storage pools for used fuel rods are becoming crowded . Without such additional storage capacity , some reactors might have to shut down in the early 1980 's . Their fuel rods , of course , would remain ? posing roughly the same risk at the reactor site as they would at West Valley . The main questions that must still be answered involve safety . The staff of the Federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission and a Congressional subcommittee have found that in its present shut-down state , the facility poses no undue hazard . But the scare at Three Mile Island has raised some doubt about such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facility strong enough to withstand a major earthquake ? Have earlier problems with overflows that could contaminate local waters been corrected ? The proposed deal is worth saving if the newly aroused and understandable concerns can be answered .                     