@@728860

txt Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird said today that the Soviet Union had conducted first tests of warheads on its principal intercontinental ballistic missile , - the SS-11 . Mr. Laird said two of the missiles , which are comparable to this country 's Minutemen , were launched Friday from the south-central part of the Soviet Union on a 5,000-mile flight into the Pacific test range 500 miles northwest of Midway Island . Although they are not the first Russian tests of multiple independently targetable re-entry vehicles , or MIRV 's , they were cited as proof of a continued Soviet momentum in missile testing . At a Pentagon news conference , Mr. Laird also made these points : 4The United States is committed to a neutral government in Cambodia . The statement appeared to broaden considerably the secretary 's earlier comments on Cambodia and to buttress recent remarks by Vice President Agnew . 4JThe use of American air power in Cambodia to strike at enemy concentrations and movement of supplies " is a good use of military power in that area . " Mr. Laird said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level of North Vietnamese and Vietcong activity in Cambodia has not changed significantly in the last three to four weeks , but the enemy has been unable to stage " significant action " in South Vietnam . CIThe United States war casualty figure for last week will be the lowest since 1966 . The precise figure , to be announced tomorrow , *ill be less than 59 deaths . 11The Pentagon is not prepared to accept the recommendation of a blue-ribbon reorganization panel calling for three new deputy secretaries , one of whom would be in overall command of military operations . In telling of the Soviet tests , Mr. Laird said they could mean a step toward a significant increase in the number of warheads on each of the 700 SS11 's in the Soviet Union . The number of warheads could jump to 2,100 . The Russians are not believed to have MIRV 's on their deployed , missiles , but Mr. Laird said the testing program indicated that employment by 19 ' 721 " is still a very realistic projection . " He , cited a statement made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said that , if they chose to , the Russians could have ' their first MIRV 's by mid-1971 . The ' MIRV warheads can each be guided to a chosen target . In less , advanced missiles multiple warheads are fired in shotgun fashion by missile . Last June , the United States deployed its first MIRV 's at Minot Air Force Base in North , Dakota . The Defense Department plans to replace 500 Minuteman 1 and 2 missiles with the Minuteman 3 , a MIRV with a triple warhead . The ** test-fired by the Russians last week also carried three " objects " that landed in the water , according to a nearby United States ship that observed the test . In commenting on American involvement with the present Cambodian government , Mr. Laird went beyond earlier statements on the subject . " Our commitment , " he said , " is to a neutral government in Cambodia , and that commitment has not changed . " On May 14 , speaking to a group of reporters he said that ' the American commitment extended only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government has a commitment to Cambodia , " he said at the same time . " Our commitment is to our own forces and our commitment is to see that the objective we 've set . out in Vietnam is achieved , and that 's where I put it . " As for American bombing , he said he did not " care to get into a debate over the semantics of what our air power is doing in Cambodia . " " The use of air power to interdict or to stop ? other terms if you want to use them ? materiel , personnel in Cambodia , " he said , " is a good use of military power in that area with the minimum possible American loss of life . " Later , he said , " If we can destroy enemy supplies , destroy enemy troops in Cambodia with a minimum American casualty rate , I 'm for it and I will authorize it . " The Secretary thus avoided making distinctions , as he has in the past , over whether air power in Cambodia was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air support , that is , air power used against enemy positions to support ground troops . The Administration at one time limited bombing in Cambodia to supply lines , but recent dispatches from the battle area have included accounts of what appears to be close air support by United States planes . Comparing current bombing efforts in Cambodia with earlier use of air power , a Defense Department source indicated today that enemy positions had changed considerably . " They 're operating over a different area now , and so are we , " the official remarked . Mr. Laird asserted that while the level of enemy activity in Cambodia had not changed significantly over the last three or four weeks . The enemy was having difficulty carrying out operations in Cambodia , Laos , and South Vietnam at the same time .                     