@@733216

txt Letters pg . 12 Letters Schools : The Mayor 's ' Unsound ' Proposal To the Editor : Mayor Beame 's proposal for the governance of the school system , as reported in The Times of Aug. 9 , is unsound . He recommends a Board of Education whose members would serve on a part-time basis , who would receive " small annual stipends " and who would be selected on the recommendations of a screening panel . The Mayor would appoint a full-time , salaried School Chancellor . Apparently the Mayor would not be limited in this appointment to nominations made by an independent screening panel . Thus , with respect to the highest administrative post in the school system , there would be no safeguard against partisan politics entering into the appointment . Obviously , this constitutes a serious flaw . A basic tenet of sound governance in education is that an independent board or citizens ' council determine policies . The function of the Chancellor or Superintendent is to implement policies so determined . Yet the Mayor proposes that the Chancellor serve not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of the board . To have this administrator also serve as the chairman of the policymaking board is to obliterate the demarcation line between policy and administration . For example , under the decentralization law all appeals from the rulings of the Chancellor in disputes with community boards are decided by the central board . To have the Chancellor serve as a member and the presiding officer of the board is equivalent to having a judge whose decision is being appealed serve as the chief judge of the appellate court reviewing his decision . Under the decentralization law , the responsibilities that are imposed upon the central board are too many and time-consuming to be responsibly discharged by a part-time body . The Mayor 's proposal ignores this fundamental tact . The provision for " a small annual stipend " is an incongruity . It surely would not compensate for full-time services . But if the board were to be confined to policy-making , as it should be , without the statutory duties that today are its responsibilities , no provision for compensation would be necessary . New York City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve on a part-time basis without compensation but would be unwilling to serve on a full-time basis with a small or even larger stipend . In failing to separate policy-making from administration , the Mayor 's proposal makes pinpointing of responsibility and accountability for performance impossible to achieve . The present scheme of governing the school system is clearly unsound . But the Mayor 's proposal for change is equally unsound . It is to be hoped that the temporary commission appointed by the Mayor will come to the rescue of the governance of education in this city . MAX J. Rush New York , Aug. 9 , 1977 1 he writer is a former president of the Board of Education . Of Wages , Prices And Consumers Met Orchestra : The Union 's Concern To the Editor : Much has been said of the " abomination " of governmental wage and price controls . There is hardly enough said about the control of wages and prices by major industrial corporations , whose concentrated economic might makes a virtual mockery of the traditionally relied-upon mechanisms of supply and demand . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has become a virtual redundancy . Supply and the manipulation of that supply by collusive oligopolists are price-determining . Adam Smith 's invisible hand has become a mailed fist . Competition , which implies uncertainty regarding investment return , is avoided at all cost . Therefore , on the supply side , " competitive " capitalism , as a regulating mechanism , has become even more redundant than demand in the determination of price . Wage and price controls do , in fact , exist . However , it is not government but corporate industrialists who control . In spite of all the criticism concerning the cumbersome bureaucracy of governmental price administration , the consumer , through the political process , has a role to play . In the present economic climate , based on the pretense of competition , he has n't a prayer . GERALD H. EVANS Professor of Economics Monroe Community College Rochester , Aug. 5 , 1977 How Not to Set Policy To the Editor : In her " modest proposal " ( letter Aug. 8 ) , Virginia Miles suggests we pay taxes and determine the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allocation to each segment of the economy . Hogwash . Should we likewise elect public officials through our use of parking meters ( e.g. , dimes for Republicans ; nickels for Democrats ) ? Or maybe we should determine foreign policy when we renew our driver 's licenses ? This country has a governmental process which , while not perfect , comes closer to perfection than does a system whereby taxpayers whimsically determine national policy . By comparison , Swift 's own " Modest Proposal " seems almost palatable . STANLEY D. CHESS New York , Aug. 8 , 1977 To the Editor : The argument presented by Stanley A. Bowker in his Aug. 3 letter , " The Met Should Abolish the Union , " carried to its logical conclusion , would have his local high school band take over the musical responsibilities of the Metropolitan Opera House , since quality to him is of secondary importance . It is because of their concern to maintain the highest standards of performance that the Met orchestra and its union representatives seek improvement in working conditions , pension benefits and salary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performances required of the orchestra is the most difficult To the Editor : I wish to take issue with remarks made in the July 28 " Topics " column regarding the proposed development under the Queensboro Bridge at 59th Street in Manhattan , which , as an affected local resident , I oppose for more weighty reasons than I will go into here . Like others before you , you mistakenly liken the open-air green market , which is part of the Bridgemarket proposal , to the welcome farmers ' markets which have sprung up in certain communities . The latter provide a means for growers to come to town and sell their freshly harvested produce direct to the public at low cost by eliminating the middleman . The proposed green market will be different altogether . It will consist of stalls which will be stocked in exactly the same way as other neighborhood greengrocers , that is , via wholesalers or middlemen , thereby eliminating any cost-saving to the consumer . A Korean fruit and vegetable vendor is currently operating quite successfully on First Avenue within view of the bridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world . Most opera houses are fully subsidized by their governments . Until the recent announcement of a $1.5 million matching grant to the Met by the National Endowment for the Arts , government support was piddling . A bill in Congress , H.R.1042 , sponsored by Representative Fred Richmond of New York , which could provide over a billion dollars for the arts through voluntary contributions designuted on the Federal income-tax form , would insure the survival of art institutions and artists throughout the country . The bill merits the public 's support . JACQUES RUBINSTEIN Tenafly , N.J. , Aug. 8 , 1977 another so-called farmers ' market is quite unnecessary . As a matter of fact , the proposed Bridgemarket would only exacerbate the devasting vehicular congestion around the bridge . The city 's failure to improve the air quality around the bridge is an appalling disgrace , and should be made a Federal case . SUZANNE LACROIX President , Sutton Area Community New York , July 29 , 1977 The ** Penny To the Editor : The " lowly " penny Editorial Notebook Aug. 2 still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six minutes on a parking meter downtown . So all those pennies and all those minutes add up to the motorists ' convenience . Ilow did the City of Ithaca arrive at a figure like six minutes ? I do n't know , but it keeps you out of trouble with a copper . STEVEN FELDMAN Ithaca , N.Y. , Aug. 2 , 1977 A Bridgemarket Is Quite Unnecessary ' Toward Simple , Understandable Language in Consumer Contracts To the Editor : It is a degrading experience to . be obliged to sign a contract that you ca n't understand . But for years , neither reason nor persuasion , neither the demands of consumers nor the competition of the marketplace have been enough to compel lawyers and their business clients to abandon incomprehensible legalese . Since businesses have not simplified their consumer forms and contracts when left to themselves , it was the obligation of the Legislature to respond . That 's why I introduced the bill to require the use of simple , understandable language in consumer contracts . That bill overwhelmingly passed both houses of the Legislature . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( the signing was made public Aug. 10 ) . In his attack on my bill , John R. Tyler ( letter Aug. 5 ) was unaware that over two years of hard work went into this bill . We consulted with Prof. Eliot Biskind , acknowledged expert on the language of the law . We contacted language experts , business people and lawyers to ? assure that we were effective and reasonable in our approach . This process was helped by the critical support of Assemblyman Harvey Strelzin , chairman of the Consumer Protection Committee . The bill was refined to its final form by the careful review of Senate Majority Leader Warren Anderson 's staff . Mr. Tyler could have known this if he had simply asked . This bill is a modest beginning in the major task we face in overhauling the language of legal contracts . Mr. Tyler cited ludicrous examples as he tried to terrify the reader with the consequences of this bill . This tack is typical of the response lawyers have made to language simplification . Insurance contracts are not within the definition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Tyler thinks . ( Maybe they should be ! ) Warranties and guarantees must already be written " .. in simple and readily understood language , " as required by the Federal Magnuson-Moss Act , which supersedes my proposal in this respect . As an attorney , Mr. Tyler should know that . There can hardly be a person in our semi-cashless society who does not know that , when he signs the reverse side of a check that says " pay to the order " of his name , he will get the cash . Mr. Tyler 's letter just raised a smoke screen to obscure a lack of enthusiasm to comply with a proposed law that was supported by Attorney General Lefkowitz , Regional Director Richard Givens of the Federal Trade Commission , New York State Commerce Commissioner John Dyson and such leading consumer advocates as Elinor Guggenheimer , Rosemary Pooler and Don Ross and an army of senior citizens , union leaders , tenants , legal aid groups and , most important , just plain citizens who 've had to sign incomprehensible contracts . I think people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carey understood when he signed the bill . After June 1 , when consumers sign on the dotted line , they will be ab:e to understand , too . PETER M. SULLIVAN Assemblyman , 92d Dist. , Westchester Albany , Aug. 11 , 1977                     