@@732991

txt A STRONG earthquake jolted Romania and shook buildings from Rome to Moscow Friday night . Reports from Bucharest said hundreds of people were dead and the center of the Romanian eanital was nearly destroyed . " We do n't have any official figures , but in the talk around here , the estimate is in the hundreds of dead , if not more , " a Marine guard at the United States Embassy in Bucharest said by telephone . The official Romanian news agency said the quake caused " casualties and great material damage in Bucharest in particular , " but it gave no details . " The situation is terrible here , " an operator of the Bucharest telephone exchange reported . " We know nothing for sure but we have heard that there are many dead . " Bucharest has a population of about 1.5 million . THE QUAKE WAS the worst to hit the seismic-belt Balkan area since 1,001 people died in a massive quake at Skopkje , in neighboring Yugoslavia , in July , 1963 . Romanian President Nicolae Ceaucescu , who cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early Saturday ordered a decree issued in his name mobilizing all state rescources for rescue operations , including the dispatch of water , bread , and basic foods to the affected area , Radio Lagos reported . The U.S. Embassy guard said the center of Bucharest , the city 's old section , was badly damaged . " You cap hear sirens running around , the people are all in the streets ; and the rescue teams are trying to do what they can in the darkness with all the lights out , " he said . He said the U.S. Embassy had been damaged , but none of its personnel was hurt and no American casualties have been reported . The guard said the quake lasted about five minutes . " It shook the whole city of ' Bucharest , " he said . " Since then there have been no new shocks but everybody is living in fear of a new tremor any moment and the buildings are empty . " TILE GUARD AND the telephone operator , who spoke , in broken English in a quivering , emotional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Associated Press from Rome . The oper // Quake rips Romania ; fear big toll // ator said she could not connect a call to any telephone in Bucharest because the lines had been cut by the earth tremor . Radio Bucharest was quoted in Yugoslavia as sr.eing the Romanian army was providing water and electric power . The night clerk of the hitercontinental Hold , largest in Bucharest , said by telephone that only the city 's newer buildings came through the quake without damage , The clerk said Bucharest radio reported that the quake was 50 miles from the capital , " and army troops and rescue teams have been dispatched to the area la dig out the dead from the debris . " A spokesman tor Austria 's Central Institute for Meteorology and Geodynamics in Vienna said the quake probably caused widespread damage in Romania 's ? Transylranian Alps . JULIUS DRIMMEL , a seismological expert In Vienna , said the quake was recorded at 7,5 on the Richter Scale and was believed centered in the Alps , which link with the Carpathians to form a mountainous semicircle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The National Earthquake Information Center in Golden , Colo. , said the quake was centered about 65 miles north of Bucharest . Tremors were reported in the Soviet Union , Hungary , Yugoslavia , Austria , northern Greece , and central Italy . No major damage was reported immediately from those countries . Radio Bucharest was off the air for about 11/2 hours after the quake struck shortly before 9:30 p.m. , a spokesman for Radio Free Europe said in Munich , West Germany . The official Yugoslav news agency Tanjug reported from Belgrade that 17 persons requested medical assistance in Kragujevac , a city south of Belgrade . All the injured had been hospitalized but were all out of danger , it said . YUGOSLAV OFFICIALS said tremors cracked walls in old buildings and sent people fleeing into the streets in Belgrade , Sarajevo , and Zagreb . No serious damage was reported in Yugoslavia , but many people stayed for several hours in the cold streets after the tremor , The Hungarian news agency MTI said " residents of multi-story houses ran into the streets " and factory work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in eastern and southern Hungary . Tanjug reported from the Bulgarian capital of Sofia that the quake sent residents fleeing into streets and parks . The tremor caused no major damage in central Bulgaria but electric power and telephone connections were interrupted in some areas , Tanjug said . Tremors in Moscow caused curtains to sway and pictures on walls to shake . A Soviet official said there had been a mild earthquake and details would be available later . THE ITALIAN seismological center in Rome said the quake shook the Italian capital , Naples , and all of central Italy . No damage was reported , but police said tall buildings swayed and hundreds of frightened residents called firemen . In the northern Greek city of Salonica , officials said five consecutive tremors shook buildings and sent residents running into the streets in panic . There were no reports of damage or injuries .                     