@@729507

txt A high Administration spokesman says that President Nixon is more concerned that a precedent might be set for future disclosures of secret documents than he is over whether The New York Times endangered national security by publishing a Pentagon study . The President 's position was outlined to a small group of newsmen yesterday by Herbert G. Klein , Director of Communications for the Administration . Mr. Klein told the newsmen that the President 's principal concern in The Times case was to discourage officials opposed to the Vietnam war from giving other classified documents to the press . Meanwhile , The Times 's decision to publish the series on the Pentagon study was applauded by some  --  including George E. Reedy Jr. , Press Secrotary to former President Lyndon B. Johnson , and Senator Robert W. Packwood , Republican of Oregon  --  and criticized by others , including Senator Henry M. Jackson , a potential candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination . 3 Installments Published The Administration has obtained a temporary restraining order from a court  --  and in seeking a permanent injunction ? to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secret Pentagon study on United States involvement in the war . Three installments of the series were published early this week . The Klein briefing -- to which The New York Times was not invited  --  was held on a " background basis , " with those present told to attribute the remarks to " White House officials , " The dozen or so newsmen were called about noon by a member of Mr. Klein 's staff and invited to a " backgrounder " on The Times case in his office in the Executive Office Building . One newsman present said that the briefing had lasted two and a half hours , with the first part of it devoted to a discussion by Administration officials of the President 's proposed antinarcotics program submitted to Congress earlier yesterday . " After what seemed an eternity , we finally got around to what we went there for , The Times case , " the newsman said . Several of those present confirmed that Mr. Klein stressed the President 's concern over encouraging future disclosures of classified documents . Mr. Klein repeatedly described the material on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stolen goods . " Later in the briefing , however , John W. Dean , counsel to the President , suggested that it might be more appropriate to say that The Times had " unauthorized possession " of the documents . Mr. Klein told newsmen that the attempt to halt publication of the Pentagon study in The Times should not be considered au attempt to stifle freedom of the press . Meanwhile , Lieut . Gov . Lester G. Maddox of Georgia , in a statement yesterday , said that he felt The Times series should be resumed if it " proves that our political leaders have not been honest with the people . " He added , however , " If there is no dishonesty and the release of the information could jeopardize national security , then not another word should be printed . " Mr. Reedy , who was press secretary to President Johnson in 1964 and 1965 , said yesterday : " The New York Times has not only a right but an obligation to print the story , to tell the public what is in the study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington bureau chief of Westinghouse Broadcasting , that he had been unaware of Administration plans for escalation of the war in early 1965 , although he knew something was going on , and that he was told to hold the line that there was no change of policy . " That 's when I suddenly found life unbearable for me , he said in the telephone interview . Senator Jackson , Democrat of Washington , said yesterday in Sacramento , Calif. , that the publication of the Pentagon study might jeopardize the effectiveness of the nation 's intelligence system . But the Senator said that The Times case indicated a need for a review of the nation 's methods of classifying and protecting secret information so that only truly sensitive information is kept secret . Senator Packwood said yesterday that the Government 's " embarrassment " over the publication of the study did not justify censoring the articles . He termed the publication of the articles and the Government 's attempt to halt it " one of the 10 biggest " events of the century . In another development , Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today to authorize $250,000 for a two-year study by the Foreign Relations Committee of the policies of the United States in Southeast Asia . In a letter to Defense Secretary Melvin R Laird , Representative John E. Moss , Democrat of California , demanded access to the 47-volume Pentagon study " in accordance with provisions of the Freedom of Information Act . " Mr. Moss said that under that act , which he helped draft , the burden for justifying withholding of government information rested " squarely on the agency seeking to withhold , and , in my opinion , your ' department has not offered any legitimate justification to date . "                     