@@734126

txt Vowing revenge , staging strikes and protest marches and calling for punitive measures against Egypt , Palestinians and other Arabs reacted angrily today against the signing of the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty in Washington . Yasir Arafat , chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization , vowed to chase Americans out of the Middle East and to " chop off , the hands " of President Carter , President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt and Prime Minister Menachem Begin of Israel . He spoke to a group of guerrilla recruits at the Sabra Palestinian camp here as effigies of the three signers were burned . The inhabitants of Lebanon 's 15 Palestinian camps protested the signing today by refusing to work , as did many Lebanese Moslems . Similar protests were staged in the occupied West Bank of the Jordan River and the Gaza Strip , and in the Arab Old City of Jerusalem a grenade exploded tonight , wounding five tourists . Iran Government Condemns Paci In Teheran , the Iranian Government condemned the treaty , and 30 Arab students took over the Egyptian Embassy there . Protesters also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live , forming the largest foreign community in that small country . In Damascus , Syria , demonstrators occupied the offices of the Egyptian airline , Egyptair . Meanwhile , foreign and finance ministers of Arab League countries gathered today in Baghdad , Iraq , for a meeting tomorrow on possible economic and political measures against Egypt . The countries had vowed last November to hold such a meeting if the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty was signed , but Saudi Arabia , Egypt 's principal foreign backer , has been trying to exercise a moderating influence . King Hussein of Jordan flew to Damascus and Baghdad during the day in what was believed to be an effort to coordinate the positions of hard-liners and moderates at tomorrow 's Arab meeting . Gromyko Comments on Treaty In Damascus , Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko of the Soviet Union ended a three-day visit to Syria today by Joining with President Hafez al-Assad in denouncing the peace treaty , saying it appeared bound to increase tension in the Middle East . A joint . Soviet-Syrian communique said the treaty was aimed at perpetuating the Israeli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jerusalem and suppression of the rights of Palestinians . According to the state-controlled Syrian press agency , Mr. Gromyko said he had reached agreement with President Assad and the P.L.O . on dealing with the situation in the Middle East arising from the treaty . Mr. Gromyko had also conferred in Damascus with Mr. Arafat . Last night Mr. Arafat 's second in command , Saleh /Chalet , who goes by the nom de guerre of Abu Iyad , called for an ArabSoviet alliance as the best response to what he termed the triangular alliance between the United States , Egypt and Israel . Speaking at a rally in Tyre marking Israel 's invasion of southern Lebanon on March 14 , 1978 , Mr. Khalef proposed that the P.L.O. , Syria , Algeria , Libya and Iraq join the Soviet Union in the alliance . The guerrilla official hinted that the Black September terrorist organization might be reactivated , referring to what he called a question raised in the Western press about whether the organization might make a new appearance . Mr. Khalef was once reputed to have been the head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series of terrorist operations between 1971 and 1974 . " We shall fight the Americans , British and West Germans everywhere , " he said , attacking Britain and West Germany for their support of the EgyptianIsraeli treaty . " We shall not tolerate West European attitudes against our Palestinian people . " Mr. Arafat , who spoke a few hours before the signing in Washington , drew loud applause when he declared , " I shall finish off American interests in the Middle East . " Arafat Notes Begin 's Statement He spoke with scorn of a statement made a few days ago by Prime Minister Begin , in which the Israeli leader warned that the P.L.O . chairman would get his fingers burned if he tried to undermine // t Pnts .. a Yasir Arafat denouncing the treaty at news conference he held in Beirut , Lebanon , yesterday . the treaty . Mr. Arafat also said he had received a warning from the United States that the Palestinians would bring trouble on themselves if they caused a disturbance over the peace move . " They say that I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " But let me tell them that I shall not horn my fingers but instead I shall chop off their hands . " Noting that there was talk of vast American military aid to Egypt and Israel , Mr. Arafat declared : ' . ' This is a joke . I ask Carter what happened to all his tanks and planes in Iran . "                     