@@730710

txt World money markets reopened today for the first time in more than two weeks and the dollar strengthened , passing an initial test of the new floating system of international exchange rates . Financial sources warned it was too early to tell whether the floating system would finally resolve the monetary crisis of the past . two months . But there was general encouragement that the dollar , storm center of the monetary turmoil , was improving . The dollar closed higher in most markets . In West Germany the dollar closed at 2.827 marks , up from 2.82 on March 1 when the , latest monetary crisis began . In Japan the dollar closed at 264.90 yen , compared with 260.50 ; in Paris the dollar reached 4.5967 francs , up from 4.5150 . The British pound slipped to $2:45 from $2.50 . VOLUME , however , was not particularly heavy , suggesting that some of the big money managers were sitting on the sidelines , waiting to see , how the markets adjusted to the floating system approve ( ' Friday in Paris by 14 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States . Finance Minister Valery Giscard d'Estaing of Franc e , chairm . : the Paris meeting , told newsmen that ma:lcet activity today was in the line with " the hopes and conclusions " of the con : ' pa- " ? ' : ants . Foreign exchange dealers here and on the continent took ap attitude of " so far so good . " " AT THE MOMENT the dollar seems to be in very good shape compared to most other currencies , " a Zurich dealer said . " There was unusually strong demand for dollars , " a Paris dealer commented , " but volume was rather below expectations . " " It will take some time before market conditions return to normal , " a Frankfurt banker warned . He said it would be " absolutely premature " to judge the Paris agreement on the basis of one day 's trading . IN SOME financial circles there were still doubts whether the floating system will prove any better than the 10 per cent devaluation of the dollar Feb. 12 . Despite that second dollar devaluation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ markets as generally expected . The United States was still spending some $81/2 billion more abroad each year than it was earning overseas . The dollar was still weak against the currencies of countries with strong trade profits like West Germany and Japan . SPECULATORS , money managers for the big international corporations and for Middle East oil producers , reasoned that the dollar 's exchange rate was bound to go down in any currency realignment . So they continued to sell dollars in such numbers that world money markets were forced to shut March 2 . By the time they reopened 17 days later , the rules of the game had been fundamentally changed . As far as the dollar is concerned , governments no longer have to support fixed exchange rates . Speculators can no longer count on profiting eventually from formal devaluations or revaluations . INSTEAD OF fixed rates , the dollar was allowed to float . Governments promised to stabilize money markets from time to time , but did not says when they would intervene or how . The vague system makes it tougher for speculators . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as governments , on which way markets were likely to move . BACKERS OF this approach believe speculators will eventually cancel each other out and the markets will be steadier . Opponents fear a return to the confusion of the pre-World War II era , a period of floating rates which was also accompanied by trade war and competitive devaluations . Treasury Secretary George P. Shultz was in London discussing the monetary developments and related trade problems with Prime Minister Edward Heath and other senior British officials . It was understood that Shultz pressed the British to favor more American exports into the European Common Market , a move that would reduce the U. S. trade deficit and steady money markets . The British called the talks " helpful and useful . ' Shultz and Heath also discussed the need for longer term monetary reforms . These will be discussed in Washington next week by the Group of 20 , a working party of the International Monetary Fund .                     