@@730201

txt President Nixon and the Soviet Communist party leader , Leonid I. Brezhnev , signed two historic agreements last night that for the first time put limits on the growth of American and Soviet strategic nuclear arsenals . In a brief televised ceremony in the Great Hall of the Kremlin , the two leaders put their Arms accord texts , Page 8 , and toasts on Page 9 signatures to a treaty that establishes a ceiling of 200 launchers for each side 's defensive missile systems and commits them not to try to build nationwide antimissile defenses . The treaty , which is to run in. definitely , requires ratification by the Senate in Washington , but both sides pledged to abide by it at once . Applause After Signing They also signed an interim accord on offensive systems that freezes land-based and submarine-based intercontinental missiles at the level now in operation or under construction . After signing the two accords , Mr. Brezhnev and Mr. Nixon walked toward each other , smiling broadly , and shook hands vigorously amidst applause from a gathering of senior officials , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put the final touches on the agreement . Mr. Nixon then said ; " We want to be remembered by our deeds , not by the fact that we brought war to the world , but by the fact that we made the world a more peaceful one for all peoples of the world . " Can Improve Quality Mr. Kosygin said in reply : " This is a great victory for the Soviet and American peoples in the matter of easing international tension . This is a victory for all peaceloving people , because security and peace is the common goal . " Later , American officials reported that the two leaders had resolved several deadlocks In their talks here this week , In a toast at a dinner he gave for the Soviet leaders at Spaso House , the American Ambassador 's residence , the President hailed the agreements as " enormously important . " Gerard C. Smith , the chief American negotiator , told reporters that today 's two agreements were " not the end of the road by any means , but they are a very solid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qualitative improvements in either offensive or defensive systems , no ceilings on the numbers of warheads that can be carried by offensive missiles , and no controls on the number of strategic bombers permited each side . Moderization of missiles , including the emplacement of new missiles in existing silos , would be allowed . Moreover , during the fiveyear term of the agreement on offensive missiles , both sides are permitted to " cash in " some of their older land-based missiles and build additional missile busmarines . In addition , the Russians would he permitted to replace some of their older submarines with new ones . Henry A. Kissinger , Mr. Nixon 's adviser on national security said the two sides had agreed that , as of now , the Soviet Union has a total of 2,328 missiles , 1,618 intercontinental ballistic missiles and 710 on nuclear submarines , compared with 1,710 for the United States ? 1,054 ICBM 's and 656 on submarines . If the Soviet Union were to use all their options of replac ? ing obsolete missiles and sub marines , Mr. Kissinger explained in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 950 missiles on submarines with a reduction to 1,408 on land , maintaining a numerical edge of about 600 missiles . Mr. Kissinger also acknowledged that since Soviet warheads were larger , it had a 3-to-1 advantage over the United States in explosive tonnage . Offsetting this , however , the United States has an advantage of 460 strategic bombers to 140 for the Soviet Union , and , more important , is expected by the end of this year to have a lead in nuclear warheads of 5,700 to 2,500 for the Soviet Union . This does not in ? elude any of the nuclear weapons available to the American forward air units based in Europe , which were excluded from the agreements , despite Moscow 's previous desire to see this air power covered by the agreement . Initial news briefings by American officials made it impossible to calculate the Soviet numerical advantage with pre cision . But in any case , the United States is expected by the end of 1972 to have a lead in nuclear warheads of 5,700 to 2,500 . In effect , the agreements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technological superiority of the American arsenal , preserving the strategic parity that both sides feel they have achieved . Despite the fact that neither agreement provides for on-site inspection to check against violators , American officials expressed satisfaction that other means of verification would be adequate . In the agreements , both sides pledged " not to interfere with the national technical means of verification of the other party . " In addition , the offensive-missile agreement states that neither side will use " deliberate concealment measures which impede verification . " Each side . has the right to withdraw from either agreement by giving six months ' notice , if it feels its supreme national interests are in jeopardy . Critics have charged in advance that such agreements would merely divert the arms race from a competition in numbers to one in quality primarily by placing multiple warheads on the current force of offensive missiles . The United States began this process with its Polaris submarine force and with some of its land-based Minuteman missiles , while the arms talks were under way and while the Soviet missile force was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kissinger and other administration officials contended at briefings tonight that the agreements would serve to " arrest " the arms race . The defensive missile treaty provides for establishment of a joint consultative commission to consider questions of compliance and the offensive missile agreement calls for " follow-on negotiations " to achieve a fullfledged treaty in that field . None of the Soviet leaders had a direct comment on the agreement , but in their behalf , a spokesman , declared Moscow 's satisfaction with treaties that in its estimation accorded " non unilaterial advantage " to either side . Advancing the Administration 's basic argument in anticipation of Congressional criticism that the Russians have been granted numerical advantages , Mr. Kissinger told newsmen that the Administration considered the combination of agreements signed today a major step toward stabilizing the arms race and international stability in general , toward creating mutual confidence and turning away from the old pattern of the postwar relations . Specifically , he contended the agreement would slow the moI mentum of the Soviet arms build-up , which he said had been adding roughly 250 new ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Smith , in a briefing for newsmen at the American Embassy , put greater stress on the curbs on defensive missiles . By forswearing an attempt to defend their populations or to try to defend more than a small portion of their own land-based strike forces , he said , both countries were deliberately leaving themselves vulnerable to the deterrent power of the other , " This is an admission of tremendous psychological importance , a recognition that the deterrence force of either side is not going to be challenged , " he said . The essential reasoning behind the combination of agreements is that each side can now be confident that the other will not dare to attempt a nuclear attack because it does not have sufficient defenses to protect itself from retaliation , especially when large , mobile submarine-based forces exist on both sides . The size of the submarine forces was one of the major points that was thrashed out this week by Mr. Nixon and Mr. Brezhnev and their aides . The United States , which has 41 nuclear-armed submarines , I came into Moscow . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or Y-class , submarines in operation or under construction . But the Soviet leaders said they had 48 , with 768 missiles . In the end , they compromised on 45 submarines with a total of 710 missiles . Mr. Kissinger said the difference in Soviet and American figures was evidently due to varying definitions of what constituted a submarine under construction , whether it should be counted before or after its hull was completed . There was an additional problem over how many obsolete G- and H-class Soviet submarines would be eligible for substitution by newer Y-class sub'marines with long-range missiles . One of the major American aims was to obtain a limit on the number of giant Soviet SS-9 missiles , capable of carrying three five-megaton warheads apiece or many more smaller ones . Throughout the negotiations , the United States insisted on a subquota for the ** within the over-all missile ceilings and the agreement signed tonight included prohibitions on the Soviet Union putting in place more than " about 300 " large SS-9 's , a White House fact sheet stated . Evidently with such provisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chiefs of Staff supported the ' agreements signed today . The military leadership had been particularly alarmed by the build-up of the Soviet SS-9 force over the last few years . The antimissile agreement permits each country to have two ABM sites , each with 100 launchers . One is to defend the national capital , primarily against accidental attack or attack by third countries . The second complex would be established in a distant location to protect a portion of the landbased retaliatory force . The United States specified that its second site would be at Grand Forks Air Base in North Dakota . The treaty requires the Soviet Union , which already has a ring of launchers around Moscow and in European Russia , to place its second site at least 800 miles from Moscow so that it can not be hooked up with the Moscow system to provide continuous protection for a large percentage of the Soviet population .                     