@@732499

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 20 Letters to the Editor Court Reform : A Plan in Need of Action To the Editor : The sweeping proposals for court reform advanced by Governor Carey with the support of Chief Judge Breitel represent the first real opportunity for New Yorkers to adopt a merit selection system for our judiciary as well as a unified court system and overdue financing and administrative reforms . Our ineffectual and outmoded " election " of judges has become nothing more than the virtually unrestricted choice of county leaders ( or district leaders ) of the dominant political party . Whether in heavily Democratic New York City or In most Republican areas upstate , State Supreme Court justices have been , with few exceptions , selected by unknown and unaccountable delegates to judicial conventions . Although many fine men and women have been thus chosen , invariably they have been nominees of the dominant party . To many , the elective process is little more than a hoax upon the voters . The proposed judiciary article provides for a form of merit selection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in rural and urban areas , in Republican and Democratic states . The use of nonpartisan nominating commissions , including lawyers and laymen , will insure that the appointing authority will select only those persons whose careers and qualifications have been Imperiled Hall of Fame To the Editor : It is the ultimate irony that the Hall of Fame for Great Americans , a New York City landmark , should find its continued existence threatened in this our Bicentennial celebration year . The hall , at the City University 's Bronx Community College ( formerly the uptown campus of New York University ) , is funded jointly by N.Y.U. and CUNY . The fiscal problems of both institutions are well known . N.Y.U. plans to withdraw support because of its current deficit and there is some doubt as to whether the city will be able to meet its share of the obligation . Since 1901 , only 99 distinguished Americans have been honored through the placement of bronze busts in the colonnade designed by the noted American architect Stanford White . It would be tragic if the current election to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tradition to endure , we must transmit to each successive generation a pride in past achieveTo the Editor : Life-sustaining mental health , mental retardation and alcoholism services currently being provided to more than 400,000 patients in New York City must be of highest priority within the city 's budget . For almost 25 years , the local mental hygiene service network has been evolving to provide an alternative to long-term custodial care in remote state institutions . The community mental health approach , pioneered in New York State and adopted as a national policy more than ten years ago , is based upon the conviction the mentally disabled can best be cared for in their own communities . If thousands of severely disturbed youths , chronically mentally ill and alcoholic patients are eliminated from treatment , the results will be a substantial increase in crime , truancy and family disorganization . By July 1 , under the city 's current budget proposal , over 110,000 patients , more than half of whom are children under the age of 16 , will have lost essential mental hygiene services . Since city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for dollar by state aid , the proposed taxlevy reduction will have a crippling subjected to an in-depth investigation . Given the enormous power of the judiciary in our society , surely the public should insist on no less . Under the proposed merit selection , the public and its elected representatives will participate , since appointees will require State Senate confirmation , and the public will have an opportunity to express approval of each new justice , in a nonpartisan retention election ( by a " yes " or " no " vote ) held two years following each appointment . The proposed judiciary article wisely provides for a single statewide trial court  --  the Supreme Court ( supplemented only by certain town , village and district courts in nonurban areas ) , thus sparing the expense and duplication caused by the multiplicity of separate courts with separate jurisdictions and separate staffs . In addition , the proposed judiciary article includes administrative and financing reforms long advocated by nonpartisan civic organizations . Since a constitutional amendment requires approval by two successive Legislatures prior to a public referendum , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before this session adjourns . Editorial May 4 . VICTOR A. KOVNER New York , May 5 , 1976 The writer was a member of the Governor 's Task Force on Court Reform . ments . The hall makes this possible by paying tribute to those who have made significant contributions to the nation 's history and culture without reference to race , creed or color . As a de facto national institution it merits financial assistance from the Federal Government and the private sector . The Hall of Fame for Great Americans should not be allowed to perish from benign neglect . EDWARD C. MAPP New York , May 7 , 1976 Of Dogs and Penalties To the Editor : You might want to add this to the list of suggestions people have been making for adding to the city 's coffers : Double the cost of a dog license for anyone who is not blind or on Social Security ; for the second dog , triple it , and so on . Hand out tickets with a $5 cost for letting a dog foul the sidewalks or parks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within seven days . Since dog owners inflict filth , stench and disease on the rest of . us , and since appeals to their sense of communal well-being , hygiene and esthetics fall on deaf ears , the city might just as well profit from it . Hitting dog owners in the pocketbook will either lessen the problem or enrich the city  --  both worthwhile objectives . This is not , incidentally , a diatribe against dogs  --  who 'd be so foolhardy ? But to paraphrase another organization 's battle cry , it is n't the dogs but the people who are responsible for this nuisance , and if people ca n't be shamed or persuaded into cleaning up after their pets , there 's no reason why they should n't pay for the privilege of making the rest of us walk through streets and parks that resemble open sewers . STELLA HEIDEN New York , May 5 , 1976 impact . Over a two-year period , funds for these services administered through the New York City Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation Services , under Commissioner June @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The city 's proposed funding reduction of 20 percent for mental hygiene services compares to an average 8 percent reduction for all other city departments . This clear-cut discrimination against the mentally disabled , those least able to speak for themselves , will affect the quality of life for all residents of our city . Economically , such reductions will mean that thousands of patients will become lifelong burdens on other governmentally supported services . In human terms , the result will be that the mentally disabled , now by and large able to lead productive lives in their communities , must once again face a hopeless future of permanent institutionalization . FRANK E. KARELSEN New York , May 4 , 1976 The writer is a member of the Advisory Board of the Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation Services . The Junta 's Helper To the Editor : As an American who spent two years teaching at the University of Chile , until the military coup in that country in September of 1973 , I want to comment on Treasury Secretary William Simon 's recent visit to Chile . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ties with Chile " because clearly the present Government of Chile is . . . moving toward greater freedom for their - people . " As if in confirmation of these claims , it has been announced that Chile has freed three top political prisoners , according to sources , . in Santiago as " a kind of quid pro quo  --  the junta gets the presence ... of Simon to improve its image and a number of political prisoners get their freedom . " What is not pointed out is that these political prisoners , like thousands of others , have been held . for over two years without trials , often without charges . As numerous Miernational organizations have confirmed , torture is an institution in Chile familiar to every political prisoner . It is the military and economic aid that the U.S. Government has been providing to Chile which has helped to prop up the military regime there . Now Secretary Simon , through .. his presence , is helping the junta to prove its image " and strengthen economic ties with the U.S. As One who has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater freedom of the Chilean people , " L , See no signs that " the present Government of Chile " is moving toward anything of the kind . Perhaps Secretary Simon would be willing to stay in Chile until all political prisoners have been released ; at the " quid pro quo " rate of three a day , he would only be there until some time in 1984 . Editorial May 9 . ROBERT G. HIGH Berkeley , Calif. , May 6 , 1176 ? Goldwater vs . Reagan To the Editor : As a conservative , and Republican , I am outraged by Barry Goldwater 's latest attack on Ronald Reagan . I refer to his charge that Reagaii 's statements on the Panama Canal " could needlessly lead this country into open military conflict . " In making this shocking charge , Goldwater has reached heights of chilling irresponsibility unparalleled since the hysteria of 1964 . If the Senator wishes to support our appointed President , Gerald Ford , in the coming election ; that is his right . But the many conservatives who support Ronald Reagan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer speaks for them , in or out of the Republican Party . LIONEL Lok6S New York , May 10 , 1076 ? Our Secretive Doctors To the Editor : I would like to comment on the letter by James Sammons , M.D. , and the Op-Ed article by Louis Lasagna , M.D. , both published on May 6 , in which they criticized newspapers for bad ' reporting of medical statistics . Before the record closes on your five-part medical series , I would like to defend it . I have been going to doctors a good part of my life , what with children , husband , parents , etc . I can say that , although I have pressured for information , I received none ; that , although I have pressured for patient education or communication , I have received none . I have learned that doctors are a secretive group . Thank goodness The Times did puhlish those articles . I got some information from the newspapers ; I got none from the doctors . Now I 'll make my critical judgments . I am skeptical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me something to be skeptical about . I ca n't be skeptical about ddo= tors  --  except , of course , for Drs . SaM ? mons and Lasagna  --  because as a pa= tient or relative of a patient I am not afforded that privilege . VIRGINIA BEKUk North Brunswick , N.J. , May 6 , 1976 ? ' Palaver ' Across the Sea To the Editor : Ever since de Tocqueville , Europeans have been the most incisive and , ' I might add , delightful critics of American manners and morals ? as though ' critical insight , like good port , mellows most agreeably with an ocean voyage . It is in this illustrious context that Prof. F. P. Thompson 's coarse OpEd polemic April 26J comes across as so much palaver  --  the greater sin of which is inelegance . His criticism is so predictably that of a consummate socialist observing a consummately capitalist society ( any capitalist society ) ? replete with face-grinding clich ? s ? that one wonders if this might L- ? an old Fabian Grimy dussal off to underscore the Bicentennial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , perhaps we can envision that private socialist nirvana he has in mind for us : the gnarled but safely expired remains of a onceflourishing " money tree " surrounded by angry hordes of claimants of the tree 's ( sic ) fruit . The image is reminiscent of a not inconsiderable American critic 's ( Mencken 's ) characterization of socialism as " the degenerate capital ? ism of bankrupt capitalists . " I have enormous regard for the British hut if Professor Thompson would do his country the greater good , he would write a sequel to his earlier book " The Making of the English Working Class " ? this one entitled " Making the English Working Class Work . " BERTRAM H. Low ? Brooklyn , April 27. 1976 Mental Health : The Crippling Cuts                     