@@730591

txt The White House message to American broadcasters ? commercial , public and educational ? is coming through louder and clearer every day . That message is blunt : Stay away from controversial subjects . If you behave yourself , we will renew your license for a longer term . If you get Government funding , we will determine the kind of programs you will air , Over the past two decades , occasional efforts have been made by While House spokesmen and Federal Communications Commissioners to interfere with the content of television programs , usually when they considered specific shows too critical of some aspect of Government policy . Now , for the first time , an Administration is trying to change the independent structure of broadcasting itself by attempting to drive a wedge between commercial and public networks and their affiliated local stations . The White House broadcasting czar , Clay T. Whitehead , youthful head of the Office of Telecommunications Policy , has proposed changes in licensing practices that circumvent the legislative authority of the F.C.C. The transparent goal of the changes is to hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ licenses for five years instead of three , plus vastly increased immunity against upset by outsiders eager to take over their Government - granted channels  --  provided they walk a tightrope of accountability to Washington for any network programs they put on the air . What this means is that the major news , documentary and entertainment programs produced by N.B.C. , C.B.S . and A.B.C . would be carefully scrutinized and possibly blacked out if deemed to contain what Mr. Whitehead , in his menacing phrase , calls " ideological plugola . " One correspondent who is generally in strong sympathy and stronger favor with the Administration , Howard K. Smith of A.B.C . News , summed it up : " It begins to look like a general assault on reporters " that could lead to a time when " we will live solely by Government handout . " A similar threat is unfolding for public broadcasting stations . Henry Loomis , the new president of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting , has served notice on these stations that their funds will be in jeopardy unless he and his Presidentially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Public Broadcasting Service , a creative subsidiary made up of representatives of the public and educational stations . Early next month the C.P.B. and P.B.S. boards will meet to attempt to define programing responsibilities . Since substantially all of P.B.S. 's operating funds come from grants made by Mr. Loomis ' agency , he is expected to call the tune . He has already declared that programs of a controversial nature in news and public affairs are not welcome . Unless the many loyal viewers of public broadcasting recognize and protest this Government interference in the programing process , the stations are in danger of being reduced to approved blandness . In both commercial and public broadcasting , locally originated programs are of great value to communities . But it is impossible for local stations to produce the major national and international news programs vital for an informed public and electorate . These require large , skilled staffs and major investments of time and money . By striking at the networks , the Office of Telecommunications Policy and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting are striking at the heart of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the media . Even if Congress does not undercut the F.C.C. 's authority or approve licensing changes , the Administration will have succeeded in warning the networks and stations to avoid programs that do not follow the Government line . The voices of Congress and the public will have to be heard if broadcasting is not to be turned into a domestic counterpart of the United States Information Agency .                     