@@732688

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor South Africa : The Divide-and-Rule Strategy To the Editor : The spectacle of Zulu workers on the rampage against young urban blacks in Soweto raised in John F. Burns ' news article of Aug. 27 reinforces South African Government propaganda . As Burns reports , the Nationalist Government would have the world believe that " tribal " differences in South Africa are insurmountable and justify the policy of refusing all political rights to blacks except in the Bantustans , ' or remote rural " homelands , " where the " tribes " can be safely insulated from each other . The truth of the matter is that the policy of apartheid is a classic divideand-rule strategy , Whites make up only one-fifth of the population . By dividing the blacks into language or ethnic groupings and encouraging antagonism between them , whites diffuse the anger that rightly and eventually will be directed at them . I saw this in action in 1966 and 1967 when I lived on the edge of an African reserve in the northern Transvaal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the borders , taking land from one , giving it to another , and then reversing this process . The blacks were forced into competition with each other over scarce land and tensions grew . Of course , the Nationalist Government did not create the tribes of South Africa , but it has given them artificial longevity . At the African school where I worked , students from several different ethnic groups had always atTo the Editor : Perhaps it is time that the citizens of the City of New York and those government officials in decision-making capacities take a closer look at the internal operations and workings of the Police Department . The ever-increasing demand for services , coupled with the rising crime rate , has caused a situation to develop that would tax the capabilities of the brightest , and most competent administrators , both public and private . Due to the layoffs of police personnel , and the dilemma of suffering full attrition in all ranks and positions for the fiscal years 1975-76 through 1977-78 , we are developing , and rightly so , programs and procedures geared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and To the Editor : In an Aug. 21 letter in The Times D. S. Scott criticized New York City for not taking actions comparable to those of the State of Connecticut in controlling automobile exhaust pollution during a recent meteorological stagnation . In my opinion , the point made only touches the surface of a much larger issue requiring immediate attention . The issue concerns the large-scale movement of photochemical oxidants , for which automobile exhaust gases are a major contributor of raw materials , across the northeastern United States . It 's now clear , for example , that a significant proportion of the photochemical oxidants measured in southern New England results from atmospheric chemical reactions involving hydrocarbons emitted in the New York metropolitan area . Photochemical oxidants are a serious matter in southern New England ; at Connecticut 's fourteen monitoring stations , the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for photochemical oxidants was violated a total of 2,954 times during 1975 . The flow of air pollution , of course , is not only from New York and New Jersey into New England ; the same wind patterns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other jurisdictions . The hydrocarbon raw materials which produce photochemical oxidants stem from two principal sources : gasoline used in motor vehicles and industrial solvents . These hydrocarbons can result in oxidant formation near their point of emission and can , as inditehded . In an effort to revitalize tribalism , to retribalize , the Government has forced all black schools , and residential areas , urban and rural , to be for a single ethnic or language group . This is to reverse a process that the Nationalist Government correctly perceived as threatening to its very existence , the breakdown of narrow selfdefinition and a self-identity as blacks rather than as Zulu or Xhosa or Tsonga . Further , to discuss Government policy in ethnic terms without understanding the economic rationale behind it is to misunderstand the heart of apartheid . The Bantustans are only 13 percent of the land of South Africa and are incapable of sustaining more than a small proportion of the black population . The rest must find work in so-called white areas to survive . And this is exactly as the Nationalist ideologues have planned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South African economy . Burns is mistaken when he says whites rarely celebrate the division between blacks . The Nationalist Government has , with malice aforethought , exacerbated those divisions . What is significant is that in spite of that calculated effort it appears that it will not succeed . All the more tribute is due to the blacks who have overcome yet one more obstacle and fight on for control of their true homeland , the nation of South Africa . GAIL 3 . MORLAN Brooklyn , Aug. 27 , 1976 effective police service sans appropriate personnel of all ranks . However , an engineer may design an elaborate structure , but the carpenter can accomplish little without his tools . We are losing , at an alarming rate , our supervisors  --  those men and women who afford direction , leadership , experience and wisdom to our police officers . It is these supervisors who are the tools we would use in accomplishing our objectives . Our continued suffering of full attrition in the supervisory ranks will sustain a loss of overall effectiveness . The young , dedicated supervisors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Men and women who would in the future manage our affairs have seen their expectations go up in smoke . More and more see a brighter future in the private sector . This exodus will cause an open wound to develop within our department , and indirectly by the people we serve . There is a saying among police experts that " a community has the type of police service they deserve . " That is , if they do not take the time to understand the external and internal workings of their Police Department there can be no scapegoat . They are responsible , as well as their elected officials , if service deteriorates and effectiveness is diminished . ( Sgt. ) JAMES J. GILMARTIN New York City . Police Dept . North Massapequa , L. I. , Aug. 27 , 1976 cated , adversely affect not only the local area but areas many miles downwind . It 's safe to state that much of the Northeast , from Virginia to New England , suffers from a combination of locally generated , or transported , photochemical oxidants . Relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Air Quality Standard will no longer be commonly violated ? will only occur if there is an expanded and coordinated control effort , on the part of the Federal Government and all of the involved states . Photochemical oxidants can be controlled everywhere in the Northeast , but only if there is a concerted program to minimize vehicular emissions throughout the life of each automobile , and to minimize emissions of industrial solvents . Such a program will have its greatest chance for success if it can be implemented across the entire region . JOHN A. S. MCGLENNON Regional Administrator , E.P.A . Boston , Aug. 31 , 1976 ? The Armadillo Knows To the Editor : The small armadillo makes headlines and baffles the World Health Organization when it refuses to cooperate ( by mating while in captivity ) with the group of larger animals that would use it to serve their own purposes by growing leprosy bacteria in its liver and spleen . Sounds as ? if the larger animals have very small brains and only trace amounts of compassion . DIANA MORLEY Manchester , Vt. , Aug. 31 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . is reported that the Conservative Party of New York may not endorse ? President Ford this year and that the decision of the Conservative Party will depend on its opinion of how such an endorsement will affect Senator Buckley 's chances for re-election . The Conservative Party is , perhaps above all else , a party that has represented a relatively consistent political ideology and philosophy . This idealise:1 has attracted many members of the . major political parties who have be7 come disgruntled with " political expediency above all else " and liberal trends which threaten our economy , freedom and national security . I viewed the rise of the Conservative Party in New York with enthusiasm . I was , and remain , most gratified by the election of James Buckley . I now fervently hope that victory has not destroyed the idealism of the Conservative Party , or caused that party to disdain the mutual . support ' of the Republican Party , whose 1976 national platform and candidates are more closely allied to the Conservative philosophy than any in recent history . I further hope that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a Ford victory , and its impact on the future of this country . . I share in the desire of the Conservative Party to re-elect Senator Buckley , and herein volunteer my support to- , ward that goal . But , yielding for the moment to pragmatics , the next Con-. congress will be liberal , regardless of the outcome of the New York Senatorial . race , and Gerald Ford has proved his willingness and ability to stay the liberal tide , which is so alien to the Conservative philosophy . Again yielding to pragmatics , and - asking the Conservative Party why it should not endorse President Ford : Can one imagine anyone voting for Carter and Buckley ? Or Ford and Abzug ? And if Peter Peyser should win the Republican nomination for Senator Buckley 's seat , all the more reason for President Ford on the Conservative ticket . Hmuty C. SPARKS Cazenovia , N.Y. , Sept. 2 , 1976 ? Of Pardons and Hypocrisy To the Editor : When Senator Robert Dole spoke of President Ford 's position on draft dodgers and deserters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ford Administration . When President Ford pardoned Richard Nixon , he claimed that it was to end the tragedy of Watergate . Surely the Watergate scandal pales to insignificance when compared to the disastrous U.S. involvement in Vietnam , yet President Ford refuses to end that tragedy by pardoning people who continue to be victimized by that misguided effort . But then , pardoning draft dodgers and deserters will not make Gerald Ford President . T. G. WICKER Washington , Aug. 30 , 1976 ? Jimmy , Jerry  --  and Bennie ? . To the Editor : The present practice of outstanding men in public life using diminutive forms of their given names is ridiculous ? Jimmy Carter , Jerry Ford , Bob Dole . Are they still in their adolescence ? Fortunately , dignity prevailed at the time of the Founding Fathers , otherwise we would now be referring to Georgie Washington , Tommy Jefferson and Bennie Franklin . THEODORE HUEBENER Elmhurst , N.Y. , Aug. 31 , 1976 ? To Choose a Judge To the Editor : A few weeks ago the people of Andes ( population 1,193 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anniversary of the central event in the Anti-Rent War , the shooting of Undersheriff Steele on Aug. 7 , 1845 . It was an appropriate Bicentennial event , for with it the American Revolution came , at long last , to upstate New York . More pertinent , even as the pageant was being planned the politicians were laying the groundwork for a powergrab designed to undo one of the great reforms that grew out of the anti-rent rebellion : the popular election of judges . In 1787 and again in 1830 , the New York Legislature had acted to abolish the feudal tenures that plagued the farmers of the great land patents , but ' subservient judges indebted for their appointments to the patroons trimmed their way around these laws and of- ' fectively nullified them . By the Constitution of 1846 , precipitated by the anti-rent disturbances , the people overwhelmingly rejected the system of appointed judges , ' and ' in 1852 an elected Court of Appeals overruled the decisions which had thus perpetuated feudalism and thwarted progress . It would be idle to argue that , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either appoint ; ment or election will provide a judiciary of greater learning , integrity or responsiveness . Neither appointed Federal nor elected state judges are superior , one to the other , in any of the qualities that make for greatness . And surely Watergate has shown that the legal profession , to which the new proposals delegate a major role in the selection process , can be no fit substitute for the collective judgment of the electorate . But in times of crisis , judges who owe their ones , and perforce their , allegiance , to other than the people will at worst fail to curb oppression and may at best provoke armed rebellion as happened in Andes in 1845 . MALCOLM MONROE White Plains , Sept. 2 , 1976                     