@@733744

txt THE ILLINOIS Supreme Court upheld the state 's right to ban racetrack messenger services Friday , and police immediately began to enforce Gov . Thompson 's order to " close them down . " Forty Illinois Department of Law Enforcement IDLE agents went to messenger services in suburban areas with copies of the ruling and told them to stop accepting bet orders . First Deputy Police Supt. Samuel Nolan sent policemen from the city 's 23 districts out with the same message for services in Chicago . The Chicago area has about 400 messenger services , the most of any area in Illinois , and 230 of them are In the city . They were allowed to stay open to pay off winners  --  not to take bets  --  and Nolan Horseplayers say ban wo n't stop them ; they 'll go to bookies . Page 4. said payoffs should be completed by Saturday afternoon . Anyone found taking bets at a messenger service will be arrested , he said . If a service closes without paying off the holder of a winning ticket , the bettor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nolan said . FRIDAY 'S RULING upheld a 1977 law banning off-track services in Illinois , and reversed a state Appellate Court decision that the law could not be enforced . Late Friday , George Feiwell , an attorney for the services , asked for a delay in the enforcement of the decision so he could ask the U.S. Supreme Court to review the Illinois Supreme Court ruling . The case could be heard Monday , but the decision will be enforced until it is , according to a spokesman for Illinois Atty . Gen. William J. Scott . IDLE Director Tyrone Fahner said police and his agents allowed the services to remain open temporarily to pay off winners " so innocent members of the public are not inconvenienced . " " As far es I 'm concerned , these places are out of business right now , " Thompson said at a press conference shortly after the ruling was issued , He said he read the court 's opinion three times , " and It gets better each time , " The betting messenger services had // challenged the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ County Circuit Court upheld the ban , but the Appellate Court found that the state could regulate  --  but not prohibit  --  such parlors . Friday 's unanimous Supreme Court opinion , written by Justice Robert C. Underwood , said the Appellate Court erred and the General Assembly may outlaw such services . " IN ESSENCE THIS statute banning the messenger services is part of the state 's regulatory plan for limited gambling , and we find nothing in the Illinois or federal constitutions which prevents this enactment or enforcement of such a statute , " Underwood wrote , " I compliment the Supreme Court for reaching a judgment so quickly , " said William Johnson Jr. , president of the group operating harness racing at Sportsman 's Park racetrack . " The fans ' return to the racetrack will be gradual , however . And that 's predicated on the law enforcement agencies doing their job . " Joseph Joyce , president of Arlington Park Racetrack , said that the messenger services " have created a market that illegal bookmakers will try to take ; over now . " HE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'll still be competing for the betting money , We 've lost 3,000 fans a day and the rebuilding process will be gradual  --  but the Supreme Court has given us a fighting chance to survive . " The betting services have an avenue of appeal , according to the attorney general 's office . They can ask the Illinois Supreme Court for a rehearing ; if that is denied they can go to the U.S. Supreme Court and petition for a review of the case . Tile legislature originally banned the operations on the grounds that many were tied to organized crime and often did not place bets with the tracks or pay off winners . The messenger services argued that Tribune Photo by Michael Budrvs Holding an impromptu news conference in Pioneer Court on Michigan Avenue , Gov , Thompson comments on the offtrack betting court ruling , their activity , usually involving a 10-percent charge , was Innocent and harmless , " and banning them unreasonably infringed on their right to conduct legitimate business , In ordering the services closed Friday , Thompson said : " WE 'VE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unlawful . They 've deprived the state of millions of dollars in tax revenues . " The Supreme Court decision clears the way for the legislature , if it wishes , to adopt some form of government-regu- , toted off-track betting services . " A Senate committee voted 8 to 7 last month to send to the full Senate a bill to allow the Illinois Racing Board to license six Illinois cities as off-track betting OTB " regional corporations . " The measure , expected to be acted on in the fall , would result in $70 million a year for the state , cities , and racing industry , it was estimated by support-ers , THOMPSON SAID Friday par age of an OTB measure was not high on his priority list ,                     