@@728386

txt President Nixon has promised to " take a new and searching look at American education , " but his 1971 budget offers only slender clues to the meaning of that pledge . The one certainty is that whatever new action is to be proposed will have to be carried out without additional funds . Education is confronted with a stand-pat budget . There is , moreover , an air of unreality in the exercise of shaping the 1971 budget while the 1970 budget is still in the meat-grinder of political compromise . So far as the current fiscal year is concerned , the budget can hardly affect policy on education when most of the money over which the politicians are still haggling has already been spent . The process is symbolic of the nation 's unwillingness to approach its priorities rationally . There is no sense therefore in expecting too much in the near future of the President 's fully justified demand that some of the more questionable programs be phased out , such as support of " Federal impact areas " and of obsolete forms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more courageous fight for reduction in politically popular pork-barrel programs than he did after his televised veto , the prospect is that the heart rather than the fat will continue to be cut out of education appropriations . It is an odd coincidence that the emerging 1970 compromise appropriation appears likely to add up to approximately the same figure as the $3.8 billion recommended for the Office of Education in the 1971 budget . Perhaps the furor over the increases originally voted in Congress for 1970 was motivated by the desire not to have the 1971 budget appear to be a retreat on the education front . In terms of purchasing power , the 1971 stand-pat proposal is nevertheless a retreat in the face of mandated costs and rising salaries . There is little hope that the new emphasis on educational reforms will bring about quick savings . The established ways of American public education cry out for change ; but the evidence is persuasive that true reform will not cut costs , particularly during a tooling up and transition period . For example , the massive use of educational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infinitely greater commitment than the $22.5 *lion the budget plans to set aside for educational television . If the 1971 budget forecasts an uncertain future for the schools , it actually spells out a year of gloom for higher education . Students and institutions will be hit hard by the apparent switch from grants to loans . The Federal aid recommendations of the Carnegie Commission are apparently up for another year of discussion , without funding . Nothing short of political and education-planning magic could turn the 1971 budget into an effective answer to the critical deterioration of the public schools , particularly in the cities , or to the growing fiscal threat that hangs over higher education . Whatever new priorities may be spelled out by the President 's education messages yet to come , it is already clear that education will have to live on the old dollar subsidies , or less .                     