@@731656

txt An exhausted but jubilant President Ford has returned from his Soviet summit meeting , with an armsreduction accord which an aide called " one of the most significant agreements since World War II . " On his arrival Sunday night , Ford told an audience at Andrews Air Bose that the talks went " very , very weft ' and that he and Leonid Brezhnev , chairman of the Soviet Communist Party , had " estgolished a sound basis for a new agreement that will constrain our military competition over the next decade . " The pact , reached during discussions in Vladivostok over the weekend , places a numerical limit on the number of United States and Soviet intercontinental balliglic missiles and submarine-launched missiles carrying multiple independently targeted warheads . The agreement includes bombers for the first time . Before the Presidential party left Vladivostok , Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger said the agreements reached there broke the back of the disagreements that have been holding back an arms agreement . If the final agreement is reached by negotiators for the two superpowers in Geneva @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put on the arms race for 10 years , " Kissinger said . White House Press Secretary Ron Nessen called the FordBrezhnev accord " one of the most significant agreements since World War II . " Form es ' President Nixon " could not achieve this in five years , " he said . " Ceilings on the strategic forces of both nations have been accepted , " Ford said here " A good agreement that will serve the interest of the United States and the Soviet Union is within our grasp . " Of his first meeting with Brezhnev , the President said , " We often agreed , but not always . When we did not , we stated our differences quite frankly . " The proposed agreement would be signed when Brezhnev visits Washington next summer probably in June . " I DO N'T know what it was , " Nessen s aid . " They Ford and Brezhnev just hit it off . " A few minutes earlier , a re . porter overheard Nessen talking with Kissinger about the agreement and how it should be treated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said Nessen , discussing the reaction of reporters to the news of the agreement . " I think that they were amazed . I do n't think they expected an agreement of this kind . " " The President will be returning home in triumph , " Nessen expounded . " I think that the President should be modest , " Kissinger ecritseled . " The agreement will speak for itself . The back of this thing arms control disagreements1 has been bro. ken . " During a briefing to explain the agreements , Kissinger said that some tough negotiating on complex missile systems remains ahead for the negotiators . " IT COULD NIL " he warned , adding quickly that he believes tha Vladivostok agreements take the chances for a 10-year arms control agi cement " well down the road . " The thrust of the agreement was that the two nations shall maintain in equal numbtr of strategic delivery systems such as big bombers and guided missiles , They also agreed that each nation shall maintain an eaual number of missiles equipped with multiple independent reentry vehicles multiple warheads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders of the two nuclear powers could not agree on how to balance America 's superior bomber fleet against Russia 's more sophisticated missile system . Under the new agreement , each nation would determine the mix of bombers and missiles , and each nation would decide how many MIRV 's would go on submarinelaunched missiles and how many would go ' on intercontinental ballistic missiles . THE EXACT numbers agreed on will be released later this week , Kissinger promised , suggesting that he is confident that congressional leaders will be pleased with them .                     