@@728412

txt President Nixon set forth today the fundamentals of a foreign policy designed to achieve a " durable peace " in the seventies . The policy commits the United States to a major role in world affairs , sharply qualified , however , by the President 's judgment that the United States should carry less of the burden and its allies more . In the first " annual report " submitted by an American President on the state of the world , Ufr . Nixon offered a compromise between the momentum of history and the realities of the present  --  between two decades of accumulated cold-war commitments and the limitations on the commitments imposed by changing conditions overseas and competing domestic priorities . Deterrent Big Factor To that end , he outlined a foreign policy based on three principles : partnership wiith allies who now " have the.ability . . . to deal with local disputes which once might have required our intervention " ; the preservation of a defensive capability sufficient to : deter would-be aggressors , and a readiness to negotiate with friend and foe to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the three , the principle that a lasting peace ' would henceforth require " a more responsible participation by our foreign friends in their own defense and progress " dominated the 119-page document and helped to tie together its sections . This principle flavored discussions of joint allied efforts to defend Europe , the proposed efforts to assist Latin America , future security arrangements in Asia . and pleas to other countries to share the burden of foreign aid to underdeveloped regions . In what was essentially a general philosophical exercise , Mr. Nixon ' - occasionally gave more detailed estimates of matters of current concern . His assessment of the Soviet missile threat , for example , appeared no less serious today than when he first announced his plans to proceed with an antiballistic missile system last spring . " I believed then , and I am even more convinced today , that there is a serious threat to our retaliatory capacity , " he said , noting that by the end of this year it was estimated that the Soviet Union would have 1,590 missiles , against 1,710 projected for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insisted , raises grave questions about Soviet intentions . Addressing himself to other current crises , Mr. Nixon gave an optimistic report on the progress of pacification of the Vietnamese countryside and the training of the South Vietnamese Army , but offered little hope for an immediate breakthrough in the Paris negotiations . He warned the Soviet Union on the Middle East and to refrain from exploiting Arab-Israeli tensions to enlarge its sphere of influence in the area . Avoids Retreat Inevitably , however , Mr. Nixon found himself returning to the theme of shared responsibilities in a changing world . What he appeared to be setting forth was a global version of the so-called Nixon doctrine first expounded on Guam , in which he promised Asia a nuclear shield against massive attack but asserted that in cases of lesser forms of aggression , the United States would expe , t the threatened nation to provide the manpower for its defense . The President carefully said that he was not proposing to retreat from the world stage ? " America can not live in isolation if it expects to live in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States would rick hesitate to furnish assistance " where it makes a real difference and is considered in our interest . " But he left little doubt that future decisions to intervene would be carefully weighed and that , generally , the United States would seek to move , without swift disengagement or a return to isolationism , from " dominance to partnership " in world affairs . The document was transmitted to Congress at noon after weeks of fanfare . It was divided into four sections : a brief summary of the foreign policymaking machinery devised by the President and his national security adviser , Henry A. Kissinger ; a long middle section dealing with American policy toward Europe , the hemisphere , Asia and the Pacific , Vietnam , the Middle East , Africa , international economic problems , and the United Nations ; and two shorter sections summarizing defense positions and planning and the prospects . for negotiation with the Communist world on arms-control and other issues of mutual concern . Proud of Achievement In a brief appearance before reporters the other day , shortly before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nixon expressed obvious pleasure and pride in his achievement . He said it was " the most comprehensive statement ever made , " and while he did not mean by these words to fault his predecessors , he said he thought it was not only useful but unique to have pulled together . " ' in one place " an account of the Administration 's successes , failures , strategies and hopes in foreign policy . The policy paper was largely the work ' of Mr. Kissinger , who in turn drew on the resources of the State and Defense Departments , the National Security Council staff , and a speechwriter , William Safire , who gave it a final polish . Mr. Nixon has acknowledged his own limited role by remarking : " I even read it myself . " But the thoughts were his ; indeed , he had expressed many of them during his trips to Europe and Asia . and the document was filled with quotations from his earlier declarations . ' My Best View ' " It is my best view , " he said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going . " Around the central theme of self-help and shared responsibilities revolved a number of subsidiary themes . One prominent subtheme involved Mr. Nixon 's efforts to measure foreign - policy commitments against other national priorities . " We are not involved in the world because we have commitments , " Mr. Nixon said , " we have commitments because we are involved . Our interests must shape our commitments , rather than the other way around . " Mr. Nixon asserted with some pride that he had " established procedures for the intensive scrutiny of defense issues in the light of over-all national priorities . " While he did not describe these procedures in detail , he conceded , that the United States did not have " unlimited means " to pursue " every worthwhile national objective , " and said he had tried to develop means to insure the " consistency " of domestic and defense needs . Still another prominent characteristic of the document was Mr. Nixon 's attitude of confidence in the " system " of policy making formulated under Mr. Kissinger , which he described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the National Security Council , through which all policy choices flow  --  had replaced the old system of " crisis management " with what he called a more intelligent way of " shaping the future . " A third prominent strain was Mr. Nixon 's repeated emphasis on fundamental ? changes in global conditions . ' In his comments a few days ago , he said that the world , as he knew it as a Congressman and Vice President no longer existed , and in the report he reflected this with the assertion that " the postwar period in international relations has ended " and in his now:familiar judgment , first expressed at the Republican convention in 1968 , that the time had come to move " from an era of confrontation to an era of negotiation . " Europe has made remarkable strides since the days of the Marshall Plan , he said , which explained and justified his appeal to Europeans to " play a greater role in our common policies . " No less dramatic were the changes he noted in the Communist world , once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uneasy alliance . From this fundamental upheaval , he suggested , have sprung new-found hopes for eased tensions . While he did not claim too much for these hopes ? " we are under no illusions . We know that ' there are enduring national differences " ? he noted that the United States and the Soviet Union had engaged in discussions on a number of issues without propagandizing and recrimination . At the same time , he conceded that relations with the Soviet Union were " far from satisfactory , " and said that Soviet leaders had displayed ? alarmin*= ambitions in the Middle East and had refused to exert a " helpful influence " in the Paris peace negotiations . Accordingly , he suggested , long-range hopes of d ? tente should not obscure the need for immediate measures to guard against the possibility of Communist aggression . Vietnamization Discussed His report on battlefield conditions conveyed considerable optimism . He claimed " tangible progress " for **27;915;TOOLONG the South Vietnamese forces ? as well as pacificatioh of the countryside and the isolation of enemy troops from their traditional sources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even here . Mr. Nixon expressed caution , noting that " claims ' of progress " had often turned out wrong and that there were many good reasons why Hanoi might wish to continue the struggle and avoid a genuine settlement . The chapters on America 's relations with its allies varied in length and specificity . Africa received general treatment . The United Nations got a modest compliment as a " forum for crisis diplomacy , " an energetic if underrated promoter of human rights , technical assistance add relief , and peace-keeping body as yet incapable of solving " fundamental international disputes , especially among the superpowers . " If the political future of Europe should be left to Europeans , Mr. Nixon said , so too should fundamental decisions regarding the economic development of Latin America be left to Latin Americans . In a chapLatin-American policy statement of Oct. 31 , the President again offered aid , tariff preferences , and other incentives to Latin-American growth , but asserted that the United States would not seek to define the programs and would henceforth proceed on the belief that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. support for Latin-American initiatives . " Similarly , on foreign aid , Mr. Nixon noted that " multilateral institutions must play an increasing role in the provision of aid . " And he said that while the ' United States would increase its contributions to them he hoped other countries would ' do the same . He also said " our bilateral aid must carry fewer restrictions , " such as the requirement that all goods be purchased in the United States .                     