@@733618

txt In its first major curriculum change in more than 30 years , the faculty of Harvard University today approved considerably stiffer course requirements for a bachelor 's degree . By a vote of 182 to 65 , the Faculty of Arts and Sciences approved a proposal by Dean Henry Rosovsky to scrap the current " general education " , program and replace it with a more structured " core curriculum " designed to guarantee that every Harvard graduate will possess " basic literacy in major forms of intellectual discourse . " Harvard 's action is the latest , and in many ways the most significant , in a series of moves by major liberal arts faculties across the country to introduce more structure and coherence into undergraduate curriculums . Search for New Balance The change represents an attempt by the nation 's most highly regarded research faculty to strike a new balance between freedom and authority in academic affairs and to develop a new definition of liberal education at a time when the arts and sciences are on the defensive . In light , of Harvard 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closely observed by other liberal arts faculties . Under the new curriculum , students will he required to select about one-quarter of their undergraduate programs from a list of 80 to 100 " core " courses in five academic areas . They will also be required to demonstrate competence in a foreign language , writing and mathematics . The designated areas , in which students will be required to take six to eight courses , depending on their major field and other factors , are literature and the : arts ; history ; social and philosophical : analysis ; science and mathematics , and foreign languages and culture . The new requirements will be introduced gradually , beginning with the class of 1983 , and apply in full to the class . of 1986 , In the coming years a new facul ty committee will be charged with developing a list of core courses , and this must finally be approved by the faculty , in the spring of 1983 . Today 's vote , held in closed session but broadcast over the campus radio sta- tion , culminates a four-year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a letter to the faculty lamenting the lack of consensus that exists over what it means to be an educated person today . The plan approved today is the latest of several draft documents produced by a series of faculty committees . Dean Rosovsky sent the final version to the facul= ty in February , and it has been the topic of intense debate throughout the spring . In the debate the faculty overwhelmingly voted down two alternative proposals . The first would have offered students the choice of fulfilling either the " core curriculum " or a series of " distribution requirements " in the humanities , the social sciences and the natural sciences . The second , offered by William Bossert , professor of applied mathematics , would have substituted a requirement that a student specify both a major and a minor field of study . Professor Bossert was spokesman for a group of faculty members who charged that , even though the core curriculum would be supplemented by a major field , the overall program did not encourage intellectual depth . " The core takes a clear stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interview . In the debate , the Bossert proposal for a minor as well as a major field of study was backed on the ground that it would allow more flexibility for students with differing academic needs . On the other hand , Prof. John E. Dowling of the biology department , argued that many stu , dents were reluctant to venture into unfamiliar academic areas . " When pushed into such situations , students are often excited and grateful for the experience , " he told the assembled faculty . " Selecting a minor for many will consist simply in selecting another area in which they feel comfortable . " After the debate , Derek Bok , president of the university , said that he welcomed the " decisive nature of the vote . " He said that ? the new core curriculum would restore coherence and a " sense of priorities " to a general education program that has t'become diffuse and lacking in structure . " Dean Rosovsky praised his faculty for what he termed its " willingness to engage tin a serious discussion of undergraduate curriculum . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1945 and publication of the landmark " General Education in a Free Society , " better known as the " Redbook . " It reflected the needs of the immediate postwar period and was designed to acquaint students with what the late James Bryant Conant , the president at the time , called the " common core of knowledge " they shared as " citizens and heirs of a joint culture . " Broader Program Adopted The Redbook plan , which specified a list of basic courses from which students would select several , had considerable influence elsewhere but was never adopted at Harvard . Instead , the faculty approved a considerably broader " general education " program . Over the years , even this has been liberalized to the point of meaninglessness . Both the new core curriculum and the debate that produced it reflect the academic climate of the 1970 's . Instead of speaking of the . " obligations " of citizens in a democratic society , for example , . it talks of giving students " a critical appreciation of the ways in which we gain knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1960 's , when students overturned many curriculum requirements , the new curriculum reflects a renewed willingness of faculty members to assert their authority in academic affairs and a new willingness of vocationally oriented students to accept it . Most students polled by The Harvard Crimson , the campus newspaper , opposed the new curriculum , but efforts to demonstrate against it fizzled out for lack of support . An ' Educated Person ' In essence , the report approved by the faculty today puts forth a new definition of an " educated person , " one that differs both from the content - oriented Great Books approach of some colleges and the method-oriented " distribution requirement " approach , which says that students should take a certain number of courses each in the humanities , the social sciences and the natural sciences . The new definition approved by the Harvard faculty states " an educated person " must do the following : cBe able to " think and write clearly and effectively . " CHave an " informed acquaintance " with the five basic academic areas . ciBe able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other cultures and other times . " CHave " some understanding of , and experience in thinking about , moral and ethical problems . " lHave " achieved depth in some field of knowledge . " Within the five areas of study , the curriculum lists several specific requirements .                     