@@728702

txt The polls were wrong . The pundits were wrong . The newsmen were wrong . This correspondent was wrong . And only the housewives were right . " I feel the Conservatives will win , " insisted both my wife and my secretary , for instance , long before Great Britain 's polling stations closed . The Conservatives have won . And the British housewife more than anyone else made the shock result possible . Edward Heath is Prime Minister ; Harold Wilson , the front-runner , who called the election in his own time , is out . The pound sterling soared above parity on the foreign exchanges . The London stock market had a field day . For the first time in months , money poured in to purchase government bonds . It is a greater upset even than Harry S Truman 's victory over Thomas E. Dewey . And because it is to such a great extent the housewife 's victory , Mr. Heath 's urgent attention will need to be given first to taxes , prices , jobs , and economic growth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take a very strong line indeed during the forthcoming negotiations with the European Common Market . The British housewife is strongly opposed to the idea of paying European prices for the family 's food . Probably Mr. Heath 's first action will be to reduce the size of the government . This will be an earnest of his intention to cut the total cost of government . His Chancellor of the Exchequer , almost certainly fain Macleod , will probably then make some cuts in taxes . He will want to make at least a token increase in take-home pay . Later he will abolish the Selective Employment Tax which adds to the costs and prices of many goods . Its removal should help slow down the rise of prices . Prices have probably been the decisive issue in the campaign . But clearly not the only issue that has moved voters . Enoch Powell , who was said to , be dividing the Tory Party because he was convinced its defeat was certain , actually doubled his own majority at Wolverhampton Southwest and apparently boosted the vote for Tory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high-pitched campaign was vehemently against immigration , against the Common . Market and against socialism . // *Heath to move on economic problems // The Liberal Party which fought largely on the platform that it would help provide a reasonable but radical opposition to Labour , which all the polls but one had far ahead even on election day itself , was decimated . Its deputy leader , Eric Lubbock , was ousted from his suburban pinnacle at Orpington by a Tory . Its leader , Jeremy Thorpe , only schaped back to Westminster with a 300 majority . Labour 's deputy leader , George Brown , who campaigned himself hoarse for his party barnstorming the country , neglected to campaign in his own constituency of Bleper and was crushed by his Conservative opponent . Former Home Secretary James Callaghan 's 10,000 majority in Cardiff Southeast was slashed in half . Employment Minister Barbara Castle 's majority at Blackburn in industrial Lancashire was cut from 7,000 to 2,700 . Junior ministers Alan Williams and Gwyneth Dunwoody , and Cabinet minister John Diamond , were beaten . So it was Miss Jenny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of State of Health and Security David Ennals . Nationalists lose Scots Nationalist Winifred Ewing and Welsh Nationalist Gwynfor Evans also lost their seats . In the famous Welsh mining valley of Merthyr Tydfil 83-year-old Stephen 0 . Davies , dropped by the local Labour Party , campaigned on his own as an Independent Socialist and beat the official Labour candidate . It was as if the nation suddenly turned against the Wilson style . Very many Britons have remarked upon the parallel with the World Cup soccer football quarterfinal . England was two goals up against West Germany and coasting in to victory . Nobody had ever scored two goals against this team in the last quarter of a match , let alone three goals . The English players slowed the game down , grew careless and complacent . The impossible happened . A week ago Mr. Wilson too was coasting to victory . The opinion polls offered him a landslide . He discussed few issues , offered no particular policies . He stood comfortably upon the country 's record payments surplus and cracked jokes . Except among housewives It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the electorate than Mr. Heath ? except , significantly enough , among housewives . When Mr. Wilson warned that Tory policies would inevitably require even higher prices , steeper rents , greater inequality , it now seems that housewives could not believe him . When Mr. Heath warned that the same Labour politicians if returned to power would continue the same policies leading to the same results ? inflation , a squeeze , a wage freeze , and finally one bad day devaluation ? it seems they listened . A poll among women indicated that Mr. Heath got higher marks from them than Mr. Wilson on the counts of " sincerity " and " integrity . " He has promised to tackle prices for them , to reduce the burden of taxes , to encourage enterprise and investment , to cut the unemployment rate . They have believed him . Now he has to begin to fulfill his promises .                     