@@733588

txt IVAS111NGTON I API  --  Sen. Lowell Weicker Conn. resigned from the Senate Ethics Committee Friday , accusing two leaders of the panel of hamstringing its Investigation of South Korean bribery allegations . He accused Sen. Stevenson ID. , 111.1 , who chairs the committee , and Sen. Harrison Schmitt IR. , RM. , its vice chairman , of making " the search for the truth a maze of parliamentary evasive-ness , " Weicker said : " You know , you 've got to step around this barnyard very carefully , And that takes enough time without having to contend with a couple of turkeys . " He said the two leaders initially rebuffed his efforts to get the investigation started and recently shunted his effort to get testimony from former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and other former Nixon administration officials . In his letter of resignation he told Stevenson and Schmitt that their actions " make it impossible for this member to accomplish his duties properly in the sense of a complete uncompromising in-vestigation , " IN RESPONSE , Stevenson said Welcher should let the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ile said , " it will be time to judge whether they have conducted complete and uncompromising investiga-tions , " Stevenson said the Nixon administration officials ' testimony will be left to the intelligence panel . That committee has spent a year investigating how much Nixon administration and intelligence officials knew in the early 1970s about the Korean activities and what they did about them , he said . Kissinger is to testify next Tuesday before the House International Relations Subcommittee . The subcommittee has disclosed that the late Federal Bureau of Investigation director , J. Edgar Hoover , sent memos to Kissinger and then-Atty . Gen , John Mitchell in 1971 notifying them that Tongsun Park and aides of South Korean President Park Chung Hee were involved in United States political payments . WHICKER ACCUSED Stevenson and Schmitt of rebuffing his efforts to get the ethics panel to investigate alleged Korean influence-buying at all until a document indicating Senate Involvement // Weicker quits ore pro e panel                     