@@728865

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 40 Letters to the Editor of The Times City 's Out-Movement To the Editor : The rapid decline in New York City 's population , reported in an Aug. 22 news story , is not news . Population decline in New York City has been going on , according to a predictable and regular pattern , for sixty years or more . The pattern of decline began in the most congested areas of the city , the Lower East Side , and spread out decade by decade into the less crowded areas . Today it covers most of New York City 's 250-square miles . More complete population counts are not going to change the basic trend ; they will simply alter a few details . The decline , however , is no calamity . There is no reason in the world for assuming that eight million people is the right number to occupy the 250 befouled and congested square miles of New York City . Needs of 1850 Much of the city was laid out in response @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was built for the income needs of 1910 or 1920 . It would be astonishing if the population that filled such a city were just right in number for the needs of 1970 . New York City 's population is declining because many of its people have developed the enetgy , the resources and the opportunity to leave the city 's obsolete piles of asphalt and concrete for places that are a better answer to their growing needs . The out-movement , as a recent Committee on Economic Development study emphasizes , is a movement not only of whites but of blacks and other minority groups as well . Instead of gloom and self-flagellation , there is occasion to rejoice at the hard-won opportunity for choice that the movement implies . The decline in New York City 's population does generate major problems , of course . State and Federal aid programs that are based on live body counts will provide less support to the cities and increase their support to the suburbs , unless such programs are changed . Big city banks will have more . trouble finding depositors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will have trouble following their readership to the suburbs , unless there are changes in distribution techniques . But the opportunities for a smaller , less congested , less befouled city are exciting . The momentum of the city 's economic and cultural life need not slow down simply because fewer people are crowded into Washington Heights , ' West Brooklyn and the Middle Bronx . Imagine a New York City , that actually uses the beauty and majesty of its river fronts and rolling hills as a basis for decent living . There is nothing very farfetched or utopian in these possibilities . New York City 's populations are going to decline . The question is whether the decline will be met with moaning and gnashing of the teeth or with a sense of . new opportunity and promise . The challenge for New York City 's leadership is to avoid succumbing to the Rotarian need for more of everything ? more people , more money , more automobiles  --  and to chart the difficult transition to an environment that is appropriate to the next century . RAYMOND VERNON Cambridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ director of the New York Metropolitan Region Study undertaken by Harvard University in the early 1960 's . ? Abettors of Hijackers To the Editor : The various Palestinian commando groups , like pirates of other days , having no obligations in the community of nations , not even the most elementary required for peaceful exchange of goods and travel ( their only code , for conduct being wholly arbitrary and internal to themselves ) , can not be said to be responsible in this sense of the word for the recent wave of air hijackings . However , there are a number of members of the international community  --  Egypt , Lebanon and Jordan  --  who participate in the mutual advantages of free and secure travel and exchange guaranteed within the civilized community of nations and who by patently aiding and covertly encouraging these criminal acts of . air piracy , should and must be held responsible for them . By permitting these hijacked planes to land , and after landing by not seeing to it that the hijackers were immediately apprehended and jailed and that the planes and passengers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations have clearly become active participants . Editorial Sept. 8 . By what right can they expect the advantages accorded to all other nations in respect of safe passage for their own air traffic and yet be permitted to wage war on whatever air traffic happens to incur their own displeasure ? Such countries should be ostracized from the community of nations until they are ready to conform to the accepted code . JOSEPH H. DASHEFSKY , M.D. Plainview , L. I. , Sept. 9 , 1970 ? Mideast Terror Tactics To the Editor : As the situation in the Middle East has now reached a most alarmingly critical stage . I plead with all , be they proIsraeli or pro-Arab , not to lose faith that peace is possible and feasible if we all so desire and categorically condemn war as the means to peace . The recent alleged Arab violation of agreements I unequivocally condemn , as we all should . But lest Israel continue sitting in judgment with a " holier than thou " attitude and use the alleged violations as valid ground to withdraw from negotiations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel , too , in her own day  --  and that was n't too many days ago  --  violated innumerable national and international laws , be they the stealing of boats , the destruction of civilian airfields or the violation of boundaries . Understandably , Israel was " driven " to these ignoble acts by " desperation . " In a callous world , she could achieve her desired goal only through criminal means and decided the end did justify any means . Today , the Arabs plead " desperation " and use essentially the same tactics  --  somewhat less sophisticatedly . Is n't it high time that we as a nation and we as humanity shift our efforts from supplying any group with the means and methods of violence and destruction  --  which so far has not brought us any closer to peace anywhere  --  and concentrate instead on understanding the underlying causes of " desperation " and the requirements of its cure ? MARJORIE A. SA'ADAH Wallingford , Conn. , Sept. 7 , 1970 ? Skip-Stop Subway Plan To the Editor : With regard to stations on the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the planning of more than six stations would slow down trains from the north too much , while only six stations inconvenience the East Side of Manhattan . Possibly a solution could be the Chicago approach , in which stations are frequent but trains stop only at alternate stations ? with every second train stopping at " A " stations , while the alternate stops at " B " stations . Such a skip-stop plan can speed trains , while still providing more stops . It does not solve the problem of cost of additional stations , but it certainly is far less costly than planning a four-track route . PAUL S. NADLER Summit , N. J. , Sept. 6 , 1970                     