@@728642

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times 46 Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . Cost of Campaigning To the Editor : Your June 2 editorial " Senators and Circuses " outlines the lengths the various candidates have been forced to go to in order to gain the public eye and rightfully calls for a discussion of the issues . It fails , however , to place the blame where it should be placed ? on the empty provisions of the equal-time laws for the media and not on the candidates . While Representative Max McCarthy hovered over Central Park in his air balloon , Theodore Sorensen was bemoaning the fact that the election might well be decided by his stamina for 6 A.M. risings . Paul O'Dwyer 's efforts of the day were described in The Times as a continuation of " his low-keyed , low-budget " and I would add low-visibility campaign . All four candidates prefer reaching the people with the issues . However , while this is possible with a low-budget effort on the Congressional level , as Mr. McCarthy demonstrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one needs a massive infusion of funds as only Representative Richard Ottinger has been able to pour into this primary . Representative McCarthy and others have sponsored legislation to reform Federal Communications Commission campaign regulations so that free or at least cheaper air time will be available for all candidates to state their views . On June 2 Chairman Dean Burch said that the F.C.C. favored such action . We should all join in pushing for this reform so that statewide electoral politics can be open to any man , of whatever wealth , to put his stand on issues before the public and to be judged on that basis . LOUIS MAISEL , 2d New York , June 2 , 1970 Schacht 's Nazi Record To the Editor : The wily and elusive Hjalmar Schacht , who died June 4 at 93 , was far Less the noninvolved Nazi than he liked to claim after the war . Not only was he influential in lining up the Ruhr industrialists for Hitler in 1932 , but he also collected $1 million from businessmen for the Nazi campaign chest in the election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ met Hitler in 1931 and had said that to obtain " a strong Germany I would enter into an alliance with the Devil . " That Schacht did just this was fully documented by Justice Robert Jackson , the Arnecan prosecutor at the Nuremberg trial . Although Schacht had made vital contributions toward building the Nazi party and toward creating the Wehrmacht , he was inexplicably acquitted as a war criminal . The banker , moreover , acquiesced in the genocidal assaults on the Jews . Always the opportunist , he slipped out of the Nazi sphere when he saw that the jig was up for Hitler . Afterward Schacht liked to say that he had opposed Hitler . The record belies him . ROGER ALDEN New York , June 5 , 1970 ? Use of Methadone To the Editor : Congratulations on your editorials on drug abuse in New York City . You have called many of the shots that have long since needed to be called . Most importantly , perhaps , you have noted that there has been no outside evaluation of many of the programs . You @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something about a problem that has long been neglected by other cities . One thing that was not noted  --  a small item to be sure ? is that New York City itself , through its Health Department and the Health Research Council , initiated the research work that has led to the Methadone treatment program . This Is one of the few programs which outside evaluation has shown does have a lasting effect . At the time this program was initiated in the early 1960 's , it was clear that there was no scientific knowledge about how heroin works . The Research Council thought that some of the best scientific brains in the city should be put to work on it and persuaded the then Rockefeller Institute and now Rockefeller University to undertake a basic research job . Dr. Vincent Dole was chosen to do this , and his brilliant work along with Dr. Marie Nyswander , a psychiatrist , has shown that the drug problem has at least a partial medical answer . LEONA BAUMGARTNER , M.D. The writer was formerly New York City Health Commissioner . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more intense emotional reaction of the campus to President Nixon 's Cambodian policy has subsided , it is possible to make a more objective appraisal of his couageous and militarily justifiable action , whose results to date , it would appear , are equal to reasonable expectations . With the valiant assistance of the troops of our South Vietnamese ally we have not only captured enormous amounts of enemy military supplies that were destined to be used against American and South Vietnamese forces in Soul Vietnam , but we also have , for the present at least , taken the pressure off of the new Cambodian regime . If the Cambodians and South Vietnamese can control their natural enmity and work amicably together in the face of a common enemy , there is every reason for us to contribute to their joint efforts to provide security for the new Cambodian Government . I can see no political obstacles to our giving such assistance . There are obvious military advantages for us to do so as part of our effort to withdraw from the Vietnam War in a responsible manner . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advisability of din , . tinuing American bombing and logistical support to the South Vietnamese military forces if the Saigon Government considers it necessary to maintain military action against its ' enemy in Cambodia after ( ) Ur troops withdraw , by June 30 . Incidentally , there have been at least two clear indications ? recently of public support in this country for the President 's . Cambodian policy . A Lynn , Mass . Evening Item poll , covering an important area north . of Boston , ran better than two to one in favor of the Presi- ' dent 's policy . Also , lin Atlanta , Ga. , Journal-Constitution poll . showed 83 per cent for and only 17 per cent against the Nixon action in Cambodia . , ? The results of these two polls from widely separated parts of the country suggest to me that at least part of the alleged lack of American public support for the Vietnam war may have been because of disillusionment with the unmilitary methods used by former President Johnson in fighting it . ERNEST T. CLOUGEt Marblehead , Mass. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Endure To the Editor : If the United Nations is to endure , as Lester Pearson right : , ly worries , its leading and most influential member nations must support the Charter 's founding concepts . Certainly unilateral American military involvement in Southeast Asia , initiated and pen petuated for several years out . side the framework of the United Nations , has contributed little to the influence and survival of the world body . PAUL ZUCICERMAN White Plains , N.Y. , May 30 , 1970 ?                     