@@733397

txt Leroy ( Nicky ) Barnes was convicted yesterday of heading a major narcotics organization that sold millions of dollars of heroin and cocaine in Harlem . Portrayed in the press as " Mr. Untouchable " because of his ability to avoid conviction in several previous cases , Mr. Barnes now faces up to life in prison . Judge Henry F. Werker ordered him to jail immediately to await sentencing in Federal District Court in Manhattan . After a two-month trial , ending with three days of deliberations , the jury convicted Mr. Barnes and 10 of the 13 other defendants . nts . The conspiracy charge against them carries a maximum sentence of 15 years , with a possible life sentence for Mr. Barnes on the additional charge that he headed the narcotics enterprise . Lawyers Plan to Appeal Defense lawyers said they would appeal the verdict for a number of reasons , including the fact that the judge had selected the jury without permitting the lawyers to know , the names and addresses of the jurors , who remained anonymous to protect their privacy . Tension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , defendant by defendant , evoking gasps and sobs from relatives among the rows of spectators . Federal marshals quickly cordoned off the front of the courtroom , enforcing tight security around the convicted men . The trial was considered unusually important because of extensive efforts to convict Mr. Barnes , a solidly built , 45-year-old former addict described by the police as one of the city 's top drug dealers . His notoriety made him a virtual fol'c hero to some segments of the community . Robert B. Fiske Jr. , the United States Attorney in Manhattan , personally headed . the prosecution in the Barnes trial after President Carter had indicated that he considered the case particularly significant . Moments after the verdict , Mr. Barnes and several other defendants exchanged hurried whispers and solemn handshakes ' before marshals escorted the convicted men from court to jail . Five defendants described as the . " chief lieutenants " in the Barnes organization were Guy Fisher , Steven Baker , Steven Monsanto , John Hatcher and Joseph Hayden . The eight " lower echelon " defendants were Leon Johnson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rollock , Gary Saunders , Wayne Sasso and Wallace Fisher , Guy 's brother . The Jury convicted all of them except Guy Fisher , whose case ended with a deadlock among the jurors , and Mr. Saunders and Mr. Sasso , who were acquitted . Mr. Sasso 's wife , Brenda , was dropped as a defendant during the trial when the judge ruled there was insufficient evidence against her . All the defendants were charged with participation in a conspiracy that included the sale of more than 40 pounds of heroin a month at the Harlem Rivers Motor Garage , 112 West 145th Street . The wholesale value of the heroin was said to be $1 million a month . The prosecution , led by Mr. Fiske , presented evidence that included testimony by informers , surveillance by agents , quantities of narcotics , tape recordings of discussions by defendants and a videotape allegedly showing two defendants unloading heroin-diluting material from a car . Mr. Fiske. who was assisted by Thomas F. Sear and Robert B. Mazur , also stre-sed to the jury that Mr. Barnes had reported $250,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The prosecutors contended that the income came from narcotics trafficking . Relyinr , he - vily on cross-examination , defense la ? - Yers vehement1 , - : attacked the credibility of informers who had provided tetinolv None of the defendants testified at the trial . David Breitbart. the lawyer for Mr. Barnes , denounced the entire case as a massive atempt to " get Mickey Barnes . " His scornful summation to the jury assailed the integrity of the prosecution and ridiculed the testimony of the informers . For several days of the trial , a key informer named Robert Geronimo testified that he had met Mr. Barnes and other defendants several times to discuss narcotics deals . But he said his recording equipment had malfunctioned , preventing him from obtaining any audible remarks by Mr. Barnes regarding narcotics . Mr. Geronimo admitted under crossexamination that he had not been in Baltimore for a narcotics transaction on a specific weekend , despite his earlier testimony about the alleged event . This discrepancy in his testimony led the Government to cancel an agreement to pay him $25,000 for his undercover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Another informer , Promise Bruce , testified that he had supplied ' material to dilute heroin for members of the Barnes organization . He recorded discussions with some of the defendants , who talked about Mr. Barnes and narcotics . Mr. Bruce conceded on the witness stand that he had previously told many lies to narcotics agents . He and Mr. Geronimo , both of whom have criminal records , said the Government had given them new identities under a Federal program to protect witnesses . An admitted narcotics trafficker , Inez Smart , . testified that Mr. Barnes ' and an associate ' had paid her $25.000 in 1974 for more than 60 pounds of quinine , used to dilute heroin for street sales . Defense lawyers contended that she had lied to gain leniency on narcotics charges again'her . Dolores Isaacs , whose husband , Regi ? acid . was narcotics dealer who was murdered . testified that Mr. Barnes had visited her apartment in 1972 and said he wanted to find out " if Reggie knew where he could get a key from . " The defense told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ key , not a " key "  --  a kilogram  --  of heroin . In a summation for the prosecution , Mr. Fiske told the jury that it was very difficult to infiltrate a narcotics conspiracy . He said the Government had found it necessary to obtain evidence by using " the same kind of people as drug dealers . " The prosecutor argued that the main testimony of the informers had been corroborated by other evidence , including surveillance and tape recordings , despite vigorous defense attacks . He also noted that the defense had not explained the source of Mr. Barnes 's wealth . There was testimony that Mr. Barnes drove expensive cars , frequented Harlem . social clubs and maintained luxury apartments under assumed names at 150 Overlook Road in Hackensack and 6 Horizon Road in Fort Lee , N.J. His tax returns indicated that he used real-estate tax shelters to avoid paying taxes on his high income . The jury of six men and six women , which was sequestered throughout the long trial , appeared to carry , out unusually well organized deliberations before reaching the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence , including significant testimony from the trial transcript of 10,000 pages . Al the convicted defendants were ordered to jail after the verdict , except Mr. Rollock and Mr. Centeno , who were characterized as relatively minor figures . They were permitted to remain free on bail while awaiting sentence . Before his indictment on the Federal charges last March , Mr. Barnes had been charged during a four-year period wih homicide , bribery , narcotics ? violations and possession of dangerous weapons . But he won acquittals or dismissals of all these state charges before the Federal case resulted yesterday in his conviction .                     