@@733771

txt The Senate rejected a move to repeal economic sanctions against Rhodesia today , but then decisively adopted a compromise measure setting conditions under which the President could be required to lift the sanctions in the future . The sponsors of the compercimise amendment to the International Security Assistance Bill insisted that it was designed to keep the United States on a " moderate middle course " between the current Rhodesian Government , led by Prime Minister Ian D. Smith , and the Patriotic Front , the nationalist group that is waging guerrilla war to bring down that Government . Tonight , the Senate passed the full aid bill , 73 to 13 . Despite the " moderate " nature of the amendment on Rhodesian sanctions , Administration officials fear that its language would make it appear that the United States is siding with Mr. Smith and the three black members of his transitional Government , who are committed to establishing majority rule after free elections planned for December . Good Faith an Issue In effect , the amendment would require President Carter to lift the sanctions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been established through free elections , under impartial international observation , and that it had committed itself to negotiate in good faith with the guerrilla leaders . The sanctions , voted by the United Nations Security Council in 1966 and 1968 , have the force of American law . They ban all trade with Rhodesia . The sponsors of today 's amendment , Senator Clifford P. Case of New Jersey and Jacob K. Javits of New . York , both Republicans , argued that their proposal would eliminate fears in this country and in Africa that the United States was siding with the Patriotic Front guerrilla leaders , Joshua Nkomo and Robert Mugabe . Reluctant to Negotiate The transitional Government has equal numbers of white and black ministers and has promised to hold elections based on universal suffrage in December , but thus far have been unwilling to negotiate with the guerrillas . The Case-Javits amendment was adopted today by 59 to 36 , but the most critical test came on an earlier movement to table it , which the Senate defeated , 57 to 39 . Its adoption sidetracked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carolina , who proposed an immediate end of sanctions . Senator Helms withdrew his amendment after a substitute proposal by Senator John C. Danforth , Republican of Missouri , had been defeated , 54 to 42 , in the closest roll-call vote of the day . Mr. Danforth had proposed that the // sanctions be lifted for three months , from the start of the new fiscal year on Oct. 1 through Dec. 31 , providing a trial period during which the transitional Rhodesian Government has promised elections . The International Security Assistance Bill , to which the Case-Javits amendment was attached , authorizes foreign military and related aid for the next fiscal year . Turkish Arms Measure Also Pending The House of Representatives is scheduled to take up a comparable measure next week and will also deal with the issue of repeal of the sanctions against Rhodesia and another major controversial question , the lifting of the arms embargo against Turkey . The Senate voted to remove the Turkish arms embargo yesterday . One spectator in the gallery as the Senate debated today was Bishop Abel Muzorewa , one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ top governing body in the transitional Government , who has been in the United States for the last 10 days , lobbying for the lifting of the sanctions . Bishop Muzorewa conferred at the State Department this morning with Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance , hoping to persuade the Administration to support repeal of the sanctions and assist the transitional Government . " I told Secretary Vance that the situation has changed and that the sanctions should now be lifted , " the bishop said later . But he conceded that his appeal had been in vain . In turn , he said , he had rejected Mr. Vance 's request that he agree to an " all-party " conference , to include Mr. Nkomo and Mr. Mugabe . ' All-Party ' Meeting Crucial A meeting of Prime Minister Smith and his three black colleagues on the Executive Council ? Bishop Muzorewa , the Rev. Ndabaningi Sithole and Senator Jeremiah Chirau ? with the Patriotic Front leaders is a key element in the British-American plan for a solution in Rhodesia . Mr. Vance used the occasion of Bishop Muzorewa 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to express confidence that it would be held in the not distant future . Bishop Muzorewa 's plea for lifting the sanctions was also rebuffed by the State Department spokesman , Hodding Carter 3d , who attacked Mr. Helms ' proposal as " bad , unnecessary and self-defeating . " Neither he nor any other Administration official took a public stand on the CaseJavits amendment . The Administration obviously feared that adoption even of the Case-Javits %proposal , though it leaves the decision on sanctions in the hands of the President , would offend African leaders and jeopardize the tentative agreement for a set tlement in ' South-West Africa as well as the British-American plan on Rhodesia . In a statement issued late this afternoon , the State Department said it was " encouraged by the Senate 's rejection of the extreme approach " of Senator Helms and gave a mild blessing to the CaseJavits proposal , recognizing that it was the best the Administration could expect in the climate existing in the Senate . Clark Stresses Observers At the insistence of Senator Dick Clark , Democrat of Iowa , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would require observation of the Rhodesian elections " by impartial , internationally recognized observers . " In adopting the full security-assistance bill tonight , the Senate made available a total of $4.3 billion for the next fiscal year to more than 50 countries . About 70 percent of it would be allocated for the Middle East , with $1.8 billion for Israel and $750 million for Egypt . More than $1.1 billion would be available for arms transfers , military credits and ammunition stockpiles for South Korea . The total figure includes money previously allocated but not spent . Before final passage , the Senate approved 81 to 7 , an amendment by Senator Charles H. Percy , Republican of Illinois , warning the Carter Administration that further withdrawals of United States forces from South Korea " may seriously risk upsetting the military balance in that region and requires full advance consultation with the Congress . "                     