@@734184

txt MAYOR BYLINE announced Friday that State Rep. Eugene Barnes Chicagol , a former bus driver and a transportation specialist in the General Assembly , is her choice to head the Chicago Transit Authority Board . The mayor announced in a City Hall press conference that she had appointed Barnes to the CTA board and said she will recommend that he be chairman . The current chairman , James , has agreed to remain as a member of the board , she said . " There perhaps no more knowledgeable person about Chicago 's mass transit system than the outstanding legislator who stands behind me , " said Mrs. Byrne site : she introduced Barnes . THE APPOINTMENT of Barnes , who is black , may quell dissatisfaction among minority group leaders who have been disappointed about the mayor 's early appointments . Mrs. Byrne also announced at the press conference that she will formally designate Donald Haider , a deputy assistant secretary of the U.S. Treasury , as her budget director next week . Barnes , a 47-year-old South Side legislator , will serve in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ June 30 . his nomination to the post , in which lie is expected to draw $50,000 a year , must be approved by the city council . Barnes , who is a member of the 34th Ward Democratic organization , headed by Ald. Wilson Frost , city council floor leader , is expected to win confirmation easily . EDWARD MABEL head of the city 's plumbers union . agreed to step down from the board in favor of Barnes . But Brabec would be appointed to other boards and commissions , according to the mayor . Mrs. Byrne , who had been critical of because he has been a parttime chairman while working in private industry , said Barnes would spend full time in the post , " insuring that we do n't have the kind of problems we had last winter again . " Barnes , who was a CTA bus driver for 14 years and has been a legislator for the last nine , recently headed an investigation of crime on the CTA . He said security would be a " top priority " in his administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // Byrne taps Barnes for CTA // enforcement officials so people know that when they ride on that transit system , day or night , they will be safe , " he said . HAIDER. 37 , WII0 had been the mayor 's leading candidate for the budget post for weeks , is an expert on federal funding for state and local governments . Mrs. Byrne has said she believes that the city may have been shortchanged on federal funding for lack of proper Information about what funds were available . The mayor said she expects to grant collective bargaining to public employes despite an announcement Thursday by Democratic Party Chairman George Dunne that he opposes collective bargaining legislation pending in the legislature . Mrs. Byrne said Dunne 's opposition to the legislation stemmed from his concern that management as well as rank and file government workers would be included in collective bargaining units . She said she shared his concern but added that collective bargaining could be accomplished in Chicago through the city 's home rule powers . EARLIER , AFTER taping the " Newsmakers " program on WBBM-TV , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Timothy Evans 4th to give the city council power of advice and consent over the choice of a health commissioner and his assistants because the commissioner should be able to pick his aides . Evans , chairman of the council 's Conunittee on Health , introduced the ordinance after  --  the mayor 's ? controversial appointment of Dr. Hugo Muriel as health commissioner . The new health commissioner has been , CrItieized.by medical groups for his lack of public health training . The mayor also accused Edmund Kelly , park district superintendent and 47th Ward Democratic committeeman , and " a few other " party leaders of " setting brush fires " to distract her and create political problems . " My political strength comes front the people it does not conic from the ward committeemen , " she said . MRS . BYRNE AND Kelly are locked in a struggle over control of patronage hiring for the 3,000-employe pads district , with the mayor insisting that Kelly funnel the jobs through John Smile , her personnel assistant . " Some people are still resisting change  --  still resist . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mayor said . " If they want a confrontation-. ? . they will have a confrontation . " On another matter , the mayor told the businessmen that the status of ChicagoFest is under review , end claimed that last year 's festival " had run a deficit of over S2.4 million . " Mrs. Byrne repeated her concept of a'substitute festival in the city 's neighborhoods . Mayor Byrne introduces her choice for chairman of the Chicago Transit Authority Board , State Rep. Eugene Tribune Photo by GEOrge 001,0 Barnes , and his wife , Melody . Barnes is a former bus driver and a transportation specialist .                     