@@730774

txt What happened iii Jordan in September , 1970 , when the Jordanian Army destroyed or expelled the Palestinian guerrilla forces is happening again in Lebanon : With this difference : The Lebanese Army does not enjoy the pronounced military superiority over the Palestinians that the Jordanian Army had , and the Palestinians now have no other place to fall back to and are fighting for their existence as a semi-independent political and military entity . This is the way the bitter struggle in Lebanon looks from Washington . Washington officials are maintaining a very deliberate silence , because loose talk about American interest in the struggle could only embarrass the United States ' friends . Pentagon spokesman Jerry W. Friedheim , commenting on a report that the American , Sixth Fleet was moving toward Lebanon , asserted Wednesday that there is " no change in normal operations . " Yet the interest of the United States in Lebanon 's crisis is every bit as great as it was in Jordan 's , in September , 1970 , when the Sixth Fleet did move and American airborne troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American interest hinges on the danger of outside intervention . In September , 1970 , the Syrians actually allowed several hundred tanks of the Palestine Liberation Army , usually known as the PLA , to cross the border into Jordan , and it was this that started , the AmeriCan countermoves as well as preparations for intervention by Israel . The crucial question is to what extent dates alAssad , Syria 's strong man , will permit the Palestinian forces in- his country to move into Lebanon to reinforce their countrymen . The strength of theie forces is somewhat in doubt , but there , are probably between 7,000 and 10,000 men in the PLA , including a well-equipped armored brigade , all Nearing Syrian uniforms , and another 3,000 to 5,000 members of Saiqa , a commando group closely controlled by the Syrian Army which probably has many Syrians as well as Lebanese in its ranks . ' If all of these forces were to start moving intb Lebanon the Lebanese Army , estimated here at 15,000 men , would find - them pretty hard to bandit ) . This was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biggeit previous showdown with the Palestinians , in October , 1969. '                     