@@732867

txt To many Westerners , the Interior Department represents the most critical position in the Carter Cabinet . And in the eyes of state officials , President-Elect Carter 's appointment of Cecil D. Andrus of Idaho as Secretary-Designate of Interior is both an olive branch and a bridge . The olive branch refers to the perception in this region that Mr. Carter understands the importance of selecting an Interior Secretary tuned in to state-level concerns over the longstanding dilemma of the need for energy development and the responsibility for preserving the environment . One important factor is that , in Mr. Carter 's narrow election victory last November , he failed to carry a single Western state ? except Hawaii . Now , in the delicate process of building a national mandate for his fledgling administration , the incoming Democrat has apparently reached out to the 13 Western states by bringing to his Cabinet a Governor perceived both as a savvy politician and an experienced environmentalist . The bridge is expected to span a critical gap in state and federal relations ? hOw states can influence federal laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Andrus is currently Chairman of the National Governors ' Conference . Shortly after his election to this post last summer , he extracted commitments from both presidential candidates that they would give the states a greater voice in formulating federal legislation . // AP photo Idaho 's Andrus to join Carter team From page 1 *Andrus : olive branch In support of an Andrus appointment , Mr. Carter received phone calls last week from two Western Governors who normally stand at polar positions on the political spectrum . One was from Richard Lamm , the liberal Democratic Governor of Colorado . The other was from Jay Hammond , the conservative Republican Governor of Alaska . " He 's a supetb mediator , " Governor Lamm said of Governor Andrus in a telephone interview with this newspaper from the Governor 's mansion in Denver . " A superb coalition builder . He 's literally the first guy in the West that won election on the emphasis of the environment as a new and important consideration . Not only that , he brings to the office a sense of class . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " My prognosis would be one of all sorts of pluses , " said Governor Hammond froni Juneau . " I ca n't help but think that the appointment will have a substantial impact on the awareness level to our needs of the person holding that important office . He 'll be representing the administration , but he knows what we 're saying . We 'll know he 's speaking the same language . He has an excellent track record on environmental and developmental concerns . " The reaction of these two Governors is particularly important because the energy and environmental problems of their states illustrate the critical concerns Mr. Andrus will face from his first day in office . In the energy-rich mining state of Colorado , for example , concerned environmentalists and Interior Department officials are trading salvos over what standards should control production of that state 's vast and valuable coal resources . So far , the problem has not been resolved . Pressing problem In Alaska , where the 800-mile oil pipeline project is facing burgeoning and costly delays and obstructions , environmentalists , state officials , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions of the size of the oil tariff ( which directly affects state revenue ) , pipeline welding standards , and newly emerging energy projects . Development and transportation of natural gas and new oil reserves on the outer continental shelf are examples of energy issues . Other pressing problems facing Mr. Andrus include mineral leasing rights and federal strip-mining regulations . " It makes a great difference , " says Governor Lamm , " whether federal land is mined and what our say is . . . . There 's no question that the Ford administration took the company line . I think that the Carter and Andrus team will accept more input from environmental and state interests . "                     