@@733556

txt THE CHECKER MOTORS Corp . has demanded that the Federal Trade Commission flag down its antitrust investigation of Checker because " inaccurate adverse publicity " leaked to the media by FTC staff members makes a fair investigation impossible . A motion to quash the investigation was filed March le before the FTC in Washington by Chicago lawyer Poll Reuben . Reuben said Friday he stopped , representing Checker after filing the motion . He has been criticized for potential confilets of interest because of the variety of his clients . Jane Byrne , former consumer affairs commissioner , charged he may have tried to influence the news media on Checker 's behalf . MRS . MCMULLEN made the charges in her famous memo which said Mayor . Nandi ? " greased " the way for taxi fare hikes by the city council July 19 , 1977 . Bilandic , Reuben , Checker officials , and others she said were involved have denied her story . Reuben would not say Friday why he and his law firm , Kirkland and Ellis , no longer represent Checker . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ca n't answer that question , " he said . " We have no professional relationship with them ( Checker at all . New lawyers are being brought in  --  there is a - transition period  --  but we are caretakers . We resign , " The FTC antitrust probe of Checker , was under way well before the furore over the memo . CHECKER , OWNER of Checker Taxi and Yellow Cab , dominates the city 's taxi service . The . FTC could recommend the U.S. Justice Department find Checker a monopoly which should be broken Reuben and associate Garrett B. Johnson said M their motfon the investigaCoothmed on page 4 , col. 4 Halt probe , Checker asks // tion is " hopelessly " tainted by " improper extracurricular political activities and the generation of inaccurate adverse publicity by the commission staff . " They asked that subpoenas and the Investigation be quashed . Their motion said that Checker had been " cooperating fully " with the FTC , but " continuing press reports " detrimental to the firm were leaked to Chicago media by staffers of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the motion may take several weeks . CHECKER 'S MOTION said Philip Krone , Checker 's public relations adviser , attended a Jan. 28 party at which FTC attorney Robert Goldberg , who since has left the commission , " talked at length to anyone who would listen of the details of the FTC 's investigation . " It said it was " immediately apparent " Goldberg was leaking information , but that the leaks probably do not " begin and end with " him . " Half-truths and innuendos " leaked by other FTC staffers suggest " they are motivated by a desire to achieve by indirection a result that they could not achieve otherwise , " the motion said . A city council committee created to investigate the fare hikes disbanded Wednesday , concluding that the increases were justified but recommending revision of the city 's 1963 fare-increase ordinance.                     