@@728420

txt Negotiations between the shop craft unions and the rail industry over proposed work rule changes broke off here late tonight , and renewed the threat of a nation-wide rail strike . William J. Usery , assistant secretary of labor , said the talks had reached an impossible impasse and the negotiations were a " frustrating and disappointing experience . " Court Rearing Next A hearing is scheduled for 10 a . In. tomorrow in federal District court in Washington on a temporary injunction which prohibited the unions from striking and the railroads from instituting a nation-wide lockout . The federal court is empowered to extend the injunction for 10 days . The current order expires tomorrow . William W. Winpisinger , chief negotiator for the four shop craft unions involved in the negotiations , said at the conclusion of tonight 's meeting the union 's attorney will seek to have the strike injunction dissolved in order to free the unions to engage in selective strikes and to continue to restrain the railroads from imposing lockouts . He said the unions have pledged not to strike before midnight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ background and stated that the controversial work rule changes were redrafted at least three times in an effort to bridge the gap in opinion between the rail industry and the sheet metal workers union which represents roughly 8,000 rail workers . The changes would allow members of all four unions to work within each other 's jurisdiction . The other three unions had agreed to an earlier proposal . In addition to tile sheet metal workers , tile unions are the machinists , electrical workers , and the boilermakers and blacksmiths . The meetings between top labor department officials and five representatives of four labor unions and five from the rail industry moved here earlier this month to accommodate the unions whose leaders also are involved in conferences of the AFL-CIO executive council . A two-year pact calling for a 68-cent-an-hour wage hike for 1969 and 1970 was rejected earlier by the sheet metal workers union , one of the unions in the bargaining coalition . The union feared the elimination of some jobs be ' cause of changes in incidental work rules . The changes involved jurisdiction over minor jobs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if an electrical worker has circuit repairs in outlying rail shops a sheet metal worker must be called in to remove the metal plate covering the faulty equipment . The rail industry claims that many of , these relatively minor operations a r e costly and should be done by the union worker involved in the major repair . The industry contends that the only way it can match the wage demand is thru work rule changes .                     