@@729566

txt The Jordanian government said yesterday its troops had crushed the Palestininan guerrillas in Jordan tho some guerrillas were still firing from bases in Syria . Other Arab nations angrily condemned the Jordanians , Jordanian Prime Minister Wasfi Tell said in Amman , " There are no longer any independent guerrilla bases in Jordan . " He said 2,300 guerrillas had been arrested and about 50 killed in the five-day battle to clear them from north Jordan . There were estimated to have been 3,000 guerrillas in the area . Tell said the army had suffered 31 killed and 90 wounded in the fighting . He said the guerrillas killed 6 soldiers and 20 civilians before the army began its counteraction . Sought Independent State " From now on , we will not allow into the country anyone who believes in liberating Amman before Tel Aviv Israel , " Tell said . He was referring to Jordan 's contention that the guerrillas were setting up an independent state in Jordan instead of concentrating their attacks on Israel . Tell said Jordan still supparts honest guerrilla action and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the bad , areas will be assigned so that the guerrillas can continue their work . " Tell said Yasir Arafat , the leader of the guerrillas , was a traitor and a liar and blamed him for Iraq 's break in relations with Jordan on Sunday . The Jordanian leader told a news conference that the Iraqi government had relied on Arafat 's false reports of the fight . ing.in deciding to recall its ambassador from Amman , close its borders and ban flights of Jordanian planes over Iraq . Temporary Interruption Arab radios trumpeted Iraq 's decision as a break in diplomatic relations , but Jordan regarded it as a temporary interruption . More guerrillas fled across the Jordan River into the Israeli-occupied west bank to escape the Jordanian army which they accused of annihilating their comrades . Israeli de f ens e ministry sources confirmed newspaper reports that some of the more than 70 guerrillas who crossed the border had offered to fight in the Israeli army . Patrols Increased Israeli spotter planes and patrols were increased along the Jordan River cease-fire line to pick up the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They were blindfolded by Israeli authorities and taken away for interrogation . An Israeli military official said the guerrillas ' military capabilities in Jordan were now nonexistent . A Jordanian military spokesman in Amman said guerrillas inside Syria were firing on government positions and towns , Ho said two civilians wore wounded yesterday . In Cairo , Egypt , the semiofficial newspaper Al Ahram denounced Jordan as " en obedient tool within the Israeli plan " and called for the Arab states to ensure that Arab unity Is maintained .                     