@@732424

txt President Ford beat Ronald Reagan for the third time in three primaries Tuesday , and former Georgia Gov . Jimmy Carter scored his first big win against the man he came to Florida to beat , Gov . George Wallace of Alabama . The Ford victory barn ) , damages Reagan 's chances for the Republican nomination , although some of Reagan 's supporters believe be could stay in the race . Ford emerged from a speaking appearance in Washington and said he was delighted with the results . Asked if be thought the former California governor should bow out , the President said : " Oh , I would n't get into that . Tonight Is not a night to talk about victory , except to thank people for the fine job they did . " FORD 'S CAMPAIGN manager , Howard IL Callaway , said in Washington that he would not speculate on Reagan 's political future . " It is not up to me to say what Mr. Reagan will do , " Callaway said . " We intend to go right on through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . possibility that Rogan might be the vice presidential nominee on a Ford ticket . BM be said vice presidential de-Melons are n't made until convention time . In Rock Inland , IL , Reagan insisted " we are all delighted " by the Florida remits . " We are in for the long haul , all the way to the convention , " he said . inz JUBILANT Carter said In Orlando that his victory was hard to believe . He dined on a cheeseburger , trench fries , and a chocolate mllkshake , and said he 's ready for his next test , in Illi Bois next Tuesday . " I think k 's obvious our soca:ass here in Florida against Gov . Wallace , who carried the state in 1972 , is a major step toward for us , " said Carter . Wallace said Tuesday night in CormtrYside , M. , where be was campaigning , that he It good about his second-place finish in the " cosmopolitan state " of Florida . But the Florida success was especially important for Carter , who had organized virtually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , End said publicly and often that he intended to beat Wallace in the state the Alabaman won with 42 per cent of the vote four years ago . WALLACE 'S CAMPAIGN manager . Charles Snider , said Carter 's victory in Florida was a " surprise " but insisted Carter " still has not beaten us in a deep Southern state . You 're not talking about a Southern state when you 're talking about Florida . " With 05 per cent of the vote counted . Ford had 53 per cent to Reagan 's 47 per cent . On the Democratic side . Carter had 35 per cent ; Wallace 31 per cent ; Sen. Hen- ry " Scoop " Jackson Mash . El per cent ; Pennsylvania Gov . Milton Shapp 2 per cent ; and Rep. Morris Udall Ariz. ! 2 per cent . The rest of the votes were scattered among Sen. Birch Bayh ( Ind . , Baptist evangelist Arthur Blessitt , abortion op-parent Ellen McCormack , R. Sargent Shriver , Sen. Robert Byrd , Sen. Fred Harris , and Sen. Frank Church . Three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national convention delegates , Ford led for 43 and Reagan for 23 . ON THE DEMOCRATIC side , Carter was leading for 35 delegates , Wallace for 21 , and Jackson for 20 . The delegates are awarded on the be-sill of both statewide and congressional district pluralities . Ford , whose campaign in Florida looked so disorganized a few months ago that Reagan 's campaign manager called it " a Chinese fire drill , " suddenly Wined the race around a few weeks ago when he brought in professional organizers , flew into the state twice on Air Force One , and won the primaries in New Hampshire and Massachusetts . Ass result , Ford appeared to pick up support from Repuhlieans of all ages and incomes around Florida . He also led by large margins in the central section of the state ? a stretch of former swamps and orange groves now the retirement homes for thousands of solidly moderate Republicans from the Midwest . AT THE same time the President was running even with Reagan in the Miami area , the only place where Ford 's strategists really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they had to do was run even with the former California governor in the southern section of the state , and Ford would win . Early vote totals showed that 's exactly what he did . Carter . meanwhile , followed an older game plan that he had announced long as a year atm calling for cutting sharply into Wallace 's strength in all likreas of the state by persuading one of s  --  every five Wal ! ace voters from 1972 to switch to Carter in tg7it Early returns olic ... ed that Carter o ! naming almost even with Wallace in the aural northern section that long has ; Wel known as - Wallace country . " , In places like Lake County in the mid , die of the state . where Wallace won by a 6-to-1 margin four years ago , Carter was trailing by only a few hundred votes . And in Tallahassee , where WelMoe beat 10 other Democrats by a 5-to-1 Margin four years ago , Carter led this time by more than 2,000 votes . FLORIDA 'S PRIMARY , the nation 's third and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place to survive more than to win . The state stretched a few of the candidates to the limit of their budgets , their time , and their abilities to grin and bear the rough process . By the time Floridians ambled through the so-degree weather to the polls in the southern section of the state , and braved the cloudbursts in the north Tuesday , Reagan was sounding like a loser . Jackson 's forces in Miami were trying to stifle their exhuberance about an election that could n't hurt them and might help . Carter had a cold , and Wallace looked nervous . Ford spent his pre-primary hours in Washington concentrating on government instead of politics . But his staff in Orlando had last-minute worries shout overconfidence . So they got their candidate to phone his campaign offices In Republican strongholds like West Palm Beach , Ft . Lauderdale , and St. Petersburg . The President warned his workers not to " quit in the last quarter . " REAGAN 'S RACE against Ford had looked so good for the former California governor a few months ago that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , had predicted he would win by a 2-to-t margin . For Thomas . that earned him the nickname " Two-toOne Tommy " and more than a little private scolding from the Reagan camp . By Monday . Reagan was telling his crowds that he had " never put myself up as a sure winner " in the early primaries . He even told one group that he was n't so certain he could even win Illinois , the state where he was born . Carter , clearly the Democratic frontrunner until he lost to Jackson in Massachusetts last week , had told voters throughout the state that Florida was the most important primary In the early stages of his campaign . Without a triumph here over Wallace , Carter might have quickly slipped into the Democratic herd of candidates running for the nomination this year .                     