@@734167

txt The Supreme rnurt , whose libel decisions over 15 years have given valuable protection to press freedoms , has now made it more hazardous to exercise those freedoms . It ruled the other day that when public figures sue for libel they can inquire deeply into the editorial thoughts and procedures of news organizations for evidence of bad motives . By a 640.3 vote , the Court rejected arguments by CBS News that some degree of editorial sanctity had to be recognized in libel cases to guard against backdoor threats to the First Amendment . We regret this decision and find encouragement only in the separate opinions of four justices who seemed to understand the risks to free expression and called on judges to use their power with special care . To protect the flow of news and ideas against harassing libel suits by persons of note or authority , the Court has held that they must bear a heavier burden of proof than ordinary citizens : they must show that a defamatory falsehood was broadcast or published not just negligently but with " actual malice " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This rule no doubt discouraged mischievous and frivolous suits . But it has opened new avenues of disturbing inquiry by libel lawyers . If the Court requires proof of " actual malice " by the press , they argue , then plaintiffs need the the evidence to meet that burden . Under this theory ? which the Court has now endorsed ? the greater the burden of proof , the greater the necessary intrusion into the editorial process . In the still unresolved case whose procedures came before the Court , attorneys for former Army Lieut . Col. Anthony Herbert collected mountains of evidence to try to support his charge that CBS had maliciously defamed him so as to discredit his report of atrocities in Vietnam . CBS turned over volumes of reporters ' notes , transcripts , program drafts and videotapes of used and unused interviews , all dealing with what the network knew and when and how it came to know it . After a year of such evidence-gathering ( one defendant 's testimony filled 3,000 pages ) , the network tried to draw a line . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed one line of research and not another , why it credited one witness and not another , why it cut some film footage and not other footage . It also balked at testifying about conferences between the producer of the program , " 80 Minutes , " and correspondent Mike Wallace . Unfortunately the Court refused to draw the same line , or any other line against such inquiry . It thus left journalists vulnerable to litigation that is not only costly but also disruptive and to some degree intimidating . Yet again , a majority of the present Court has shown itself insensitive to the protectionithat behindthe-scenes news gathering and editing require if the media are to have the freedom of public expression that the Court properly values . The costs in legal fees and wasted time that the Court 's decision invite will be measurable . But beyond measure ? and easy comprehension ? are the restraints on news gathering and publication likely to result from the Court 's persistent denial of any journalistic privilege against official intrusion . In recent months , the news media have learned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources , that they can not be secure against searches of their confidential files and , now , that they can not assure the privacy of their debates about editorial judgments . We hope this latest decision will not mean that the cost of protection for a vigorous press is virtually unlimited intrusion into the editorial process . That remedy could prove as harmful as the disease .                     