@@730821

txt Jeb Stuart Magruder swore today that former Atty . Gen. John N. Mitchell approved the Watergate bugging and coverup and that H. R. Haldeman was told the complete story three months before President Nixon announced " new developments " in the matter . While confessing his o w n role in the Watergate affair , Magruder testified before the Senate Watergate Committee that he told the story to Heide ' man , then White House chief of staff , on Jan. 23 , three days after Nixon was sworn in for his second term . Magruder , onetime deputy director of Nixon 's reelection campaign , demonstrated his loyalty to the President by repeatedly insisting he had no knowledge Nixon knew of the bugging or coverup . " AS FAR AS I know , at no point during this entire period from the time of planning of the Watergate to the time of trying to keep it from the pub ' lic view did the President have any knowledge . . . " Magruder said . Tho Magruder said he told Haldeman in January , as late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White House had knowledge of the Watergate or the coverup . It was not until . April 17 that Nixon said " major developments " that had come to his attention on March 21 had resulted in " intensive new in quiries " about the Watergate within the White House . MAGRUDER , IN HIS testimony today , said that tho he assumed Haldeman knew about the bugging from the beginning , Haldeman claimed in January not to have heard of the matter before . In a deposition Haldeman gave in a related civil suit in May , he did not mention the January meeting with Magruder . He claimed not to have met with Magruder on Watergate until March and April . According to Magruder 's testimony , detailed reports on every aspect of the bugging and coverup were given to Gordon Strachan who acted as liaison man between the Committee for the Reelection of the President and the White House . Strachan was an aid to Haldeman who reported directly to the formed chief of Staff . Thruout his five and a half hours in the witness chair , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's knowledge . " It was natural to assume there was some prior knowledge , yes , " Magruder told S e n . Lowell Weicker R. , Conn . . THE SENATE committee informed federal prosecutors this week that it is seeking immunity from prosecution for Strachan in return for his testimony before the committee . Associated Press quoted a source today as saying Strachan sent word to the committee he will testify , if granted Immunity that Haldeman knew of the Watergate coverup . " from the beginning . " Magruder , also testifying ' with immunity from prosecution , also made these key points during his appearance before the hushed audience : ? Former Commerce Secretary Maurice H. Stans was told on June 26 , 1972 , that the Watergate was a Nixon campaign committee operation and that campaign funds were used . However , Stens was not told of the involvement of Mitchell and Magruder . In sworn testimony before the committee yesterday , Stens claimed absolutely no knowledge of the matter . ? The decision to coverup the Watergate break-in was made because it was feared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deeply the committee and the White House were involved . ? For the first time the committee was given direct , first person testimony that fired White House Counsel John W. Dean III took part in the planning and coverup . MAGRUDER , 38  --  a former special assistant to the Presi , dent in the White House office of communications , said the Watergate bugging was planned at three meetings held between January and March , 1972 . On Jan. 27 , 1972 , a meeting was set up in Mitchell 's Justice Department office with Mitchell , Magruder , Dean , and convicted Watergate conspirator G. Gordon Liddy , then general counsel for Nixon 's campaign committee . Several illegal proposals including the break-in were proposed by Liddy , Magruder testified . They included bugging the Democrats National Committee , the Democratic National Convention in Miami , and the campaign headquarters of the Democratic Presidential nominee , Magruder said . LIDDY ALSO proposed abducting or kidnaping leaders of radical groups to keep them away from the Republican National Convention then planned for San Diego , and the hiring of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all three of us Magruder , Mitchell , and Dean were appalled , " Magruder said . " The scope and size of the project was something that at least in my mind was not envisioned . " Mitchell rejected the plan and sent Liddy " back to the drawing boards , " Magruder said . At a second meeting In Mitchell 's office on Feb. 9 , 1972 , Liddy presented a scaleddown plan which did away with-all but the bugging plans . ALL FOUR MEN were Interested In tapping telephones at Democratic headquarters because they wanted to get information to discredit Law- , rence O'Brien , then the Democratic national chairman . O'Brien was considered too effective a spokesman against the administration 's position on the matter involving the International Telephone and Telegraph Corp. , Magruder said . Magruder said the reelection committee had heard reports of kickbacks to the Democratic National Committee involving a business affair in Miami and hoped to tie O'Brien to the matter . Liddy somehow had managed to tap a telephone conversation between an unknown person and Richard Murphy , manager of the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he said . THE PLAN TIIAT Liddy had cut down to $250,000 from $1 million , was not approved at the meeting but eventually was approved by Mitchell at a meeting in Key Biscayne , Fla. , March 30 , 1972 , Magruder said . By that time Mitchell had resigned as attorney general and had become director of the Nixon reelection campaign . Reports of all three ' meetings , including copies of Liddy 's charts , were made by Magruder to Strachan at the White House , Magruder said . However , he gdmitted he did not know if Strachan passed the information on to Haldeman . JUST PRIOR to the approval of the plans by Mitchell , Magruder said , he received a telephone call from Charles Colson , former special counsel to the President , who asked when they were going to get moving . " Colson called and asked when we would get off the stick and get the Liddy plan approved , " Magruder said . " He did not mention wiretapping and he did not say he was aware of specifics . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offices on May 26 . Today , Magruder testified he began to get reports from the wiretap a week or a week and a half later . Mitchell , Magruder said , was dissatisfied with the informs-1 tion , and Liddy said one of the taps in the Democratic offices was not working , properly . Copies of the reports Also were shown to Strachan who said they lacked substance , Magruder testified . On June 17 , when Liddy 's spy team went back to correct the tap and five members of the team were arrested , , Magruder said he was in California . He said he talked over the problem with Mitchell and two Mitchell aides , Frederick LaRue and Robert Mardian . MAGRUDER SAID he also spoke to Haldeman the next morning by telephone and discussed the problem with Haldeman but did not mention his own or Mitchell 's involvement . Haldeman told him to get back to Washington and handle the problem . During a series of meetings with Mitchell , Dean , Strachan , and others involved in the next week or so , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I volunteered at one point that maybe I might take ' The heat , " Magruder said . But the plan was rejected because , " we felt that if it got to me , it would go higher . " LAWYERS FOR THE committee , including Kenneth Parkinson , were told the whole story and were aware of the coverup plans , Magruder testified . " At that point , I for one , felt the President had no knowledge of the plan , " Magruder said . " I felt if it got out , his election would have been negated . " It was felt that if it the Watergate affair ever reached Mr. Nixon before the election , the President would n't have been elected , " he said . " Did you ever consider presenting the facts to the President for his enlightment and let ' him decide ? " asked Sen. Howard Baker Jr . R. , Tenn. , ranking G. 0 . P. member of the committee . " I ASSUMED that higher authorities in the White House would have handled it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Magruder . Later , Magruder was asked by Sen. Herman Talmadge D. , Ga . If the President could have been " completely isolated " from the Watergate facts . " It would be very easy for me to see how the President could not have been aware , " Magruder said explaining that from his experience in the White House he knew how information given the President was often capsulized . The coverup fell apart when it was learned the federal grand jury would reconvene to hear more testimony  --  not on March 23 when convicted Watergate conspirator James W. McCord announced he was ready to talk , Magruder claimed . " THE ONLY MISTAKE the prosecution made during the original investigation was that in going thru the organization of the committee it missed Mr. Reisner , " said Magruder . Robert Reisner , former assistant to Magruder at the committee was able to tie Magruder to Watergate , but was not interviewed by the grand jury before the trial . " I knew they would get to him now , " said Magruder . " I knew the story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ About that time Magruder said he found out Dean suddenly claimed not to remember any of the meetings during which the Watergate or the coverup was planned . It was then , Magruder said , he went to Haldeman and told him the whole story because " I was afraid I would become the scapegoat . " MAGRUDER said he discussed his new problem with Mitchell , LaRue , Mardian , and others and was assured that if he went to jail his family would be cared for and that a job would be waiting for him when he got out . Mitchell and Dean also brought up the possibility of executive clemency but Magruder said he understood " neither had the authority to speak for the President . " " They left the impression that everything would be all right , I would be taken care of , " Magruder said . MAGRUDER THEN went to federal prosecutors and made a deal to plead guilty to a single count of conspiracy to obstruct justice in return for testimony . Stans , who served as finance chairman for Nixon 's campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this week that he had no knowledge of the Watergate and could not recall a meeting on June 24 with Magruder and Mitchell . Today Magruder test ' tied there had been such a meeting and that Stans had been told that things " had not gone right . " The amount of money given Liddy was discussed , but " we did not say Mr. Mitchell or myself were involved in Liddy 's activities , " Magruder said . " We did not get into great detail " with Stans , he said . " We did say that we were aware of what happened and how the money , was spent . " 1 STANS WAS told the Watergate was ' ' our operation " that had been " fouled up , " Magruder said under stiff questioning by Sen. Baker . He was told of the involltament of Liddy and discussions with campaign treasurer Hugh Sloan about how much money was given Liddy                     