@@729246

txt In miles of tape and microfilm and among countless computers which some congressmen say may begin " talking " among themselves , the federal government accumulates more and more information about Americans . So much so that some senators are alarmed to the point of fighting back at what they consider a growing menace to privacy . Story : Page 2 A major counterattack is under way on government invasions of American privacy North Carolina 's Sen. Sam Ervin ( D ) is leading this charge . Genial , drawling and intellectual , he sits attentively in the chairman 's chair at the Senate Office Building 's old caucus room , resplendent with marble walls , red velvet curtains , and elaborate chandeliers . A parade of witnesses , only just begun , tells his subcommittee on constitutional rights precisely how Americans ' pirvacy is being invaded  --  and what should be donc about it . They also tell the American people . Seven television cameras and a horde of reporters attended the first day of committee hearings on Feb. 23 . Senator Ervin and others concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearings will increase public pressure on Congress to act to stop these invasions . Recommendations planned Some weeks after the hearings end next month , Senator Ervin 's subcommittee can be expected to tell Congress what actions it should take . It heard a recommendation from Arthur R. Miller , a professor of law at the University of Michigan who is one of the nation 's privacy experts . He suggested that a new government agency be established to regulate  --  under congressional guidelines  --  the information that other government agencies can gather about citizens ; check on its accuracy ; and make sure it is used only for proper purposes . Professor Miller testified bluntly that " at present there are no effective restraints on the national government 's information activities and no one has undertaken to ensure that individuals are protected against the misuse of the burgeoning data banks . " Before he makes his own recommendations , Senator Ervin will put probing questions on just this issue to several top government officials . Senator Ervin can be expected to ask Elliot L. Richardson , Secretary of Health , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fast-growing , use of social-security numbers . Concern expressed In a letter last fall responding to one from Senator Ervin , Secretary Richardson expressed concern about the increased use of social-security numbers  --  on aplications for drivers ' licenses , credit cards , employment forms , and so forth . The concern of Senator Ervin , and many others , is that this use of the social-security number is so pervasive that it could become the one common key necessary to link computers  --  enabling them to talk among themselves , promiscuously combining accurate , inaccurate , and incomplete information about nearly all Americans . In his letter to Senator Ervin , Secretary Richardson said he was investigating the uses made of the social-security number . Senator Ervin will try to discover precisely how widespread the usage is ? and what steps Congress or anyone else should take to curb misuse . There are other aspects of the privacy-invasion problem that the subcommittee will explore . In his opening statement Senator Ervin spoke sympathetically of the great need government has for information about its citizens , in order to plan more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear his view that in gathering information government often goes overboard : " The subcommittee has discovered numerous instances of agencies starting out with a worthy purpose but going so far beyond what was needed in the way of information that the individual 's privacy and right to due process of law are threatened by the very existence of files . " Several agencies cited Specifically , he mentioned several information-gathering programs of federal agencies which stemmed from apparent needs , yet " grew into programs for taking official note of law-abiding people who are active politically or who participate in community activities on social and political issues . " One such program is the Army 's hotly criticized program of gathering files on legal activities of many moderate citizens in vague connection with the Army 's responsibilities to cope with major civil disturbances . Senator Ervin intends to go into this issue intensively with former Army intelligence agents and officials of the Department of Defense . Both the North Carolinian and Professor Miller stressed that the most important effect of this kind of record gathering probably is its effect on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said many citizens would " feel intimidated by the fact that government takes note of their activities and maintains this data . . . . " When people fear surveillance , whether it exists or not , when they grow afraid to speak their minds and hearts freely to their government or to anyone else , then we shall cease to be a free society . " Fireworks expected Brightest fireworks of the hearing are likely to blaze when Attorney General John N. Mitchell testifies . Senator Ervin will press him to state under what precise authorities various government agencies are empowered to ask citizens the information , often very personal , that they do . Last fall Senator Ervin sent government departments and agencies probing questionnaires about their data files . He reported : " The replies we are receiving are astounding , not only for the information they are disclosing , but for the attitudes displayed toward the right of Congress and the American people to know what government is doing . " In some cases , the departments were willing to tell the subcommittee what they were doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In one case , they were willing to tell all , but classified the legal authority on which they relied for their information power . " Some reports were evasive and misleading . " Some agencies are high-handed and take the attitude that the information belongs to them and that the last person who should see it is the individual whom it is about . " Illustration given Senator Ervin gave a graphic illustration of the ability today 's computer technology has to store information . During the first day 's hearings he hefted a large family Bible which , he said , " weighs " 11 pounds . Contrast it with this piece of microfilm , 2 inches by 2 inches , which contains on it 1,245 pages of a Bible , with all 773,746 words on it . This means a reduction of 62,500 to 1 . With such a process , I am told , all of the millions of books stored on the 270 miles of shelves in the Library of Congress could be reproduced on slides and stored in six filing cabinets . They can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magnifying device . " Someone remarked that this meant the Constitution could be reduced to the size of a pinhead . I said I thought maybe that was what they had done with it in the Executive Branch because some of those officials could not see it with their naked eyes . " Humor aside , the hearing aims to find the best way to make visible to all government officials the parts of the Constitution which guarantee citizens ' individual rights  --  and to insist they be observed .                     