@@730090

txt Church bells pealed out over Johannesburg when the verdict came in . The conviction of the Dean of Johannesburg , the Very Rev. Gonville ( french-Beytagh , to a five-year jail sentence for terrorist activities had been reversed . The unanimous verdict by three Supreme Court judges in Bloemfontein deals a severe blow to the gov-ernment , And it marks a victory for South Africa 's anti-apartheid churches in the first round of the current church-state confrontation . The appeal court 's reversal Friday of the lower Pretoria Supreme Court verdict last year will undoubtedly strengthen the church 's opposition to apartheid laws , which clash with its Christian views . // *Appeals court overturns conviction of apartheid foe // This view was underlined by the statement of the Archbishop of Cape Town , the Most Rev. Robert Selby Taylor , who affirmed that the church would continue to protest laws that conflict with Christian principles . The Bishop of Johannesburg , the Rt . Rev. Leslie Stradling , saw the verdict as clearing the church of complicity in illegal action . And the Rev. Theo Kotze @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was vindication of the church 's witness . The Dean ? a British citizen and the most senior churchman to be charged under the Terrorism Act ? is one of the few foreign churchmen who , running foul of the state , have been brought to court and not summarily deported . Scores of others ? American , German , and British ? have been forced to leave the country without being charged . But others ? like the Rev. Cosmas Desmond , the Roman Catholic priest who disclosed the conditions in resettlement camps for blacks in the Transkei , and Dr. Basil Moore , a former Methodist minister ? have been placed under house arrest without a chance to prove their innocence in court . The Dean 's successful appeal will bring relief to the Christian Institute , the ecumenical body that is the vanguard of groups opposing the apartheid laws . The institute 's records were seized in raids by the security police and have not been returned . The institute had been told the records would be sent back after the dean 's trial . The belief was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the Dean were convicted . Though granted some relief by the verdict , the institute still faces a probe by a parliamentary select committee , which is delving also into the Institute of Race Relations and the , National Union of University Students . The crux of the verdict of Chief Justice Ogilvie Thompson , assisted by two other . judges , was that the state had not proved the Dean 's participation in a conspiracy to overthrow the state or his intent to endanger law and order . Examples cited For example : ? The state had entirely failed to establish that the Dean had furthered a plan by the banned African National Congress to overthrow the government or was intent on endangering law and order when he spoke at a Black Sash ( a South African women 's political organization ) meeting in Johannesburg . ? The evidence of a single state witness ( a secret agent , Ken Jordaan ) that the Dean had incited him to take part in preparing for a violent uprising to overthrow the state could not be accepted . ? The state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the banned Defense and Aid Organization in London . The Dean was originally found guilty of these three acts of terrorism by the Pretoria Supreme Court in November . The judge did find the Dean was very sympathetically disposed to people charged with contravening the security laws . But he held that the Dean 's opposition to the apartheid policy and apartheid legislation could not necessarily be equated with taking part in terrorism . The court criticized the evidence by police agent Ken Jordaan , describing him as a wholly unsatisfactory witness . A striking feature of the agent 's reports to the police was their vagueness ? especially those sections tending to incriminate the Dean .                     