@@731123

txt Gasoline and heating oil prices will go up between 1 and 2 cents a gallon as a result of the increases in foreign crude oil prices , a federal ' energy office expert said today . The price increases would be higher on the East and West Coasts , where residents are more dependent on imported oil , but Dr. William Johnson , an oil expert for the energy office , said a yet-to-be-announced crude oil allocation program would level off the increases so the burden would be shared more widely . Persian Gulf countries have announced that they were raising the cost from about $5 to $9 a barrel for crude oil received in the United States . Canada and Venezuela , other sources of imported oil , are also expected to do so . Kuwait 's oil minister warns that Persian Gulf o a tie as may impose still another oil price increase next spring . Story on page 14 . " YOU CAN LOOK for an increase of 8 to II cents per gallon in price as a result of this when we get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Simon , Federal Energy Office administrator , said in a broadcast interview . Johnson explained in a telephone interview that this figure applied only to those who would be dependent entirely on foreign oil . On an average , he said , " We 're thinking about a couple cents per gallon ? perhaps somewhere between 1 and 2 cents . " Johnson said the energy office 's crude oil allocation program would even off regional differences in oil costs . " If we did not have the allocation program , the i ncreases would be 4 to 5 cents in some areas - nd more in a few places that are wholly dependent on imported oil . The midcontinent area probably would n't have had any . " THE ALLOCATION program , due to be announced shortly , will set a " weighted average price " for crude oil sold to refineries , Johnson said . " This will mean that higher import costs will be spread around the country . Actually , this was kind of a serendipity benefit , a silver lining , since we had drawn Up ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he believed there would be further price increases . " Once they see they 're going to get away with this one , there 's going to be another increase , and another , and another . And we in the United States are better off since we 're 85 per cent energy sufficient . Europe and Japan and the underdeveloped countries are going to be worse off . " Places like India are going to have to go back to a bullock and cart economy . " This whole thing shows the utter foolishness of relying on foreign oil . The only way we 're going to get away from this foreign blackmail is to go to our own sources , and that means the Alaska pipeline , drilling off the continental shelf , strip mining coal , and so forth . If we 're going to be a sovereign state , we 'll have to be sovereign in energy as well . "                     