@@731943

txt EFFORTS TO organize Chicago 's nearly 4,000 interns and residents and several thousand housestaff physicians thruout the Midwest will begin Saturday with a meeting in the Sheraton-Chicago Hotel . The meeting , sponsored by the Washington-based Physicians National Housestaff Association and the Chicago Area Housestaff Council , is the first concerted effort by the 6,000 painters to strike Monday . Story on page 3 . PNHA to bring to the Midwest the types of collective-bargaining units for interns and residents that have developed in the last five years in New York , and California . The day-long meeting , beginning at 0 a. m. , is expected to Involve about 100 representatives from the 28 Chicago hospitals that have intern and resident training programs plus delegates from hospitals In Indiana , Michigan , Wisconsin , and other surrounding states . TILE PURPOSE of the meeting is to show participants how to develop official unions , how to negotiate contracts , and how to employ " professional techniques , " including strikes if necessary , to win contract demands , said Dr. Robert Harmon , PNHA president . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have 18,000 members nationwide . Since January it has " entered into a working relationship " with and been receiving free office space from the headquarters of the powerful American Federation of State , County , and Municipal Employes Union , Harmon said . " THERE 'S A major nationwide organizing campaign taking place , and housestaff doctors have already shown they are willing to go out on ? the line to get the things for themselves and their patients that they believe in , " Harmon said in an interview Friday . Earlier Friday he and Dr. Jay Dobkin , often called the " architect " of the nation 's first major doctor 's strike , which occurred in New York City last month , met with leaders of the Cook County Hospital House Staff Association . HARMON SAID the meeting at County was a strategy session to counsel the group on developing and negotiating a contract , using the contracts of the New York and California unions as models . Harmon and Dobkin also were to hold individual meetings Friday with the leaders of housestaff ' groups at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Medical Center in Maywood , and Rush - Presbyterian - St. Luke 's Medical Center to en , courage organization .                     