@@731464

txt Drafts of 29 articles of impeachment charging President Nixon was " personally and directly " responsible for the Watergate burglary and coverup were presented to the House Judiciary Committee today . The House impeachment panel , a week or 10 days from a final vote , received the material from its chief counsel , Job , Doer . Door , shedding his neutral role after more than 10 weeks of inquiry , told the 38 committee members ; " AS AN INDIVIDUAL . I have not the slightest bias against President Nixon . . . But I am not indifferent to the matter of the President 's abuse of ' power . . . . If I believe it has existed and if , in fact , President Nixon . . . has had a central part in planning and executing this terrible deed of subverting the Constitution , then I shall do my part as best as I can to bring him to answer before the Congress of the United States for this enormous crime . " The proposed articles of impeachment -- beginning with the words " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Nixon , of high crimes and misdemeanors " ? were drafted by the staff and by some ? ndividual committee Democrats . They are only proposals , to be argued over in the days ahead , before some of the articles are voted up or down at the end of July . THE STAFF PROPOSALS charge 1 that agents acting on behalf of Nixon , " and solely . in his interest in preserving political power , " broke into the Democratic National Conunittee offices ; that Nixon , " using the powers of his high office , " orchestrated a coverup including obstruction of justice , , the suborning of prepay , the purchase of silence , add the release of false statements ; 2 that Nixon agents committed the Ellsberg burglary in an effort to defame Ellsberg and that it was part of a pattern of abuse of power for political purposes ; ( 31 that " Nixon has refused to comply with subpenes issued by the committee ; and RI that Nixon committed fraud in his tax returns of 1969 thru 1972 and escaped prosecucution solely because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proposed article said , " Richard M. Nixon is personally and directly responsible . " DOAR , THE COMMITTEE members said , contended that the evidence is such that the committee has no recourse but to recommend impeachment . " Reasonable men acting reasonably will find the President guilty , " Doar said , according to the notes of one Democrat . The Republicans plan to issue a statement arguing against impeachment next week . THE 60,000-WORD statement for impeachment argues its , points from an interpretation of the evidence it has received in its inquiry : the White House transcripts , memos , and notes ; grand jury transcripts ; Federal Bureau of Investigation reports ; Central Intelligence Agency memos ; and questions and answers before the Senate Watergate committee and other congressional panels . These accusations stood out in the legal prose of the committee lawyers : WATERGATE break-in : " The evidence available to the committee establishes that on May 27 and June 17 , 1972 , agents of CRP Committee to Reelect the President acting pursuant to a political intelligence plan . . authorized in advance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ R. Haldeman , the President 's chief of staff , broke into DNC , headquarters at the Watergate for the purpose of effecting electronic surveillance ; a n d that this was part of the Presi1 dent 's policy of gathering political intelligence to be used as part . of his campaign for reelection . " The summary contended that " it is a fair inference that Haldeman was implementing the President 's policy with respect to the tactics he wanted used in his reelection campaign . " WATERGATE coverup : The evidence and circumstances " strongly suggest that President Nixon decided , shortly after learning of the Watergate break-in , on a plan to cover up the identities of high officials of the White House and CRP directly involved . in the illegal operation and to prevent the disclosure of the prior covert activities undertaken on behalf of President Nixon .. . " From the beginning of July , 1972 , until after the Presidential election in November , President Nixon 's policy of containment ? of cutting the loss ' ? worked . The policy prevented disclosure that might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CRP officials and might have jeopardized the outcome of the November election . " The report also charges the President attempted to conceal existence of the White House recordings , refused to make them available to the special prosecutor once their existence became known , and that he fired Special Prosecutor Archibald Cox for continuing to seek the tapes thru court action . PLUMBERS : " There is evidence that the President encouraged and approved actions designed to provide information that would be used to discredit Daniel Ellsberg , who helped leak the Pentagon Papers , the peace movement , the Democratic Party , and prior administrations " ABUSE OF POWERS : " From early in the President 's first term , the White House , at hts direction or on his authority , engaged in a series of activities designed to obtain intelligence for the political benefit of . the President .                     