@@733104

txt Former President Richard Nixon has laid heavy responsibility for his decision to expand U.S. operations into Cambodia in April , 1970 , on Henry Kissinger . In the third episode of his TV interview with David Ffost , Mr. Nixon says of this decision : " Oh , I did n't act alone . I acted on the advice of my National Security Council adviser , Dr. Kissinger , who of course strongly supported it . Because the decision basically was triggered by this fact . . . . " This is against a backdrop in which Mr. Nixon elsewhere in the interview takes full responsibility for the Cambodian decision , asserting that the operation was a great success . Mr. Nixon also puts heavy responsibility on Dr. Kissinger for the wiretapping of the Kissinger staff , in the wake of the Cambodian " leak " ( the New York Times story that disclosed secret U.S bombings in Cambodia ) . " When you talk about this whole matter of leaks and so forth , " Mr. Nixon says , " people think that maybe Kissinger went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that I did . UPI photo Nixon says he committed illegal acts ' legally ' " But I 'll never forget when the Cambodian leak occurred . And we said : ' Henry , it 's possible it might be somebody on your staff . ' And Henry said , ' I will destroy them . ' " * Please tura to Page 30 From page 1 Nixon on Kissinger Mr. Nixon then goes on to say that the domestic protest at the time , giving what he felt was aid to the North Vietnamese , provided justification for these and other actions that occurred during that period ? including the break-in at the office of Daniel Ellsberg 's psychiatrist . In essence , the former President said that he could order just about anything illegal if he felt it was in support of the national interest , and that it would then be " legal , " This was his justification , he said , for the creation of the White House " plumbers " unit , the White House-approved burglary of the Ells-berg psychiatrist , and the Huston plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saying that he could have authorized murder on such grounds . Asked if he should not have gone to Congress to receive authorization for such illegal acts , Mr. Nixon said there was n't time . When asked what curb there would be on a president 's committing such acts , he said that the elections would be a restraint . But he also admitted that the public would probably never have known about some of these acts had they not been exposed . Mr. Nixon responded to a question that implied paranoia on his part : " What I 'm trying to tell you is that this whole business of , ' I am paranoic about hating people and trying to do them in ? ' and the answer is : at times , yes . " I get angry at people , but in - human terms , as far as I 'm concerned . I believe that an individual must never let hatred rule him . " Responding to a question about his authorizing the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) to " get " his enemies , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a president or anybody else to do something that it has a responsibility to do , that 's not illegal for them to do it , or for it to be ordered , even if the motivation is political . " But he went on to say that " in my opinion , it 's wrong . It 's bad . " But here , he looked back at the past and said : " But let 's get away from this hypocrisy , where we have a situation of saying , ' Well , it 's all right if you 're going after , as far as IRS returns , it 's all right to go into H. L. Htint , and , as Robert Kennedy did , ordering IRS investigations of 17 right-wing organizations in order to get their tax exemptions removed . It 's all right to do that , but it 's wrong when you go the other way . ' " Mr. Frost grilled Mr. Nixon quite hard on his rationale for committing " legally " what otherwise might be illegal acts : Frost : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far above the law ? " Nixon : " No , There 's nothing specific that the Constitution contemplates in that respect . I have n't read every word , every jot arid every title , but , I do know this : " That it has been , however , argued that as far as a president is concerned , that in wartime a president does have certain extraordinary powers , which make acts that would otherwise be unlawful , lawful if undertaken for the purpose of preserving the nation and the Constitution , which is essential for the rights we 're all talking about . " Mr. Frost did not at this point mention that the United States was not at war ? that is , there had been no declaration of war nor had Mr. Nixon , as president , asked for it .                     