@@730561

txt Once again , the hopes and fears for peace in Vietnam center on a quiet suburban villa far from the sparkling tinsel and enticing windows of Paris 's pre-Christmas bustle . Henry A. Kissinger , adviser to President Nixon , and . Le Duc Tho , member of - Hanoi 's Politburo , renewed Monday their meetings in search of a Vietnam settlement . As with their last two no-longer-secret rendezvouses , they met in a comfortable bourgeois house at 11 Rue Darthe , around the . corner from the North Vietnamese delegation 's headquarters in suburban Choisy-Le-Rol . From Washington , already preoccupied with stories of who will be doing what in President Nixon 's second term , and from Saigon , where President Thieu is still fighting a rearguard action against what he regards as a too precipitate cease-fire , comes growing speculation that this time a settlement is likely . General Thiel. ' told General Thieu is said to have been told that the United States will not hold up a peace agreement simply in order to obtain a written commitment about withdrawal of North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to demand this , while Hanoi radio warns the United States that it must honor the draft agreement reached between Messrs . Kissinger and Tho last month , in which no explicit mention is made about this issue . Al . a press luncheon Monday , Ambassador Pharr Dang Lam , Saigon 's chief delegate here , with whom Dr. Kissinger is in daily touch after his meetings with Mr. Tho , said Saigon would be satisfied if the " principle " of Hanoi 's troop withdrawal would be written into the peace agreement . " The instant Hanoi accepts that principle , " he said , " there will be no further difficulty with the modalities . " His statement was in line with previous indications that privately Saigon has been scaling down its demands . From Hanoi 's viewpoint , however , any written commitment , whether actually to withdraw or accepting the " principle " of withdrawing , would be equally unsatisfactory , since the whole justification for its troop presence in the South ? which in any case it has never admitted ? is that all Vietnamese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Viet Cong , meanwhile , are urgently demanding the release of political detainees by Saigon . A long declaration published Sunday accused President Thieu of preparing lists of such detainees , many of whom are Viet Cong cadres or sympathizers , to be assassinated before a cease-fire Yet despite these public insistences , in private , preparations are said to be far advanced for a cease-fire by the middle of this month , which would permit the freeing of American prisoners of war before Christmas . // *Cease-fire preparations // North Vietnam is said to have agreed to one symbolic Saigon demand ? for the reestablishment of the demilitarized zone between North and South Vietnam at the 17th parallel . In practice , under the terms of the proposed arrangement for a cease-fire in place , Communist troops will continue to control the area immediately south of the demilitarized zone , an area they overran during their spring offensive . Demands unmet On two other issues , the troop-withdrawal question already mentioned and that of the national council of reconciliation , which is to oversee appliaction of the agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saigon fears the council , which would include Viet Cong , Saigon , and neutralist elements , will be a disguised coalition government . On these issues , it seems , the draft agreement reached last month will stand substantially as it is . Le Monde 's usually well-informed Saigon correspondent reports that an international control commission consisting of 5,000 men supplied by Canada , Indonesia , Poland , and Hungary will be scattered in teams of eight to nine men each across the 200 districts of South Vietnam , as well as in each of Saigon 's nine districts and Hue 's three districts . Commission plans made He also reports that quadripartite military commissions with representatives from the United States , Hanoi , Saigon , and the Viet Cong will sit in Saigon and in each of the headquarters of South Vietnam 's four military regions ? Da Nang , Bien Hoa , Pleiku , and Can Tho . For the record , both Hanoi and the Viet Cong have strongly criticized Indonesia , one of the four countries expected to participate in the international control commission . Mme. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gone so far as to accuse Indonesia of preparing " to send occupation troops to the South . " Hanoi has not specifically turned down Indonesia , however , and it is not clear whether these attacks are designed to warn Jakarta to take a more " objective " attitude if and when it does participate in the commission . ? Apparently undisturbed by the variety and intensity of press speculation about these an , other issues , Messrs . Kissinger and Tho com and go to their meetings , affable and smilin , as ever , but with lips tightly sealed a regards the content of their discussions or the possibility of an early agreement .                     