@@731240

txt To a chorus of boos , Harold Wilson returned to No. 10 Downing Street as prime minister tonight after an absence of nearly four years : " We 've got a job to do , " Wilson said on the doorstep . " We can only do it as one people . I 'm going right in to start on that job now . " Only two hours earlier , to the chant ' of ' " Heath . out , ' ? Heath out , " Edward Heath had left : for Buckingham Palace ' to ' laand his resignation and that of his Conservative P arty government to Queen Elizabeth H. AND ALREADY , Labor Party spokesman James Callaghan was saying : " The measures we present to Parliament will be our measures . " And Jeremy Thorpe , leader of the revived Liberal Party , whose 14 members will have a vital role , in the new Parliament , was ailgrily , ' askMg Callaghan if Thorpe 's proposal for an all-party ' government had been " greeted with ribald laughter " by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a : private meeting . Thorpe said he still believes an , all-party government , acting on a " limited program for aq agreed time " is the logical way ' for Britain to end the three-week-old mine strike , the three-day work week now in ' its third , month , and tackle a projected $9 billion trade deficit . DEPUTY Conservative Party Chairman James Prior agreed with Thorpe . From Buckingham Palace , Heath weqt to Conservative Party headquarters to explain that because ao Major party won a majority of the 635 seats in the House of Commons in Thursday 's election and because Wilson had said Labor would make no coalition and no deals , he felt he had a duty to try to seek a coalition with the Liberal government . Heath told party aides he does not intend to resign the party leadership . Aides saw no major effort to oust him . Heath and aides thought the Labor government should survive at least a year or 18 months , providing it does not push strong party measures . Earlier , he had of f e @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ posts to other Liberals , and promised to set up a commission to look . into proportional voting to give smaller parties more seats ? the 6 million Liberal voters won just 14 seats . BUT THORPE , after meeting his members , said the Liberals would only promise support for an agreed program . Heath said this did not provide a sufficiently sound base for a government , so he resigned . By then however the seven Scottish Nationalists and two Welsh Nationalists had decided not to join a coalition with either major party and the 11 Ulster Protestants had said they will form their own group in Parliament to recover full control of Northern Ireland , including its security forces . " When I became prime minister , I pledged myself to serve the nation , " Heath said . " I renew that pledge . " HE SAID the 296 Conservative members would not oppose measures proposed by the 301 Labor members solely for the sake of opposition . Altho he himself had not forwarded to Thorpe 's proposal for an allparty government to Wilson , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quick mover , Wilson within his first two hours asked leaders of the trades unions and the Confederation of , British Industries to come to Downing Street tomorrow to discuss industrial ' , peace . During the campaign he promised to scrap the new Conservative labor laws , so hated by labor . Wilson will present his program to Parliament at the formal opening Jan. 12 . Commentators predicted he would not press two major parts of his campaign platform ? a referendum on Britain 's membership in the Common Market , and nationalization of more basic industries and North Sea oil .                     