@@730038

txt ? Howard R. Hughes , lean , healthy and wearing a Van Dyke beard , left Managua , Nicaragua , early today after a social visit with the President of Nicaragua and the United States Ambassador aboard his private jet . The meeting lasted from 10:45 P.M. until " almost midnight , " said Ambassador Turner B. Shelton , who arranged the meeting with President Luis Anastasio Somoza Debayle so that Mr. Hughes could express his gratitude for help in arranging a place for him when he left the Bahamas in February . " He looks extremely well , " Mr. Shelton said of Mr. Hughes . " He is slender . His health seems to be good . He was wearing a short beard that covers his face and builds into a Van Dyke on his chin . His hair is cut short . It 's sort of gray and black  --  salt and pepper . " This was the first reliable // description of Mr. Hughes , one of the world 's richest men , for almost a decade while he has lived in virtual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Mr. Hughes and President Somoza , but ' felt that he could not dlisclose what was discussed . President Somoza , a graduate of West Point , speaks English fluently . The meeting took place as President Somoza arrived at the Managua airport on returning from Guatemala . Mr. Hughes was waiting there in his Gulfstream jet , and Mr. Shelton brought the two men together in the passenger cabin of the plane . Mr. Hughes left after his conversation with the President . " I do n't have the slightest idea where he went , " Mr. Shelton said , " He did n't say . " The Associated Press quoted a Nicaraguan Air Force officer ns saying that Mr. Hughes ' flew to Los Angeles . Mr. Hughes wore a. shirt and slacks , Mr. Shelton said . The Ambassador added that Mr. Hughes indicated he may want to return to Nicaragua . Some of Mr. Hughe 's staff remained in the International Hotel , where Mr. Hughes lived Managua . ' Excellent Condition ' " He seemed to be in excel- ' lent condition , " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mr. Hughes had trouble hearing . Earlier tonight , Richard Hannah , a spokesman for the Hughes Tool Company , announced that Mr. Hughes had left Managua . Mr. Hannah said lie did not know where Mr. Hughes had gone , and specifically said he did not know if Mr. Hughes had gone to the United States . Mr. Hughes was living in the Los Angeles area about 15 years ago when he began to drop from public view . In 1966 , he went to Boston and then went to Las Vegas , Nev. , where he spent four years in an apartment on the top floor of the Desert Inn Hotel . In November , 1970 , he moved aecretly and suddenly to an ' apartment on the top floor of the Britannia Beach Hotel on Paradise Island , Nassau , the Bahamas . It was from this hotel . that Mr. Hughes directed the energetic efforts of his entire organization to discredit " The Autobiography of Howard Hughes , " a book by Clifford Irving , and then scheduled for publication by Publishing Company . Three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Hughes- spoke by telephone to persons he had previously known but had refused to speak with for more than a decade . He even spoke by telephone to a news conference of reporters. , gathered in Los Angeles to question him and listen to his answers . He called the " autobiography " a hoax . On the day that Mr. Hughes left Managua , Irving , his wife , Edith , and their associate , Richard Suskind , pleaded guilty to conspiracy and grand larceny charges . Irving admitted in court that he had never seen Mr. Hughes , a fact that the industrialist had insisted was true when he was interviewed by the reporters Jan. 7 . Midway through the fight to discredit the spurious autobiography , Mr. Hughes suddenly left Nassau , This decision came after the opposition party began to show that it might make an issue of the relationships between the government of Premier Lynden 0 . Finding and the Hughes staff . Before dawn Feb , 16 , Mr. Hughes boarded a yacht that was tied up in the docking area at Hurricane Hole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early the next morning at Fort Lauderdale , Fla. , moved through customs and immigration in . a way never made clear by United States officials , and then boarded a chartered plane for Managua . Mr. Hughes moved easily into the Intercontinental Hotel there , for arrangements had been made for him with the help of President Somoza , who had been approached by Ambassador Shelton , Up to that time , Mr. Shelton had never met Mr. Hughes , but he had been the United States consul general in Nassau. before Mr. Hughes 's arrival there , and knew some of the men who worked in Mr. Hughes 's security . forces . It was from representations made by these employes1 of Mr. Hughes that the Ambassador was persuaded to help make arrangements for the billionaire 's arrival in Managua . Whether the two ? men met before yesterday in the three and a half weeks Mr. Hughes lived in Managua was not known , " Mr. Hughes wanted to thank President Somoza for his hospitality and Ambassador Shelton for his help in making arrangements , " Mr. Hannah @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the long faceIto-face meeting held before Mr. Hughes left Managua . While Mr. Hughes may well vanish again , there have been indications over the last three months that he may be about ready to come out and face some of the many problems that beset him personally , and the many business interests , that make up his empire . Mr. Hughes has hundreds of millions of dollars invested in , Nevada , and he is defendant there in two major legal actions . State officials who control . licensing ht the Hughes-I owned casinos have shown signs of being ready to demand that he appear to toll them personally whether he wants the hotels run by the men now in charge . Robert A. Maheu , former manager of Hughes Nevada properties , has sued for 550-million , charging that he was improperly dismissed , One aspect of that suit is to be argued in the Nevada Supreme Court in Carson City tomorrow . On Thursday in Las Vegas , the Nevada Gaming Control Board will decide whether it is satisfied with letters from Mr. Hughes or will demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his seven licensed casinos . Hank Greenspun , publisher . of The Las Vegas Sun , has sued the Hughes ? interests for more than $100 ; million in a dispute over liens on property that Mr. Greenspun owns- and that he used ? as collateral in loans made to him from Hughes Tool . Meanwhile , aince he left Nassau , some of . Mr. Hughes 's employes have said they believe that he will:soon return to the United States and ' make a personal appearance . They mean that the mystery surrounding - his health , his appearance , and his ability to respond to the demands of conducting his business now . has grown to the point where it is a serious liability .                     