@@731434

txt POSTAL ROBBERIES which are occurring in the Chicago area at a rate nearly three times that of other major cities have become the focus of a federal grand jury investigation . In addition to the grand jury action , which centers on a recent string of seven holdups of letter carriers , postal authorities here have instituted several unusual antitheft measures , including tiny electronic letter tracking devices which can fit into envelopes and not be de- - tected . Large cash rewards also are being offered . The combination of tracking devices , rewards , and police surveillance has led to the arrest of 15 suspects by teams of postal inspectors and Chicago police . THE EXTENT of the robberies , involving mail trucks and postal stations as well as carriers , is disclosed in figures compiled by the office of William H. , Chicago 's chief postal inspector . and his top aide , Raymond E. Potts , have been working with aides of both United States Atty . James R. Thompson and Police Supt. James M. Rochford . 's figures show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ robberies in the , Chicago-Gary area-29 of letter carriers , 9 of mail trucks , and 4 of postal-stations . He said the number of holdups is nearly three times that of any other major city , including New York and Los Angeles . RECENT LOSSES in Social Security and state general assistance checks intended for the elderly and poor are estimated at several hundred thousand dollars alone . Altho ? such checks are reissued when reported stolen , ; authorities said most recipients often must wait weeks for new checks , and depend on them for their only income . said no one knows why the rate of holdups here is so high , altho some investigators see drug addiction as a cause . What is known is that the robbers strike mostly in the Garfield Park and Austin postal districts on the West Side , and that most of the persons subsequently , arrested are drug users . SOME OF THE robberies take place in the vestibules of apartment buildings ; others on quiet residential streets . One mail truck was hijacked in the Loop , in daylight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " In most instances , " said , " the robber is interested in obtaining welfare checks . The stolen checks then are forged and cashed by accomplices , using false means of identification . " He said the risk taken by the robber  --  imprisonment of up to 25 years ? " is totally out of proportion to the potential amount of the take , usually no more than $200 per check . " THE ELECTRONIC tracking device is the latest weapon to be used here exclusively , and details of how it works are shrouded in secrecy . A number of the devices reportedly are in use in planted letters and parcels carried by letter carriers In areas where thefts are high . Sources compared the use of the devices to another use of electronics to snare bank robbers . The bank devices are hidden inside small money packages which contain a bright red dye . and can be detonated on an electronic signal as the robber flees with the package . The , robber Is coated by the identifying dye . AS ANOTHER means of preventing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been issued whistles and instructions to blow them when entering dimly lit vestibules . This alerts ' persons to the fact that their mail has arrived . The sound of a whistle usually draws a crowd , and this in itself serves ? to protect the carrier . Postal officials also are offering up to $3,000 for each tip resulting in an arrest and coifviction for armed robbery of a carrier . The standing offer of rewards was made in 75,000 leaflets recently circulated here . They urge tipsters to telephone 's office or write postage free to U.S. Postal Inspectors , Attention : Robbery Section , Chicago , M. 60607.                     