@@728797

txt The National Research Council issued guidelines today designed to protect blood plasma donors from careless laboratory procedures that spread hepatitis and provoke other problems . The council branded present state and Federal regulations " insufficient " and said in a statement that " the resulting inadequacy is a problem of national scope and significance . " About 100,000 Americans , including prison inmates , Skid Row derelicts and narcotics addicts , earn money by selling their plasma to commercial laboratories that frequently hold no license . Unsterilized needles , faulty equipment and laboratory shortcomings regularly spread hepatitis from donor to donor . Those especially desperate for funds are permitted to give plasma as often as four and five times a week . The standards represent an effort to persuade plasma collectors to establish stricter controls , such as the closer screening of donors , less frequent giving and more careful use of equipment . The National Research Council is an arm of the widely regarded and Congressionally chartered National Academy of Sciences . It is a private organization with no legal authority to enforce the new guidelines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , and its standards ordinarily carry enough authority to support civil malpractice suits against those found to violate them . The technique used in obtaining plasma was uevelopeu its 1914 but became more and more popular during the 1960 's as equipment was invented that made the process more practical and reduced the chance of contamination . Whole blood is taken from the donor and broken down . The red blood cells are pumped back into the giver , and the plasma , which makes up about 55 per cent of the whole blood , is retained . The cells take longest for the body to replace , and since they are returned a donor can give plasma more often than blood . While there is no well established rate , daily or nearly daily plasma giving is con-. sidered definitely dangerous . The plasma is commonly made into a variety of products , and the donor is often immunized by injections of antigens so that his plasma can be used to treat pertussis , tetanus , smallpox and mumps . Many plasma products can be purified of hepatitis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are believed to he especially indifferent toward donors because their health has no effect on the recipient . But some plasma products . and whole blood , can not be cleansed . Companies that transport whole blood across state lines must he inspected regularly and licensed by the Federal Government . It is not known how many plasma donors received hepatitis at poorly run laboratories , nor is it known how many patients who are treated with plasma products receive hepatitis from them . Medical authorities estimate that plasma products and whole blood together transmit roughly 100,000 cases of hepatitis in the United States each year and that about 10 per cent of those stricken die . Whole blood transfusions appear to present the major danger , hut tighter controls by plasma collectors would not only limit epidemics among the most unprotected donor ; hut would also reduce some of the danger to recipients . Hepatitis is a liver disease. , and its best known symptom is a yellowish ; kin . There is a recently developed test to detect its presence in blood , but the , procedure identifies only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a special provision of Federal law , the large drug , manufacturers that produce plasma products are allowed to purchase the substance from unlicensed establishments . Some concerns obtain more than 90 per cent of their plasma this way . " In many states . " the research council said , " these unlicensed operators perform with little constraint and few health safeguards . using questionable practices that endanger the health of the donor . " Hundreds of inmates in three Southern prison systems were stricken in an epidemic of hepatitis several years ago , and at least four of them died . A plasma program was unregulated and faulty in several respects . Loss of Protein Reserve The research council pointed out that frequent donations of plasma can deplete a person 's protein reserves . Also , women who are too often immunized with RH ' factors risk bearing " blue babies " as a result . The donor ordinarily receives only $4 to $8 , although he can earn as much as $400 a month from constant giving in some laboratories . The profits for those who take the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a system that would provide photographic identification of each donor and information on his blood so that those of dubious medical standing could be turned a.way . There should also he a regional registry of donors to keep people from giving plasma too often or from participating in several programs that involve the injection of different special antigens . Several years ago , a source reported , it was discovered that . young narcotics users had earned money by selling blood to many centers in the San Francisco Bay area . They did not identify themselves as addicts or as constant givers . Licensed Physician Present A licensed physician should he present during each phase of the plasma extraction , the council recommended , and technicians under his supervision should be specially trained to operate the equipment and maintain its sterility . Some plasma centers have only distant ties with doctors . Virtually anyone can open a laboratory , and in several prisons these have been operated almost entirely by untrained convicts . Before drawing the blood , a donor 's serum protein and hemoglobin concentration , known as hemocrit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scientific test should meet Federal standards . A member of the research council 's staff who helped in establishing the . standards said that one reason for the inadequate state and Federal regulations was widespread public unawareness of the problem . The . council 's standards were issued in booklet form , and they are to ' be published tomorrow in The Journal of the American Medical Association . They were prepared by a committee headed by Robert H. Painter of the University of Toronto                     