@@733415

txt The aim of Israeli Prime Minister Menahem Begin 's unexpected visit to Washington , according to Israeli sources here , is threefold : 1 . To increase coordination between the peace policies and negotiating strategy of the United States and Israel . 2 . To prevent the U.S. coming up with its own peace suggestions which , according to the Israeli Government 's information , may be in the offing and would be closer to the Arab position than that of Israel . 3 . To win American support for Israel 's concept of a peace cornproniise . As to the last point , Mr. Begin declined to comment , but a knowledgeable Israeli source said the Prime MiniSter has taken geographical maps and other documents with him to show President Carter the meaning of Israel 's readiness for a substantial territorial compromise in the Sinai Peninsula and a " functional " ? but not territorial ? compromise regarding the West Bank of the Jordan . A few hours before Mr. Begin 's departure for the U.S. , Israeli Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan , in a public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the current Egyptian-Israeli negotiations will lead to an agreement . At the same time , Mr. Dayan stressed that , while this could be achieved on the basis of " a territorial " pullback facing Egypt in Sinai , " a compromise other than territorial " will have to be reached regarding the West Bank and the Gaza Strip . As to current rumors in Cairo that President Sadat might join the Carter-Begin talks in Washington , the Israeli reaction is positive . Should the Egyptian President make such a move , Israelis believe , this could stimulate progress on the road to peace ? but only if Mr. Sadat and Mr. Begin talk directly to each other and not through an American intermediary , not even through President Carter . Israelis are aware of the fact that even direct Sadat-Begin talks in the U.S. would be unlikely to lead to a comprehensive Mideast peace settlement . The absence of the other Arab states would preclude it . Similarly it is now believed in Jerusalem ? and incidentally this is confirmed by all sources this reporter queried in Cairo ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to conclude a separate peace with Israel at this stage . In the context of possible territorial concessions , it is worthwhile noting that Mr. Begin is taking with him to Washington his personal military adviser , Brig . Gen. Ephraim Poran , and his close friend and confidant , Shmuel Katz . Presumably Mr. Katz is in the party to help to explain to President Carter , from the Israeli point of view , the military and strategic pros and cons of whatever territorial proposals might come up for discussion . Mr. Katz has a reputation as a hard-liner and as a determined ideologist of the " greater Israel " movement . One highly placed source suggests that he is in the party less to back Mr. Begin on the latter 's reluctance to make a territorial compromise on the West Bank than to win the support of Israeli hawks generally for a proposed Israeli withdrawal from Sinai .                     