@@731988

txt FEDERAL JUDGE Alfred Y. Kirkland Wednesday threw a roadblock in the government 's path toward prosecution of Illinois legislators and former legislators accused of shakedowns and other crimes . He said the speech and debate clause of the Illinois Constitution gives legislators some immunity from federal prosecution , and therefore evidence connecting extortion with legislation can not be introduced in a criminal trial . Kirkland also said he probably will deny a government motion to present the novel legal issue for immediate appeal . " THIS IS AN issue of utmost importance . " said Sam K. Skinner , first assistant United Slates attorney . " We want an expedited appeal because it ( Kirkland 's tentative ruling ) has an immediate impact on three other pending legislative indictments and numerous cases under investigation . " Skinner said each of the criminal cases is seriously jeopardized if prosecutors are precluded from introducing evidence that shows a connection between the alleged extortion and legislation or are barred from relating conversations inside the state Capitol about the alleged payoffs . Kirkland put off ruling on the government motion for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But he said lie is inclined to agree wills defense attorneys for three former and current legislators that the state speech and debate clause protection applies in federal criminal eases . The issue of legislative immunity was raised last February by three state respresentalives who sought dismissal of an indictment , contending that the slate constitution protects them front prosecution . REPRESENTATIVES Robert Craig ID .. Danville and Thomas J. Hanahan ID. , ) , and f or me r Rep. Louis A. Merkert ID. , Mount Sterling ) asked the court to d i s m i ss the government 's charge that they conspired to extort $5,000 from the rental and leased car industry . They also asked the court to prevent the government from presenting any evidence relating to conversations that occurred in the legislative halls , and from introducing any evidence to show what bills were introduced in the legislature and what action was taken on them . Judge Kirkland has already turned down the motion to dismiss the indictment . On the other points the government wanted either a ruling or a broad statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . OTHER TRIALS that could be affected include that of Craig and five other present or former legislators accused of extorting $30,000 from the ready-mix concrete industry , and two Chicago legislators , both Republicans , accused of extorting money from private employment agencies licensed by the state . " You are the first to consider this issue , " Skinner said to Judge Kirkland . " We respectfully disagree with your position . The government contends that it is not bound by such a clause in the state constitution ... we want to Introduce as evidence conversations that took place inside the capitol complex . " He contended the court 's failure to make an immediate ruling would cripple the government 's prosecution of the legislators . THE COURT already had struck a damaging blow to the government 's case with a ruling that testimony Merkert gave to a federal grand jury Lind to postal inspectors could not be used against him , even tho he gave the testimony voluntarily . Altho there is legal precedent for granting 11,6 , Con gress men immunity from criminal prosecution for actions taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is precedent for granting immunity to state legislators in civil cases involving their legislative actions , there is no precedent for giving state legislators immunity from criminal prosecution .                     