@@731376

txt Police here have linked a gun found in a Symbionese Liberation Army hideout in Los Angeles to the Nov. 10 slaying of Oakland School Supt. Marcus Foster . The weapon , a .38 caliber Italian revolver , was found in the charred ruins after a fiery police shootout last Friday which led to the deaths of six S. L. A. members . Police said the gun was purchased by Christopher Thompson , a former Black Panther and friend of Nancy Ling Perry , one of the S. L. A. members who was killed in Los Angeles . Thompson sold it last year to Russell Little , one of two S. L. A. members awaiting trial for the Foster murder . Thompson testified about the gun sale to a grand jury here and was later " marked for death " by Donald David De Freeze , S. L. A. leader known as Cinque who apparently committed suicide during the shootout and subsequent fire . AUTHORITIES here said Thompson has been in hiding since he learned of the death threat and there are no indications that he will surface @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. hideout near ThIccinn River . " They are searching for the bits and pieces that will always remind them of the horror of that day " ? Columnist Rick Soll describes the curious who sift thru ruins of the house in Los Angeles where six members of the S. L. A. died . Page 4. spite the death of De Freeze . Foster , a respected black leader , became the first victim of the small terrorist band when he w a s shot near the school district 's headquarters here . The S. L. A. publicly took credit for the murder . It was the first indication police had that the S. L. A. even existed . Subsequently , members of the S. L. A. kidnaped Patricia Hearst , 20-year-old publishing heiress who this week herself was named a kidnaper . Altho police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation a r e continuing to receive reports of " sightings " of Miss Hears t from thruout California , it was disclosed today that a portion of the search for her and two others is underway in a mountainous area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from nine former S. L. A. hideouts indicated that S. L. A. members had selected an area around the Russian River as a possible emergency hideout . Specifically , police are searching the three small resort towns of Gueinville , Rio Nido , and Monte Rio , The Tribune has learned . The area is dotted with many small communes . However , one investigator noted , because of the vastness of the area , it 's like " searching for a needle in a haystack . " Besides Miss Hearst , police and federal agents arc seeking William Harris and his wife , Emily . They arc the last known survivors of the S. L. A. , who eluded a police manhunt late . last Thursday . All are both federal and local fugitives . Besides federal gun violation charges , the three have been named in a 55-count felony complaint filed Tuesday by Los Angeles County Dist . Atty . Joseph P. Busch . THE CHARGES include kid naping , armed robbery , and auto theft . The kidnaping charge alone carries a maximum sentence of life Imprisonment upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a south central area home suspected of being an S. L. A. hideout . The two frightened women occupants of the home , Joan Schoenber and Gerri Jones , refused to come out until a uniformed policeman stood up from behind a parked car and assured them that they indeed were law enforcement officers . The two pajama-clad women then came out of the house . Police later described the raid as a false alarm and one spokesman said , " It was no big thing . " Meanwhile , Los Angeles County Coroner Thomas Noguchi shed new light today on the apparent suicide of De Freeze . Noguchi said the fatal bullet wound in the right temple of De Freeze was from a .38 callber revolver which was found under his body and near his right hand . He said this is consistent with a self-inflicted wound . NOGUCIII also said his office has theorized that the shooting and subsequent fire began in the front of the house , and drove the S. L. A. members to the rear where they were able to continue the shootout with police thru @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all six bodies did not detect any alcohol , sedatives , stimulants , or narcotics , Noguchi said . The tests also confirmed that they did not suffer any tear gas effects since all were wearing gas masks . Noguchi said Miss Perry died instantly from two gunshot wounds in the back which severed her spinal cord . Two other S. L. A. members , Patricia Stolysik and Camilla Hall , also died of gunshot wounds .                     