@@730564

txt The Greater London Council is making three-month sabbaticals compulsory for all its top executives . They will get full pay and generous travel expenses , to " get away from it all " ? and as far away as they can . What they need to get away from in particular is all the pressure from local pressure groups . For there has been a sudden , and very powerful , increase in " citizen involvement " here . And not just in London . Wherever you go ? and wherever you stay  --  there are street groups , community groups , civic groups , county groups , campaigning for houses , objecting to roads , building community centers , demanding inquiries , suing for compensation , insisting on consultation . The British , a nation traditionally working on the slogan " never volunteer , " suddenly seem to have become instead a country of 50 million volunteers . In one notoriously deprived London neighborhood the Local Education Authority decided to build a new youth center at a cost of more than$140,000 , t The official idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thrilled to have such a superb center . Planners yield Instead , local residents objected . The center was not what was wanted , they said . It was anyway planned in the wrong location . And the management committee was totally unrepresentative of the users . They would n't have it What was needed , instead , the locals declared , was a number of small centers made out of semiderelict large houses to act as bases for community projects started by the locals themselves . In the end the planners had to admit they were wrong and the locals right . There 's another side to this , though . In the London borough of Camden the Camden Voluntary Workers Bureau provides volunteer helpers for police departments , hospitals , and other institutions throughout London . Their services are availabe on call . Nearby a cooperative of 40 people not long ago took over 14 derelict houses . Viewed originally with grave suspicions by the authorities ( and others ) , the co-op now gets calls from all over London for the services of its members . It will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art , " and children 's play activities . Plugging the gap An official report published this year for the Ministry for the Environment underlined another new trend , too : Whereas in the past volunteers have tended to " plug the gaps " in government programs , the role of the government now quite often is to plug the gaps in voluntary community efforts , so great are they , and to help train and even pay local community leaders . Even the rate of growth of membership of the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds by now is 30 percent per annum . Almost every county has a County Naturalist Trust . There the rate of recruitment is increasing by 35 percent . The Trust for Conservation Volunteers is recruiting more than 1,000 new members a year . Members of the Inland Waterways Association in 1971 put in 7,500 work days clearing mud , weeds , and rubbish from forgotten sectiOns of canal , no turned into pleasure parks . *Focus : Let 's help , Britons say // More than 1,000 local amenity societies are registered with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 40 associated trusts now lend muscle to the Council for the Protection of Rural England . Throughout Britain , everywhere you go in , the countryside , you will see notices pointing across fields and through woods apparently to nowhere in particular ? " public footpath . " Every weekend several thousand volunteers are out keeping these footpaths open by making sure they are used . It is a matter of public duty for these ramblers . If the paths , which go across private property , were n't used they could be closed forever . The " Rights of Way Group " of the Chiltern Society alone has surveyed 3,000 paths in 500 square miles of the Chiltern Hills , 40 miles northwest of London . Other volunteers these days effectively tell the planners where airports are to go , and reservoirs , and motorways . This now has quite dramatically become " the island of involvement . "                     