@@729267

txt President Nixon tonight said that the disruption of enemy V 77 supply lines in Laos by ti South Vietnamese forces would assure withdrawal of American forces from Indochina and possibly increase the rate . At a televised press conference in the White r House East Room , his first full - fledged one since last December , he fielded questions limited , at his request , to foreign policy . More than two-thirds of the time was devoted to the Indochina war . The President said that South Vietnamese President Nguyen Van Thieu had not suggested to him a drive into North Viet Nam as Thieu has to newsmen , but Nixon expressed sympathy for Thieu on the strategic situation that he faces . Citing a 55 per cent decrease in North Vietnamese truck traffic southward down the Ho Chi Minh trail , Nixon sharply chided news commentators who had challenged his position that the Laos operation would save American lives . Discusses Other Issues In other areas , the President : 1 . Said the United States would not " impose " a Middle East peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press Israel toward a more flexible negotiating position . 2 . Openly rejected a Soviet demand for an initial limitation on defensive strategic arms only , saying the first agreement need not be comprehensive but must include both offensive and defensive weapons . 3 . Left to Turkey the decision whether to negotiate with kidnapers demanding $400,000 ransom for four captured U. S. airmen Story of the kidnapings is on page 3.1 4 . Called the matter of Red China 's entry into the United Nations alongside Formosa " a moot question " because Peking rejects that formulation . 5 . Labeled the criticism by Sen. Stuart Symington D. , Mo . I that Secretary of State William P. Rogers holds a second rate position in foreign policy drafting " a cheap shot , " and defended Rogers as the main foreign affairs adviser . The President called the press conference yesterday and obviously expected it to deal primarily with the Indochina war . He had no public appointments scheduled today and mentioned tonight that he had been in touch much of the day with Gen. Creighton Abrams , U. S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action in Laos had " seriously damaged the enemy 's ability to wage offensive action " and asserted that the withdrawal was being carried out " on schedule or ahead of schedule . " The goal of the United States , President Nixon repeated , is still " total withdrawal of all United States troops from South Viet Nam . " But a residual force will remain , he said , as long as prisoners of war are held by the Communists . The President recalled that he had said the Cambodian incursion of last summer had meant the South Vietnamese army had " ' come of age . " Quotes Gen. Abrams He quoted Gen. Abrams as saying today that the Laos drive , now three weeks old , had shown that " the South Vietnamese by themselves can hack it . " Commenting on President Thieu 's suggestion to newsmen that a drive into North Viet Nam is possible , the President said it was necessary to consider that there are 100,000 North Vietnamese in South Viet Nam but no South Vietnamese in North Viet Nam . " Therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Vietnamese leave South Viet Nam alone , he has to consider the possibility of going against the North , " Nixon said . " That is his position , and I am not going to speculate on what position he might take in the future in order to defend himself , the right of self defense , in view of the fact that he is being attacked . " The President repeated that American air power would be used without limitation against threatening missile sites and inflitration routes , but said there was no plan under consideration to support a South Vietnamese drive north . He added that President Thieu had not proposed it . The President struck out at news commentators who , he said , had created " a drum beat night after night for the past three weeks " saying that the Laos drive would not work . They were , he said , the same ones who had said the Cambodian drive would not work . The destruction of 200,000 rounds of ammunition , 2,000 heavy and light guns , and 67 tanks in Laos , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not harm Americans during the withdrawal . The President said he was convinced his decision to support the Laotian drive was correct altho he recognized that many still disagree . " I hope for the good of the country , mine decision is , and if it is right , what you say now does n't make any difference , " he added . The President repeated the position outlined previously that withdrawal could come as a result of the Vietnamization program or as a negotiated mutual withdrawal . Wants Total Withdrawal In answer to a question , he affirmed that he envisaged a package withdrawal including North ** estimated in Cambodia , 90,000 to 100,000 in Laos , and 100,000 in South Viet Nam . " As far as we are concerned , that is the proposal and that is the one that we will stick by in Paris , " Nixon said . The President would not be drawn into a specific explanation of what he had meant when he referred to " hard choices " ahead during the latter stages of withdrawal from Indochina in his recent State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that North and South Viet Nam will not continue to be enemies , " he said , and that there will not be continuing guerrilla action . The appearance of new anti-aircraft missiles in the vicinity of the junction town of Sepone today was " not unusually alarming , " Nixon said , because " we expect the enemy to improve its capabilities just as we improve ours . " The new missile , coming only a day after surface-to-air missiles had been fired across the demilitarized zone into South Viet Nam for the first time , was considered by United States sources to be a less sophisticated portable weapon .                     