@@732687

txt Representatives of the Ford and Carter campaigns reported " substantial progress " today toward an agreement on the schedule and format of the Presidential debates after a negotiating session lasting more than three hours . No firm commitments were reported on either side , but Jody Powell , who was Jimmy Carter 's chief representative , confidently declared as he emerged from the meeting , " There is no doubt in my mind whatsoever that we will have Presidential debates this year and will be able to agree on a format that will be interesting and in the best interests of the public . " Speaking for President Ford 's side , William D. Ruckelshaus held out hope that the remaining issues could be resolved " very shortly . " Important Differences Going into the meeting , the two sides had several important differences , especially in staging the first debate , widely regarded as the most crucial . The President 's forces were seeking an early date for a debate focused on defense policy , an area of strength for Mr. Ford , while the Carter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of issues . In a related development today , the Federal Election Commission temporarily put aside a proposal to give the League of Women Voters approval to sponsor the televised debates . Page A20 . Today 's meeting was the first face-to-face encounter between the two campaigns on the debates after a week of public sparring through news releases . In 1960 , before the televised debates between John F. Kennedy and Richard M. Nixon , 12 negotiating sessions over a period of three weeks were needed before an agreement was reached . Next Meeting Set The session today was held under the auspices of the League of Women Voters . Although the two sides agreed to meet again under the league 's auspices next week , neither was formally committed to the league 's sponsorship of the debates when the meeting broke up . Charles E. Walker , a former Under Secretary of the Treasury in the Nixon Administration and a co-chairman of the group set up by the league to arrange the debates , said that he found it " very encouraging " that the two campaigns had agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The 12 persons who attended the meeting at the Mayflower Hotel agreed that no details of their discussions would be divulged but there were indications that agreement on the for- mat of the debate was coming easier than agreement on the timing . The original proposal by the league called for three one-hour debates between the Presidential candidates , with the first to be held in St. Louis on Sept. 28 . It called also for a debate between the two Vice-Presidential candidates . President Ford said this week that he would like the debates to last an hour and one-half and start three weeks earlier than the league had . originally proposed . Before today 's sesion , Carter advker indicated that the Democratic nominee 's representat  --  ves would declare that their campaign commitments made such an early start for the debates impossible . There was evidence , too , that there was more interest among the Democrats in the idea of a Vice-Presidential debate than there was among the Republicans . The negotiating team headed . by Mr. Powell , who is Mr. Carter 's press secretary ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mondale , the Vice-Presidential nominee . On the Republican side , there was no one from the staff of Senator Robert J. Dole , . Mr. Ford 's running mate . On his way into the meeti to , Mr. Powell dismissed President Ford 's call for ' an early start to the debates as " a public rela ? tions effort . " He called the league 's proposals " a good basis for discussion . " Mr. Powell indicated that the Carter side would prefer to have the discussions " wideranging " rather than confined to a theme as proposed by President Ford , who said ' .. hat he thought the first debate should focus on defense matters . " It seems to me , " the Carter aide said , " if you want to be President of the United States , you ought to be able to take discussion of anything under the sun . " Dean Burch , former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission wild was one of the Ford negotiators , said that the debate ought to be structured in the ' interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glibness . Gerald Rafshoon and Barry Jagoda , who advise the Democratic nominee on television and advertising , were present at the meeting . The Ford side came without any television advisers . In 1960 , when the debates were organized by the television network , television ' consultants to the candidate negotiated on the smallest details of the production , such as the lighting and camera angles . If the League of Women Voters is chosen to sponsor the debates , it will serve as a kind of buffer between the networks andthe campaign organization . The F.C.C. has ruled that the networks can broadcast the debates between the two major candidates as long as the debates are sponsored by a third party and held outside a television studio . With the " equal time " provision of the Federal Communications Act still in force , the networks would be open to suits by if they became involved in the production of the debates .                     