@@731563

txt Representative Hugh L. Carey , the Democratic candidate for Governor , has put together since his landslide victory in the Sept. 10 primary a Democratic - Liberal coalition that covers , an unusually ? broad spectrum from Meade H. Esposito , the Brooklyn Democratic leader , to Alex Rose , the leader of the Liberal party . As a result , Mr. Carey is the first Democratic gubernatorial candidate in two decades who can count on an apparently enthusiastic and united party behind him as he goes into the stretch in his campaign . The principal ingredient in the surprising and unusual unity is a widespread belief among politicians that the 55-year-old Mr. Carey is a formidable candidate who is already the frontrunner in the contest with the incumbent , Governor Wilson . " They smell , a winner , " said Harold L. Fisher , an influential Brooklyn Democrat and an early supporter of Mr. Carey . The euphoria is so predominant that Carey aides are concerned about overconfidence and note that Howard J. Samuels looked like a sure winner in the Democratic gubernatorial primary two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behind Mr. Carey has been former Mayor Robert F. Wagner , who was also an early and important Care supporter and who is now the ' candidate 's top adviser . With strong ties to labor , liberal money and the Liberal party , Mr. Wagner has been able to fill in the chinks in the armor of Mr. Carey , who has been identified primarily with the Brooklyn Democratic organization and to a lesser extent , labor . The result has been a broadly based political coalition that , if Successful , could signal a similar , urban-oriented national coalition in the 1976 Presiden- Cont1nued on Page 39 , Column 5 Carey Forges Broad Democratic-Liberal Coalition // tial election , according to Democratic politicians in other states who are watching the New York campaign . Mr. Carey won without the support of the state Democratic organization , which largely backed Mr. Samuels . As , a result , ' the organization , noII Joseph F. Crangle , Democratic state chairman , is playing a substantial role in the Carey coalition but not a preeminent role . The less than key @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked to name his top advisers . He responded , after only a moment 's hesitation ; " Wagner , Carey , Cummins , Rose and the people on the ticket . " Jerry Cummins , owner of a Manhattan printing company and a political buff who was involved peripherally in Kennedy campaigns , is the campaign manager , while Mr. Wagner is statewide campaign chairman . The candidate himself , a strong-willed veteran politician , also does much of his own campaign managing . The inclusion of Mr. Rose , the long-time Liberal party leader , was somewhat surprising since there had not been previous ties between the two . However , Mr. Wagner and Mr. Rose have been political partners for many years . Mr. Carey also mentioned another key . adviser , David Garth , who has no ties to the Democratic organization . Mr. Garth was a. major figure in the Carey primary victory and is currently researching issues and preparing radio and television commercials for the final month of the campaign . Mr. Carey was obviously walking a political tightrope as he was questioned in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign . " The politics of'inclusion , the politics of inclusion , the politics of inclusion , " he repeated parrot-like at the start and end of the interview in his sparsely furnished office at the campaign headquarters , 518 Fifth Avenue . He said that he had met with Mr. Crangle several times since the primary and with about 40 of the state 's 62 Democratic county chairman last Friday at a meeting at the Biltmore Hotel . He also conceded , in response to a question , that he had met with Mr. Esposito , his home county leader and the politician who had probably dealt his candidacy the sharpest blow by his endorsement of Mr. Samuels . A usual minimum political base for a candidate is the support of his home county leader . Mr. Carey and Mr. Esposito , who have had personality dif-. ferences for several years , met Monday evening in a group of six to eight , Mr. Carey said , after Mr. Esposito 's re-election as Brooklyn Democratic leader . Mr. Carey said that his campaign would be run in the various counties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had worked in the primary campaign . In Albany , Queens and other counties where the organization backed him , the county leaders will head the local Carey campaign . He said that he expected the enthusiastic support of the county organizations in New York City . " There 's afoot race ' on to see who can do better , and that will allow me to concentrate on the suburbs , " the candidate said . He appeared to be considerably more relaxed and less wary than he had been during the primary campaign . Bronx and Queens Supporters Actually , Mr. Carey has close ties to at least two of the city 's Democratic leaders , Queens Borough President Donald R. Manes , who replaced City Councilman Matthew J. Troy as Queens Democratic leader last week , and Patrick J , Cunningham of the Bronx , who was an original Carey supporter and then switched to at least nominal support of Mr. Samuels because the state committee endorsed him . However , the Cunningham support of Mr. Samuels was considered distinctly " soft " by Samuels campaign aides . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Esposito or any other leaders who had opposed him . " If we 're successful in November , we 're not going headhunting , " Mr. Carey said . The candidate has also diffused the organization role in his campaign by working closely with his running hates , including Ramsey Clark , the United States Senate candidate , who was brushed off by party leaders as a radical . Victor Navasky . Mr. Clark 's campaign manager , said that cooperation between the two candidates " could n't be better . " He said ' that Mr. Carey had offered space to Mr. Clark in all Carey headquarters and storefronts and had even sounded him out on the possibility of a joint television and radio commercial . As part of the unity pitch , Mr. Carey has assigned roles in his campaign to Mr. Samuels and all the defeated Democratic contenders for the statewide nominations and met Wednesday evening with leaders of the New Democratic Coalition . " I had no feeling that the regulars have taken over this campaign , " said Arnold Weiss , chairman of the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of the Meeting with the coalition leaders was that Mr. Carey held up the designation of City Councilman Stanley Simon of the Bronx as borough coordinator because of objections by the coalition leaders .                     