@@728424

txt There is a persistent body of diplomatic opinion here convinced that , in his precedent  --  breaking jaunt through Africa , Secretary of State William P. Rogers merely tilted at windmills . Ostensibly , he was in hot pursuit of a new African policy for Washington . That 's fair enough , of course . Washington has never had a policy toward Africa worth enunciating . But there is some justification for believing that no matter what the Secretary finds , no matter what he recommends to the White House , no matter how glowingly he speaks about the courage of black African leadership , Africa will remain at the absolute bottom of the heap when it comes to American foreign-policy priorities . The new " Nixon doctrine , " enunciated first last year at Guam , only underlines this impression . This doctrine calls for a United States pullback from involvement in the affairs of other countries . Role limited Secretary Rogers brought this doctrine to Africa when , in a speech in Ethiopia , he declared , " We have deep respect for the independence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their internal affairs . " He added that " we have no desire . . . for any special influence in Africa . " This , of course , is a welcome sentiment to most African diplomats ? except that many African nations would like to see a greater American role in their economic development , with more-liberal policies for trade , loans , and economic aid grants . American foreign aid to Africa amounts to $154 million for this whole year ? an amount just slightly more than the total cost of the Rayburn House Office Building on Capitol Hill . No funds seen Moreover , with Congress in its current parsimonious mood , chances that Secretary Rogers could promise African leaders in the 10 countries he visited more direct economic aid were very slim indeed . No one knows this more than the Secretary himself . In a particularly lukewarm declaration , Mr. Rogers told African leaders that the U.S. recognizes " a special obligation to as- sist in the economic development of Africa . " But , he added , making his meaning unmistakable : " Our resources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demands at home . We will , however , continue to seek the means , both directly and in cooperation with others , to contribute more effectively to economic development in Africa . " " More effectively , " in this sense , is understood to mean " less substantially . " In fact , the Secretary has made no secret of the fact that he hopes he can manage ' to promote private American ? investment in Africa to take up the slack from a drooping foreign-aid program . Mr. Rogers is also understood to hope he can recommend more efficient use of the meager foreign-aid budget currently going to Africa , thus making the budget stretch farther . All of this made the Secretary 's maneuverability very limited . He could certainly make no promises . He was , of course , on a so-called " fact-finding " mission  --  somewhat reminiscent of the Latin-American mission Gov . Nelson A. Rockefeller undertook for President Nixon last spring . Mr. Rockefeller ultimately prepared a lengthy report for the President . Mr. Rogers expects to make a report to the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the basis for " new " American for Africa . even in this endeavor , the Secretary has already been undercut by his competition in the White House . At the very moment the Secretary of State was off in the jungles of Eastern Africa looking at exotic animals , White House National Security Adviser Henry A. Kissinger was putting finishing touches on the President 's " state of the world " message . Policy outlined In it , what amounts to the Nixon policy on Africa is already outlined . It is very doubtful that Mr. Rogers could come up with a policy on Africa which would go much beyond this presidential statement . Essentially , it is a direct translation of the Guam doctrine into the African context : ? " We will not intervene in the internal affairs of African nations . . , . We will observe their right to deal with their own problems independently . " ? " However , we will distinguish between noninterference politically and the humanitarian obligation to help lessen human suffering . " ? " Finally , consulting our own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help themselves when they are threatened by outside forces attempting to subvert their independent development . . . However .. . African defense against subversion , like African development , must be born most directly by Africans rather than by outsidcra . " Policies rejected Even on the extremely touchy issue of white-ruled regimes in southern Africa , the Secretary of State was again undercut by the White House . While the Secretary was in the Congo talking about the " unfinished business " of freeing black Africans from the rule of white minorities , the White House was completely ruling out " condoning , or acquiescing in , the racial policies of the white-ruled regimes . " In his foreign-policy message the President said . unequivocally that " we abhor the racial policies of the white regimes . . . . " While Mr. Rogers was hinting that the U.S. might bring some pressure to bear on these regimes , the White House was already giving that same impression . In short , whatever tilt Secretary finds , ultimately , to recommend as a new policy for ' Africa , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ got there first . And , through it all , ultimately , Africa is likely to remain low on the list of American priorities .                     