@@733546

txt The United States sought to restore peace in southern Lebanon today , proposing that the Security Council call for immediate withdrawal of Israeli military forces from the area and establishment of a United Nations peacekeeping force to take over .. These were the key points in an American resolution formally submitted by Andrew Young , the United States delegate , as the Council met for the second day on separate complaints by Lebanon and Israel . Lebanon requested the emergency session , complaining that Israeli military intervention last Tuesday and occupation of a six-mile-deep cordon north of the Lebanese-Israeli frontier constituted " naked aggression . " Israel Also Protests Violence Israel countered with its - own protest about " continuous acts of terrorism and violence " by Palestinian guerrillas as justification for its military action to root out terrorist bases . The debate proceeded against rapidly changing reports of the fighting and the casualty toll from the Middle East . Iii Tel Aviv , the Israeli Chief of Staff , Lieut . Gen. Mordechai Gur , warned today that his forces might move deeper into Lebo. - non @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Beirut the Palestinian guerrilla command said the Israelis had actually mounted an offensive . Page 10 . Lebanese authorities here at the United Nations quoted a report from the Beirut office of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees that 60,000 Palestinians had been displaced in the fighting . These officials also said 700 Palestinians and Lebanese had been killed , a much higher figure than , the 300 dead reported by the Lebanese Red Cross in Beirut . Statement by Assad In Syria . President Hafez al-Assad said that Arabs wishing to oppose the Israeli military action could feel free to pass through Syrian territory . Page 10 . The , proposed resolution , which will be voted on tomorrow , emerged after two days of debate and an appeal to the Council by Ghassan Tueni , the Lebanese chief delegate , to come to some agreement quickly , saying that its action might stem a " mass exodus of refugees " and end the chaotic situation. , Apart from this consideration , the Americans were said to want the decision to be made before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel , who will meet with President Carter . The reasoning was that the Washington visit might otherwise be focused mainly on the Lebanese border question rather than on the broader issue of restoring momentum to the languishing overall Middle East peace efforts . The United States proposal to the Sedulity Council , brief and subject to some wording changes , calls for strict respec for the " territorial integrity , sovereignty and political independence of Lebanon . " The proposed peace force , to be composed of units from member states , would be charged with restoring peace and security and " insuring the return of effective authority in the area to the Government of Lebanon . " No time limit was specified for Israeli withdrawal or for the duration of the " interim " force to serve before the turnover to Lebanon , an omission which could lead to some efforts to pin down these points . Secretary General Kurt Waldheim was requested to report back within 24 hours on steps taken to carry out the resolution . The main lines of the proposal were : laid down in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The proposal seem aimed at not only beginning action to remove the Israelis from Lebanon but also providing a buffer force in the border area that would meet Israel 's demands for guarantees that Palestinian terrorists would not be able to return and resume raids against Israel . Israel Wants to Avoid a ' Vacuum ' The more radical Arab countries had been demanding that the'Council call for an unconditional pullout of the Israelis , without linking a withdrawal to the Israeli demand for guarantees that the area would not again be occupied by guerrilla terrorists . With reference to this point , Chaim Herzog , Israel 's chief delegate , reiterated today that his Government wanted to withdraw but did not want to see a " physical vacuum " which would permit the Palestinians to return to the Israeli border . The Israeli delegate underscored his argument yesterday in the Council that the southern border area with Lebanon had been free of violence for years until the Palestine Liberation Organization moved in after expulsion of the guerrillas from Jordan in 1971 . " Both we and the Lebanese want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the central Lebanese authority , " the Israeli delegate said . Lebanese representatives here have been saying that there was a new element of urgency behind their efforts to get the Council to take a decision this weekend . Lebanon 's chief delegate said that Beirut was concerned about reports that Israel had advanced deeper into the country and that Syria was poised to react . He added : " We have an imminent threat that this could become a full-scale war . " Mr. Herzog denied that Israelis were continuing to advance and he said that reports of new battles were " figments of Arab imagination . " The border area is quiet , he said . In expectation of the call for a peace force , United Nations authorities have been drafting standby plans to be able to pull together units in a hurry and move them swiftly to the area . There would be no difficulty obtaining troops , officials said . Canada already had offered help . In 1973 , the United Nations moved peacekeeping forces in a matter of 24 hours to serve as a buffer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separate Egyptians and Israelis in Sinai . Still undetermined , however , was the question of the mandate for the proposed southern Lebanon force , which the Council would have to approve . A major consideration . would be whether the peace force would be authorized to shoot back if fired upon and how it would deal with situations such as infiltration into a peacekeeping zone . Israel has said that since the Soviet Union provided arms that the P.L.O . used in attacks from Lebanon against Israel , it was doubtful that Moscow would want a peace farce that could effectively curb Palestinian activity .                     