@@730062

txt Onc of the most bitter political struggles of the 1972 campaign will be fought out on the unlikeliest of battlegrounds : the neighborhood supermarket . In the White House , there is growing agreement that the short-run tactical . gains President Nixon appeared to win in his latest confrontation with George Meany will evaporate unless the President can halt increases in prices in the grocery store . And , in the hierarchy of organized labor , there is growing eagerness to spread alarm among American housewives about the rising cost of food ? and to blame the Republican incumbent for the problem . Several of Mr. Nixon 's domestic advisers , interviewed this weekend , seemed confident that he had reaped short-term political profit from Mr. Meany 's walkout from the Pay Board . This allowed the President to appear on television as the champion of what he called the " public interest " against " selfish and irresponsible " special interests . Armed with unreleased polling data suggesting that labor 's rank and file would forego large pay increases if prices were held in check , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " great majority " of the labor union members headed , by Mr. Meany " realize that wage increases that are eaten by price increases are no wage increases at all . " What troubles the White ' House is that Mr. Nixon has , in effect , pledged that wage in- creases allowed by the Pay Board ? however meager and unfair they might appear to Mr. Meany  --  will at least be " real , " noninflationary gains . The question is whether Mr. Nixon can fulfill that pledge and blunt Mr. , Meany 's election-year charge ' that Americans are not only being " squeezed in the pay check " ? but also " gouged at the supermarket . " Evidence of the kind of attack organized labor can be expected to mount on Mr. Nix on 's price policies is contained in a private survey prepared by the price " watchdogs " of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations for the federation 's president , Mr. Meany . The survey , obtained by The New York Times , is expected to provide material @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of controls at public hearings scheduled by the Price Commission for Thursday . Price Increases Vary ' The survey covers 38 stores ' in 13 states from Massachu . Setts to California . It examined ' the price of selected food items - on Jan. 5 and again on March 16 . It showed that price increases over the two months varied greatly from one store ttdanother . For example , the increase in the price of fryer chickens amounted to 6 per cent in one store , the lowest increase found , and it amounted to 80 per cent in another store , the - highest increase found . Meanwhile , the bread price ; increases in the 38 stores - ranged from a low of 7 per cent to a high of 19 per cent ; and the price increases for canned tuna ' fish ranged from 9 per cent to 33 per cent . No attempt was made to pre:pare a weighted average similar . to that used by the Bureau of Labor Statistics for the Con:sumer Price Index , and ? the , A.F.L.-C.I.O. does not contend that its survey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argue that what the volunteer " - watchdogs found is , what house  --  wives . and shoppers in general lye finding and that shoppers cannot- help but wonder Omit the effectiveness of the equity of Mr. Nixon 's wage-price controis system . Administration economists ' , alien , however , ' that Mr. Meany does not need special surveys to demonstrate his point that food prices have been rising . They note that . the Consumer Price Index itself has been far from encouraging . The February data released last week , for example , showed -a ; rise of one-half of 1 per cent in - the index , the largest in nearly a year . The data also suggested that most of the rise was accounted for by prices of unprocessed food , which are : . free to rise because there are ' lno direct controls on the prices ermers or supermarkets charge . The only way to win the statistical war , White House ' officials  - -  concede , is to . show bitter statistics , and this , in turn , has confronted the Pres:II:lent with yet another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offi- " cial Grayson vs . Butz The Secretary of Agriculture , Earl L. Butz , who was hired for the single purpose of placating restive farmers in the traditionally Republican farm belt , has been traveling the country applauding the rise in meat prices as a deserved catchup for farmers . But C. Jackson Grayson , chairman of the Price Commission , criticized Mr. Butt in a speech . March 1 and declared that farmers must make the . same sacrifices as other Americans . He also scheduled hearings ? on food price increases that will begin April 12 . At his Friday news conference , Mr. Nixon appeared to side with Dr. Butz  --  and the ' farmers  --  by saying that farmers should not be made the " scapegoat ? since they account ' for only " one-third " of the price of food . He suggested , instead , that Mr. Grayson 's hearings focus on those who account for the two-thirds remaining ? the " middlemen , " such as processers and retailers . This theme is echoed in the private coinversations of his aides , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the past but who hope that Mr. Grayson will find sufficient evidence to justify tightened curbs on processors and retailers . " We would enjoy using the scalpel , " said one aide , " If we can find someone to use it on . The President told his news conference that he wants food prices down , and he means it . " One Important unanswered question , however , that Mr. Nixon 's aides do not have the answer to , is whether . a vigorous attack on the " middlemen " will in fact solve the immediate problem . The most recent food price rise is traceable in part to increases in cattle and pork prices on the farm . This means that unless the White House authorizes direct controls on farmers , all it can do is hope that beef and pork prices have peaked and will begin to come down . Apart from their sense of vulnerability on the question of food prices , Mr. Nixon 's associates do not now see Mr. Meany 's departure from the Pay Board and his stance of intractable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President 's re-election .. To begin with , they say , his departure did not surprise them , despite Administration concessions to Mr. Meany on the make-up and membership of Mr. Nixon 's elaborate sys tern of controls . The labor leader regarded the Pay Board as unfairly stacked against labor from the beginning , and his confrontation with the President at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. convention in Miami in November , plus his subsequent public criticisms , are seen now as interim spots on the road to eventual divorce . What Mr. Meany needed , the White House believes , was a highly visible episode to " trigger " the final break , and the Pay Board provided him with one when , earlier this month , it rolled back a 20.9 per cent increase won by the West Coast lonshoremen . White House officials say they can appreciate  --  if ' not agree with  --  Mr. Meany 's economic complaints , but they say 4t his main motive is political . In their ' view , he not only dislikes Mr. Nixon intensely  --  a view he has voiced often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the Democratic National Convention convenes in July to select an opponent . To achieve that leverage , one White House aide said , he " had to put as much distance between himself and the President as he could before the convention . " Yet while they acknowledge Mr. Meany as a formidable opponent who can be expected to provide the Democratic party  --  with the core of its campaign war chest , White House aides see little chance of concerted strike action aimed at disrupting the President 's . economic program . To begin with , only one major contract negotiation , for the construction industry , is scheduled for the near future , and , the White House believes , Mr. Meany is well aware that a series of walkouts this summer would only give Mr. Nixon more ? ammunition with ' which to attack the unions and , by extension , the Democrats . Moreover , ' White House aides are not persuaded that Mr. Meany can deliver his rankand-file . They point out that the International Brotherhood of Teamsters , an independent union , has remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while members of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. , have agreed to abide by the stabilization plan and remain on ? another Administration panel dealing with construction costs . The White House professes to be encouraged as well by the fact that Mr. Nixon 's ratings in the polls went up after his last great confrontation with Mr. Meany in Miami . Yet all of these optimistic calculations could be reversed , the White House concedes , if the rise in food prices is not slowed or stopped . " The President can talk all he wants about real wages , " said one political aide , wages , maybe , some of the men will listen . But the person he has to convince is the guy'e wife , who 's doing the shopping . "                     