@@733742

txt A Polish-speaking mechanic , carrying what he said was 80 pounds of dynamite , held four persons hostage for more than 10 hours on the 36th floor of the World Trade Center yesterday . Policemen rusnea the room as a fight broke out between the captor and his hostages ? with one hostage beating him with the stanchion of a New York State flag ? and the officers wrestled him to the ground . As they fought , the police wrested what they called " a device " from the man 's left hand and threw a bomb blanket over it . Minutes later , Brandy , an explosivesniffing dog , was taken to the room and immediately sat down , indicating the presence of explosives . Thousands Routed From Building The only other thing the police found was a bag containing four loaves of black Russian bread and a bread knife wrapped in white paper . Thousands of people were evacuated from the 25th through the 40th floors of the gleaming tower after the mechanic , identified as Ladislo Frczek , a Polish immigrant , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Compensation Board office . Mr. Frczek had been at the board for a hearing because checks for injuries he suffered in an industrial accident in 1975 had stopped . He had fallen off a ladder while doing carpentry work , injuring his head and cutting off a finger , according to Dr. Leon F. Nadrowski , the director of surgery at Wyckoff Hospital in Brooklyn . Since that time , the doctor said , he has suffered headaches and dizzy spells . Mr. Frczek , according to board spokesmen , has received some $6,000 in payments for the loss of his finger . Mr. Frczek seized the hostages after Judge Louis Jerome had adjourned his rase for two months because Mr. Frczek had to bring in medical records . " This is finish ! " Mr. Frczek said , according to the hearing clerk , Adeline Walker . Then he pulled an object from a bag and spoke urgently to his lawyer . " He 's got a bomb . " the lawyer , Anton Gasparik , cried , according to those who were in the room . They said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mallet , " with a narrow , round handle at one end and a round bulge at the top . It also resembled the " potato masher " hand grenades used by the Germans in World War II , the police said . A Knowledge of Explosives " His employer claimed he had a great deal of knowledge of explosives , " said Arthur Cooperman , the chairman of the Workers Compensation Board , who added : " In addition to that , he was in the war and he said he made explosives . He said he was n't fooling , these were really explosives he had in his possession . " Neighbors of Mr. Frczek ? he lives at 88 Monitor Street in Brooklyn ? said the police had gone to the three-story building during the afternoon and had searched his apartment . One neighbor said officers had removed sonic objects , including a plastic container with what looked like a fuse sticking out of it . The neighbors expressed surprise that Mr. Frczek , who had moved into the building three years ago , would be involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friendly man who , because of language problems , was not very communicative . " He 's a wonderful man , " said Sophie Zabrowski , the only other tenant of the building who speaks Polish . " He was going to Polish-Slavic school to learn English to get his citizenship papers . " As the day wore on at the World Trade Center , the police brought up bulky boxes of bomb equipment and suitcases holding antisniper rifles . They also brought in a Polish-speaking newspaper editor , a Polish-speaking priest and two doctors who had treated Mr. Frczek . Attempts at negotiations failed in the late afternoon after Mr. Frczek threw a portable field telephone ? brought in by the negotiating team ? out of the room and into a hallway . Later Mr. Frczek began calling for a priest ? " to give absolution " to the four hostages before he set off his bomb , he said . But , at about 7:20 P.M. , as he repeated his calls for a priest , an argument broke out between him and his four hostages over whether , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rose , one of the hostages , Clarence Douglas , grabbed his briefcase and sneaked out of the room . The police in the hallways nearby could hear the argument and , at about 7:45 , Mr. Frczek opened the door a crack to see if the priest was on his way . At that point , officers of the emergency squad , led by Deputy Inspector Lawrence Knecht , crashed through the door and jumped Mr. Frczek . They found him already struggling with the remaining hostages , with the hearing judge , Mr. Jerome , striking him with the flagstaff . Nontheless he fought back as they wrestled him to the floor , and the police pulled the potato-masher-like device away from his left hand .                     