@@730300

txt The 1972 Democratic Convention ended peacefully before dawn today , but the fractured Illinois delegation departed " Fun City South " the same way it arrived  --  fighting . In a stormy predawn caucus , downstate Democrats and the Chicago delegates led by Ald. William Singer 43d1 nearly came to blows over the selection of three national committeemen who will represent Illinois on the newly expanded Democratic National Committee . Calls It Another Machine During the raging exchange of words , Buddy Davis of East St. Louis shouted that the Singer machine is no different from the Daley machine . He added : " I 've watched the kind of power plays yesterday and tit is morning that I thought we 'd got rid of . We 've just got another machine . " Ald. Anna Langford 16th joined in : " It took a machine to beat another machine . We beat you honestly . Why ca n't you accept it ? " She left the podium in tears . Try to Prevent Quorum Despite efforts by James Wall of Elmhurst , the George coordinator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the delegates could not come to any kind of agreement and finally decided to adjourn until Aug. 5 in Chicago , Downstate delegates led by Davis , Singer told The TribIllinois Delegates Nearly Come to Blows at Predawn Caucus // une , first tried to prevent a quorum by remaining outside the caucus room . However , the Singer forces had five votes to spare . " He Davis was upset , " Singer said in typical understatement . " We did n't want to adjourn . We wanted to end our business now . He kept yelling , ' Singer machine , Singer machine . ' " The independent alderman , who led 58 other delegates in a successful challenge to the seating of Mayor Daley and his elected Chicago delegates , finally agreed to adjourn because the meeting " was getting too tense . " It is believed that Davis represented the Daley delegates , who wanted the selection of the new committeemen and committeewomen put off . Da ley Democrats believe that by delaying - he vote some of the Singer delegation will become discouraged and fail to appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the delegation to the Daley forces . As the meeting , which began at 4 a. m . Chicago time , wore on , tempers flared , emotions and words grew more heated . After two hours , the meeting ended with the agreement to reconvene Aug. 5 . The failure to agree on the new national party officials resulted in Col. Jacob Arvey of Chicago , the retired national committeeman , representing the delegation at the unity breakfast .                     