@@730510

txt Of all the myths generated in this election campaign , one of the most deceptive and groundless is the notion that Senator would try to lead the nation back into isolationism ? as if such a thing were possible in the world of jet travel , satellite communications , interna1 tional commerce and ICBM 's . Nothing in the campaign record conveys any sense that the United States should or could retreat from the position of world leadership which it has held during the greater part of three decades . What is in the campaign record is a vision of a progressive American role for the world of the 1970 's . " We have long since met the demands of a world dominated by military concerns , " Mr. argues . " But we are rapidly losing the world in which economic power and relations will have their day . " Rejecting the traditional view espoused by President Nixon that military strength is the embodiment of American influence , Mr. understands that national military power has reached the point of diminishing return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jerrybuilt system of alliances and expedient Executive Agreements that once seemed necessary to contain the Soviet threat . Senator would end reliance on military aid as a means of spreading the American message , for such aid has become increasingly a weapon by which unrepresentative governments protect themselves from their own people . The " New Internationalism " would greatly expand technical and economic aid targeted more directly to the benefit of peoples rather than regimes . ? a Underlying this foreign policy is an assumption that is admittedly not yet fully proven ; Mr. is as aware of this risk as his critics , here and abroad . The assumption awaiting a test is that this country 's two main adversaries , the Soviet Union and China , also see their own interests in promoting a d ? tente for the decade to come . This assumption is not dreamy wishful thinking but derives from the actual behavior of the two Communist superpowers in the last two years or so , evidenced by their relativq restraint in Vietnam and the Middle East ; Peking 's visible new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reluctant , need to rely on bread from the capitalist West to feed its own citizens ; and the Kremlin 's eagerness to enter upon a far-reaching trade agreement with the United States . On this assumption , withdrawal ffom Vietnam is not analogous to the misguided appeasement of Munich ; it only removes the most pressing irritant to a global relaxation of tensions . Formal recognition of the People 's Republic of China , proposed by Senator , would be only a modest concession for the opportunities presented . Mr. has promised to arrange any force reduction in Europe in close understanding with America 's NATO allies . Thus , he does not imply a weakening of the firm American engagement in Europe and the Middle East , as long as the assumption may still be wrong , and the American steps toward d ? tente may not be reciprocated after all . The greatest threat to America 's status as a first-rate power comes not from the halt in the arms race urged by Senator , but from this country 's military overextension , the lingering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force of arms . President Nixon has entered the era of negotiations , but continues to follow a policy of nationalism and military power . In our judgment , Senator is ready to lead this country into a genuine era of detente and help it to flourish .                     