@@733799

txt The Carter administration is hinting that it may try , in effect , to bypass the Senate in its bid to win approval of a new strategic arms limitation agreement . The administration would do this by presenting any new SALT agreement as an " executive agreement " rather than as a- treaty . It would then no longer require a two-thirds vote of approval in the Senate ? as an treaties do ? but a majority vote in both houses . Senate sources are virtually unanimous in saying that while such a maneuver might be welcomed by members of the House of Representatives , it would be certain to create an uproar of protest in the Senate .. A vote on a treaty would require only the Senate 's approval . Under the Constitution the House has no say in a treaty vote , but some members of the House have complained thit they should be involved in any vote on SALT // From page 1 Carter may try to ' bypass ' Senate with executive agreement The . fact that the Carter administration is giving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than a treaty appears to be part of President Carter 's intensified drive to get his way ? some say to " get tough " ? with Congress . But it also seems to reflect the vulnerability the administration feels on the SALT issue . In the course of a question-and-answer session following a speech to the Foreign Policy Association in New York on Aug. 23 , Paul C. Warnke , the chief U.S. arms-control negotiator , confirmed that the administration considered an executive agreement on SALT to be a , possible option . " Conclusion near Mr. Warnke also declared that efforts to reach a new agreement were in the " home stretch " and that if the negotiating progress of the last three months were sustained an agreement would certainly be achieved by the end of the year . " I am quite optimistic we are nearing the conclusion . . . . We are , in fact , very close at this point : : Mr. Warnke said . One main obstacle to a new SALT agreement appears to be continuing disagreement over how to draft language governing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of existing missiles . Creating uncertainty Another remaining disagreement may concern . U.S. insistence that it retain the option under any new agreement to deploy a " shell game " mobile-missile system . Defense Secretary Harold Brown suggested in a speech on Aug. 22 that the administration would refuse to sign a SALT pact which prohibits a possible U.S. plan to move U.S. land-based missiles from one missile silo to another . The plan would aim at creating uncertainty as to the location Of U.S. missiles , thus making less likely any Soviet attempt at a surprise " first strike " against Anierican land-based missiles . The Soviet Union in the meantime , has accused the United States of dragging out the SALT talks . Administration officials deny that they are in any way stalling , but they say that Senate ratification is unlikely unless a new agreement takes into account prevailing fears about the potential vulnerability of U.S. land-based missiles . Senate sources say that if a new treaty were presented to the Senate today it would stand no chance of ratification . They say that this is because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partly by Soviet actions in Africa and partly by Soviet actions against dissidents ? and a perception that President Carter 's public standing is low . Only ' 40 votes ' " I 'd be astonished if you could get 40 votes for a SALT treaty , " said one well-placed source in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . Sixty-seven votes would be required for a new SALT treaty to be ratified . The same source predicted , however , that if the administration tried to circumvent the ratification process through an executive agreement it would come under strong attack in the Senate from a coalition of anti-Soviet " hard-liners " and liberals concerned with the constitutional aspects of the question . Senate liberals have complained , ever since the days of the Vietnam war , that there have been too many executive agreements .                     