@@734403

txt Labor officials said today that the Carter Administration had made a series of unannounced concessions to help win the support of union leaders for its new wage and price guidelines . One such concession , they said , was an agreement not to use sanctions against offenders . These agreements were described to the union leaders at an executive council meeting of the American Federation of Labor and Council of Industrial Organizations last Friday . Immediately after that meeting , Lane Kirkland , secretarytreasurer of the federation , announced that labor would participate in the tripartite , 15-member Pay Advisory Committee . Agreements Confirmed White House aides confirmed that certain agreements had been reached with labor leaders but added that they were in no way secret " deals . " They also said that a number of the concessions , including the promise not to withhold Government contracts or use other sanctions , would be subject to change if at some point it were determined that voluntary wage and price restraints were not working . The labor officials at the executive council meeting were also told that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Pay Advisory Committee except under extraordinary circumstances , when it was felt that damage would be done to the national interest . Even then , the committee 's decision would not be vetoed automatically but would be returned for reconsideration , the labor officials were told . The union leaders were led to expect that this promise about the committee would be made in a letter either from President Carter or from Alfred E. Kahn , the chairman of the Council on Wage and Price Stability , according to someone who was present at the council meeting . However , White House officials said today they knew of no plans to send such a letter . Another promise reported to have been made by the Administration to the union leaders was that , as one labor official put it , " there would be no Barry Bosworths going around the country attacking companies and unions . " Mr. Bosworth , a former executive director of the wage-price council , irritated union officials , and some businessmen , with his sharp criticism of labor and industry practices that he believed contributed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mean that the Government would refrain from " jawboning , " or using public pressure to influence union or company behavior , while the Pay Advisory Committee was functioning . However , one Administration official said that the Government would continue to use " moral suasion " to help fight inflation , and all that was promised was that there would be no strident attacks on unions or companies by Administration of ficials . Posting of Prices Accepted Another labor request that the Administration was reported to have accepted was a program of posted prices by retailers . Union officials wanted stores to post prices so that consumers could see for themselves how prices were rising . The Administration now will ask businesses to post prices for a specified base period , but only on a voluntary basis . But stores will not be asked to list all of the products they sell , only enough to give consumers a general idea of how prices are moving , according to an Administration official . Some of the other agreements that were reported to have been outlined at the executive council meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to more stringent wage standards than workers in the private economy . President Carter in effect has already put this agreement into practice by allowing Federal workers ' wages to go up by 7 percent , the standard intended to govern private industry this year , rather than the 51/2 percent they received previously . 9The Administration would help push for passage of trade adjustment assistance legislation for workers . The bill is now stalled in the Senate Finance Committee . 9The Administration would work with labor to arrive at a mutually acceptable " trigger " level of unemployment at which 13 additional weeks of unemployment compensation would be given to jobless workers . Marked by Degree of Ambiguity A number of the agreements between labor and the Administration are marked by a degree of ambiguity . This was viewed by some observers as an intentional means of giving the widest possible scope to the negotiating and mediation talents of John T. Dunlop , a former Secretary of Labor who will be the chairman of the pay committee . Labor apparently also made some concessions in reaching its accord with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement that the A.F.L.-C.I.O. would drop for the time being its efforts to persuade the Administration to adopt a comprehensive national health program . The federation and other labor organizations have been critical of the President 's national health proposals , saying they do far too little to solve the nation 's health system problems .                     