@@729085

txt The census is a report on the pattern which the natural tides of population have created . The gerrymander is the politician 's effort to rearrange that pattern as cleverly as he can for the benefit of his party . The regional consequences of population shifts and differing rates of population growth over the last decade are immediately clear . Eleven seats in the House of Representatives will have to be reassigned in time for the 1972 election . New York and Pennsylvania lose two seats each while seven other states in the center of the country lose one apiece . The big gainers are California , which picks up five , and Florida , which adds three , while Texas , Colorado and Arizona will each have one more Representative . It is a black mark against American democracy that the drawing of Congressional district boundaries is not as automatic and nonpartisan as this decennial reappor- , tionment of seats among the states . The Supreme Court has in recent years cleaned up the worst abuses by insisting firmly that districts be of equal population . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down on the lesser but still serious abuse of drawing districts in corkscrew  --  or salamander  --  shapes for partisan advantage . We regret this judicial timidity and believe that the public interest would be better served if the courts insisted that districts be compact , contiguous and aligned according to self-consistent standards . Ideally , this would be done by a commission of experts insulated from political pressures or , in the absence of such a commission , by a court-appointed master . It is highly doubtful how much good these partisan gerrymanders actually do even for those who concoct them . In New Jersey , Representative Helstoski , Democrat , has twice been re-elected since his district was gerrymandered in an attempt to make it safely Republican . The same is true of Representative Stratton in upstate New York . Occasionally , the gerrymander claims its victim , as it did Representative Lowenstein on Long Island last month , but this is almost the exception rather than the rule . The outcome in this fall 's election of governors and state legislatures makes it likely that neither party will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ round of reapportionment . Since the Democrats recaptured both houses of the Legislature in California while Republican Governor Reagan was re-elected , the two parties will presumably have to strike a compromise . Governor Rockefeller and the Republican-controlled Legislature in New York can probably make certain that this state 's loss of two - seats is effected at the cost of the Democrats . But since the latter will be in command of the Governorship and Legislature in Pennsylvania , they can reverse the procedure there . The Democrats are likely to win all of Florida 's three additional seats , but this will be offset by their party 's probable losses in West Virginia , Ohio and Tennessee . In broader philosophical terms , the gains and losses of the regions also canceled one another out . Superficially , the South , the most conservative region , gained the most people while the more liberal Northeast and industrial Middle West lost or barely held their own . California , the unfinished society , has politically been so volatile that the consequences of its gain in House seats can not readily be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more urbanized and only part way through the complicated process of becoming two-party states . For the short term , their enhanced political influence is likely to be felt on the conservative side . For the South generally , however , the political outlook can be considerably altered if the region 's sizable Negro population begins voting in much heavier numbers .                     