@@734179

txt Letters ERWIN LEVYRICHARD DRAPERALVIN B. LEBARJACK CROSBYJOSEPH KASELOWCYRIL CLEMENSN ... Letters High Hurdles on the Path to a United Europe To the Editor : In his Op-Ed page article of April 29 , George Ball admonishes the " Europeans " to " build a political structure on a continent-wide basis ... " In suggesting this not-new and seemingly natural idea he seerns to overlook a basic and difficult question : Just what is a " European ? " Europe is a geographical rather than a historical concept . Before being Europeans , its inhabitants are first Frenchmen , Germans , Dutchmen , Danes , Swiss , Austrians , etc , . and have been so for centuries . In each nation 's schools the respective national history ? and not one European history ? is is taught from its own perspective and from its beginnings , which are often found somewhere in the first millennium . The various modern eras are seen as but the last chapters of these long and essentially separately viewed currents of national events . The most elementary sign of the somewhat theoretical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? so obvious that its profound significance is easily overlooked ? that there is no one European language or culture . Hence , one can not simply compare Europe to America ? meaning the United States with its common language ; and even here the cultural differences between North and South came perilously close to tearing up our national units . ( Switzerland , with its four languages ? German , French , Italian , and Romansh ? furnishes no final proof that culture and language do not matter politically : its mountainous topography constitutes a very special condition , which favored political unification . ) The big , though not the only , obstacle to European unification then is its many nationalisms , which most recently led to the two world wars . In the long European perspective , " a whole generation without war " does not prove very much ; what has prevented war for the last 30 years is not so much any new ecstatic feeling of " love thy neighbor " as the lingering aftershocks of the last war and the knowledge that in the atomic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they can no longer afford this means of settling disputes . In all probability a politically united Europe could come about only under the compulsion of totally inexorable historical circumstances , generally recognized as such . Present conditions do not seem to be viewed as coercive enough to overcome the ancient , deeply ingrained separating forces . The frightening question therefore is : Will it take another war to bring it about ? But suppose it could come about without war , as Mr. Ball suggests . A united Europe would not have much more power than at present unless it were also a united military power . But it is not at all clear that the threat of such a development might not be deemed severe enough by the Russians to let them want to forestall it by military intervention , thus threatening yet another European war . ERWIN LEVY New York , April 29 , 1979 A Convention Center That Turns a Profit To the Editor : Financing has been arranged , an architect has been selected and the way has been cleared for the construction of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the city 's future " ( Paul Goldberger 's April 30 news article ) . It seems a pity that this symbol 's projected operation should have a built-in loss of several million'dollars a year . That 's more like a symbol of the city 's past than its hoped-for financially stable future . Why not a center that can show a profit ? This could be accomplished , I believe , by incorporating in the center a structure for permanent exhibitions by tenants on leases ( not transitory displayers ) . Look , for example , at Chicago 's Merchandise Mart , the largest and probably most profitable showroom/ office building in the United States . Always fully rented , to manufacturers in a wide variety of fields , the typical waiting time for space is over a year . New York has nothing like it . But here is our opportunity , given the plans for a low building on a vast acreage , to construct the finest showroom building in the world without materially affecting the plans for the convention center itself . Imagine a 12- or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would bring life to " this dull part of town and attract tourists as well as convention-goers . " And it would attract businessmen from all over the world , whether or not a convention is in session . RICHARD DRAPER New York , April 30 , 1979 Presidential Rescues To the Editor : Without diminishing President Carter 's achievement in obtaining the release of five Soviet dissidents , it should be noted that two of them owe their lives to another U.S. President , Richard M. Nixon . In 1970 Eduard S. Kuznetsov and Mark Dymshits were convicted in an unsuccessful attempt to hijack a plane to Israel . A death sentence was imminent until President Nixon personally intervened to spare their lives . It is a tribute to America that two of its Presidents used the power of the office to rescue two lonely and desperate souls oceans away in space and time . ALVIN B. LEBAR Metuchen , N.J. , April 30 , 1979 To the Editor : I liked David Rittenhouse 's proposal for a national effort to develop wind power along with solar energy letter April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ April 29 letter chides Professor Rittenhouse for tilting at windmills , read not only " Don Quixote " but also Mary Shelley 's " Frankenstein " before advocating nuclear power . He calls the windmill idea " unrealistic , " but he does not consider by what perverse definition of the word " realistic " we seek to increase our dependency on an energy source whose potential destructiveness to us and to future generations make the concept of realism obsolete . What , we might ask , is a realistic solution to the impossibility of disposing of radioactive wastes ? Love Canal ? We certainly have an energy crisis in this country . It is the incredible waste which results from massive misuse and misappropriation of ' our natural and human resources . A recent survey reported in The Times revealed that few American high school students even realize that plastic is a petroleum product . How much could we reduce our oil consumption by converting from a society which prizes convenience and disposability to one which values copservation and thrift ? To supplement wind and sun power , I suggest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and emotional ills of our affluent , fastpaced , throwaway culture , are adopting a regime of daily exercise . The energy they expend combating cholesterol and controlling hypertension by jogging , biking or riding Exercycles in front of their TV sets could activate a nationwide network of pedal-powered generators. 1 propose that the Federal Government construct a pedal-operated generator system across the To the Editor : I enjoyed Reid Collins 's April 28 OpEd article on the Lincoln Tunnel situation . I do n't go to the city very often , but the last two times I waited a long // Leavenworth Jackson time before getting to the toll booth , and then breezed through the tunnel . The last time , the nearest car behind me was over 500 feet away . Mr. Collins asked a good question : Who cares ? Who indeed . The Tunnel Harding 's Idea To the Editor : Apropos of President Carter 's suggestion for one six-year term for the Presidency , your readers may be interested in what the late Judson C. Welliver , confidential secretary to Presidents Harding and Coolidge , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after mature deliberation , had to dissuade President Harding from seeking Congressional action to limit all Presidents to a single six-year term . " CYRIL CLEMENS Editor , Mark Twain Journal Kirkwood , Mo. , May 1 , 1979 1 o the Editor : In the report of a recent interview , Molly Picon was quoted as saying that to prepare for a concert she " had to translate all her routines back into a language that nobody writes anymore ? except Isaac Bashevis Singer . " She explained that 900 students had decountry along the existing interstate highway routes . Pedal power would make Americans fitter and improve mental health by fostering cooperation rather than competitiveness . Pedal-powered generators are thoroughly democratic . They afford equal opportunity to handicapped citizens to work alongside the intellectual elite to develop national self-sufficiency . They provide a vehicle for convicts , who could serve stringent shifts as part of their sentences , to perform productive labor . As long as we conceive of the energy crisis as a material or technological scarcity rather than a failure of vision , we are doomed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wit needed to develop alternatives to the unrealistic and unconscionable proliferation of nuclear reactors . Our energy problem is not a shortage of fuel but a shortage of moral imagination LAURIE ROBERTSON-LORANT Lenox , Mass. , April 30 , 1979 Authority ? The Governor of New York or of New Jersey ? The E.P.A. ? The President 's Energy Commission ? No one , no way ! The basic problem is the incompetence and indifference on the part 01 the collectors . Give any good traffic engineer a month on that project , and the problem would be licked . I would be happy to help . JACK CROSBY Chatham , N.J. , April 28 , 1979 ? To the Editor : My heart bleeds for Reid Collins and his sitting among the gas fumes while waiting to pay the toll at the Lincoln Tunnel . I ride the bus in from Glen Rock , N.J. , every morning , and I exult as we go flying by the Reid Collinses of this world  --  in the bus express lane . Imagine what it would mean to the struggling New Jersey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the Reid Collinses ? generally one person to a gas guzzler ? would do their duty to mankind ( personkind ? ) and use mass transportation . Moreover , l 'm certain just about all of those car drivers do n't have to drive . Collins gets no sympathy here . JOSEPH KASELOW New York , Apri130 , 1979 Time Off for Subways To the Editor : Why do n't New York City subways close for several hours in the early morning ? This would permit painting , repairing and cleaning without the acrobatics described in your April 30 story . It would also save money for changemakers , transit police and motormen . Early-morning riders could take buses , which make good time in those hours . London and Paris manage this way . Could n't New York ? NATHAN GLAZER Cambridge , Mass . April 30 , 1979 manded a performance in Yiddish . We have-great admiration and respect for Molly Picon 's talent , and we admire her endurance . However , as representatives of the Yiddish writers ' community in New York we must take exception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alive and still spoken by many thousands of Jews . There are countless organizations and clubs where Yiddish is the spoken language . There are daily newspapers , weekly papers and a number of monthly publications . Many books in Yiddish were published in the past year . There are Yiddish theaters and concerts ; there are courses in colleges and full-time schools where the Yiddish language is being taught . We are talking only of New York . In other cities and countries there are also thriving Yiddish communities . The number of Yiddish-speaking people has diminished , but the quality of Yiddish culture has certainly not decreased . It is possible that Molly Picon has lost touch with the Yiddish community ; hence her estrangement from the language . We regret that an actress who performed most of her life in Yiddish and for Yiddish-speaking audiences declared doom on the language that gave her the source from which she benefited all her life .                     