@@732677

txt The Christian churches could yet save South Africa . What is happening in , the black and white churches here may be as important in preventing a bloody race war in southern Africa as Prime Minister John Vorster 's political decisions . For in this church-oriented country the teachings of the Bible have been used during . the past 25 years as the theological justification for apartheid ( the legal separation of the races ) . Now the moral basis of apartheid and therefore of the National Party running the country is crumbling in the thinking of the members of the powerful white Dutch Reformed Church . The interpretation of the story of the Tower of Babel in the Old Testament ( God divided the world into different races and Young South African blacks are widening the call for work stoppages to protest apartheid ( Page 26 ) . As the analysis alongside suggests , there is hope of a chord being touched in white thinking . languages and meant them to stay that way ) according to traditional Dutch Reformed thinking , simply can not stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no respecter of persons . Also , Christianity is the only basis of moral appeal open to blacks in South Africa . Unlike civil-rights leaders in the United States , blacks , here can not call for // From page 1 *Christianity vs. racism in South Africa the protection of human rights enshrined in any constitution . The only statement the South African Constitution makes is that the government stands united " to further the contentment and spiritual and material welfare of all in our midst . " Thus the blacks have tuned to the church as the channel which is not continually blocked by the white government . And black power has come to the churches . " Black consciousness and white consciousness are facts , " says one black minister from Soweto , the black township on the fringe of Johannesburg where rioting began in June . " There may or may not be Christ consciousness in one or the other . " A meeting of all black ministers in South Africa called for Aug. 27 and 28 is likely to be the beginning of a united black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reformed , and the 3,000 independent churches to counter apartheid . Such unity will not come out of this week 's meeting , but " eventually that is what they will have to do , " said a white South African journalist covering the religious scene . Black ministers are being pushed by youths who are threatening to burn down the churches if nothing is done to demand change from the government . Other evidence of black leadership coming through churches is the virtual takeover by the black voice at last month 's annual meeting of the South African Council of Churches ( SACC ) . Because of the killings in Soweto the blacks had a ready-made platform . But , even more important , the ministers went beyond the current situation . They also were discussing the form of the future government in South Africa , according to well-informed church sources . The debate was over what kind of socialism a black government should follow . Of most immediate concern , however , to Prime Minister Vorster is his own Dutch Reformed Church , the religious arm of the ruling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vorster has agreed to talk Aug. 26 with the top officials of the international Reformed Church synod which met in Cape Town during the last two weeks . The synod , which represents 5 million Christians around the world and meets every four years , is asking that the South African government change its apartheid policies . The synod has made the white South African Dutch Reformed Church squirm in its theological seat . But the head of the white church , J. D. Vorster , older brother of the Prime Minister , shows no signs of modifying his hitherto hard-line stance . The elder Dr. Vorster 's leadership has not had the respect of many important whites for many years . although loyalty to Afrikanerdom and deference for authority have left him in power . How to change that leadership quickly is seen by progressive church members of crucial importance . In fact Dr , Vorster has been moved off-center by a younger group of ministers from Stellenbosch and Potchefstroom universities . He is no longer the power he once was , according to a lay Afrikaner who has closely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now is going to the government is in itself a sign of major movement within the thinking of Afrikaners . And since the government is unlikely to move without church approval , there are indications apartheid may be gradually diluted . The white Dutch Reformed Church last week was most critically challenged by its daughter churches , the Indian , black , and the Colored ( mixed race ) churches ? and the challenge of tha latter was the most telling . Church leader Vorster was even pressured by the Colored church to ask the police to reveal detail 's about three Colored theological students who had been arrested recently . A growing number of Afrikaners dislike the white church leadership , according to Prof. Hendrick W. van de Merwe of Cape Town University . A survey he conducted of opinions among the elite of South Africa included interviews with 40 Dutch Reformed men . The survey showed that none of the 40 respected Dr. Vorster and many even voiced " disgust " with his leadership . When asked , almost all of the men said they admired Dr. Beyers Naude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ un-Christian and was in turn denounced by the church . Despite these widely held opinions there is in the church an overwhelming urge not to rock the boat , as well as a singular lack of women 's voices . By contrast , the Christian Institute , which was founded by Dr. Naude , is one of the very few places in South Africa where there is genuine contact between the races . There are Afrikaners on the board of the institute , and although the government has greatly circumscribed possible protest . activities , it dares not completely abolish such an unquestionably Christian organization . Thus the challenge of the churches must not be underestimated . As one white South African said , " the once heathen the blacks are now trying to convert the whites to Christianity . " And the whites are torn between their white nationalism and their Christianity . The result is countrywide mental and physical turmoil over trying to resolve the conflict .                     