@@729409

txt Step by step the Nixon administration is edging toward full support of federal aid to parochial schools . At the same time , it is seeking ways to sidestep the constitutional question of church-state separation raised by ? this issue . Though there is no guarantee that the President will embrace their recommendations , a presidential panel May 4 urged Mr. Nixon to allow what it called " urgently needed " federal aid be given to parochial and private schools . Earlier , the Office of Economic Opportunity announced it was moving ahead with plans to test a controversial voucher plan designed to give financial support to nonpublic schools while avoiding direct grants . Under this plan , parents of schoolchildren are given vouchers to be used as tuition at the school of their choice , public or nonpublic . The schools would then redeem the vouchers from federal , state , or local ' tax sources . This approach , it is hoped by officials , would avoid the church-state issue entirely . Potential collapse ' seen Supporters of this approach are greatly cheered by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In forming the presidential panel on nonpublic education , Mr. Nixon stated that " this government ' can not be indifferent to the potential collapse of such nonpublic schools . " He said that " while the panel deliberates , nonpublic schools are closing at the rate of one a day . " ? The President 's action in setting up the panel was considered here unprecedented . It was viewed as the first time a national government in this country unreservedly committed itself to the notion that nonpublic schools are " an integral part of the nation 's educational establishment . " in the President 's words . The panel 's chairman , Dr. Clarence Walton , president of Catholic University , wrote Mr. Nixon saying that " our preliminary findings forcefully reinforce your deep concern over the seriousness of the situation " // *Nixon edges toward full parochiaid backing // He added that since the panel had begun work more than a year ago , the situation had become even more precarious for nonpublic education . While the final report was not due until next March , Dr. Walton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report was needed to stave off an early collapse of private elementary and secondary education . According to Dr. Walton , the panel felt it could now identify certain dangerous trends , which , if unchecked , " will hasten a collapse whose consequences will adversely affect the public interest . " Meanwhile , the administration announced that it would fund experimental " voucher " plan programs in Gary , Ind. , and San Jose , Calif. , beginning next fall , and in Seattle a year later . This announcement came from John 0 . Wilson , OEO assistant director of planning , research , and evaluation , who dismisses the criticisms of the proposal by talking of the dangerous state of nonpublic education and insisting that the plan must at least be tested . Wedge threat cited But some groups , including the National Education Association and the American Federation of Teachers , fear that the voucher trial is just an opening wedge to constitutional and educational chaos . On April 1 , an NEA spoke'sman appeared before the House Education and Labor Committee to oppose the use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , fears that the vouchers represent " unconstitutional support for nonpublic schools , that they will lead to social and racial resegregation , and that they will lead to the enrichment of private sector hucksters who see this system as a bonanza . " A spokesman for the American Jewish Congress , Joseph B. Robison , testified that the voucher system would impair " two vital aspects of our system of democracy ? publicly financed , publicly controlled schools and separation of church and state . " OEO prefers not to go into these questions , insisting that the crisis in elementary and secondary education offers few alternative solutions , and it believes that the voucher is the best . Political motive advanced Critics of the voucher " feasibility " venture believe that the antipoverty agency should stick strictly to eliminating poverty , leaving education to the U.S. Office of Education . They point out that the 1970 report of the urban-education task force of the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare shows how urban education can be improved without providing federal aid to nonpublic schools . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ingredient in the current White House support for aid to private schools . It doubtless has ' impressed Roman Catholic voters , it is suggested . Coming Wednesday , first page , second section : A critique of the parochiaid issue . Supporters of government aid for church-related schools aim their appeal at the U.S. taxpayer 's pocketbook.                     