@@729674

txt Senator George was trapped in a Roman Catholic Church school building this evening as a mob outside burned vehicles and threw stones and firebrands at the American military policemen and embassy security personnel rescued the Senator after he had been trapped for about 20 minutes in the school , attached to the Redemptionist Catholic Church , where he was attending a meeting of the Committee to Reform Prisons hi South Vietnam , Neither Senator , the only announced candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination , and his staff nor the 20 Vietnamese opponents of the war who had gathered inside the building were injured . The South Dakota Senator , who is in Vietnam on a threeday tour , said he did snot know whether he had been the focus of the attack , but anti-Govern. ment politicians quickly accused the Government of having fomented it to frighten the , Senator and to express its displeasure with his visit . The identity of the protesters was unclear . They appeared to be conservative Catholics protesting the use of the church for the meeting . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prison reform , but most of the Vietnamese priests , monks , nuns and students present were members of antiwar and anti-Government groups , According to the Senator and the three aides accompanying him , they arrived at the church around 9:30 P.M. and had just begun the discussions when shouts were heard in the street . Firebrand Hurled at Building Minutes later , those present said , a firebrand was thrown toward the building , without doing any damage . The mob entered the churchyard , and the Senator 's group barricaded themselves inside the darkened building . Gordon Weil , Senator 's administrative assistant , called the American Embassy three times for help , he said , and finally spoke with Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker , who promised to send help . Vietnamese onlookers said the small bus parked outside the building was set afire by children encouraged by the shouting mob . It burned about 15 feet from the building . The children pushed several motorbikes up against the burning bus , and they ails() caught fire , eyewitnesses said , Fire engines arrived : : shortly before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it had formed . The South Vietnamese police arrived shortly afterward , followed closely by three American military police jeeps and a black embassy sedan with American plainclothes security officers . No arrests were reported made . Officer Tries Door South Vietnamese plainclothesmen wandered around the darkened building but did not try to enter it . No sounds came through the windows broken by the mob and the American military police talked on their car radios but said they did not know what was going on . Finally , at about 10:10 , a South Vietnamese police officer tried the front door . It was locked . " Is Senator in there ? " a nearby American reporter called through the broken window , " Who wants to know , " came the reply . The door opened a crack and as the Vietnamese plainclothesman sought to enter , Mr. Weil tried to push it closed . " No Vietnamese , no Vietnamese , " he shouted , " We want the American police . " He said later that he would not let the Vietnamese office lers into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were . " The military police ushered the Senator into the black sedan and drovehim to his hoitel. %Mr . Mankiewia , Mr. Weil ( John Holum , another aide , rode in jeeps . , In other incidents related to the growing tensions over the war , ? four American military vehicles were burned in Saigon , apparently in protest over United States involvement in Vietnam , In one of these , an American Navy Mat suffered second-degree burns when his truck was set ablaze . At least one'American-owned vehicle was burned in Hue ; where anti-American students are protesting the killing of a Vietnamese boy by an American soldier on Monday .                     