@@730326

txt Two Chicago policemen chose to go to jail yesterday rather than appear and testify before a federal grand jury investigating tavern shakedowns by members of the Chi , . nor , Police Department . Sgt. John A. Cello Jr . was taken into custody immediately after saying he would not testify before the grand jury even tho he had been granted " limited immunity . " Patrolman Salvatore Mascolino , 38 , who also had been granted immunity by Chief Judge Edwin A. Robson in a morning court session , was taken into custody about four hours later . He joined the force Sept. 1 , 1958 , and had spent most of his career in the East Chicago Avenue District . The two policemen were taken to the Winnebago County Jail in Rockford . Federal Appeals Court Judge Robert A. Sprecher set a deadline of to . morrow for the government to respond to their bond request . Cello and Mascolino were suspended late in the day by Police Supt. James B. Conlisk . It was expected that charges seeking tnew alSIIIIbbdi num the force would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who was assigned to the East Chicago Avenue District , was jailed after he appeared before the grand jury but refused to answer nearly all of the questions he was asked . Judge Robson also denied his request for an appeal bond , saying ' Mascolino was clearly in contempt of court and his bond request was frivolous , Both men could be held in custody for nearly 19 months unless they change their minds and agree to cooperate with the jury , James R. Thompson , United States attorney , said . Two other Chicago policemen agreed yesterday to appear before the grand jury after being granted limited immunity . They appeared before the jury yesterday morning and apparently answered questions satisfactorily . They were former Sgt. David Holder , currently facing trial in September on six counts stemming from the Austin tavern shakedown scandal , and Sgt. George De Met , who was sentenced to one year in prison last month after being convicted on one count of tavern extortion . Yesterday 's action came after hearings by Judge Robson on government requests to grant the four policemen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Court " Limited immunity " was held constitutional by the United States Supreme Court in May . Under the new procedure , the government can not use a witness 's actual testimony or leads which come up during the testimony against him . However , the government can proceed with prosecutions using information from other sources . In the past , a witness was granted complete immunity from prosecution in exchange for his testimony . Cello , a 10-year police veteran , filed a suit in Circuit Court last month to stop police department officials from asking him about his previous grand jury appearances . Last December , several policemen were suspended after it was learned they refusd to testify before the federal grand jury . Celle maintained that if noliee officials asked him about his appearance and If he said he refused to testify , he too would be suspended . He Remains Mute After Judge Robson granted Cello limited immunity yesterday , the policeman 's lawyer , Allan Ackerman , told the judge that if Cello appeared before the grand jury , he still would refuse to testify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of limited immunity , saying it would hurt their cases If their clients went to trial . Altho the actual testimony of the policemen could not be used against them , the lawyers said , the government would be able to learn what their defense would be in future trials . Also , they said , the testimony of the policemen would preju , dice them in the minds of grand jurors considering the possibility of indicting them . Cello and Mascollno have not been indicted in the case .                     