@@730918

txt A federal judge ruled today that most of the nation 's retail gasoline dealers can raise their prices starting Sept. 1 despite Phase 4 controls . A short time later the Justice Department , acting for the Cost of Living Council which administers price controls , filed an emergency petition with the U. S. Court of Appeals here seeking an injunction against the lower court order while a full appeal Is prepared . ASSISTANT ATTY . Gen. Irving Jaffe said in the petition that the Economic Stabilization program would suffer " irreparable injury " if the controls were lifted prematurely . Federal District Judge Barrington D. Parker issued the ruling in a suit brought against ' the council on behalf of 165,000 service station dealers selling retail gasoline under the brand names of major gasoline suppliers . The decision , if it withstands the governmental appeals , would effectively lift controls for the retail gasoline dealers . Between now and midnight next Friday , Aug. 31 , prices remain frozen . After that , Phase 4 controls on gasoline prices were scheduled ha go into effect . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treatment " under Phase 4 regulations which discriminated against them . Parker agreed , saying that the way the regulations were applied to the retail gasoline dealers " is arbitrary and capricious . " THE JUDGE SAID that the controls discriminate against the dealers and " violate the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment . " He said that the gasoline dealers were the only small businesses with 60 or fewer employes which are covered by the price controls . Granting a request for a preliminary injunction , Parker held that the dealers " have made a sufficiently strong showing " and they are likely to win a final ruling . THE COURT decision came as some gasoline dealers planned weekend closings to demonstrate their protests of Phase 4 regulations . " Plaintiffs and the class have been singled out from among all other classes in that they must , absorb all their nonproduct cost increases since Jan. 10 , " Judge Parker said . He also said that this is the only group " whose principal supplier is allowed to pass on his costs both in product and otherwise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not pass on such costs to their sales to the general public . " PARKER ALSO ruled that if he had allowed these controls to go into effect on Sept. 1 " plaintiffs and substantial members of the class would go out of business or otherwise sustain substantial and severe eco ? nomic injury . " The Cost of Living Council said it would ask a special Court of Appeals to block Parker 's decision pending the outcome of the appeal . The special court was set up specially to handle appeals m price control cases .                     