@@733147

txt ON NOV. 17 , 1970 , eight members of the Citizens for Bacon , organization went into Mayor Richard J. Daley 's City Hall office to meet with the mayor 's administrative assistant , ' Kenneth Sain . They were there to urge the mayor to support Warren Bacon , a two-term member of the Chicago Board of Education , in the board 's selection of its new president . Sam told the Citizens for Bacon that " Mayor Daley was not inclined to intervene with the affairs of the Board of Education , " but that " he would make their wishes known to the mayor . " That report came from three Chicago policemen working for the police Intelligence Division who were assigned to gather information on Citizens for Bacon that day in City Hall . ' FOR . TILE LAST ' three months of 1970 , police intelligence agents spied on a large group of Chicagoans who support . ed Bacon as head of the school board . Details of police spying activity against Citizens for Bacon and other civic groups are documented in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six weeks by Tribune reporters . The reports were turned over to The Tribune by plaintiffs in a joint federal suit seeking to enjoin the police from spying on private citizens . The suit is being litigated for the plaintiffs by the Better Government Association ; Business and Professional People for the Public Interest ; the American Civil Liberties Union ; and the Alliance to End Repression . Police agents in the late 1900s and early 1970s were assigned to spy on legitimate political activities of hundreds of civic groups and thousands of private citizens , the reports showed . In the file kept on the Citizens for Bacon , the administrative orders have been destroyed , so it is not known who was responsible for authorizing the investigation of the group . Police spies were sent to gather Information on all ' the pro-Bacon rallies , to note who attended and record the public and private statements of the rallies ' leaders . There was nothing sinister about Bacon or his candidacy . ' Mayor Daley already had appointed Bacon , an Inland Steel executive , twice to the school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1970 , Bacon wanted the top spot . HIS CREDENTIALS as a civic leader were impeccable . He had the support of dozens of prominent Chicagoans , such as restaurateur Daggett Harvey ; real estate developer Philip Klutznick ; railAGENTS , FOR INSTANCE , tied reports on a press conference announcing formation of the Citizens for Bacon organization , and ran background checks of those present . The Intelligence division assigned two // Task Force report The conflict between individual rights and the welfare of the community at large is perhaps best illustrated by the uproar over charges of police spying . Were police too zealous , in their surveillance ? Were they working for a city administration that wanted only to keep tabs on persons or groups who opposed it ? In the last two months , Tribune reporters William Mullen and Chuck Neubauer pored over thousands of pages of police surveillance reports never before seen by the public . This is , the second of four reports . road president Ben Heineman ; educator . Philip Hauser ; add U.S. Rep. Abner Mem . The one thing Bacon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John Carey , a union , t official , as president of the school board : The mayor lined up six votes art the board for Casey as opposed to Bacon 's .. five , so he had Carey 's presidency well ' in hand . Though Bacon never posed a serious ' threat to Carey 's election , the police kept a close watch ell efforts made in his behalf . =4111111 From page one Police interested in political activities of Mr. Everyman // teams to gather information on a poorly attended rally for Bacon held on Nov. 8 , 1970 ; each team filed a report , Though nothing of importance hapwed at the rally , one of the agents in his report criticized a local television station for its coverage of the event . The station , he said , " omitted portions of the film showing the empty hall and made no comment about poor attendance . One could not tell by watching news reports that the meeting was a flop . " Agents even gathered data on a regular Board of Education nreeting-Doci-ta , - 1970 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to the report , " to identify those in attendance at the board meeting " and to " gather any other information that might be of interest to this division . " BACON , WHO LOST the election on Dec. 31 , 1970 , and has since retired from the school board , has his own ideas why the intelligence division spied on his supporters , " I really do n't think anything of that nature was done without the tacit approval of somebody from higher authority outside the police department , " Bacon said . " Daley or somebody in his office . " I think it is a reprehensible tactic to spy on private citizens and take policemen away from fighting serious crime . What a waste of resources and invasion of privacy ; what a violation of the principles on which this country was founded . " The Bacon case was not the only example Tribune reporters discovered of police snooping into legitimate political activities . AUGUSTUS " GUS " Savage , a weekly newspaper publisher and independent black politician from the South Side , ran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intelligence division ran " subversive background " checks police terminology on Savage and collected information on his campaigns . The , first , time Savage campaigned , lie ran for 21st Ward alderman . On Nov. 1 , 1966 , he wrote to Police Supt. Orlando Wilson and asked for 24-hour-a-day protection because of threats on his life he said he had received after deciding to run . Three days later , the intelligence division received notice that a deputy police chief " ... requested Intelligence Division File information on Gus Savage , WHO is en Independent Candidate for Alderman of the 21st Ward . " An extensive background report followed , noting Savage 's activities going back as far as 1949 . It referred to a 1965 report on Savage in which . he was characterized as a " militant racist " and as being susceptible to becoming " emotionally upset . " TILE REPORT went on : " Augustus A. Savage has been observed by reporting officer as having attended Communist front affairs in the Chicago area in the past several years , HE is also active in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . SUBJECT could not be classified as of the violent type and it is doubtful if HE would attempt to do anything of an ' irrational nature . ' " Savage lost the aklermanic election , and went on to lose a more tightly contested primary election in 1970 for the Democratic nomination for 3d District congressman . He announced his candidacy in the congressional primary on Nov. 23 , 1969 , and several weeks later the intelligence division was requested to do " a complete and thorough background " on Savage . The police again complied , resurrecting the same reports of Savage 's public speeches , activities , and associations , and gathering information on his primary campaign . Savage succinctly expresses his thoughts on why the police would compile such reports . " THE POLICE were serving as intelligence for the Democratic organization , " he said , " In a political race , if your Tribune Mimi by Lola ! MasulicIne Warren.Bacon : " It is a reprehensible tactic to spy on private citizens and take policemen away from fighting serious crime . " opponent has intelligence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The most shocking thing about it was that they had people spying on that sort of thing  --  mostly my public speeches ? and drawing conclusions that I was a Communist or a radical . " Savage criticized the attacks on his character and " guilt by association " conclusions in the police report . " I had a beer with a Republican the other night , " he said , " but that does n't make me a Republican . " Much of the information the police gathered on politicians and political groups either was erroneous or meaningless . The following are examples of political " intelligence " gathered by police on well-known politicians and groups that Augustus " Gus " Savage : " The police were serving as Intelligence for the Democratic organization . In a political race ... It 's frightening . " reporters found among the police documents they examined : ? Seymour Simon . Former alderman , now a judge . " LD . Files reflect this subject was one of the City Alderman sic that endorsed a protest of the city 's efforts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mom " LD . Files reflect that Mikva is U.S. Congressman . He is member of the advisory board of ACLU . Subject had a law partnership with lerroneous list of his law partners Member of the Board of Directors of Independent Voters of Illinois , . . . " ? Leon Despres , Former alderman . .. Backed antidiscrimination laws in the city council . Backed Freedom of Residence in Illinois . Attacked Ben Willis ... Supported Robert Mann for reelection 1989 . " ? Citizens Schools Committee . " Officers of the committee spoke at Board of Education and other school meetings . " Police files also mention that officers in this organization were against loyalty oaths in 1049 ' . ? Independent Voters of Illinois . " I.D . Files reflect this organization is nonpartisan and is known to support liberal candidates for office . " In another file , police claimed IVI was " Communist infiltrated . " THE INTELLIGENCE division also spied on lesser known political figures . During the elections of Model Cities planning boards in Chicago neighborhoods in 1970 , intelligence agents were ordered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many of these candidates had sued the city to force more citizen participation on the boards . The names of the investigated candidates are obscure , mostly politically active laborers and housewives . But the information the agents gathered on them illustrates how far the police were willing to go to find " intelligence , " Some examples : ? " Community leader of the 29th Ward . Petitions will be circulated to put subject on the ballot for alderman of the 29th Ward , October , 1953 . Attended the funeral of cousin of Communist spokesman . " ? " Name on register at wake of cousin of Communist spokesman . " ? " Gives a speech at the Community Betterment Rally for the purpose of retaining the Wall of Respect , 29 Aug. 69 . " ? " Signed petition circulated . . . to erect monument to Jean Du Sable , lot Negro Chicago Settler . " WHEN REPORTERS talked to political figures who had been spied on their reactions generally were first of surprise and awe that the police took the time , then amusement at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implications . " There 's a part of me that wants to be amused because of the ineptness and simple-mindedness of some of this , " Mikva said , " but this was also flat-out political surveillance . " The police department was being used to watch people it felt were anti . administration . Everybody who was connected with it should be censured strongly . " A. A. Sammy Rayner , a former independent South Side alderman , had ex ... . tensive police surveillance files kept on him . A great deal of it was compiled when he was head of the local Veterans Against the War chapter in the late 1960s . A funeral director , Rayner has very strong feelings about the Viet Nam conflict . " WHEN THE ARMY started shipping all those gray caskets to me from Asia , and I saw all of these young men who were dying so needlessly , I just wanted to do something to make it stop , " Rayner said . " If I thought we should n't be In Viet Nam , does that mean I should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advocate revolution or , overthrow of the government . " The thought that police were assigned to go to his public speeches boggles his mind , Rayner said . " I just did n't agree with Mayor Daley , and he did n't agree with me . It was quite obvious that this whole spying thing was political , and anyone who says it was n't is a liar . " I found out the Democrats are n't democratic , and if anybody should be under surveillance , they should be . " Teesda51 Polka Wino me a classroom Medi.                     