@@732265

txt Letters To the Editor GRACE HECHINGERCESI KELLINGERMARCHETTE CHUTERENEE WEISS pg . BR9 Letters To the Editor Growing Up In America To the Editor : In his superficial review ( Nov. 9 ) of our book , " Growing Up in America , " , Henry Mayer charged that , by keeping up what he called a " patriotic faith " in the future of public education , we stand in the way of a critical inquiry into the schools ' failings . We do applaud the steady push toward expanding educational opportunities that , for example , has opened the doors to higher education wider than in any other country . We also hold irr high regard the unique contributions to American society by such men as Jefferson , Franklin , Mann and Dewey . If these are the marks of " patriotic faith , " we plead guilty to the charge . But even by merely skimming our book , a reviewer should easily discover that recognition of American education 's accomplishments has not impeded our own critical inquiry . Mr. Mayer 's consciousness of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our accounts of dehumanizing childrearing practices , the brutal history of child labor , the sterile imposition of assembly-line teaching tactics on generations of pupils , the careless and biased use of intelligence tests , and the appalling discrimination long practiced by Ameri- ? can colleges . The only possible explanation for Mr. Mayer 's complaint that the book is " somewhat misleadingly entitled ' Growing Up in America ' " is that he overlooked its central theme ? what it meant , and still means , to a child in America , to grow up in affluence or in poverty , white or black , as a penniless immigrant or a member of the elite . How could uncritical " patriotic faith " have impelled us to raise the question " American Childhood : The Utopian Myth ? " and to turn it into the title of a chapter that is at the heart of our historical assessment ? What ultimately matters is neither our book nor Mr. Mayer 's review . The issue , which ought to be of some concern to readers and editors , is what the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas . When critics categorize as simplistically " patriotic " any book that does not satisfy their own premise that American society is fundamentally undemocratic , then an author 's price for not being brushed off will increasingly be a public disavowal of faith in all American institutions . As amply documented in our book , we find loyalty oaths abhorrent : but we look with equal loathing on the growing tendency among reviewers to require a disloyalty oath as proof of acceptability among the guardians of the new orthodoxy . GRACE HEC HIN GER FRED M. HECHINGER New York City Henry Mayer replies : A book entitled ? " Growing Up in America " that confines itself to topics in the history of public schooling , that fails to discuss the process of socialization or the acquisition of sexual , social and political identity , that deals only fleetingly with family life , and that has nothing to say about how young people come of age is , in my opinion , misleadingly titled . ? My review used the term " patriotism " as part of a discussion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , just or right , by our professed values ? for the state to control children with drugs and testing programs or to teach children to forfeit their rights under the guise of benevolence ? I hope readers would think about the difference between " what is " and " what ought to be . " The Hechingers ' historical account of American public education , I argued , did not offer much assistance in this effort , erwr their book generally supports what is , is sometimes against what was , and is ever hopeful about what may be . Their letter further illustrates the patriotic motif in their approach . The Hechingers are so eager to blunt the force of what they perceive as exaggerated criticism that they consistently err on the side of apologetics . While it is laudable that they recognize that educational opportunity in America has been restricted by factors of class , race and sex , they are better at enumerating the failAyes than explaining them . They are reluctant to proceed when the analysis grows uncomforta ble , and most of their discus ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school 's role in " Americanizing immigrants , for example , concludes that " it will be argued , probably without end or resolution , whether the system 's harsh singlemindedness was its flaw or its virtue  --  whether that harshness pushed great numbers to success or caused too many to fall by the wayside . . whether it managed to accomplish an extraordinary degree of acculturation or whether a more sophisticated effort might have made the melting pot less of a pressure cooker . . .. Let it suffice at this point to say that the experiment was based on high principles . Its problems were staggering . The dreams of the most intelligent and idealistic of men were often placed in the safe-keeping of others who lacked the intelligence and misunderstood the ideals ? until their blunders , in turn , gave rise to idealistic reformers who returned to the challenges laid down by Jefferson , Franklin and Mann . " Such writing should not be " brushed off . " It should be deplored . It is an example of the superficially non-committal , but essentially apologetic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and unfortunately it typifies the style of thinking taught in many classrooms and at the political rostrum. it abdicates responsibility and imposes a tight rein upon the free play of ideas . Shaw To the Editor . In his article on Bernard Shaw ( Nov. 2 ) John Simon quotes the opinion of 15 writers . All men . May I add the opinion of a woman ? On Apre28 , 1917 , Rosa Luxemburg wrote from her cell in the Wronke prison to a friend suggesting he read one of Shaw 's plays , which she had just finished . At first she had not liked it because of " loud paradoxes and absurdities . " She had read the few serious passages with mixed feelings : " . . . relief to learn , finally , the true thoughts and intentions of the writer , dislike for the insipid moralizing statements . It is only at the end that one discovers that these serious passages were all in jest and that Shaw simply laughs at the entire world , at the reader and even at himself as if to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taking seriously . . . . As I read the final scene I laughed and laughed out loud ? I was all alone in the cell and 11 was going on midnight . " CESI KELLINGER Chambersburg , Pa . Arrangement To the Editor : Richard Kluger 's review of William Targ 's " indecent Pleasures " ( Nov. 9 ) has this sentence : " Did he not feel a little unethical in stealing Marchette Chute away from Dutton to write that book on Shakespeare 's plots ? " There was nothing to feel unethical about , because the arrangement had Dutton 's full approval . Anything else would have been inconceivable to me . Back in 1941 , Dutton accepted my first adult book after 40 publishers had turned it down , and , ever since , there has been between us an atmosphere of mutual trust , which has meant ' a great deal to me . My next book , after the one which Mr. Targ did not steal , had the following dedication : " To Elliott Macrae , who for eighteen years has been , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York City Mon tale To the Editor : Apropos of Robert Bly 's Guest Word ( Nov. 9 ) it may interest Times readers to know that in 1962 the Quarterly Review of Literature published an all-Montale issue . It included , with the Italian , translations of Montale 's poems by James Merrill , Robert Lowell , John Frederick Nims , Irma Brandeis , Ben Belitt , Cid Corman and others . The number also contained essays on Montale by Glauco Cambon ? and Sergio Solmi and translations of Montale 's stories and prose pieces . The issue is still available ( QRL , 26 Haslet Ave. , Princeton , N.J. 08540 , $5 ) and will be reprinted in the forthcoming QRL critical volume of its 30th Anniversary Retrospective Issues . RENEE WEISS Princeton , N. J.                     