@@730988

txt UNITED STATES Atty . James R. Thompson will represent the federal government in the investigation of news leaks in the case involving Vice President Agnew . This was announced simultaneously by the Justice Department in Washington and by Thompson here , after reports of a new assignment for Thompson began leaking from the Justice Department yesterday afternoon . Atty . Gen. Elliott Richardson asked Thompson to take on the temporary assignment because many of the Justice Department lawyers in Washington and nearby Baltimore are potential suspects in the news leak case . Vice President Agnew , under investigation by the Justice Department in a political kickback case , has accused the department of trying to destroy his reputation by leaking false information to favored members of the news media . THE CASE , in which Agnew allegedly has been implicated , is being handled by George Beall , the U. S. Attorney in Baltimore , in an investigation of political corruption in Maryland while Agnew was governor . Thompson , considered one of the department 's top prosecutors and an expert on corruption by public officials , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Beall . Thompson will confer tomorrow in Washington with Richardson and others , including Henry Petersen , chief of the department 's Criminal Division , who has been severely criticized by Agnew . Thompson will return to Chicago Sunday for a party at his new North Side home and then return to Washington for the duration of his assignment . Tho no one is certain h o w long the assignment will last , Thompson said he expects to return here as U. S. attorney . The politically ambitious Thompson has been frequently mentioned as a potential Republican candidate for mayor in 1975 . As U. S. attorney here Thompson has won a reputation as a courageous prosecutor , winning convictions against politicians such as former Gov . Otto Kerner and former County Clerk Edward J. Barrett . TIOMPSON received his new assignment from Richardson as he was awaiting a jury 's verdict in one of his major cases  --  the shakedown trial of Capt . Clarence Braasch and 22 other Chicago policemen . One ** first tasks in his new assignment will be to review the government 's answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Judge Walter Hoffman of Federal District Court by Monday . Thompson will supervise the taking of depositions next week and will argue the government 's case at hearings before Judge Hoffman next Friday and Saturday . Agnew 's charges of character assassination by news leak became a legal matter as the result of a lawsuit filed by Agnew against the Justice Department .                     