@@729330

txt Blaming state budget cuts , Mayor Lindsay rejected yesterday the recommendations of a special impasse panel for settlement of the contract disputes with the city 's policemen , firemen and sanitation men . " The budget adopted early today by the controlling state legislative leadership worsens the city 's fiscal crisis , " the Mayor said in a statement . " It has , reduced even further the city 's financial capabilites . The city at this time has only one choice . We must adhere strictly to our labor policy guidelines . " Under these conditions the city can not possibly finance a settlement based on the mediators ' recommendations . Therefore , the city must reject the panel 's recommendations . " Suggestions Reviewed Mayor Lindsay conferred during the afternoon with his Labor Policy Committee and the Bureau of the Budget staff . His office announced that he had thoroughly reviewed the impasse panel 's recommendations " in the light of a preliminary analysis " of the state budget approved in Albany ' early yesterday morning . The Labor Policy Committee advised the Mayor to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charged that the state budget reductions " cut the throats of the cities . " The Republican leaders in Albany , he said , " made a deal with the right-wing Republican legislators and the Conservative party . " " The battle Is not over , " he insisted . He asked his aides to try to round up citizen support for protests to individual legislators that might result in modifications . The city 's rejection of the // impasse panel 's recommenda- ' tions was another in the se- , ries of setbacks this week in efforts to resolve the drawn out disputes . The Uniformed Sanitationmen 's Association rejected the recommendations on Wednesday . The Uniformed Firefighters Association had not formally rejected them , but Michael J. Maye , president of the firemen , made it clear that his union was not satisfied with the proposals . Only the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association has not made public its position on the panel 's proposals , but a spokesman said that Edward J. Kiernan , P.B.A. president , would discuss the union 's view at a news conference at 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was no immediate comment from Mr. Maye regarding the Mayor 's rejection of the recommendations , the first time since the establishment of the Office of Collective Bargaining that the city had rejected the formal proposals of an impasse panel . John J. DeLury , president of the sanitationmen , said that he did not consider the city 's rejection surprising in view of the indicated attitudes of the uniformed groups toward the recommendations . " Now , " he said , " perhaps we can get together and wrap it up . " He did not explain further how he thought this could be done . Mayor Lindsay 's assertion that the city must adhere strictly to the labor policy guidelines apparently referred to those established last December . The Mayor 's committee had recommended that no salary increase be granted except to offset the cost of inflation or to compensate for increased worker productivity . In setting up the guidelines , the committee also urged that the line be held on pensions , that parity clauses in contracts be eliminated and that contracts run for at least three years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond those guidelines in some respects . It had recommended that firemen , patrolmen and sanitationmen be granted full pay pensions after 40 years service . The recommendations also called for a 27-month contract that would give firemen and patrolmen a $1,900 pay increase , in three increments , on top of a new salary base of 12,150 . This would have raised the salary of patrolmen and firemen to $14,050 as of Jan. 1 , 1973 . For sanitationmen the recommended pay increase , also in three increments , was $1,710 on top of a new base salary of $$10,951 . This would have raised sanitationmen 's pay to $12,661 as of Jan. 1 , 1973 . The panel 's report did specify that new contracts contain no provision for the establishment or maintenance of a parity relationship with the salaries o. any other employe group . Panel members and officials of the Office of Collective Bargaining had been hopeful that the recommendations would provide the basis for final settlement of the city 's thorny disputes with the three services . But optimism about the city 's willingness to go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sanitationmen made it clear that they were unwilling to go along with the panel 's proposals . Budget Talks Put Off Mayor Lindsay , faced with the critical state budget cuts , canceled a meeting to work on the city 's own 1971.72 budget in favor of a session with Richard Brown , his legislative lobbyist , Budget Director Ed. ward K. Hamilton and other officials to assess the specific effects of the Albany actions . Gordon Chase , the Health Services Administrator , issued a statement saying he was " shocked and dismayed " at a reported promise by Governor Rockefeller to suspend state payments for abortions under the Medicaid program for 90 days pending passage of a bill that would bar these payments permanently . " The effect of this bill is not to deny the right of abortions to everyone , a right given by the State Legislature last year , but just to deny the right to women who can not pay for them , " Mr. Chase said . Mr. Lindsay said his harsh words about the Republicans who made the budget deal should not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shut out of the negotiations . " This is not to say that the minority acted like great statesmen , " Mr. Lindsay said . By refusing to consider increases in the sales tax and by insisting that the Republicans come to them , he said , the Democrats had lessened the possibility of cooperation . Mr. Lindsay said " the most severe blow " in the budget was a decision by the state not to return to localities the 21 per cent of state income tax payments that had been promised . " This was a breach of faith , " he said , " in political terms . " While the fiscal impact of welfare changes might not be extreme , " he said , the impact in human terms is " tragic . " He expressed alarm at cuts in higher education and health .                     