@@728416

txt A state of emergency was declared at Cook County hospital last night because of " critical shortages of personnel , space , and facilities . " Dr. Robert J. Freeark , hospital director , announced the emergency situation at 8 p. m. , and ordered that only patients in " life-threatening " emergency conditions be admitted to the hospital . Dr. Freeark , who cut short an Arizona vacation to return to the hospital yesterday , made the following announcement to the hospital staff : " Effective immediately , all elective surgery will be canceled and admission to adult medical and surgical wards will be limited to emergencies only . For the present time , children under 15 years of age can be accommodated . Urges Staff Efforts " Every possible effort should be made to provide care to those patients who can not be accommodated in the hospital. , This policy will remain in effect until critical shortages of personnel , space , and facilities can be remedied . " Ten minutes later police communications notified all policemen in the city to divert accident and injury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told THE TRIBUNE that the hospital is filled to over capacity , with more than 2,150 beds occupied . He said he hopes the emergency will be eased by Monday . He explained the p a ti ent level should be reduced to 1,890 . Nurses Are Needed " Eighteen hundred is the breaking point , " Freeark said . " With today 's load we are broken both physically and spiritually . " Dr. Freeark said the hospital was operating with about onethird as many registered and licensed practical nurses as it needs . The hospital employs GOB registered nurses and 409 practical nurses . One nurse said that under existing conditions quality care could not be provided . She said she and one assistant are responsible for a 69-bed ward . While some nurses have quit because of the working conditints , this nurse said she would six/ . " They need me here , " she said . " This is where the patients are sickest . " Beds in Halls Each of the hospital 's 60 wards was reported filled with extra beds and beds were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beds in a Ward . A spokesman said there were 112 interns on duty in the hospital when there should be 144 . Dr. Freeark said other hospitals in the city should absorb some of County hospital 's patients . " After all , they are working at 100 per cent capacity and we are working at 300 per cent , " he said .                     