@@730551

txt The top White House economist conceded today that a tax increase would be inevitable next year except for a single " critical factor . " This is President Nixon 's " determination " that expenditures not be permitted to expand beyond the $250 billion liMit he has pledged for the current fiscal year , said Herbert Stein , chairman of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers . " We are convinced he can do this , will do this , and furthermore that the American public expects him to do this , " Stein said . Cites Firm Resolve Appearing on a television in ' terview program , Stein was asked bow Nixon administratiOn economists can remain so sure a tax increase will be avoided in 1973 when practically all independent experts , including Stein 's predecessor as CEA chief , Paul McCracken , have said they frankly doubt it . Stein indicated that beyond Nixon 's firm personal resolve there is not much else to assure a check on spiraling new federal costs . " Anyone who looks at the built-in pressures of expenditures in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase will be necessary , " he allowed . However , Stein called it " essential " to keep the budget down to the $250 billion range to maintain a " strong , noninflatlonary recovery . " We want a " strong , steady growth , " he said , and predicted the economy will gain " as much next year as ikhas this year . " Stein said the President has not yet made a decision on whet he r to seek authority from Congress to extend the Phase 2 controls past April 30 , when the law expires . He refused to speculate yet on the future of controls because he said " all the consequences " of the program are not yet know . Marina Whitman , Stein 's associate on the CEA , blamed demand plus a series of natural disasters for the conspicious rise in food prices this year . But contrary to the popular notion , they have only gone up at an aggregate annual rate in 1972 of less than 5 per cent , she noted . , Two-Fold Method Seen Asked on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same , she replied : " I ca n't see any sudden change that will send food prices shooting upward . " Altho Stein did not discuss it , a two-fold method was expected to be employed by Nixon to hold down expenditures that are not built into the budget , such as payroll and interest on the national debt . First , he would rule out expenditures for new programs initiated by the executive branch . Second , he would simply not spend  --  or would impound  --  funds that were ; appropriated by Congress .                     