@@729855

txt President Nixon today told Pakistan 's Deputy Prime Min- ' ister and Foreign Minister , Zulfikar Ali Bhutto , that bigpower cooperation would be needed to prevent further outbreaks of war on . the subcontinent . Mr. Bhutto , who is leaving shortly for Pakistan to help in the formation of a new civilian government , met with the President for about 25 minutes at the White House . Earlier , he had met for 45 minutes with Secretary of State William P. Rogers . Ronald L. Ziegler , the White House press secretary , said that Mr. Nixon had told Mr. Bhutto that the " first requirement " in the wake of the war between India and Pakistan was to " establish confidence that the people there can live in security . " " This will require the cooperation of major powers as well as with those in the region , " Mr. Nixon was reported to have said . This was a rererence to the Administration 's concern over the failure of the Soviet Union to join with the United States in seeking to head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which , the Administration charges , led to the actual war . Mr. Ziegler said that he ex pected Mr. Nixon to make this matter a principal subject in his meetings with Soviet leaders next May . The Administration indicated yesterday that Mr. Nixon hadl sent several urgent messages to Premier Aleksei N. Kosygin during the height of the IndianPakistani crisis , calling on the Russians to press India not to expand the war into West Pakistan . Mr. Ziegler said that Mr. Nixon had told Mr. Bhutto of his continuing concern that " developments In South Asia in recent weeks set back severely efforts to bring greater stability to South Asia and to the world . " The two leaders , Mr. Ziegler said , reviewed the present situation following yesterday 's cease-fire in West Pakistan and the steps still needed to restore order . The President stressed the United States determination within the limits of its resources to cooperate to bring stability , peace and progress to South Asia , " Mr. Ziegler said . The President presumably is also concerned about China 's strong support of Pakistan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the leading civilian figure in West Pakistan , supported efforts for the ceasefire with India and has indicated that he would be willing to negotiate a permanent settlement with the Bengali insurgents as well as with the Government of India . Pakistani Embassy officials said that Mr. Bhutto had been asked to return to his country last night in the wake of reports of political instability there . This followed the announcement by President Agha Mohammad Yahya Khan that he had decided to agree to a cease-fire in the West . Earlier , General Yahya had vowed to fight on after the loss of East Pakistan . The White House spokesman , as lie did yesterday , refused to answer specific questions about further United States aid to the subcontinent or about the American attitude on various political problems . But Mr. Ziegler did say that there was no plan at this time for the United States to extend formal recognition to Bangladesh , or Bengal Nation as the Bengali separatists refer to the East . American attitude on various political prolems . But Mr. Ziegler did say that there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extend formal recognition to Bangladesh , or Bengal Nation as the Bengali separatists refer to the East , After his talks with Mr. Nixon and Mr. Rogers , Mr. Bhutto said at a crowded news conference at his Embassy that he had told the President of his belief that India 's triumph in East Pakistan was due solely to the Soviet Union 's placing its " full might and power " behind India . " The Soviet Union thinks she has reversed Cuba at the expense of Pakistan , " he said , referring to the crisis of 1962 when Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev ordered Soviet missiles out of Cuba after pressure from President Kennedy , " For 10 years , the Soviet Union has been trying to regain its prestige in the third world , " Mr. Bhutto said . " Now the Soviet Union has tried to reverse Cuba in the subcontinent and to prove to everyone that she is the leader of the third world . " Mr. Bhutto had warm words both for the United States , which had publicly attacked the Indian Government for starting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Asks a United Pakistan As he had done in other meetings with the press in the United States , Mr. Bhutto refused to acknowledge the dismemberment of East Pakistan . He called for a permanent political solution that would keep Pakistan united . But he had only contempt for India , particularly for what he called India 's effort to humiliate Pakistan by staging the public surrender in Dacca . Mr. Bhutto warned that if India thought she could " rub Pakistan 's nose in the ground , " there would be no settlement . " The subcontinent will be plunged into a blood bath , " he said . He avoided questions about the domestic political situation in Pakistan except to repeat his criticism of the military rule , which , he said , denied the people a voice . He said that after returning to Pakistan , he hopes to tour the country to drum up support for the civilian government he hopes to lead .                     