@@728770

txt Unrest expects to get down to specifics in a report for President Nixon . His mandate to the nine-member group appointed June 13 after a troubled spring was duly broad . It ranged from causes and solutions to an assessment of why orderly procedures for dissent break down , and how they can be safeguarded . The schedule is not leisurely . As William W. Scranton , commission chairman and former governor of Pennsylvania , says , it is not such as to produce " the ultimate Ph.D . " But he insists that the commission will " tell it like it is " in forceful language that defies dust gathering . In his view , the fact that it will be directed to the President , rather than to the general public , increases the pressure possibilities for its implementation . Assessments run the gamut As a start on its chore , the group has just finished three days of public hearings in a Senate committee room . It will hold more this coming Thursday and Friday . Before the summer is over the group will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where students were shot last May by the National Guard and police , respectively . The commission 's first group of witnesses included senators , students , college presidents , and law-enforcement officials . Their assessments of what was wrong ran the gamut . // By R. Norman Matheny , staff photographer Eva Jefferson , Northwestern University student body president A. warning about ' dynamite conclusions ' with no follow-up *Campus probers bump into war , issue // Many hammered home the Vietnam war as the overriding , if not only , cause of dissent . Cambodia hit students " like a thunderbolt , " commented Robben W. Fleming , president of the University of Michigan . " I urge this commission not to back away from its own confrontation with the issue of the war , " insisted Sen. Edward M. Kennedy ( D ) of Massachusetts . It could be that the commission will meet that issue head on ? Mr. Scranton has hinted as much  --  but it remains to be seen . Racism and the plight of the poor were also cited as factors in campus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the attack . Climate of intolerance seen And , in the course of it all , the Nixon-Agnew administration was singled out . " Its crude attacks on dissenters have created a climate of intolerance and repression , " said Otis Cochrane , president of the Black American Law Students Association and a Yale student . Miss Eva Jefferson , student body president at Northwestern University ( who stressed several times that " I do n't envy you people at all , having to come up with a solution , " ) commented that the administration " radicalizes people by having commissions like this come up with dynamite conclusions , but nothing is done to follow them up . " Some , including Mr. Fleming and Dr. Granville Sawyer , president of Texas Southern University , urged commission members to consider the need for increased financial assistance to students . Some of the witnesses argued for consideration of restructuring the university pattern . Arguing that much dissent on campus stems basically from the boredom of bright students , S. I. Hayakawa , president of San Francisco State College , suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rankin , vice-president of the Danforth Foundation , pointed to the high proportion of radical and reformist students at Antioch and asked commission members to . consider the fact that the campus was closed peacefully following negotiations between administrators and students . Blending proposed He suggests that the alternate work-study terms that are the pattern there blend the academic and the theoretical and increase the maturity and improve the quality of judgment among Antioch students . Time and again during the three days of testimony , as various theories were projected , the question of mental attitude arose . Some spoke of a need for tolerance . Steven Kelman , the recent graduate who authored " Push Comes to Shove " and now national president of the Young People 's Socialist League , called for more tolerance of " Middle America " on the part of students . Attitude criticized " Most students take a snobbish , arrogant , and elitist attitude toward ordinary citizens , " he said , " I think students are n't idealistic enough , and their compassion is too selective . " He argues that students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " romantic , choice of causes , such as racism or Vietnam , and would win more by picking more " mundane " issues with broader direct appeal , such as inflation or unemployment . Adults came in for some sharp criticism from Dr. Nathan Pusey , president of Harvard University . Dr. Pusey left his vacation to testify before the group . He stressed that he had made five or six other public statements on student unrest in recent times . " All of us , young and old , have forgotten that young people are young , " he said . Dr. Pusey accused many adults of indiscriminately assuming young people have some very wise and very fresh insight by ' reason of their age . He said it now is important to adults to look more like young people in their dress and be thought well of by them . Young people , on the other hand , care only what their contemporaries think of them , he said . He called on the young to be more discriminating among themselves and to pass judgment no more on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force ' " There is a restorative force in the student generation  --  the realization that there are just as many rascals in their generation as in any other , just as many self-seekers , " he said . Mr. Scranton at several points stressed he , would welcome any information and sub -- mission of names of possible witnesses . At one point he allowed an unscheduled speaker , , to take the floor . Hopes are high for this commission 's report . Mr. Rankin suggested aloud that the group , , should issue a message " so precise and so. , insistent that it can not be ignored . " But while commission members sounded optimistic , even they caution that they can only do so much .                     