@@729746

txt Mounting urban and rural terrorism is causing serious concern in Mexican Government circles here . Long considered one of Latin America 's most stable lands , Mexico in the past year has been hit by a wave of violence more typical of other parts ' of the hemisphere . The implications of this stepped up terrorism are obvious and they worry government officials . The surging wave of terrorism comes at a time when Mexico is facing serious domestic economic and social problems , particularly as they relate to the countryside where poverty conditions remain much as they were decades ago despite government promises over the years to make headway in correcting the conditions . Students and many young people in Mexico are simply not satisfied with government promises in this area ? and their attitude helps fuel the call for change in Mexico and gives at least some support to the terrorist cause . // *Mexico fights urban and rural terrorists of many faces // One government source said this week that there was indeed " some truth to the reports of students arming themselves , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in locating the arms . The Mexican Government has long sought to downplay the reports of terrorism . But President Luis Echeverria Alvarez since taking office has reversed government handling of news on terrorism somewhat by openly admitting that a guerrilla movement exists in Mexico . What is more , Mexico is also quietly beefing up its police and Army intelligence units  --  a tacit admission of how seriously it views the present situation . Increased surveillance of activities of personnel in both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies has also been noted . Five Soviet Em bassy officials were deported from Mexico last March after the Mexican Government began a roundup of Mexican students who had studied in Moscow and allegedly received , guerrilla training in North Korea . More students were arrested last month in connection with the same affair . Whether the Soviet and Cuban Embassies are in contact with the various guerrilla and terrorist groups can only be speculated about , but one Mexican official deeply involved in the student arrests of last spring and this fall said , " I leave it to your active imagination . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the students that would involve terrorist activities , but both embassies , like the United States Embassy , maintain a wide variety of cultural activities here , attracting hundreds of sudents to their facilities . Much of the most recent terrorist activity is laid at the doorstep of the leftist Movimiento Armada Revolucionario ( MAR ) , a group of young Mexicans believed to have ties with the Soviet Union and Cuba . But there are at least half a dozen identifiable groups operating in Mexico and all have committed acts of terrorism in recent months . Garrisons attacked Attacks on government police and military garrisons in the countryside are commonplace . Bank robberies now are more frequent than at any time in the past 25 years . Raids on military arsenals by bands of terrorists have also taken place although most have been unsuccessful . Yet one such raid netted the terrorists hundreds of weapons and considerable quantities of ammunition , according to a highly placed Mexican Government official . To counter the increase of terrorism , government surveillance of highways , airports , and traditional opposition sites has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has netted as many as 100 suspected terrorists in recent months , has not been able to lower the number of terrorist incidents . On the contrary , there is general agreement that the incidents are increasing . Not all of them are reported in the press , partly due to government efforts to keep some of the information from being made public and partly because many of the incidents occur in isolated , mountainous areas of Mexico far from established lines of communication . One such area is in the rugged hill and mountain country of the State of Guerrero where rural banditry has long been a way of life . Guerrillas in this state , which incidentally includes Mexico 's important beach resort of Acupulco , have kept Army units at bay for five years . Much of the activity in Guerrero is not generally reported . It is widely felt here that the guerrillas in Guerrero , however , do not necessarily espouse as sharply defined an ideological line as do the urban terrorists who have been getting much attention recently . During the past week , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two of Mexico 's major provincial cities , taking nearly $100,000 . They also carried off a raid on a telegraph office in Mexico City over the past weekend , disrupting some service for several hours . Perhaps the most spectacular effort by the terrorists was the kidnap ransom of Julio Hirshfeld Almada , director general of airports in Mexico and a close friend of President Echeverria . Activity unreported Mr. Hirshfeld was held for two days before the family ransomed him for nearly $250,000 . To date , police have not been able to make much progress in locating the ' kidnappers . MAR claims credit for the kidnapping , as well as other terrorist acts including the bank holdups last week . So far as is known , MAR has not been accussed of the attack on the telegraph office .                     