@@734439

txt Letters ROBERT L. STOCKERERIC WOLLMANINGRID EISENSTADTEREUGENE H. ZAGAT JR.LILLIAN RO ... pg . 22 Letters If Willie Mays Is n't Good Enough for Baseball . . To the Editor : With increasing regularity , Bowie Kuhn dons his oracle 's robes , climbs the sacred mount and listens for the Word . Having heard it , he descends once more to our mortal level with the proclamation that someone or something is NITBIOB ? not in the best interest of baseball . Aside from D.O.M . ( disrespecting one 's mother ) , that is the most serious nonlegal stigma a public figure can have . ( Even Richard Nixon stayed on the right side of those two , regardless of whatever else he did or did n't do . ) However , so many people seem to be failing lately that perhaps it is time Bowie shared with us just who or what exactly is this baseball in whose best interest we should always act . Certainly it ca n't be that little , white , rounded thing that pitchers throw , batters try to hit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on top of a mountain with a baseball in his hand expecting it to speak to him is a bit too ridiculous even for him . Nor can it be the game itself . The owners and Bowie himself monkey with that regularly . Note the lower When the P.B.A. Needs a Scapegoat To the Editor : Samuel DeMilia 's Nov. 2 letter regarding New York City 's auxiliary police is only the most recent P.B.A. attack on an important 28-year-program of citizen involvement in this city . For reasons known only to the police union , the P.B.A. has consistently used the auxiliary police as a scapegoat for labor problem faced by its members , from the budget cuts of 1975 to the fight against one-man radio cars . Each time , the city administration , regardless of the mayor in office , has defended the auxiliary force and refuted the P.B.A. 's accusations . While the P.B.A. solicits private funds for its causes and calls for public support , it rejects the aid and backing of thousands willing to serve along with the police in making New York a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Yorkers who are proud of and who support their bluecoats , Mr. DeMilia prefers a citizenry with so little regard for its police that it would avoid enrolling in the auxiliary police . New York City 's auxiliary police officers have a distinguished record of service and sacrifice , dating back to 1951 . Many New Yorkers , including our incumbent Mayor , have expressed a high regard for these citizens . It ill behooves Mr. DeMilia ( as it did Mr. Weaving and Mr. , both former P.B.A. heads ) to criticize the motives or actions of those who as citizens and taxpayers morally and financially support the Police Department . ERIC WDLLMAN Brooklyn , Nov. 3 , 1979 In the Public Interest To the Editor : In a Nov. 1 ad , the Mobil Corporation asks what a public-interest group is . The answer is simple : A public-interest group is a group of people working for something other than profit . The public interest groups that concern themselves with the energy industry devote their not-for-profit attentions to such matters as singlehulled supertankers , sloppy nuclear safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at fault lines and similar issues that often translate into energy industry profit that is not in the best interest of the public . INGRID EISENSTADTER No , there 's nothing sacred about the rules . Could it be the owners ? Is Bowie trying to protect their best interest ? Whither Atom Waste ? To the Editor : In a Nov. 1 news article , The New York Times reported that Governor Richard W. Riley of South Caroline ? has ordered a 50 percent reduction in the dumping of " low-level nuclear waste " in his state and that the only other dump sites in the United States have already been shut . As a matter of curiosity , what is " low-level nuclear waste " and how is the country to dispose of the stuff if 491h states refuse to permit its disposal within their borders ? F.DGFNF . H. ZAGAT JR . New York , Nov. 1 , 1979 To the Editor : It was heartening to witness all the forces that went to save Brooklyn Jewish Hospital . Interesting , too , that in the final act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rescue the hospital because it serves people who have no medical coverage and no means to pay their bills . This was a commendable and deserved act by the Government , in keeping with The Times 's recently states position that the Federal Government , not the city , should assume the medical costs of the poor . One strange phenomenon , however : In all the years that the Health and Hospitals Corporation has been under pressure to close municipal hospitals , this issue was never brought to the fore . The City of New York pays over $200 million annually to cover the costs of care for the indigent in municipal hospitals and clinics . This is almost half the city 's total tax levy expenditures in the entire municipal hospital system . Yet while the Mayor and many others clamored for the closing of municipal hospitals , ostensibly to save $30 million a year , they never raised the thought of direct U.S. participation . No voluntary hospitals match the number of poor served by municipal hospitals , nor the high proportion of patients who are unable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was not until a voluntary hospital faced closing that Washington was called upon . The Mayor 's current plan to close four municipal hospitals has run into difficulty because of public realization that too many of the patients these hospitals serve will have no alternative care available . As future attempts are made to close or give away municipal hospiWell , if he is , I would n't Want to be the one who tried to explain that to Charles 0 . Finley , or George Steinbrenner , or even Ray Kroc . If it were the coaches and players , Bowie would long ago have championed free agency . At the very least , Moses-like , he would have gathered the old Oakland A 's around him and demanded that Pharaoh Charlie " let my people go ! " rather than blocking that freedom with one of his NITBIOB rulings . Which leaves us , the fans . After all , we are always hearing that if there were no fans there would be no game . But when is the last time that Bowie asked you what was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those select representative groups like the ones used by the TV ratings services . But in that case we would be getting proclamations like " Selling key players for cash alone has a 63.7 NITBIOB rating . " No , it 's none of those , individually or collectively . So it would seem that baseball is simply an abstract essence in whose eyes many of us mere mortals are not sufficiently perfect . And I could live with that . But now baseball has the nerve to tell us that Willie Mays is NITBIOB ? No way , baseball , whoever you are ! I 'd sooner believe that Jimmy Carter and Teddy Kennedy are guilty of D.O.M . It 's about time that all of us ? owners , coaches and players , sports writers , announcers and fans ? join together and tell Bowie to go right back up that mount and tell ole baseball that we 've had it . If Willie Mays is n't good enough for baseball , let 's change the name of the game and call it Maysball . After all , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him anyway . And while we 're at it , let 's get a new oracle too . ROBERT L. STOCKER Mountain Lakes , N.J. , Nov. 2 , 1979 tals , let us remember that now a precedent has rightly been established for the Federal Government to assume a share of the costs . Also that those who claimed there are no alternatives to closing hospitals have been less than objective in assessing the needs of the city and in exploring the resources available to fulfill the role of the Health and Hospitals Corporation . LILLIAN ROBERTS Associate Director , District Council 37 American Federation of State , County and Municipal Employees New York , Oct. 31 , 1979 To Stop Useless Mail To the Editor : A letter you published on Oct. 18 raised an interesting point regarding unsolicited mail . The writer suggested that the recipient was forced to subsidize corporate waste . Freedom of choice is always expensive ; only in a managed economy will there be no waste . However , a person who does not want to receive advertising mail need only write the Mail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York City and ask to have his or her name removed from the mailing lists . Within three months his incoming mail will be reduced by more than half : The letter contains one important error : it claims that commercial bulk mailers do not pat ' a fair share of the Postal Service 's costs . If the writer will check this statement , he will find that not only does third-class mail pay its own way , it creates a profit for the Postal Service , which is used to reduce losses on other types of service . ANNE P. WERNER Washington , Oct. 23 , 1979 Federal Alternative to Hospital Closings King Hassan Should Get No U.S. Arms for His Saharan War To the Editor : In his Oct. 25 column , " The Road to Morocco , " William Safire seems to be suggesting that there is an anomaly in my strong support for Israel on the one hand and my open opposition to the sale of arms to Morocco on the other . According to Mr. Satire , Morocco has been a supporter of President Sadat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Furthermore , Mr. Satire says , Saudi Arabia is strongly in favor of our providing military assistance to Morocco . Therefore , he argues , we should be responsive to King Hassan 's request for American military support in the war Morocco is now waging in the Western Sahara . Morocco , to be sure , has generally been considered one of the more moderate Arab countries . But Mr. Safire blithely ignores the fact that Morocco has joined all the other hard-line Arab states in denouncing the peace treaty between Israel and Egypt . He also neglects to mention Morocco 's decision , in accordance with the resolution adopted at the Baghdad Summit in July , to sever diplomatic relations with Egypt . In any case , I fail to understand how my opposition to supplying offensive arms to a country which sent three combat brigades to participate in the Arab attack on the Israelis in 1973 is in any way incompatible with my unswerving and unshakable commitment to the survival and security of Israel . To accuse me of " aligning " myself with anti-Israeli elements in the third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American arms to an Arab country at the request of Saudi Arabia ( hardly one of Israel 's best friends in the region ) , is patently abour willingness to provide Morocco with offensive military equipment for use in the Western Sahara is a litmus test of our willingness to help friends in need . While there may be a few nations like Saudi Arabia who would like to see Morocco prevail militarily , the overwhelming majority of countries in Africa and elsewhere ( including Spain , the former colonizer of the Sahara ) support the right of the people of the Western Sahara to determine their own future and are opposed to the sale of American arms to Morocco for use in the Saharan conflict . Mr. Satire casually assumes that , once supplied with armed reconnaisance aircraft and attack helicopters , Morocco will see fit to negotiate a settlement of the conflict in good faith . My own conversations with King Hassan , during the course of a fact-finding mission to the region two months ago , left me convinced that he looks to the supply of such weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Polisario . If the King really believes these arms will enable him to win a military victory , it would seem fairly obvious that he will be even less likely to enter into meaningful negotiations than he has been in the past . To the extent that Morocco has previously been helpful to American interests in the region , I believe we do have an obligation to be sympathetic and supportive of Morocco 's legitimate security needs . I have no problem with the sale of American arms for the defense of Morocco itself . But I do object to the sale of counterinsurgency military equipment to defend an act of territorial annexation which has not been recognized by a single country in the world . ( Rep. ) STEPHEN J. SOLARZ Chairman , House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa Washington , Nov. 1 , 1979                     