@@729805

txt The Pay Board voted , 10 to 3 , today to permit the first year provisions of the national soft coal agreement to go into effect . The first year increase was variously estimated at 15.8 per cent and 16.8 per cent . The board issued a statement that it found the first year provisions " not unreasonably inconsistent with the criteria adopted by the board . " Altho two public members ' of the board abstained from the vote , all five joined in a statement opposing the increase , because the contract runs afoul of the board 's Phase 2 guideline of 51/2 per cent for annual pay . increases . " It is-highly improbable that the rate of inflation will be reduced sufficiently to meet the goal of the stabilization effort if increases of this magnitude are permitted , " the public members said . Part Goes to Welfare Fund Business members of the board , however , gave these reasons for allowing the increases : ? " Over 4 ? per cent of the increase in labor costs in the agreement are to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs and benefits which occurred prior to the freeze and could have been implemented at any time without conflicting with the more stringent rules in effect during the freeze period . ? " The balance of the increase , approximately 11 per cent , is permissible for the coal industry in 1971 in the light of the equitable position of the employes involved , the complexities of their work , the imperative ' need of the industry to expand and attract new employes into its work force .. . " The business members insisted that the decision " does not constitute a modification of the general pay standard previously announced . " Silent on Other 2 Years The Pay Board did not rule on the other two years of the labor contract , which was signed and ratified last Saturday just 15 minutes before the 90-day freeze ended and Phase 2 began . A board spokesman explained that the board would not consider the final two years of the contract until after the first year ends . Both sides in the 48-day soft coal strike had been optimistic that their new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the board noted that the contract had been negotiated during the freeze and was concluded after Nov. 8 when the general policies governing pay adjustments were announced by the board . " We , therefore , believe that the 1971 bituminous coal contract is not in compliance with the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970 , as amended , and should have been modified in order to limit the first-year increase in compensation per man hour to 12.5 per cent , " they said . W. A. Tony Boyle , president of the United Mine Workers of America , issued a statement saying the entire threeyear contract is binding since the board 's jurisdiction expires next April 3 . " We are therefore c a 11 in g upon all UMWA members to return to work without delay so that they may reap the benefits of the new agreement , " Boyle said . Widens Retroactive Rule The Pay Board issued policy decisions that widened the definition of allowable retroactive pay , possibly affecting teachers ' pay and the recentlysigned railroad signalmen 's contract . The board dealt specifically with what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Pay Board decision regarding pay increase for miners . relationships , " which involve informal pay practices that allow workers to get pay raises if a pattern-setting boost is won by other workers in the same industry . The board noted in its decision that " there was no vote to specifically exclude teachers from today 's decision on retroactivity . " It advised employers who believe they meet the board 's standards for retroactivity to file requests for board approval with their local Internal Revenue Service office , beginning Nov. 29 . New Inequity Bases In other decisions , the board held that " severe inequity " also existed in the following circumstances and that retroactivity applied : ? Where " employes who would have become eligible for n ! unit nr increased benefit during the freeze and who otherwise can not become eligible for the benefit . . . " ? Where " low wage employes who would have become eligible for a pay increase during the freeze and whose rate of pay prior to the freeze was $2 per hour or less . " Earlier today , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warned that the government may balk at granting price increases reflecting the full amount of labor costs which could be considered inflationary . Grayson had also noted that if the coal industry settlement is as high as the reported 15 to 17 per cent , " the commission will examine these labor costs very closely to determine whether companies will be allowed to increase prices proportionately . "                     