@@732808

txt A pledge of $20 million to the Metropolitan Museum for a communications center to make the world 's art more available to mass audiences has been made by Walter . H. Annenberg , former Ambassador to Britain and a Metropolitan trustee since 1974 . The center , whose funding commitment was described by Douglas Dillon , president of jhe Metropolitan , as " the most important in the museum 's history of 106 years , " will be headed by Thomas Hoving , who last week announced his retirement from the post of Metropolitan director effective Dec. 3i , 1977 . To be set up as a division of the Annenberg School of Communications , which also has branches at the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Southern California , the center marks the first joining of a school of communicational With a museum , a development that could have far-reaching implications for the educational role of museums . The center will use " the most advanced techniques of modern communications " ? films , television , tapes , publications , : slides , reproductions and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruling from the general public through ; bid students in film arts : It is also ; tit grant graduate degrees ht , rttttdcatiotts . It will occupy the major portion of what is known in the museum 's master plan as the Southwest Wing . The four-story structure , whose cost has been projected at $20 million , was designed , to house Western European and 20th-century exhibition galleries , but no funds had yet bean raised for its construction . Now slated for completion by 1980 , it will occupy the western half of the space atop the new underground parking garage on the Met 's south facade , adjacent to the Rockefeller wing now under constnic tion . The Southwest Wing 's construction will complete the museum 's $75 million capital building program . The wins . which extends west to the midpoint of the Lehman Wing , will not raise the issue of encroachment on Central Park , since it will occupy part of what was once the museum 's outdoor parking According to . Mr. Hoving , the center will not displacethe space intended for Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available for them , since the Annenberg pledge also provides for the building of a 40,000-square-foot glass-enclosed courtyard that will house on terraced levels a number of 18th- and 19th.century French sculptures as well as Western European galleries . Mr. Annenbem will also provide // the as yet undetermined operating expenses for the center , whose facilities will include offices for the staff , professors and students : seminar rooms , a 500-seat theater-in-the-round , editing and cutting rooms and so on , Access will he available from the parking garage and from a Central Park entrance , permitting the scheduling of screening and other events when the rest of the museum is closed . The 68-year-old art collector and patron , who is president of Triangle Publications Inc. , in Radnor , Pa. , could not be reached for comment yesterday . But in a statement accompanying announcement of the project , he said that his idea for it had been sparked by the " Civilisation " series of television programs done by the English art historian Lord Clark several years ago . Filming of Collections " I nourished the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could ultimately serve as a prototype to other such efforts , " he said , " until the whole range of human accomplishment in the fine arts could be brought together and made available for widespread dissemination . This splendid agreement with the Metropolitan Museum will , I 've no doubt , make this dream come true . " As one example of what the new center might do , Mr. Hoving cited the filming of art collections in museums throughout the world . He had already held " preliminary discussions " with the Louvre and the Russian Ministry of Culture about the possibility of such a venture , he said . As another example , he noted that discussions were being held with the Public Broadcasting Service for the Met to provide " a great film series on the entire story of Pompeii and Herculaneum , " the art-rich Roman cities destroyed by the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in A.D. 70 . " And , " he added , " we could do a film about one of the great museological problems , the conservation of paintings , made for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " He noted that the Metropolitan had had such an educational project as the center in mind for some years , and that in 1970 , on the museum 's centennial , it commissioned a report , " The Museum and Modern Communications . " ' The Entire World , - We were very keen to do something , but it came down to funding , " he said . When Mr. Annenberg joined the board in 1974 , Mr. Hoving showed him a film of the designer Charles Eames 's project for a Central Guide to the Collection and Orientation Hall at the Met , showing not only what the museum had but what it lacked . " Mr. Annenberg said we should go further than this , " he said , " that we should have a center that would reach out to the entire world , bring to the museum what we did n't have and then go out to many , many segments of the public . " The publisher felt that the Metropolitan would be a suitable location for such a center , Mr. Hoving added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worldwide contacts and entrees to most other countries of the world , and its resources other than works of art , such as slides , photographs and archival material . The new project , to be called the Fine Arts Center of the Annenberg School of Communications at the Metropolitan Museum of Art , will have an independent board of trustees , four of whom will be nominated by the Annenberg School of Communications and four by the museum , to which Mr. Hoving will report when he assumes his new post . He will thus , Ile said , he " completely divorced " from the running of the museum . A search committee will be appointed by trustees to find a new director for the museum . The initial planning team for the new Fine Arts Center will consist of Mr. Hoving , the office of Charles and Ray Eames . Peter Goldmark , communicntiotts consultant , and Kevin Roche/John Dinkeloo and Associates , the museum 's architects .                     