@@729094

txt The Chicago Board of Education yesterday gave parents a voice in the control of their neighborhood schools by approving a policy requiring an education council in each of the ritv 's 553 nnhlic schools The councils will recommend and vote on persons to fill principal vacancies , suggest curriculum changes and deal with school-community problems . At least 60 per cent of each council will be imposed of parents . Principals will be excluded from any leadership roles in the meetings . Will Hold Meeting Each principal will be required to notify parents and the school faculty of a public meeting he will hold to organize the council and determine how many voting members will be included . They may choose to let the existing PTA or other parent organization operate as the council . The new policy will " permit parents and school patrons to share in the process of arriving at decisions which affect local schools . " This is a departure from the previous policy in which school control was centralized in the downtown administrative staff . The Board of Education will still control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and union negotiations . Supt. James F. Redmond said the councils will be started immediately . More than a per cent of the schools already have some form of parent organization , he said . Will Decide Membership At the first meeting , parents will decide how many " outside civic groups and institutions " will be included as members . In the case of high school councils , the parents will determine if they want students to be included , he said . The board also approved a $600,000 contract with the Southwestern Cooperative Educational Laboratory , Albuquerque , N. M. , to evaluate the school system 's program for teaching pupils who do not speak English . In other action , Dr. Frank L. Mattox , an assistant superintendent in the Torrance , Cal. , schools , was appointed assistant superintendent for operation services . He will succeed Dr. Edwin A. Lederer , who retires next September .                     