@@728817

txt Chief Justice Warren E. Burger said today that delays in Federal courts had become so acute that the burden on the courts should be taken into consideration whenever reform legislation was proposed . In a nationally televised speech that was billed as the first " state of the judiciary " address by a Chief Justice , Mr. Burger took the unusual step of singling out potential areas of Federal legislation and warning against their enactment . As an example , he noted that there had been a number of proposals for new Federal legislation in the fields of antipollution and consumer class actions . He suggested that these issues might be left to the states to avoid further burdening the Federal courts . Mr. Burger 's most controversial recommendation was for the creation of a six-member united Press international Chief Justice Warren E. Burger speaking yesterday . Federal judicial council . It would be unusual under the Federal separation-of-powers system because each of the three branches of Government would appoint two of its members . The proposed judiciary council would tell Congress how pending legislation would likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utilize the courts better . Mr. Burger added a half-dozen // other recommendations , ranging from the creation of groups of state and Federal judges in an effort to reduce state-Federal friction to suggestions that efforts be made to reduce the growing number of appeals , improve corrections institutions and upgrade lawyers ' training . As an example of well-meant statutes that increase the courts ' burdens , Chief Justice Burger said that " people speak glibly of putting all the problems of pollution , of crowded cities , of consumer class actions and others in the Federal courts . " But he said the Federal courts are for a limited purpose , and " we should look more to state courts familiar with local conditions and local problems . " A class action proposal is now pending in Congress , where it has strong backing from liberal and consumer groups . It would permit suits to be brought in Federal court to collect damages for entire classes of persons who have been victimized by fraudulent advertising of companies or . by faulty goods . The Nixon Administration is also supporting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Burger also said that new rights for criminal defendants , although they represent " values higher than pure efficiency , " have also placed an increasing burden on the judicial branch . Criminal trials have become twice as long in the last decade because of new rights to hearings over confessions , lineup identifications and other points of evidence , Mr. Burger said . Free counsel for poor defendants and release without bail have encouraged defendants to delay their trials and to appeal their convictions , he added . Habeas corpus petitions in Federal courts by convicts in state prisons who are seeking to overturn their convictions rose from 89 in 1940 to 12,000 last year , Mr. Burger said . The Chief Justice 's theme was twofold , as follows : 1 . That the Federal judiciary must have more money , more judges and more modern administrative methods . 2 . That proposed changes in legal rights and procedures must be weighed for their impact on the courts . Mr. Burger said that the entire budget of the Federal judicial system was $128-million for last year while a single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Economic Opportunity , he said , was given a budget of $58-million last year to spend in providing legal services for the poor , but , he continued , no effort was made to allow for the impact upon the judicial system . of the expenditure of this money . The Chief Justice warned that procedural innovations could produce a drastic drop in the number of guilty pleas by criminal suspects . About 90 per cent of all suspects now plead guilty , he said , adding that if this percentage dropped to 80 per cent the number of judges , prosecutors and other court facilities would have to be doubled . Mr. Burger stressed his desire to eliminate the increasing court backlogs and trial delays . " If trials were promptly held and swiftly completed , and appeals were heard without delay , " he said , " the heated debates over preventive detention would probably disappear and subside . " The speech was delivered before about 2,500 lawyers at the opening assembly of the 93d annual American Bar Association convention , in the Powell Symphony Hall . Also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mitchell and Supreme Court Justices Potter Stewart and William 0 . Douglas . The introduction of Justice Douglas , who is the target of an impeachment campaign by conservatives in the House of Representatives , touched off a noisy and prolonged burst of applause . All major television and radio networks covered Mr. Burger 's 27-minute speech in full , either live or in delayed broadcasts . In introducing Chief Justice Burger , the A.B.A. 's president , Bernard G. Segal of Philadelhia , left no doubt that a strong effort was under way to transform the " state of the judiciary " occasion into on annual appearance by the Chief Justice before a joint session of Congress . Mr. Segal said that the association would urge Congress to adopt this idea " as soon as possible , " and that in the meantime the A.B.A. would host the Chief Justice 's annual speech at its annual convention .                     