@@729459

txt The entire U.S. economy holds its breath as the year 's most important labor-management bargaining heads into some stormy weather . Yet there are hopes for a peaceful settlement . About 350,000 steelworkers , represented by the United Steelworkers Union , face the nine major steel companies that employ them . Contracts covering the workers expire Aug. 1 . Normally , at this early stage , tough words are heard as each side sets up its own position for later bargaining . This year , the industry has been sounding especially urgent warnings that any settlement must take into account that the steel companies are challenged by low-cost imports . The union , the industry says , must not try for an " overreaching settlement . " Signalmen 's deal a signal The union , for its part , previously settled with the can industry for raises averaging $1.10 an hour , or 31 percent over three years , along with full cost-of-living and other gains . This is about the minimum it will settle for with steel companies . Recent congressional action in awarding an interim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steelworkers , since it fits into what the union would like as a first-year increase . The move displeased the steel industry 's chief negotiator , R. Heath Larry , on the other hand . Mr. Larry , vice-chairman of United States Steel Corporation , said he did not think it was Congress 's business to order wage boosts . // *Steel-strike outlook : Claim clouds gather // Mr. Larry made clear at the start of formal negotiations in Washington that the steel industry does not intend to base its negotiating decisions on " some very high increases " in other industries ? including the construction industry and rail and truck transportation ? which -- he said are not " directly challenged by imports made with lower wages . " Moreover , Mr. Larry said , the steel industry will not be influenced " by any other contracts . " Foreign threat stressed " The most serious problem we have in these negotiations is the future of the steel industry , " he said , referring specifically to the loss of a sizable part of the domestic steel market to foreign producers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equity ' for a union 's members may lie along a path quite different from that of playing the game of following the last leader  --  or trying to exceed him  --  when playing - such  --  a ? game  --  will  --  represtii nothing less than ... riding into the valley of economic death . " He appealed to the union negotiators to be more realistic and to avoid raising high expectations in the union 's rank and file . But I. W. Abel , president of the steelworkers union , and his fellow negotiators are hardly able to base bargaining strategy on hard realities . The union 's main goals are a " substantial " wage increase this year to make up for lost purchasing power through three years of inflation ; further increases in 1972 and ' 73 , probably linked to a productivity formula ; a full cost-of-living clause to protect wage gains from continuing price rises , perhaps with guaranteed minimum raises in each year , and increases in pensions , insurance , and other fringe areas . Frustration in ranks ' In Mr. Abel 's words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his ranks over " eco ? nomic stress and inflation " and over working conditions , and the union negotiators must settle only for satisfactory solutions to the workers ' problems . At the same time , he said , " We 're not just kids . We know economic facts of life . We know that unless a company is profitable , we 're not going to get any benefits , and we also know that a company that goes out of business is n't going to provide any jobs . " Mr. Abel 's problems , as top union negotiator , are made vastly more complex by a number of things . He has a restless and potentially rebellious membership . Many local leaders ( more than half of them new and militant ) are demanding that locals be given a chance to strike separately if an industry agreement does not meet the particular needs  --  or wishes  --  of the local memberships . There is growing pressure for ending industrywide bargaining and substituting company-by-company negotiations , with increased participation by local leaderships . Negotiating for survival So Mr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they must produce a settlement satisfactory to the rambunctious lower leadership and rank and file , or the terms will be repudiated . If that happens , the Abel administration will be vulnerable . It is , in effect , negotiating for survival . This rules out any strong possibility of labor statesmanship . And it leaves Mr. Abel to concede that he would hardly be surprised to find the union " in a strike situation about the end of July . " This could bring the Nixon administration into the bargaining . But both Mr. Abel and Mr. Larry said in Washington as negotiations got under way that the White House had not yet contacted the negotiators directly or through Labor Department aides .                     