@@729170

txt The Supreme Court today invalidated , 6 to 3 , a Wisconsin law allowing the public posting of notices forbidding the sale or gift of liquor to individuals with drinkine problems . The court 's action affirmed a Wisconsin federal district court ruling declaring the law urconstitutional because it provided no notice or opportunity to be heard for those penalized . Complaint by Burger Norma Constantineau had challenged the Wisconsin law , similar to laws in 15 other states , after the police chief of Hartford , Wis. , posted a notice in all retail liquor outlets in the . city forbidding the sale of liquor to her for a year . The ruling led to a complaint from the bench by Chief Justice Warren Burger that the Supreme Court and lower federal courts should not be burdened with unimportant ' cases which state courts have never been asked to resolve . Bur er joined in the dissent .. Burge " It seems to me a very odd business to strike down a state statute , on the books for 40 years more or less , without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem either under the Wisconsin constitution or the United States Constitution , " Burger said . He also said that " the judges of Wisconsin probably will be taken by surprise by our summary action since few , if any , have ever heard of this case . " He was joined in the dissent by Justices Harry A. Blackmun and Hugo L. Black , who filed a separate opinion . Has Become Impatient Burger has become increasingly impatient with the burden of cases in the federal courts . In his , dissent today , he stated that " it is the negation of sound judicial administration  --  and an unwarranted use of a limited judicial resource ? to impose this kind of case on a threejudge Federal District Court , and then by direct appeal , to this court . " Justice William 0 . Douglas , writing for the majority , said that " where a person 's good name , reputation , honor or integrity are at stake because of what the government is doing to him , notice and an opportunity to be heard are essen ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; chance to defend herself " ' and that " she may have been the : victim of an official 's caprice . " Douglas said Burger 's argument that the case should have , e'en handled first by the state ' courts " is not in keeping with the precedents . " From the very : beginning , Douglas said ; Congress has given federal courts jurisdiction:to resolve such questions " even.when they were en'eshed with state law questions . " : The Supreme Court also ruled unanimously today that a con:vict seeking a new trial on allegations his confession was involuntary must do more than how " shortcomings " in his trial where the confession was : weighed . Justic Potter Stewart wrote that the convict must prove that his ' version of the events , if true , would show the confession was involuntary . The appeal had been filed by Vernon Atchley , a Californian Serving a life sentence for the 1959 shooting death of his estranged wife . At issue was a recorded statement he made in jail to an insurance agent in Connection with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Wis. , Jan. 19 UPI Norma Grace Constantineau , who admits to drinking occasionally but denies that she drinks to excess , is so pleased with today 's U. S. Supreme Court ruling that " I 'm in a state of shock . " The divorced mother of four had carried to the nation 's highest court her battle against a Wisconsin law that permitted officials to post her name in taverns as an excessive drinker . The court held in a 6-3 decision that the law was unconstitutional . Fired Last Month Mrs. C onstantineau , 39 , moved here from nearby Hartford recently to live with a daughter and son in law . She said she lost her job last month with a manufacturing plant in Grafton after her employer found out that she had been " posted " in Hartford taverns by the police chief . The chief had notified 17 bars and 20 liquor stores in the area not to sell her liquor . He gave no reason for doing so , and the law required none . " I 'm very , very pleased , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopes all along that the ruling would be in our favor . I just could n't believe that in this day and age such a thing could happen to a person . " Went to Lawyer She said she went to a lawyer as soon as the police posted her name in the tavern . When a federal court in Milwaukee ruled in 1969 that the law was unconstitutional the signs were removed . She believes the postings had continued for six or seven months . Today 's ruling upheld the lower court decision . " I do drink , " she said , " but I do n't think I drink anymore than three-quarters o f the average persons you see in taverns . " Mrs. Constantineau said she has no idea why the police posted her name . She said she had never been arrested for drunkenness .                     