@@728936

txt King Hussein formed a new military-civilian Government today , but a Palestinian commando spokesman in Damascus said the commandos would accept nothing less than the King 's downfall . As the Jordanian civil war ended its 10th day , the breach between the King and Arab leaders meeting in Cairo appeared to widen . In Cairo , an Egyptian spokes- ' man said tonight that King , Hussein was expected to arrive there tomorrow morning to discuss the situation in Jordan with the Arab leaders . President Gaafar al-Nimeiry of the Sudan , after arriving in ; Cairo from Amman , charged that the Jordanian Army had fired on the Egyptian Embassy housing his peace mission and on the armored car that took his group to the airport . He held King Hussein directly responsible for what he called the failure of the cease-fire and for what he termed an American-Israeli plot to " liquidate the Palestinian people . " Charges Called False The King retorted in a message to President Gamal Abdel Nasser broadcast by the Amman radio that General Nimeiry 's charges were false and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ King Hussein named a cabinet of seven civilians and six army officers headed by a Palestinian civilian , Ahmed Toukan , to replace the all-military Government he installed 11 days ago , on the eve of his army 's drive to crush the commandos . The military kept the key Defense and Interior Ministries in the new Government , and Brig . Mazen Ajluni , the deputy military governor and a key army figure , remained in the Cabinet as Minister of State for the Premier 's office . The new Premier is an elderly lawyer-politician from Nablus , on the Israeli-occupied west bank , who previously served as Defense Minister and as Minister for Palace Affairs . He replaces Brig . Mohammed Daoud , who resigned and disappeared in Cairo Thursday . The King 's letter of appointment ordered Mr. Toukan to unite the country 's energies to deal with its " dark troubles . " " The voice of regionalism , if heard in Jordan at any time , should now be stifled , " he said . " There is no difference between a west banker and an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the King 's promise last month to consult the Palestinians eventually on whether they should have a separate regional entity . In Damascus , a spokesman for the Central Committee of the commando forces said of the new Cabinet : " This does not change our attitude in the least . Nor will it make any change in the situation , as long as the royal regime exists and the real criminals , first and foremost King Hussein , are in power . " Some Fighting Reported Evacuees from Amman reported sporadic bursts of gunfire , and journalists at the Jordan Intercontinental Hotel witnessed a gun duel between army troops at and around the hotel and commandos on Jebel Luweibida , the hill facing it and the site of the United States Embassy . The only report of battle movements came from guerrilla sources who said that the army had tried to take a bridge 10 miles north of Amman on the road to Zerqa but had been thrown back after three and a half hours of fighting . In the north , the commandos appeared to be holding firm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jordanian armor . Sudanese Army officers who were supposed to observe the enforcement of the cease-fire announced yesterday have not yet been able to leave Amman . Commando sources here said that the ambush of an army convoy last night had replenished supplies of food and ammunition in the north . From Cairo , Yasir Arafat , head of the commando Central Committee , broadcast an appeal to commandos in Amman to stand fast lest they meet the tate of the wounded in Ashrafiyeh hospital , where the Palestinians allege that Jordanian soldiers machine-gunned patients and hacked them with axes . Mr. Arafat was taken out of Amman by General Nimeiry yesterday , presumably passing as a member of the Arab peace mission . Although Mr. Arafat is the commander-in-chief of the commandos , the field commander in charge of military operations in Amman , according to commando sources , has been Mr. Arafat of Al Fatah , the largest commando group . Witnesses from Jordan report that the commandos and women from the refugee camps have been able at times during the 10 days of war to forage for food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forays , there has been no new food or water and almost no medical aid for the 200,000 to 300,000 Palestinians in the refugee quarters in Jordan . Premier 's Relatives Upset Special to The New York Times TEL AVIV , Israel , Sept. 26 ? Relatives of Mr. Toukan who are living in Israeli-occupied Nablus said today that they did not want him to assume the premiership of Jordan . A statement in the names of Dr. Kadri Hafiz Toukan , principal of the Najah College in Nablus , and Hafid Toukan of the Municipal Council was broadcast by the Israeli radio . It said , " We regard cooperation with the mass butcher of Amman who planned and executed our family in the east bank an unpardonable sin and indelible disgrace . " The reference was to King Hussein . Reached by telephone in Nabdus tonight , Dr. Kadri Toukan confirmed that he was against Ahmad 's becoming Premier but dissociated himself from the reported political statement . He said he and Hafid were cousins of the new Premier . Associated Press ASSAILS HUSSEIN : President Gaafar al-Nimeiry of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the failure of tilt cease-fire in Jordan .                     