@@728756

txt Circuit Judge Richard A. Napolitano yesterday was removed from his bench , his $35,000-a-year salary halted and his name stricken from the ballot which would entitle him to seek reelection in the fall . The Illinois Courts Commission , a five - judge panel , found him guilty of judicial impropriety for his involvement in the Illinois State Fair scandal . He was suspended by order of the Illinois Supreme Court on Feb. 5 , but continued to draw his salary . The scandal was first disclosed last August by The Chicago Tribune after a two-month investigation by this newspaper and the Better Government Association and a concurrent probe by Illinois state police . Ruling Is Unanimous After hearings which lasted a week , the commission ruled unanimously that Napolitano was guilty of " conduct unbecoming a judge " and in violation of " canons of judicial ethics " in : 1 . Invoking the Sth Amendment against possible selfincrimination before being granted immunity from prosecution before testifying before the Sangamon County grand jury . 2 . Purchasing in fictitious names 42 state fair concession contracts during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was accused of reselling at a profit the 1968 contracts to concession stand operators who needed space . 3 . Accepting a $1,000-a-year payment for two years from a representative of the Meadow Gold Dairy to use his influence with state fair officials to obtain the fair 's " No. 1 " location for the dairy . On Bench Since 1963 Napolitano , 54 , had been on the bench since 1963 and in the 10 previous years was a powerful member of the Illinois House of Representatives . Napolitano is the first jurist to be removed from office by the commission on grounds that he is unfit to continue to hold office . His removal autoWHAT ABOUT AN ITEMIZED REPORT ? See the editorial on page 16 matically creates a court vacancy . Democrats and Republicans will nominate a candidate next month to seek the vacant seat . The commission , headed by Illinois Supreme Court Justice Daniel P. Ward , deliberated all afternoon before returning its verdict . Also signing the decision were Illinois Appellate Court Judges Joseph Burke and Samuel 0 . Smith and Circuit Judges Robert Jerome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not in the Illinois Supreme Court 's room in the Civic Center when the verdict was returned . lie had attended all previous hearings and had declined to take the witness stand and testify in his own defense . Napolitano 's attorneys had Richard A. Napolitano Daniel Ward fought hard both before the commission and in Federal District Court not only to prevent his personal appearance but to prevent admission into evidence of his hitherto secret grand jury testimony . In returning its verdict , the commission issued a four-paragraph order . Finds Evidence Clear The order reads in part : " The commission finds that the evidence in this case is clear and convincing that the conduct of Judge Richard A. Napolitano , concerning certain concession contracts with the Illinois State Fair Agency while amember of the judiciary and the circumstances surrounding his testifying and the content of his testimony before the Sangamon County grand jury while a 1 member of the judiciary , constitutes conduct unbecoming a judge in that it violates applicable canons of judicial ethics // Oust Napolitano from Bench ; Found Guilty of Impropriety Judges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No , 4 . . . and constitutes cause within the meaning of ... the Illinois Constitution warranting his removal from office . " It is therefore ordered that Richard A , Napolitano be , and he is hereby removed from his office as a judge of the Circuit Court effective this date , " the order concludes . Canon 4 Cited The Canon 4 referred to reads : " A judge 's official conduct should be free from impropriety and the appearance of impropriety ; he should avoid infractions of law ; and his personal behavior , not only upon the bench and in the performance of judicial duties , but also in his everyday life , should be beyond reproach . " Frank J. , first assistant Illinois attorney general who prosecuted the case , stated in closing arguments during the morning that Napolitano not only was guilty of the appearance of impropriety but was guilty of " actual impropriety . " One of the blows against Napolitano 's case was his admission in grand jury testimony that he sent Arthur Di Cenza , his personal bailiff , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practiced in Judge Napolitano 's court , to Springfield . 1969 Contracts Canceled They were couriers for Judge Napolitano in an attempt to retrieve the 42 contracts the judge purchased in 1969 . The contracts were canceled after they were found to be invalid . Raymond W. Phipps , 1969 fair manager , with the assistance of state policemen directed by Chief Herbert Brown and Asst . Chief C. Bernard Carey of the Illinois law enforcement division , sent registered letters to the persons named on Napolitano 's concession contracts . They said they learned the persons named were either nonexistent or the addresses were fictitious . The contracts were then canceled . Two Are Fired Both Di Cenza and Sheehan also invoked the 5th Amendment against possible self-incrimination before being granted immunity and testifying before the grand jury . Di Cenza was fired by Sheriff Joseph I. Woods last February . Sheehan , an attorney for t h e Chicago Dwellings Association , a city agency , was fired after he testified before the commission last week . asked for the removal of Napolitano because he " concealed from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enforcement officials " his role as a " state fair profiteer. " said the removal was necessary " to preserve the integrity of Justice and the public 's confidence in it " because Napolitano has " brought into disrepute the high office of judge . " ' Referring to Judge Napoli ' tano 's invocation of the 5th Amendment , said : " He has a constitutional right to do so to avoid prosecution , but ho has no constitutional right to stop his removal from judicial office for having done " so . " John E. Cassidy Jr. , one of Napolitano 's attorneys , said he may file an appeal with the Illinois Supreme Court . The commission denied a motion by Atty . James F. Chapman ort . ' Napolitano 's behalf , asking the commission to delay its order . told the commission there is nothing in Supreme Court rules providing for an ' appeal . Called on inquisition Cassidy described the effects on his client as a result of the commission 's hearings as " a Spanish inquisition which would outdo a political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not disciplinary , but constituted an impeachment proceeding and should have been held in the Illinois state legislature . " Do n't impeach him ! , " Cassidy pleaded . " These commissions are going to destroy the judiciary . Who is complaining ? The public is not complaining . i It 's infamy ! " Named a Coconspirator Napolitano was not indicted but was named as a coconspirator in indictments returned against five persons , including Franklin H. Rust , former fair general manager ; John W. O'Connor , superintendent of space rental ; and Virgil Malcott , O'Connor 's aid . O'Connor died after the indictments were returned and the conspiracy counts in the indictments were dismissed June 12 . Rust and Malcott still are under indictment for official misconduct for their handling of the Napolitano contracts issued in fictitious names and the other two persons are charged with theft .                     