@@733620

txt Richard M. Nixon says that the decision to bomb the Hanoi area in Christmas week of 1972 was his most difficult of the whole war , but " it was also one of the most clear cut and necessary ones . " In the fourth of seven installments of excerpts from his memoirs , appearing today in The New York Times and other newspapers , the former President provides some additional details on the final stages of the diplomacy that led to the Vietnam cease-fire agreement . He relates how , with the backing of his top adviser , Henry A. Kissinger , he not only ordered heavy bombing after North Vietnam seemed to him to stall at the negotiating table , but also issued a virtual ultimatum to South Vietnam to accept whatever terms Washington worked out with Hanoi . The outline of this dual approach was already known , but Mr. Nixon 's account supplies his rationale . He also says in excerpts from the hook . " RN : The Memoirs of Richard Nixon , " to be published May 15 by Grosset Dunlap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In October 1972 , Mr. Kissinger and Le Duc Tho , the North Vietnamese negotiator , secretly made considerable progress toward an agreement that would end the fighting and provide for the withdrawal of the remaining American forces and for the release of prisoners . Mr. Kissinger , at a news conference late that month , said , " Peace is at hand . " But in early December , the peace talks in Paris ran into problems , as Mr. KisRN : The Memoirs Of Richard Nixon The fourth of seven daily excerpts appears today on page A 10. singer found it increasingly diffficult to reconcile the differences between South and North Vietnam . According to Mr. Nixon , on Dec. 13 Le Duc Tho ' made it clear at the Viet ? nam peace talks in Paris that he had no intention of reaching an agreement . " Mr : Kissinger " and I completely agreed on the cynicism and perfidy of the North // Vietnamese , " he says . And he says that Mr. Kissinger described the North Vietnamese in obscene terms . . " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where only the strongest action would have any effect in convincing . Hanoi , that negotiating a fair settlement was a better option for them than continuing the war , " he says . " Kissinger and I agreed that this meant stepping up the boimbing : " Mr. Nixon says that on Dec. 14 Ile gave the order to resume attacks Dec. 17 . The date is interesting : On Dec. 16 , Mr. Kissinger called a news conference at which he denounced the North Vietnamese but did not indicate that bombs would fall the next day . During the bombing , which lasted until Dec. 29 , no rationale was provided to the public , and Mr. Nixon tries to justify the decision in his memoirs . Absolutely Final Offer ' " The order to renew bombing the week before Christman was the most difficult decision I made during the entire war , " Mr. Nixon says . " At the same time , however , it was also one of the most clear-cut and necessary ones . " He says that , even though many people al not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I was convinced that any public statements on my part would have been directly counterproductive to the possibility of resumed negotiations . " " If I had announced that we were resuming bombing for the purpose of forcing the North Vietnamese to negotiate , their national pride and their ideological fanaticism would never have allowed them to accept the international loss of face involved in caving in to such an ultimatum , " he says . " So I did it with the minumum amount of rhetoric and publicity , and it succeeded exactly as I had intended . " Mr. Nixon also discloses that he had sent " the ' strongest letter I had yet written " to President Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam , saying that , unless Mr. Thiel ! approved " this ? absolutely final offer on my part for us to work together , " the two countries would have to go " our separate ways . " Saigon was dubious of the American-North Vietnamese plan . The North Vietnamese , Mr. Nixon says , sent a message that " they had enough " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another message to Mr. Thieu warning that if South Vietnam did not accept " 1 will do so , if necessary , alone . " ' Force Produced Results The latest installment of the memoirs reveals nothing that in general has not already become known , but it underscores Mr. Nixon 's belief that the use of force produced results . He says in the installment that the South Vietnamese were able to remain free until Congress " reneged on our obligations , " cutting off the bombing and placing limitations on aid . " And it is Congress that must bear the responsibility for the tragic results , " he says . " Hundreds of thousands of antiCommunist South Vietnamese and Cambodians have been murdered or starved to death by their conquerors , and the bloodbath continues . " Outsjde experts generally agree that the situation in Cambodia since the fall of Phnom Penh to the Communists in April 1975 has been grim . Thousands have been killed , they say , and there has been widespread deprivation of human rights . In South Vietnam , also captured by North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ re-education campaign but no " bloodbath . " In this installment , Mr. Nixon relates his feelings after being told that four students at Kent State were killed during an antiwar demonstration after being fired upon by'National Guard troops . He says that he could not get the pictures of the four dead youths out of his mind . " I wrote personal letters to each of the parents , even though I knew that words could not help , " he says . " Those few days after Kent State were among the darkest of my Presidency , " he says . " I felt utterly dejected when I read that the father of one of the dead girls had told a reporter : ' My child was not a bum . " Mr. Nixon had once stated that many violent demonstrators were " bums. "                     