@@731776

txt President Ford revealed T ti es day that the State Department and the National Security Council are investigating whether action should be taken to bar owner ship of Atnerican business and purchase of American products by the oil-rich Arab ' nations . He told a press conference in Alanta that he probably will make the final decision at the conclusion of the study . He indicated some official concern ' over Arab efforts to buy several American - m a de commercial airlines and their interests in buying into a bank in Michigan . In the far-ranging press conference , FOrd also repeated his intentions to run for election to a full Presidential term in 1976 Three of the four major domestic carmakers report a 48 per cent surge in sales nationally In the last 11 days of January f r o m the mid-January period . In Business . Democratic members of Congress react sharply to President Ford 's gloomy economic report with a promise to stimulate the economy . Page 6. and expressed confidence that upward trends in the economy will boost his chances of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ request for reaction to reports that Sen. Howard Baker R. , Tenn. might run in the New Hampshire primary . " I can only indicate what my intention might be , and I pass no Judgment on what anybody else might do , " Ford said . In answer to a question triggered by reports of Federal Bureau of Investigation spying on government officials , Ford said he got a detailed report on the activities of Supreme Court .1 ust ice William O. Douglas , when he , as Republican leader in the House , headed efforts to impeach Douglas . ' The information came from Will Wilson , then head of the Criminal Division of the Justice Department , Ford said , adding that he did not know , the source of the information or whether it came from the FBI . The questions to Ford alternated be t we en Washingtonbased reporters traveling with the President and local and regional reporters . The 35-minute question and answer session was carried on regional television and on national radio networks , but the national television networks chose not to carry it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that refusal of Con .. gress to provide the requested economic aid for South Viet Nam " will complicate the military situation " there . ? Said he still expects Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev to visit the United States this summer . ? Repeated his plea that Congress consider his entire energy and economic package or come up with a comprehensive plan of its own . ? Said that if Congress slashes his request for defense spending " without rhyme or reason , " it could jeopardize America 's national security . ? Predicted that the rate of inflation will have been almost cut in half by December , 1976. 0 Rejected wage and price controls as the worse possible medicine for the ills of the American economy . Ford returned to Washington immediately after the press conference , ending 24 hours in the Georgia capital , where he met with southeast governors , civic leaders , newspaper editors , and a group designed to find jobs for the underprivileged.                     