@@733628

txt The United States and Soviet Union appear to be closer to a new SALT agreement than Carter administration spokesmen publicly acknowledge . Eager not to upset the oeticate SAL l negotiations , a taciturn Secretary of State Cyrus Vance said only that he made " some progress " ? not even " good progress " ? during his recent trip to Moscow . But congressional sources who have been briefed on the subject say that the two superpowers achieved " significant movement " ? if not complete agreement ? on a range of issues during Mr. Vance 's latest round of talks in Moscow . Hard bargaining apparently remains after Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko comes to New York for a special United Nations session on disarmament later this month . But in private briefings , administration officials are reported to be talking with increasing frequency of " June or July " as possible months for the signing of a new SALT agreement . At the same time , however , a consensus seems to be developing in both the Congress and the State Department that even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt to get it ratified by the Senate would have to be delayed until early next year . There is considerable opposition in the Senate to the outlines of the SALT agreement that have emerged so far . And some congressional specialists contend that any move toward rati*Please turn to Page 26 From page 1 SALT pact may be closer .. . fication at this point would fail . A two-thirds vote is required for ratification . Only 34 senators could block a new SALT treaty . As with the vote on the Panama Canal treaties . the administration 's strategy is to allow plenty of time to educate the public and Congress as to the merits of the treaty . And officials say that once the treaty is complete , signed , and out in the open , it will be easier to defend . As it is , the administration can not present its full arguments for fear of betraying the secrecy of the continuing negotiations . Key senators sympathetic to the emerging strategic-arms treaty are nonetheless urging delay in the ratification process . The Senate has already had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Middle East jet sales , and the proposed lifting of the Turkish arms embargo ? all in an election year . To add another touchy issue and give it the attention it deserves before the November elections would be difficult , the senators say . All of the House and a third of the Senate are up for reelection in November . While conceding that this reasoning may be valid when it comes to ratification , State Department officials see a number of reasons for moving ahead sooner rather than later with the signing of a SALT treaty , if they can make a reasonable deal with the Soviets on the key outstanding issues . In the absence of a new treaty , the Soviets would be free to move ahead with the testing of several new intercontinental ballistic missiles . They also would be free to deploy the SS-16 mobile missile . And . if the United States waits too long , President Brezhnev 's health could fail , leading to a period of uncertainty and " sorting out " before a new Kremlin team would be in a position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delay the signing at this ' point ? for what are essentially political reasons for delaying ratification ? it might send the Soviets the wrong " signal " and affect relations on a whole range of issues outside the realm of sm . ' ' ' . At the same time , administration officials cautioned that it is important that they not appear to the Soviets to be " in a hurry " to get a new agreement , or the Soviets would begin to think they could gain any number of last-minute concessions . Where the administration seems to have made the most SALT progress recently has been on a number of so-called " secondary is- sues . " Tentative agreement has apparently been reached , for instance , on the numerical limits on the number of long-range missiles and bombers to be deployed by each side through the year 1985 . The New York Times reported that the number agreed upon is 2,250 , a figure higher than the United States would have liked . But officials contend that a reported Soviet agreement to a separate ceiling of 1,200 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the one the U.S. is said to have made on the level of missiles and bombers . And for the first time , equivalent overall numbers have been agreed on  --  also a Soviet concession compared with the previous agreement , which gave the Soviets a lead . Considerable hard negotiating apparently remains on the proposed limits on the " modernization " of existing strategic weapons and the introductions of new nuclear weapons , as well as on the restrictions proposed by the United States for the Soviet " Backfire " bomber . Some sources suggest that the Backfire issue may have to be settled , along with a few lesser issues , in a summit meeting between President Carter and President Brezhnev .                     