@@729783

txt It 's engines for the ships of China now . A news item from Yugoslavia reports that its Adriatic Third of May Shipyard at Rijeka recently delivered to China the first of 10 12,000 hp. ship 's engines ordered by the Machine Construction Corporation of Peking . The engine was shipped aboard one of more than a score of Yugoslav freighters now operating a regular weekly charter run between Chinese and Yugoslav ports . The item spotlighted an area which commercial observers believe could prove one of the big potentials for trade with China . as that country opens the cautious chink in its door td rest of the world . China , in fact , seems to have decided on some immediate expansion - of its own merchant-shipping fleet , both by hiring foreign bottoms and by purchasing engines to equip vessels built in Chinese yards , and also by direct purchases of ships from European builders . Peking has also signed a contract with the same Rijeka yard for four 15,000-ton freighters fitted with the same high-performance engines which the Yugoslays make in collaboration with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delivered over the next two years Ties restored Both agreements come within less than a year after Peking resumed normal interstate relations with Belgrade . The Yugoslays have already had considerable experience in shipbuilding and other maritime branches for many developing and " third world " countries . They obviously regard this start in supplying China with ships and equipment as a major step toward further economic and technical cooperation with Peking . The latter has also approached Poland , another East European country with a long shipbuilding tradition and even greater capacity than the Yugoslays , including also the largest marine-engine plant in Europe . In-the-1-950 ' as-one-of-P-ola ndlsbiggest customers for shipping . Sales dried up , however , when the Sino-Soviet " quarrel broke out 10 years ago . Trade between China and Eastern Europe now is showing signs of slowly picking up , although it is still far below the former levels . An agreement with Poland in June provided for delivery by the latter of an unspecified tonnage of shipping and equipment . // *China is buying a fleet of freighters // Chinese interest in stepping up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Communications Yang Chieh visited Poland . He was returning a visit by the Polish Minister of Shipping Jerzy Szopa to Shanghai from where a fleet of Polish freighters has operated on charter under joint Polish-Chinese registration since 1951 . Interest renewed The minister inspected the Poles ' main Baltic shipyards at Szczecin and Gdansk and reportedly conferred also with officials not only on increased orders for ships , but also for marine engines made by the big Cegielski plant at Poznan . This renewal of interest in acquiring shipping in the West  --  as distinct from charter - arrangements  --  is part of a shift in Chinese policy in maritime development . For years , it relied mainly on chartered vessels . In the mid-1960 's , for example , it had a big charter fleet . But this was much reduced by the uncertainties at Chinese ports during the " cultural revolution . " Few hard facts The intention now apparently is to con- ? centrate on a dual program of acquiring new ships abroard to help cope.with an anticipated growth of trade with European and other countries while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Little is known of recent achievements here beyond an article in the People 's Daily last June which reported construction of an unspecified number of 10,000- and 15,000-ton freighters and passenger vessels . Present capacity limitations , however , were reflected by the disclosure in the same article that  --  with a stress on " self-reliance " in the manner of the " Great Leap Forwar " of the ' 60 's  --  China 's shipbuilders were laying 10,000-ton vessels in berths designed for 3,000 and 5,000 tons . In recent years . West Eurpoean yards , including British and French , have also supplied China with 10,000- and 15,000-ton passenger and cargo ships .                     