@@728913

txt A federal judge issued a temporary restraining order early today blocking a strike by four unions against three railroads just as picket lines were ordered . The order was issued by Judge Howard F. Corcoran , in Washington . The order will be in effect until 1:45 p. m . Sept. 23 . Corcoran issued the order barring " whipsaw "  --  or selective strikes  --  after a brief hearing requested by lawyers for the railroads . He scheduled another hearing for next Tuesday . May Still Have Option The judge acted less than an hour after the unions called the strike and just 30 minutes after members of the United Transportation Union picketed the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad at Huntington , W. Va . The unions apparently still had the option of replacing their order for a selective strike with one for a strike against railroads nationwide , but union leaders were not immediately available for comment . 3 Railroads Involved President C. L. Dennis of the AFL-CIO Brotherhood of Railway Clerks said the strike was planned against the Southern Pacific and the Baltimore and Ohio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government sources had earlier said , because of the limited nature of the strike , President Nixon probably would not invoke immediately a 60-day delay under the Railway Labor Act . Dennis said the Clerks , the United Transportation Union , the Union of Maintenance-ofWay Employes and Union of Dining Car Porters called the selective strike in the interest of maintaining stability in the national economy . The union leader said the major issue in the negotiations was wages . He said the carriers had offered a seven per cent increase for this year . But the unions were reported earlier to have asked for a 90 per cent increase over three years . The current average wage is $3.50 an hour , including cost of living and other fringe benefits . Pickets March Anyway More than an hour after the restraining order was issued , pickets were walking the lines in East St. Louis and Pittsburgh . Seven pickets representing clerks and telegraphers marched in front of the B. &; O. yards and offices in Pittsburgh . Another seven picketed at the main entrance to the B. &; 0 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supervisory personnel had been called in as a precaution . " We have no intention of trying to operate , " the spokes. men said . Pickets were posted even before the 12:01 a. m. deadline at . nine C. &; 0 . locations in Huntington , including a passenger depot , loading yards and operational headquarters . Transportation union officials also said picket lines were up in at least three Kentucky locations . New York 's Grand Central Terminal reported one-hour delays for three trains because of the uncertainty about the strike .                     