@@731607

txt Reformism is sprouting on the U.S. congressional campaign trail . It is likely to flower at the Nov. 5 elections and burst into full bloom in the new Congress . Its roots lie in such coincidental factors as the Watergate scandals and a bumper crop of Capitol Hill retirements . But its fruit could be lasting : the most reformist Congress in more than a generation . Reform of the political system , suggest reports from some observers , may be the " sleeper " issue of this campaign . " The general malaise of 1973-74 has made reform much more of a living , breathing idea , " says an official of the National Republican Congressional Committee , which monitors races of Republican candidates across the country . Even the issue of institutional reform of Congress , which once drew only blank stares from voters , now competes strongly with some of the traditional bread-and-butter election issues . Laziness cited " The laziness of Congress , " charges Democratic congressional candidate Nicholas B. Angell ( challenging Rep. Hamilton Fish Jr . of New York ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ * Reformist Congress // Many eager challengers , who have yet to answer their first Capitol Hill roll call , already are querying reform leaders such as Rep. Richard Bolling ( D ) of Missouri about overhauling the system . Predictions about the reform-mindedness of the Congress that Americans are about to elect are based on a combination of developments : ? The wave of 61 retiring congressmen ? nine senators and 52 representatives ? meads that a majority in both houses of the new Congress will consist of members elected in only the last six years . This represents the most sweeping turnover since just after World War II . " A four-or-five-term Republican is going to be a rather senior Republican around here in the House , " says one Republican ? The loss of so much congressional seniority is likely to produce gains for the political reform movement A Monitor study indicates that the retirements will sweep away a substantial bloc of anti-reform votes and possibly propel certain reform issues over the top Just seven votes in the House of Representatives , for example . kept the much-touted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier this year ( 204 to 197 ) . Twenty-eight of those " no " votes were cast by members who will not be returning to the new Congress . Similarly , only nine votes pre-vented the Senate last year from opening all committee meetings to the public unless closed by a majority committee vote . Six of the " no " votes ? enough to reverse the outcome if switched ? came from senators not returning . ? Reform momentum is expected to be quickened by voter disenchantment over recent political scandals ? from Watergate to " milk fund " campaign contributions ? and the growing influence of public-interest lobbies such as Common Cause and Ralph Nader 's organization . The first test of the new congressional reformism will come when Democrats ( presumably still the ruling party ) caucus in December to organize the House . Representative Bolling already predicts they may enact long-thwarted reforms .                     