@@729160

txt An Illinois state plane with Gov . Ogilvie aboard and a Trans World Airlines DC-9 narrowly missed colliding last Tuesday , it was learned here today . The state plane was en route from Springfield to Washington , D. C. , and flying at 19,000 feet at the time . " They came up from our right rear and it was like  --  zap  --  and we hit their wake turbulence , " said the governor 's pilot . Ralph Monaghan , a former Navy flyer who is in the transportation section of the state Department of Aeronautics . " I called up the Indianapolis center which was controling our instrument flight and asked if we still were under radar observation . " Monaghan said . " They said we were . I asked if they had noted the converging tracks of our turbo-prop plane and the jet , and they very calmly replied that they had seen it but that the other aircraft was at 21,000 feet . " Monaghan said he told the center controler : " Oh no . They were not . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because we hit the wake , and it was close . " The controler then called the T. W. A. crew on the same g round- to-air frequency and asked what altitude they were holding . The T. W. A. pilots replied : " We 're at 19,000 . You told us to hold 19,000 until we reached the next intersection . " Monaghan said he then told the center to " consider the incident a near-miss . " He said that he and his co-pilot , George Withrow , also a Department of Aeronautics employ e , " both were not at all sure the T. W. A. crew ever saw us . " Monaghan added : " If they did it looked to us as if they might have taken a little more evasive action . " But things happen pretty fast in an incident like this . We were doing 300 knots and he was probably making more than 500 , and coming at us from a slight angle from the rear . It was plenty close . " With the governor and the crew in the Illinois @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bryant and Richard Mathias , and two security officers , State Troopers Nelson Capitano and Don Stafford . Gets Call from Volpe By the time the governor 's party reached the Washington Hilton hotel , where he addressed a Tuesday evening traffic safety meeting , a telephone call was waiting from Transportation Secretary Volpe . Volpe said : " It appears there may have been an error in the air traffic system handling of the two planes . We are certainly looking into this thoroly and will make a report to you directly , later . " Gov . Ogilvie directed his flight crew to " make no public statements at this time . "                     