@@728327

txt SAIGON , Viet Nam , Jan. 9 D ? North Viet Nam 's 21 million people , on a war footing for nearly three decades , have been told by their most prestigious military leader that victory is stilt not near and that the war can be expected to continue indefinitely . This unusually sobering view of the war was presented in a series of seven essays published in a Hanoi newspaper in December . They were written by Defense Minister Vo Nguyen Giap , the victor of Dien Bien Phu , senior strategist for the war in the south , and a contender for the power seat in Hanoi left vacant by the death of President Ho Chi Minh last year . Low on Patriotism Gen. Giap 's pronouncements are rare . Experts in Saigon compare these seven essays with Giap 's famous " people 's war , people 's army " speeches of the 1950s that became a sort of textbook for guerrilla warfare . They also compare them with his " big victory , great task " articles of 1967 in that they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Viet Nam war . But whereas Giap 's previous two works rang with confidence and were flavored with the taste of ultimate victory , the December essays are low on patriotic , fervor , promising more of the same grinding conflict that has already cost the lives of half a million North Vietnamese troops , and asking for even greater sacrifice . " There exists ? a great imbalance of numerical strength and population and also a great imbalance of technical equipGen . Glap ment , " Giap wrote about the deficiencies of his forces in the south in relation to the United States . Process of Struggle " Under these circumstances we must have time to gradually exterminate and weaken the enemy forces , to restrict his strength , and aggravate his weaknesses , to gr a dually strengthen and develop our forces and to overcome our deficiencies .... " In general , the process of a protracted struggle , " Giap wrote , " is that of successively attacking the enemy , gradually repelling him , partially overthrowing him , defeating every one of his strategic schemes , gradually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This view of the war is hardly the cleat-cut progression that Giap spelled out in his " people 's war , people 's army " speeches , and it seems that one theme of the December essays is his desire to provide the intellectual underpinning for the strategy now being followed by his forces in the south .                     