@@732520

txt Army intelligence officers stationed in West Berlin have opened first-class mail between there and the United States and may be continuing to cio so , according to two affidavits recently filed in civil court cases by Army Secretary Martin R. Hoffmann . Mr. Hoffmann acknowledged in one of the affidavits that the Army " intercepted " in 1968 a letter from a member of the Socialist Workers Party to an addressee in West Berlin , and a second letter , four years later , that " merely discussed " a party member . In both instances , Mr. Hoffman said , the letters were " not then in United Sates mail channels , " but presumably in foreign mail systems . The affidavit was submitted by the Secretary in response to queries from the Socialist Workers Party in connection with its lawsuit against several Federal intelligence agencies . In an affidavit filed in a related case , brought against Defense Secretary Donald H. Rurnsfeld by a group of American citizens living in West Berlin , Mr. Hoffmann said , " The U.S. Army conducts monitoring of postal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other United States investigatory agencies . " Asked whether Mr. Hoffmann 's statement could be // interpreted as an acknowledgement that the Army was continuing to open mail in 1West Berlin , an Army spokesman replied that the Secretary retained the authority to order mail interceptions " under certain very restrictive circumstances . " The spokesman was unable , to comment on whether Army ' intelligence officers conducted ' similar mail opening operations elsewhere in the world or to say how long such practices had been under way in West Berl ' He did say , however , that Army personnel " may conduct surveillance acts overseas during the course of criminal , national security or foreign intelligence investigations " in cornpliance with " applicable laws of the host country , " but that such methods could be used , against American citizens abroad only with the approval of the Secretary or Under Sec- : retary of the Army in specific cases . The Central Intelligence Agency opened and photographed first-class mail be- ; tweer. the United States and Communist countries beginning in 1953 but ended the practice ; in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " other United States investi-1 gatory agencies " raised the ; possibility that the C.I.A. , ' through Army intelligence , still , has access to mail from this ' country opened outside of United States postal channels , ; but a C.I.A . spokesman refused ! to say whether this was the case . The plaintiffs in the second ! civil suit are members of the Berlin Democratic Club , which supported Senator George Mc- . Govern of South Dakota , the ; Democratic Presidential candi- ' date in 1972 . Their suit . brought with the assistance of the American Civil Liberties Union , alleges ! that the Army subjected them to warrantless electronic surveillance , infiltrated their meetings with informants and opened their mail . In his response to that charge , Mr. Hoffmann declined to comment on whether letters and telephone calls to and from members of the club were intercepted in the course of the Army 's surveillance . In the Socialist Workers case , Mr. Hoffmann declined to identify the party member whose letter was intercepted or the individual who was discussed in the second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said he believed that a number of party members had corresponded with groups of American soldiers and German Socialists during the period in question . In behalf of the Army , Justice Department lawyers asserted indite case of the Berlin Democratic Club that constitutional prohibitions against search and seizure that is not authorized by a judicial order do not apply to American ' citizens outside the United States . Other Justice Department lawyers have said privately that they have concluded that the C.I.A . ' s mail interception program , which was centered in New York , San Francisco and New Orleans , was carried out in violation of Fourth Amendment guarantees .                     