@@734261

txt Letters HENRY E. SHARPEL . CARL BROWNGIBBY AND PATTI COHENSID TAYLORELEANOR M. O'KEEFE ... Letters The Hope and Promise of Synthetic Fuels To the Editor : In a recent front-page story an Administration spokesman was cited as saying , apropos of the increase in rail passenger traffic , that " after the ( gasoline ) lines vanish , Americans can be expected to return to their normal way of life . " This carries the misleading and dangerous implication that our gas station lines are likely to disappear in the near future . This is not likely to be the case . Our known domestic petroleum reserves have been falling since 1970 and are not expected to rise substantially , if at all . Also , in the foreseeable future we can well find our imports of petroleum further restricted either because of reduced production ( due to decreasing reserves or by edict ) OF because of impossibly high prices , and either one could occur suddenly or over a period of time . Our only hope of having enough fuel to operate our mobile equipment ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20 years lies in supplementing our petroleum fuels with synthetic fuels . While the critical importance of developing such fuel is fortunately gaining rapid recognition both in and out of Government , the public at least still fails to appreciate the enormous time lag that exists between the recognition of the need and the dates when such fuels can be delivered in the quantities necessary to afford substantial relief . While we know in theory how to Israel 's Policy On Settlements . To the Editor : Concerning Israeli settlements in the West Bank , Professor Eugene V. Rostow parades paragraphs of tendentious law before reaching his conclusions that have nothing to do with law . He argues that ( 1 ) the United States must " act soon and vigorously to prevent the Soviet Union from bringing the whole Middle East under its control " and ( 2 ) the Palestine issue " can not be solved by pressing Israel to make more and more concessions . " As for his first point , the Arab-Israeli confrontation ( or Arab-Zionist before 1948 ) existed long before either the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East . It was there before the cold war , continued unabated during the cold war and has survived into the present ambiguous d  --  tente period . Great powers that insist on seeing Middle Eastern politics ( including the Arab-Israeli confrontation ) largely in terms of great power politics will pay . a heavy penalty for their obtuseness , just as they have often done in the past . Mr. Rostow 's second point is equally wide of the mark . Crudely put , Israel can , if it chooses , impose its will on the Palestinians , at least for the foreseeable future ; but it would then forfeit any chance of being accepted by the Palestinians or others in the area . Or Israel can initiate policies that would attract Palestinians , give them a stake in a negotiated settlement , and thus start the process of painstakingly unraveling the cumulative distrust and fears that understandably afflict both Israelis and Palestinians . Where , then , does the Israeli settlements policy fall according to this criterion ? That , I submit , is the only important question in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July 3 , 1979 Transit Inequity To the Editor : It is our understanding that a New York City Transit Authority token is " good for one fare " on either the bus or subway system . If this is so , it behooves us to ask why the bus system will not accept the weekend half-fare coupon issued by the subway system . GIBBY AND PATTI COHEN Nashville , July 3 , 1979 In fact , it is more than possible that none of them will substantially ease our mobile fuel shortages until the early or middle 1990 's . ? Time is thus of the essence . We must call on our best scientific minds to quickly make a re-evaluation of the feasible new energy sources and to recommend the processes we should concentrate on , even though we will To the Editor : It all began with the electric power network blackout in New York . The system failed and the lights went out . Since ' then , we 've had the Teton dam collapse , the billion dollar swine flu fiasco , Detroit recalling millions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of $50 billion a year waste , fraud or incompetence in government programs , plus deficit spending by Congress , double digit inflation , an oil or energy crisis and a declining American dollar . Then along came the nuclear reactor breakdown at Three Mile Island . Next we witnessed the DC-10 jumbo jet tragedy at Chicago . On top of all this , our multi-billion dollar Alaskan oil pipeline started leaking again . I 'm also beginning to worry about our proposed $30 billion dollar MX missile system . With 2,000 nuclear warheads running around on railroad tracks in 4,000 miles of hidden trenches to fool the Russians , are we building an underground Maginot Line that may fool us instead ? How will we control , inspect and detect malfunctions in this system ? I hope it 's not turned over to the N.R.C. or F.A.A. Have we entered a new age of incompetence ? Is Murphy 's Law and the Peter . Principle about to destroy us ? Even Skylab , which was programmed to stay in orbit for 10 years , is coming back four years ahead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will spread chunks of debris along a corridor 100 miles wide and 4,000 miles long . It will ground impact at 340 m.p.h. but nobody knows Time for Congress To the Editor : During a recent visit to the United States , I was intrigued to find that President Carter was being held responsible for everything from Soviet expansionism to the present oil shortages . How accommodating it is to find the villain of the piece in the Presidency after Nixon 's abuse of its authority . How easy it is to forgive Congress its gross inertia over the energy problem after its disposal of Nixon ? Rather than rancor and recession , and a scapegoat for a President , would it not be opportune for Congress to get off its self-righteous rump and do something effective to resolve present difficulties ? ANTHONY MANSON London , June 22,197 ' 9 eventually have to develop every practical source that we know of . Having decided on these selected processes we must combine our governmental and private industry expertise to get the new products to the market in quantity and as soon as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ processes will be prohibitive for private industry without an assured market and at a price that will cover the cost of development and a reasonable profit , the Government ( viz. , the taxpayer ) may either have to guarantee industry such a market or subsidize the development work . Also , in order to make the greatest progress in the short time available to us , the Government will have to cooperate with private industry instead of hampering it with restrictive controls . In the meantime we must make aa all-out effort to conserve our petroleum supplies since we will be dependent on them for our mobility and to a large extent for our heating for a long time into the future . Also , regardless of their many faults , we appear to have no choice but to shift increasingly from petroleum to coal and nuclear fission for the generation of our electric power until we can develop renewable energy sources to take over part of their load , and even here a crash program is called for , since neither of them is now able to deliver all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chatham , N.J. , July 5 , 1979 exactly where . Let 's hope it does n't hit the reactor at Three Mile Island . New technology , high-performance systems create massive risks . Today 's management profession is about 25 years behind space age technology . We taxpayers can no longer afford faulty designs , shoddy engineering , overly complex and defect-ridden networks and negligept maintenance . Happiness is a Simplified System that is inspected and audited regularly . SID TAYLOR Research Director National Taxpayers Union Washington , July 2 , 1979 Cutting Fuel and Costs To the Editor : Those who live in houses can conserve fuel and cut costs by shutting off the heat to a part of the house . This means of cutting costs is not available to apartment dwellers who are forced to pay for oil to supply heat which they may not want . 1 propose an option be made available to apartment dwellers that heat to a particular room be turned off at a tenant 's request and that the tenant 's surcharge for fuel be decreased accordingly . This would help conserve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs of supplying heat , and offer the tenant a means of economizing on the escalating cost of living . ELEANOR M. O'KEEFE New York , July 2 , 1979 False ' Assertions To the Editor : In your issue of July 2 Dr. Edward Teller is quoted as having asserted that Albert Einstein had fretted mightily about the atomic bomb and had said that " if I had known ' what would come of it , I would rather have been a plumber than a physicist . " It is completely untrue that Einstein ever made such a statement . I have reason to believe that this was brought to Dr. Teller 's attention before . Besides , there exist publications which a careful scientist would have consulted before making false assertions about a man whose views and opinions are most important . OTTO NATHAN Executor and Trustee fhe Estate of Albert Einstein New York , July 3 , 1979 474 .. America 's Age of Incompetence City University 's Search for a Brooklyn College President To the Editor : Your news article on the recently concluded presidential search at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lively and legitimate behind-the-scenes inquiry into the painstaking and arduous process of executive search at a public college . Allowing for some errors of fact and questionable interpretations ( one leading candidate , while distinguished , was never " favored by the faculty " as a whole , and religious and ethnic considerations never played the crucial role the reporters attribute to them ) , and allowing that the article relied more than it should have upon reports of casual comments and exchanges that contribute little to a real understanding of the search process , the flavor it gave of the search process was in general provocative and realistic . The principal danger in such an article is that its focus upon debate , sometimes highly personal , over the individual candidates may leave some readers with the impression that candidacy for a public office of this kind amounts to running a gauntlet of prying eyes and destructive gossip . This is very far from the truth . At the final stage of an elaborate search process of this kind , the university 's task is not to reject unqualified candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qualified individuals one whose qualities seem uniquely well suited to the task at hand . By far the most gratifying aspect of our work with the Brooklyn College search ? and the same is running true of similar searches now underway at Hunter College and City College ? has been the uniformly high quality of th .. e candidates overall , and the exceptional quality of those who have proceeded to the final stages of the selection process . Selecting a nominee from so distinguished a list of finalists is not a casual act guided by one comment here , another there , as many sections of the Times article would suggest , but a fragile and challenging process that is as respectful of all the candidates as it is demanding of all the members of the search team . One element that came through forcefully In The Times 's article was the extremely broad base and democratic procedures which characterize the City University 's selection process . We are proud of this process , and for the opportunity it affords for all who have a stake , expertise and interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selection of those who will govern them . We are proud , too , of the caliber of the candidates who emerge from these processes . HAROLD M. JACOBS Chairman , Board of Higher Education New York , June 25 , 1979                     