@@732708

txt WHEN THE DAYS are cloudy and gray , workers at the Manteno Mental Health Center go on extra alert because they know there will be an increase in psychotic behavior among the patients . On hot , muggy nights the Chicago Police Department braces for a sharp increase in crimes of violence . On stormy nights , police are . prepared for more auto accidents because the electromagnetic waves that fill the air during a thunderstorm can dull brains and slow reaction times , increasing risks of accidents . And it is more than folklore that many people , especially arthritics , can predict weather changes when joints or old scars become painful . ALMOST EVERYONE believes there is a link between the weather and the way they feel . Scientists say they are right . It 's a fact that rainy days , for instance , tend to make people moody while sunshine perks them up . The scientists probing the influence of weather and climate on humans are finding more evidence that changes in weather produce a wide ? variety of changes in the body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metabolic rate , pulse , blood pressure , body chemistry , and body temperature . And it can be a killer . The study of the relationship between weather and health is called biometeorology . And one of the most remarkable examples ' of the science was a report made last year . THE STUDY INVOLVED The Netherlands in 1074 , a year in which nature went wild , subjecting the population to the worst weather in 100 years . ? Here 's a sample of their weather that year : January was very warm and marked by heavy storms . April was extremely dry . June was the coldest in 100 years . October , November , and December had three times more rain than normal . More heavy storms occurred in November and December . In the final two months of 1974 , the temperature was the highest it had been in 270 years . From September to the end of the year the amount of sunshine was reduced by almost one-fourth . Fortunately , scientists at the Biometeorological Research Center in Leiden had been making careful studies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looked at their 1974 records they were stunned . THEY GOT A rare glimpse of how the bizarre weather affected the population . Blood chemistry was drastically changed . One reading , blood sedirdente , tion rate , shot way up , indicating infections . Hemoglobin levels increased , indicating that the donors needed more oxygen . Several other blood proteins fluctuated at abnormal levels , and 17-ketosterold levels fell , indicating upset endocrine systems . Overall , there was a 10 per cent increase in the number of sick male workers in The Netherlands in 1974 . The scientists noted that , surprisingly , the number of heart attacks decreased . So did cases of high blood pressure , But , complaints of depression and rheumatism increased . Scientists explain that we live at the bottom of an ocean of air  --  primarily nitrogen 78 per cent and oxygen 20 per cent . You ca n't feel it , but the air at sea level presses down at the rate of 15 pounds per square inch . THE WEATHER ' CHANGES when the air is stirred up . The sun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can expand , reducing density and dropping pressure . Warm air also can hold more moisture . The cooler air is denser . It ' represents a high pressure area . The zone ' where the high pressure area meets , the low pressure area is called a front , and this is where sudden weather changes occur . The heavy , cooler air rushes in on the lighter warmer air like a bursting dam , causing winds , clouds , and rain . SOME PEOPLE are walking barometers , forecasting bad weather by aches and pains . Stormy weather usually is preceded by falling atmospheric pressure . Normally , the pressure on body tissues is equally balanced with the pressure from outside . When the pressure from outside is reduced , the pressure on the inside becomes greater , causing some of the tissue to expand , explained Dr. John Annegers , professor of physiology at Northwestern University .. As an arthritic joint swells , . it causes pain , he said . THE SAME THING hapfmns with scars . Healthy skin is elastic and easily expands when the atmospheric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As the good skin expands it pulls on the scar tissue , often causing pain . How heat , cold , humidity , barometric pressure , winds , clouds , climate , rains , and other weather conditions affect the human organism is of special interest to the American Institute of Medical Climatologists . People today seem to be more sensitive to weather changes because " we are brought up like hot house plants and not geared to the outdoors , ' said Dr. Helmut E. Landsberg , a University of Maryland meteorologist and president of the institute . Primitive man would have been die to adjust to changes faster and better because he was outdoors more , he said . ONE OF THE most devastating weather conditions is the combination of heat and humidity , said Landsberg . The human body lass about two million sweat glands that are designed to keep it at its optimal temperature . When it is hot and humid , even with all these glands , the body , ca n't get rid of its own heat . Metabolism is upset , the heart works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ muggy weather people make more mistakes and have more accidents . One study showed that students in air conditioned classrooms scored higher than students left to swelter . When the hot students were put in the air conditioned rooms , their scores shot up while the other students , who were put in the hot rooms , cored lower . Police hate hot , humid nights . Calls to the department may double or triple . RAPES , MURDERS , and other crimes of violence jump . " Hot weather disturbs personalities , " said Cmdr. Joseph DiLeonardl , chief of homicide for the Chicago Police Department . " They are uncomfortable and irritaale , and it does n't take much to incite hem into an act of violence . " Hot weather also can be a more direct treat to health . In July , 1968 , a heat wave hit St. Louis with temperatures ' eaching 106 degrees . The death rate there increased five old . Those in poor health were the main victims , dying from hbart attacks , pneumonia , influenza , and cancer . OTHER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flood do% hemorrhages , migraine , lead disease , colic , angina , and oseoarthritis . Cold weather has a similar impact , and sudden weather changes will aggregate almost any disorder . The main difference in the life styles A people living in the tropics and those n cooler climates is the weather , according to Dr. Abraham Gelperin , pro'essor of preventive medicine at the UniVersity of Illinois and medical consultant at the Manteno Mental Health enter . " The body has an amazing ability to adjust to different weather conditions , " se said . Hot weather , for example , af'ects the hormone system , slowing the oody se it can better survive the heat . PEOPLE LIVING in areas with changing seasons undergo these adjustments a couple of times a year . " Spring fever , " for instance , is a sign that the Jody is adjusting from cold to warm weather . Gelperin said weather has a majOr impact on the brain . A lot of it is psychological , but it nevertheless is real , he said . Some scientists believe brain tissue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humidity is high , upsetting emotions . " If the weather is lousy , you feel you 're going to have a lousy day , " said Gelperin . " People become more depressed and suicides increase . On a nice day people feel better . There 's a dramatic improvement in mental patients on clear , sunny days . " Generally speaking , when the barometer plummets below 30.00 you can expect to be more prone to accidents , inattentiveness , arguments , irritability , and less mental efficiency . At one time the Bank of England required all important records to be locked up on foggy days because the officials had noticed that an inordinate number of clerical errors were made during those low-pressure periods . THE ELECTROMAGNETIC waves generated in stormy , cloudy weather also appear to impair the function of the brain , according to Landsberg . A German study testing the reaction time of 20,000 persons showed they were slower and more sluggish when atmospheric electrical disturbances were high . Their reaction time was faster on clear days . Several studies have revealed that weather even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commonly taken by heart patients , was found to be more toxic during storms . WHILE SCIENTISTS still need to learn much more about weather and health , the day may not be too far off when the daily weather forecasts will contain such warnings as : " Overcast skies , expect to be in a bad mood , Storm approaching , take extra care to avoid accidents . Barometer falling , arthritics beware . Hot and humid , take precautions if you have a serious disease . "                     