@@733574

txt On a ceremonial occasion the other day , Chief Justice Burger said some nice things about Appeals Court Judge David Bazelon . But now , in a decision involving nuclear power plants , the Burger Court has vented its true feelings about the liberal , activist Bazelon court . The unanimous opinion , written by Justice Rehnquist , has accused the Bazelon court of " judicial intervention run riot " and decision-making that " borders on the Kafkaesque . " The opinion will limit the ability of Federal judges to overturn regulatory decisions on procedural grounds . That will be salutary if it ends obstructionist legal tactics . But it places a heavy burden on regulators and legislators to confront problems whose neglect led to judicial intervention in the first place . ? The case in question involved nuclear plants in Vermont and Michigan that were opposed by environmentalists but approved by Federal regulatory authorities . The Bazelon court blocked the reactors because , the Supreme Court concluded , regulatory proceedings were supposedly inadequate to explore the key issues . That , in the Supreme Court 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower court into the formulation of procedures that should be left to the discretion of the agencies . This ruling has been described as a major victory for utilities and the nuclear industry and a setback for environmentalists . But that all depends on the issue and the regulatory agency . A utility that is upset at pollution regulations issued by the Environmental Protection Agency , for example , may now find it more difficult to overturn those regulations in court . Indeed , the Court dismayed some environmentalists by ruling that energy conservation need not have been considered as an alternative to nuclear power in the Michigan case . But that ruling hinged on the fact that conservation was not a well-understood alternative at the time . Today , regula- , tory authorities would almost certainly have to consider conservation . The , Court 's focus on procedural matters leaves the . most important substantive issue unresolved  --  whether radioactive wastes and used fuel rods will cause unacceptable environmental damage when stored or reprocessed . Judge Bazelon and his colleagues complained about the Government 's failure to document its assertion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Government relied on a single witness who spoke vaguely and was asked no questions by the hearing board . The Supreme Court made no judgment on the validity of the Government 's position . It simply acknowledged that some wastes are highly toxic and sent the case back to the Bazelon court to determine whether the Government had adequate justification . That is a welcome step . The high court 's decision puts the emphasis where it belongs ? on the merits of nuclear policy rather than regulatory procedures . The Supreme Court also concluded that " Congress has made a choice to at least try nuclear energy . " Nuclear policy must be set by Congress , the state legislatures , and their appropriate agencies , not by Federal courts " under the guise of judicial review of agency action . " And that puts the burden on political institutions to resolve troubling problems ; such as waste disposal , which have been ducked for too long .                     