@@730610

txt CHICAGO 'S PUBLIC SCHOOL teachers go on strike today for the third time in the city 's history , closing the city 's 650 schools to all students . School Supt. James F. Redmond announced yesterday that schools would be closed after a last-minute meeting with Gov . Walker in Springfield failed to halt the threatened walkout . The Board of Education scheduled a private meeting today to discuss the situation , but refused to set a time for negotiations with the Chicago Teachers Union C. T. U. until after the meeting . THE STRIKE will affect about 550,000 pupils and 25,000 teachers . The school board yesterday refused to make an 11th-hour offer to avert the strike , despite a statement by Gov . Walker that he is committed to working for more state aid for the schools this year . The governor told board and union leaders that he could not give a definite dollar figure on how much the board could expect in that new state aid . BOARD MEMBERS had refused to grant any of the union 's demands for higher salaries and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether additional money would be available . Mrs. W. Lydon Wild , the board 's chief negotiator , said no additional offer was made to teachers after the meeting in Springfield because " nothing the governor said today will allow us to give one more dollar to the teachers tomorrow . " Mrs. Wild said the main outcome of the meeting was to reinforce the board 's position that teachers should agree to extend the present contract for six months . The board then ' could talk about the teachers demands for more pay and lower class size once the additional aid Walker promised was available . " MANY of the union 's demands are entirely justified , " Mrs. Louis Malls , a board member , told Walker . " I will not support granting the demands because there is no money , but they are justified . " Robert Healey , C. T. U. president , disagreed with the board about the outcome of the meeting . " The governor obviously is committed to leading the way for more aid to the schools , " he said . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bargaining table and make an agreement with us . " Walker appointed a staff member to work with the board to draft legislation requesting more state aid . He urged the school board to seek aid from the city as well . MRS . WILD , however , called Walker 's suggestion to seek city aid " Improper " in light of his accompanying statements that the state should work toward funding 50 per cent of the schools ' finances . Walker also urged the board to seek ways to reduce its administrative expenses , describing them as " unduly high . " If legislation is needed to reduce some administrative costs , he will help get it , he said . Redmond , meanwhile , issued a statement urging parents to keep children at home because " all public school buildings will be closed . " HE SAID teachers wanting to work will be assigned to one school in each of the city 's 27 school districts . Redmond emphasized that children should not be sent to even those schools kept open for teachers . The schools will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right to abstain from a strike , " he said . " Absolutely no children will be allowed at any of the schools . " Today 's strike is the third in four years . Teachers also walked out in May , 1969 and January , 1971 . Healey said teachers will picket at every city school today , and urged teachers not to report to the " scab " schools which Redmond said will be kept open .                     