@@731163

txt President Nixon said today that with the continued voluntary sacrifices of the American people , he is confident there will be no heating oil hardships this winter and that gasoline rationing can be avoided in the spring . He said the government must prepare for the worst , however , and will be ready to ration gasoline if necessary . " But with continued cooperation by everyone , we all have good reason today to hope for the best and you can be sure that with your help , I ' will do everything in my power to achieve the goal of avoiding gas rationing , " the President said in a national radio broadcast from the White House . NIXON 'S 15-minute broadcast on the energy situation took note of a mounting tide of skepticism and complaint from the public and the Congress . He spoke of " the tough questions which are now being asked by millions of concerned Americans " ? whether the oil shortage is real or rigged by the oil industry for its own benefit , and whether the big companies will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heating oil and gasoline . Two congressional committees held investigatory hearings this last week on these questions and at least two more committees are planning further hearings after Congress returns for its new session Monday . Asking if big oil companies will " reap the benefits of your personal sacrifices , " the President asserted that he is determined that the sacrifices of Americans in the energy crisis he proclaimed Nov. 7 must be for the benefit of everyone ? " not just for the benefit of big business . " HE SAID the oil shortages are genuine . Shortages may become more severe , regardless of the current favorable outlook , and are " potentially dangerous , " he said . Assuring Americans that their belttightening in the form of lower home and office temperatures , less and slower driving , and gasless weekends will benefit the nation and not merely enrich the oil industry , Nixon promised . ? To do " everything I can " to hold down the rocketing prices of foreign oil on which he laid the blame for rising prices of heating oil , gasoline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everything in my power " to stop the big oil companies and other major energy producers " from making an unconscionable profit out of this crisis . " AS SOON AS Congress convenes , he said , he will ask immediate action on a windfall profits tax . The proposed tax would siphon off excess profits either by turning them over to the federal treasury or requiring the companies to invest them in development of new petroleum supplies needed for the future , he said . " Private profiteering at the expense of public sacrifice must never be tolerated in a free country , " he declared . To get at the truth of whether there really is an oil shortage , Nixon said , he will ask Congress for a law requiring oil companies " to provide a lull Iand constant accounting " of production , inventories , reserves , and casts ? legislation to make it possible for the government to conduct its own independent auditing and monitoring . MEANWHILE , he said he has ordered a thoro government audit of all major oil company records " to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete . " He said " several hundred " f ede r al inspectors will be turned loose on this job and more will be assigned if needed . If the reports obtained are not satisfactory , he said he will ask major oil company heads to meet with him personally in Washington " so that I can get the facts I need to make decisions that are right and that are best for all Americans . " " I assure you that I shall not allow the American people to be the victims of a ' snow job ' in a crisis which affects the jobs , the comfort , and the very way of life of millions of Americans . " HE SCOFFED at " scare stories " that Americans will soon be paying El a gallon for gasoline . Such stories , he commented , " are just as ridiculous " as recent reports that bread will cost 81 a , loaf , and vowed that Americans will not have to pay such prices . The President said the U. S. is " making solid progress " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important reason for success so far has been the public response to save oil , gasoline , and electricity . Nixon also announced that he has ordered a review of the international tax structure to make sure American oil companies with operations in foreign countries are not allowed special tax advantages . Further , a review of other tax laws applying to energy producers will be undertaken , he said . NIXON SAID in connettion with the soaring prices of Arab and other foreign oil it is clear " we must have a cooperative , international accommodation " among producing and consuming nations . He noted he has arranged a Washington conference of major oil-consuming countries for Feb. 11 to discuss the pricing problem and other matters . The U. S. , he asserted , must never again " he caught in a foreign-made crisis " like the Arab-Israeli war and subsequent oil embargo last October . The U. S. , he said , must never again be dependent on any other country , friendly or unfriendly , for the energy it needs . " PROJECT independence , " Nixon said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government  --  with most of tile money and work coming from industry . He said he was sure Congress will agree that the public wants to cooperate with the administration in enacting a broad range of legislation on " energy initiatives " he is submitting in the upcoming session .                     