@@732788

txt Jimmy Carter won the nation 's Bicentennial Presidential election yesterday . narrowly defeating President Ford by sweeping his native South and adding enough Northern industrial states to give him a bare electoral vote majority . Three of the closely contested battleground states slipped into Mr. Carter 's column shortly after midnight  --  New York , Pennsylvania and Texas . The President-designate lost New Jersey and Michigan , Mr. Ford 's home state , while Ohio , Illinois and California were still up for grabs . New York teetered between the rivals for hours , contrary to all expectations , before delivering a small majority to Mr. Carter  --  a majority that gave the Democrat a bonanza of 41 electoral votes . When Mr. Carter finally carried Hawaii by a far narrower margin than customary for Democratic candidates in. that Democratic stronghold , it gave the Georgian 272 electoral votes in 23 states . two more than a majority . Mr. Ford had 160 electoral votes in 23 states , and five states were still in doubt . A Southern Victor Mr. Carter was the first man from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a quarter , and Mr. Ford , the nation 's first appointive President , was the first incumbent to lose a Presidential election since Herbert Hoover . Although the President dominated the Plains and Mountain regions , he lost several middle-sized states that he had counted upon . Among them were Louisiana and Mississippi on the Gulf Coast , and Wisconsin , which went to the Democrats for only the second time in a quarter-century as the result of an outpouring of votes from industrial Milwaukee and liberal Madison . Mr. Carter owed large debts to Mayor Frank L. Rizzo of Philadelphia , who produced the 250,000-vote margin Mr. Carter needed to carry Pennsylvania ; to Robert S. Strauss , the Democratic national chairman , who worked Cr ' ' - rsly to put together the Texas operatic , and to the South and the Border states as a whole . The Georgian won every Border state and every Southern state except Virginia , which seemed headed for the Ford column . Division of Popular Vote The popular vote , which was swelled by a relatively heavy turnout to roughly the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ split 51 percent for Mr. Carter , 48 for Mr. Ford and 1 for others . With 81 percent of the nation 's precincts reporting , the vote was : Carter 33,684,344-51 percent Ford 31,665,958-48 percent In the metropolitan area , Mr. Carter lost both New Jersey and Connecticut , as his backers had feared he would . All 25,000 voting machines in New York were ordered impounded by Statc Supreme Court Justice Edward S. Conway . Acting at the request of state Re- publican officials , with the approval of White House officials , he said the closeness of the vote made the impoundment necessary . Mr. Carter and Mr. Ford were running a ? dead heat in Ohio , but the voting pattern in Cuyahoga County ( Cleveland ) suggested that the Democrat might be able to pull out a very narrow victory . He ran strongly in the Appalachian area . ' In Illinois , Mr. Ford 's vote in the suburbs and Mr. Carter 's vote in the city of Chicago closely matched the figures in the fianl Chicago Sun-Times straw poll , which showed a virtual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders that the state would tip Democratic . As advertised , the race was harrowingly close in a large number of states . With the count nearly complete in Iowa , Mi . Carter held a 141-vote lead . As the tabulation wore on in Maine , Mr. Ford led by 31 votes . At one point , Mr. Carter led in Hawaii by 877 votes . Former Senator Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota , running as an independent candidate , appeared to hold the balance of , power in at least two hard-fought states , Ohio and Oregon . From the beginning of the count , most of . the states fell as they had been expected to . Kentucky and Indiana , the first two to report substantial returns , appeared to be following the predictions closely , with Mr. Carter approaching 55 Ipetcent in Kentucky and Mr. Ford the same figure in Indiana . partial returns and interviews with party leaders indicated that the former Georgia Governor was holding his Southern base and leading in the East . But the President was narrowly ahead in the ' Middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deadlocked in the West . Key Role for Independents Mr. Carter appeared to be winning enormous margins among both blacks and Latin-Americans ; in fact , early figures indicated that Mr. Ford was narrowly ahead among white voters , accordin g to early results of a CBS News survey of voters as they left their polling places . The CBS News poll , which covered about 10/000 voters and was made available to Ti* New York Times under a special arrangement , indicated that the Presidential balloting was breaking along partisan lines , with nearly 90 percent of the Republicans backing Mr .. Ford and more than 80 percent of the Democrats backing Mr. Carter . Independents held the key , and they were going to the President by a narrow margin . But it was not clear early last night if the trend would continue or be strong enough to give Mr. Ford a victory . Almost a quarter of the independents said they had made up their minds in the lad . five days of a campaign that perplexed much of the electorate . Reports from a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carter campaign with an unusually sophisticated , computer-designed vote-pulling operation , were playing a major role in the surprisingly large turnout . The weather was splendid across the country , and reports of jammed voting places poured in from state after state . In New York , the turnout was said to be " astonishingly heavy ' ; in Minnesota , voters appeared at the polls In " fantastically high " numbers ; in Rhode Island , there were long lines . Mr. Carter 's Illinois manager , Paul Sullivan , declared that " apathy is dead " and said he was " jumping for joy . " Mary Singleton , director of elections in Florida , was saying , before the polls closed , that voting in her state would reach the highest level since 1952 , despite months of predictions that as little as half of the voting age population might choose to vote . President Ford cast his ballot at an elementary school in his old Congressional district in Grand Rapids , Mich. , said an emotional farewell to his fellow townspeople and returned to Washington to await @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wept as he watched the unveiling of an airport mural depicting his life and told the audience , struggling to maintain his composure , that he owed everything to his mother and father . He was obviously completely exhausted . Mr. Carter was the llth.person to vote in Plains , Ga. , the rural hamlet he left 22 months ago to begin a quest for the Presidency that was dimissed as an absurdity by the elders of his party until he won his first primary victories . He spent five minutes marking the long Georgia ballot , then commented that he had voted for " Walter Mondale and his running mate . " " I feel a sense of satisfaction , " the slight , 52-year-old peanut farmer said . " I did the best that I could . " Senator Mondale voted in Afton , Minn. , and Senator Robert J. Dole , Mr. Ford 's running mate , in Russell , Kan . Mr. Carter , a former naval officer who served a single term as Governor of Georgia , started as a lonely campaigner , short on money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his early effort , meeting voters in two 's and three 's , and it slowly began to pay off in his campaign against such better-known figures as Senators Birch Bayh and Henry M. Jackson , Representative Morris K. Udall and Gov . George C. Wallace . He won the Jan. 19 caucuses in Iowa and that gave him a bit of publicity . Then he proved that he could win a primary in New Hampshire , and he dispatched Mr. Wallace in Florida . Finally , victories in two of the big industrial states  --  Pennsylvania and Ohio  --  brought the party leaders to his side . Mr. Ford took office in the shadow of Watergate and won high marks for restoring a measure of candor to the White House . But as the first appointed President , he lacked the strong hold on voters ' emotions that most incumbents have , and he had to battle for more than six months to beat back a challenge from former Gov . Ronald Reagan of California , a telegenic conservative who came within a hair 's breath of beating him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ win in a walk  --  or at least it seemed so from the polls . But Mr. Carter found the generalelection campaign more difficult than the primary campaign , and his lead began to shrink after Labor Day . An interview with Playboy magazine in which the Georgian used earthy language and a lackluster performance in the first of three televised debates hurt his cause . By the time the President emerged from his passive , Rose Garden campaign for 11 days of furious stumping to conclude the campaign , it appeared that he had a chance of pulling off an upset , And when the campaign ended on Monday , the national polls showed the race a toss-up ? too close to call .                     