@@728484

txt The city 's economic vitality was slowly sapped yesterday as the impact of the postal strike was felt in brokerage houses , banks , law offices , department stores and thousands of other businesses . Businesses or every variety , from retail stores to airlines , were already feeling the strike 's effects and worrying seriously about the situation that would develop if the mail tie-up persisted . At Macy 's New York , David L. Yunich , the president , said that " nondelivery of the - mails seriously affects every aspect of business , " and called the strike a " severe hardship . " Gimbe0 controller , Ralph Waite , said the tie-up would create " an alarming jam " for the store . Abraham &; Straus said , through a spokesman : " We 've never been faced with any problem like this . We do n't exactly know what to do . " Store Shipments Hurt The cut-off of mail delivery affects not only the stores ' mail - order business but the ability to fill customers ' demands for merchandise that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Penney Company said that the strike would hamper the company in replenishing its stock but would not , thus far , affect its catalog business , which is operated in Atlanta and Milwaukee . FA en at Tiffany &; Co. the possible effects of the strike were being considered yesterday by executives of the concern , Walter Moving , president of the company , which usually receives about 500 mail orders and $300,000 daily in checks , said : ' This is going to tie us up very seriously if it lasts // more than a day or two . ' Another sort of problem was faced by Pan American World Airways , which planned to send out its annual report and proxy statements to stock1 holders next week . Fifteen sacks of mail are piled up in their New York offices , awaiting further action  --  or the end of the strike . Prospective travelers whose airline tickets were to be mailed to them were calling airlines yesterday to inquire about the situation . American Airlines was asking some travelers to pick up their tickets at the airline 's offices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cutbacks in their part-time staffs because so much of the volume of work involves handling mail . The Chemical Bank moved to meet the immediate problem by imposing a complete ban on outgoing mail . The New York Telephone Company said it faced a potential loss of $7-million a day in revenues on the bills it sends out to customers in Manhattan and the Bronx . The New York Times said that a portion of its mail circulation was flown to Chicago to be mailed from there , while The Wall Street Journal said it was affected only in the city , where its mail circulation totals 60,000 daily . The Journal of Commerce , turned back at the post office , took its mail to Philadelphia . The brokerage houses began to feel the squeeze as millions of dollars in checks from investors buying stock piled up in post offices . Bankers faced problems from a breakdown in deliveries to post office boxes , where an average of $300-million in payments every day are normally directed from all over the country . Tons of proxy statements , annual reports and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for annual meetings next month also presented a serious problem . Other Services Used Lawyers waited in vain for urgent replies from the Securities and Exchange Commission on a wide variety of legal questions  --  often long and involved . Meanwhile , as Wall Street geared to meet the threat of a prolonged strike  --  and the possibility that it might spread elsewhere ? many concerns turned to special messenger services and began shipping mail by private carrier to outlying cities . The S.E.C. , like all Government agencies , said that it had been told by the Post Office not to send any mail to New York . An S.E.C. spokesman said some problems could be handled by phone but that many matters required long replies that could only be handled by mail . He said a long strike in New York " could throw a monkey wrench " into its activities . The New York Stock Exchange said it , was investigating special procedures it might take in the event of a prolonged lie-up . A major effect on brokers is expected to be the settlement procedure , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the seventh business day . Failing this , brokers are required to sell the stock . The Big Board has the power to extend this date in emergencies and there are indications that the exchange may he giving some thought to this possibility . Other problems are expected at both the Big Board and the American Stock Exchange in what are known as direct clearing operations , which the exchanges handle partly by mail with brokers outside New York . The extent of the problem is not yet known because a substantial portion of this operation is handled by brokers themselves using armored cars . Long Strike a Problem The New York Stock Exchange 's Central Certificate Service is not expected to face any immediate problem on mail deliveries of dividends or proxies because it has mailed them from undisclosed out-oftown post offices . At the American Exchange , Paul Kolton , executive vice president , said the strike would not create large ' problems if it ended within two or three days . " Beyond that , " he said , " results of the strike could be severe on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the relationship between customer and broker in the transfer of stock , payments and confirmations of orders , and between brokers in cases where one broker is an out-of-towner . Dealings between the local brokers are normally handled by messenger and would not be affected . Other sources at the Amex said some brokers might try to help customers pay for stock to meet settlement dates but will be limited by their capital in how far they can go . There were signs that some brokers would have to borrow stock from each other to make delivery as well as funds to meet capital requirements . Serious difficulties are also developing among specialists in the solicitation of proxies for stockholder meetings . The Kissel Blake Organization , which is now involved in a proxy fight , termed the situation " very bad . " John J. Blake 3d , president of the organization , said the situation could get worse if the strike lasted long because more than 3,000 annual meetings are coming up in April and mailings for these meetings must be made soon . Serious Trouble Expected John I. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , proxy solicitors , said he " could n't conceive " of a long strike . " It 's too damn serious to last long , " he said . Other areas of the economy also began to feel the pinch . Ralph C. Gross , president of the Commerce and Industry Association , sent President Nixon a wire urging that steps be taken " immediately " to halt the strike . The embargo , he said , has stopped all checks , receipts , bills and sales orders , as well as bank drafts and documents for foreign commerce . " The losses and delays are expected to seriously disrupt business transactions , " he added , " and threaten the future of the thousands of marginal firms for which slow payments or expiration of export licenses mean real trouble . "                     