@@731004

txt President Nixon began his search today for a successor to Vice President Agnew amid indications that he will face stiff resistance from Congress if he chooses anyone who. might qualify as a strong Republican candidate in 1976 . The Senate majority leader , Mike Mansfield , Democrat of Montana , said the choice of either John B. Connally , the former Treasury Secretary and Texas Governor , or Gov . Ronald I Reagan of California  --  both presumed contenders for the Republican Presidential nomination in 1976 ? would provoke a fight from Senate Democrats . Similar . warnings had come from Democratic leaders in the House . Quick Action Indicated Mr. Nixon 's first moves today indicated that he wished to move quickly but with some show of bipartisan consultation . Senator Mansfield said after meeting the President that Mr. Nixon had indicated he would submit the name of his nominee to Congress " at the end of this week or the first of next week . " " President Nixon intends to move expeditiously in selecting a nominee and he trusts the Congress will then act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the President 's press secretary , announced shortly after word that the President had accepted Mr. Agnew 's resignation spread through the White House . Mr. Nixon then began meeting with Congressional leaders of both parties and with George Bush , chairman of the Republican National Committee , to reach an understanding on the procedures he will follow in selecting a Vice President ac // Under the 25th Amendment ratified in 1967 , when there i a vacancy in the office of Vic President the President mus appoint a person to fill th office , subject to approval by simple majority of both houses Mr. Ziegler said the Presiden would confer over the next fe days with a wide range o national leaders , both Demo Icrats and Republicans , to hea their views on who or wha kind of person should be name to the second highest office i the nation . One longtime Nixon coun selor , who hinted he ha talked with the President , sai that one of Mr. Nixon 's firs objectives would be to avoi a confrontation with Congress Another primary considera tion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ma who shared Mr. Nixon 's view on foreign policy . Accordingly , men such as former Secretary of State William P. Rogers , former Gov . William W. Scranton of Pennsylvania and former Senator John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky  --  all Republicans ? figured persistently in the fevered speculation here . Other G.O.P. Names Other Republican names being mentioned in the guessing ? much of it uninformed  --  were those of Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona ; the Treasury Secretary , George P. Shultz ; a Presidential counselor , Melvin R. Laird , and Warren E. Burger , Chief Justice of the United States . At the same time some observers thought it was not inconceivable that Mr. Nixon would nominate a Democrat . Mr. Bush , the Republican chairman , said this afternoon that he would " strongly urge " the nomination of a Republican . Mr. Bush dispatched telegrams to more than 150 members of the party 's national committee , asking them , he said , " who they think it should be . " But Mr. Bush  --  like other party figures who proposed individual candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point was the President 's . Within both parties today there continued to be a sharp crossfire of opinion on the question of whether Congress should consider partisanship and the 1976 election in the confirmation process , and whether Mr. Nixon should be prepared to bargain with the Democratic majorities in both House and Senate . Opposition by Right Cited Among the Republicans , for example , Senator Goldwater was reported to have said privately that he and his fellow conservatives would seek to block a nomination of either Mr. Connally , a recent convert to Republicanism ; Governor Rockefeller of New York , who lost the Presidential nomination to Mr. Goldwater in 1964 ; or Senator Charles H. Percy of Illinois , a liberal who is already exploring the possibility of a run for the Presidency in 1976 . Mr. Percy , on the other hand , said today that no conditions should be placed on Mr. Nixon 's choice , and that no consideration should be given to " what effect this will have on 1976 . " In Houston , Mr. Connally declined to say whether he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to him , according to United Press International . He said he had not talked to Mr. Nixon about Mr. Agnew 's resignation . " As I 've tried to tell you all consistently , " he said , " I 'm not a candidate for anything ; I 'm not going to be a candidate for anything . That includes the Vice-Presidency . " Mr. Connally , too , has persistently denounced the Democrats ' proposal of a " caretaker " Vice President . " The very idea hat you 'd select a political nuch , " he commented last eek . " You select a Vice Presient on the basis of his capacy to serve if something hapened to the President . " Some Democrats , including enator Edward M. Kennedy of assachusetts , himself a posible candidate for the Presiency in 1976 , have disagreed harply. with the Congressional eadership view that potential epublican candidates be ruled t for Vice President . Mr. Agnew informed the 1-esident last night of his deIsion to resign and plead no ontest to a single charge of ax evasion . According to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 6 P.M. , which the two sat alone beere the fireplace in Mr. Nixti 's Oval Office . " The President expressed to be Vice President his sense of eep personal loss and he exressed his appreciation for the ice President 's dedicated service to the nation over the past four and one-half years and his respect for the Vice President 's decision to put the national interest above personal considerations in taking this very difficult action , " Mr. Ziegler said . After the meeting the President was host at a state dinner last evening for President Felix Houphoiiet-Botgny of the Ivory Coast , keeping the new of Mr. Agnew secret from most , if not all , of his staff . This morning , shortly before noon , Mr. Nixon still gave no hint of the development as he , in obvious high spirits , presented the National Medal of Science awards in the East Room before scores of scientists , Cabinet members , reporters and photographers . Some high Presidential assistants have said privately an Agnew resignation would be welcome . Nixon Seen Benefiting Thus today 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from his own problems in Watergate and related matters and restoring his credibility with the country . After the news was announced , President Nixon moved rapidly to choose a successor . First he called Republican leaders from Congress ? Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania and Robert P. Griffin of Michigan in the Senate , and Gerald R. Ford of Michigan and Leslie C. Arends of Illinois in the House  --  who arrived at midafternoon in their black limousines and were ushered immediately into the Oval Office . He telephoned Senator James 0 . Eastland , the President pro tempore of the Senate , a conservative Democrat and Nixon ally who was on his plantation in Mississippi . And he talked also with Mr. Bush to get his ideas about names and procedures . Later in the day , Mr. Nixon met with Carl Albert of Oklahoma , the House Speaker , and Senator Mansfield . Suggestions on Candidates After Senator Scott , the minority leader , arrived back on Capitol Hill and conveyed the news of the White House meeting to other Republican Senators , he told reporters that President Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those in his party . " He has an entirely open mind , " Senator Scott said . He said the President had expressed interest that the man he nominates should be " able " to be President . He said some names were mentioned , but only for " illustrative pun poses , to indicate that his mind is open . " Asked to explain what he meant by that , Senator Scott said the President would say , " Some of you may send this name or that name , but my mind is wide open . " At the same time , however , the Senator emphasized that the ' President would pick someone who would " generally share " the President 's views on issues . Asked to describe the President 's mood , Senator Scott , who has steadfastly supported him through the Watergate crisis , said he was " somber . " He said the President had described the Agnew development as " a sad experience . " " It was very moving , " Senator Scott said . " But he was very strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he did not know whether he would be interested in the Vice-Presidency . Speculation on Scranton News this afternoon that former Governor Scranton had flown to Washington today from his home in Scranton , Pa. , touched off speculation that he was under immediate consideration for the VicePresidential vacancy . Briefly a candidate for the Republican nomination in 1964 , he has State Department experience and has been consulted on several subjects  --  notably campus unrest in 1970 ? by the Nixon White House . He also happens to have made a formal pledge that he would never again run for any public office  --  a pledge that might make him more attractive to Democrats in Congress . Late this afternoon , however , in response to many inquiries , Mr. Scranton 's office sought to dampen speculation with the following statement : " I have not been in contact with anyone in Washington with regard to the Vice-Presidential appointment . I have had no contact with anyone in the White House last night , yesterday or any time today . I am in Washington on an entirely different matter and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finch , one of Mr. Nixon 's oldest friends in politics and Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare in Mr. Nixon 's original Cabinet , was reported to be flying to Washington from his home in Los Angeles late today . There was no indication , however , that his trip had anything to do with the Vice-Presidency.                     