@@731172

txt From inside a meteorite , scientists have pulled fresh evidence that organic life may be spread throughout the universe This latest evidence consists of the discovery that simple fatty acids , among the basic building blocks for organic life , are present in two meteorites . It forges another link in the chain of discovery that has revolutionized concepts of the origin and prevalence of life in the universe . Once , the scientific community was convinced life was a cosmic accident and man was alone in the universe Evidence piled up But then , with bigger optical telescopes , astronomers began seeing more and more stars that apparently were surrounded by planets . Chemists created organic materials ? including fatty acids ? out of primitive gases in the laboratory . The big radio telescopes began seeing the electronic signatures of these same molecules in the vastness of interstellar space . Now many scientists feel the formation of organic life must be a process that is taking place throughout the universe , They are trying to pin down the details of this process . How do complex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these compounds evolve into living organ-isms ? At the Ames Research Center , Drs . Keith Kvenvolden of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ) and George U , Yuen , now of Arizona State University , carefully chiseled away the outside of several meteorites . These were made up of large amounts of carbon and crumbled easily . Finally they ground the samples into a powder . Delicately analyzed At every step , taking elaborate precautions not to contaminate the material , the scientists placed pre- pared samples in an instrument called a mass spectrometer which detected extremely small but significant amounts of 17 different types of fatty acids ( A ton of meteoritic material would contain only a half-pound of these acids . ) The researchers are certain that this organic material is not simply contamination . The material is significantly different than that found on earth In the past , there have been several reports of fatty acids in meteorites , says Dr Yuen . However , these were the type commonly found in old-fashioned soap , which he and Dr. Krenvolden found on the outer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no accident ' // But the fatty acids that Dr Yuen and his colleague found inside are much simpler . Nine have been created out of primitive gases in the laboratory . For some reason , fatty acids made by earth organisms have predominantly even numbers of carbon atoms . However , those in the meteorites , like the chemicals synthesized in the lab , show no such preference Familiar source excluded We can rule out a biological source , at least from organisms as we know them , " says Dr Yuen Fatty acids are the second biologically important chemical to be isolated blocks of proteins . " This is not as significant as discovery of the amino acids , but it is another link in the chain , " says Dr Carl Sagan , director of the Department of Plenetary Studies at Cornell " You can imagine life without fatty acids , but not without the other "                     