@@730242

txt Mayor Daley was handicapped yesterday by a ruling against delegates he could use tomorrow to stand off the challenge of Son . Stevenson for chairman of , the Illinois delegation to  --  the Democratic national convention . Joseph Centeno , counsel for the Democratic National Committee , announced that Daley 's addition of 10 extra delegates at  --  large by action of the Democratic state convention Friday was a " clear violation " of the call for the national con ? vention . This means the only votes cast tomorrow in Springfield will be by the 160 delegates elected in districts March 21 and by the 10 original delegates at-large chosen by the 160 on June 2 , or by'alternatee acting for absentees . Daley was delegation chairman , controlling the Illinois microphone on the convention floor , in 1956 , 1960 , 1964 , and 1Q68 . " Of course I 'm ready for a fight , " Daley told a reporter . " I 'm always ready for a fight , and up to one . " He ref used to , speculate about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this week . He said that " people have a lot of reasons for a lot of things . " George W. Dunne , president of the County Board , a delegate close to Daley , said he believes the mayor will pull thru with votes to spare . " I 've never seen the mayor ? back down from a good fight in my life , " Dunne said . Stevenson said he has been assured by Frank Cicero of Evanston , a delegate who conducted a state-wide poll of delegates , and by others that he has enough votes to win . " The overall picture is favorable , " Stevenson said . " I was told I have the firm commitment of a majority of the Illinois delegates . " Cicero said he does not rule out some attempt by City Hall leaders to blitz the delegates ' meeting at 11 a. m. tomorrow at the St. Nicholas Hotel in Springfield . He said he is trying to arrange with Daley 's associates for an orderly procedure . The main thing is assurance of a roll call vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . to be a secret ballot , Cicero said . He was elected as an independent delegate to the 1970 Constitutional Convention . Stevenson allies also want an election  --  not appointment by the new delegation chairman  --  of six Illinois members for each of the top committees of the national convention : credentials , rules , and platform . Col. Jacob M. Arvey , Democratic national committeeman for Illinois , said he favors Daley over Stevenson . He also told The Tribune that he does not want to be reelected after 22 years on the national committee .                     