@@729374

txt Vice President Agnew expressed misgivings today about the visit to China by the United States table tennis team and the apparent thaw in relations between the two countries . According to reliable sources , the Vice President called eight reporters to his hotel room at 12:30 a. m. , several hours after his arrival for the spring meeting of the Republican Governors ' Conference here . lie reportedly talked with them for almost three hours with the stipulation that his remarks would not be published . Reporters from the Baltimore Sun , the Associated Press and THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE were among those present . The representative of the New York Times was not invited . News Spreads Quickly This noon , Agnew discussed his views on the China question at a closed luncheon with the Republican governors . Within a matter of hours , news of the two meetings spread thru the halls of the Williamsburg Conference Center , where the meeting is being held . The Vice President also criticized the reporting . of the China visit , which ended last weekend , by the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Chinese government had been helped to score a propaganda triumph by the newsmen 's accounts . Agnew said he had voiced his doubts about the new trend in American-Chinese affairs at a meeting of the National Security Council . It was not clear whether he had discussed his views with President Nixon . Last Wednesday , Nixon announced a relaxation of the 20-year embargo on U. S. trade with China , an easing of restrictions on shipping engaged in transporting goods to China and steps to facilitate the travel of Chinese visitors to the U. S. Talks of Standing At his late night session with the reporters , Agnew discussed a number of other topics , in ? cluding his own standing within the Republican Party . He reportedly conceded that he might well have been damaged by the pointedness of his partisan thrusts during the last two years . One participant in the meeting said the Vice President has remarked that he was not sure whether he would constitute an asset or a liability to the Republican national ticket in 1972 . In addition , the participant said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would be willing to seek reelection next year . The Vice President and his party left Williamsburg before reports of his comments became known generally , and he could not be reached for comment . Tied to Formosa WILLIAMSBURG , Va. , April 19 ( R -- A Republican source at the governors ' conference said Agnew emphasized the fact that the U. S. still has commitments to the Nationalist Chinese government on Taiwan Formosa . Agnew also was quoted as saying that one member of the team , whom he did not name , appeared to be returning home talking the Communist line . Agnew reportedly complained that during the tour , a 15 by 15-foot room , the home of a Chinese family , was described as an apartment . He asserted the same quarters in the U. S. would have been denounced as evidence of repression and poverty . In St. Louis , the Post-Dispatch reported in a dispatch from Williamsburg by Thomas W. Ottenad that Agnew told the newsmen he had not discussed his views with President Nixon . The story added that the Post-Dispatch was not represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting were learned from other sources . U. S. at Disadvantage The Post-Dispatch said Agnew expressed concern that the visit by the table tennis team had put the U. S. at a disadvantage in world opinion . He was quoted as having referred to the " courteous and enthusiastic reception " that the Chinese gave to the Americans , and to have expressed the view that the U. S. had been trapped into a disadvantageous position from a public relations point of view . Agnew was reported by the newspaper to have objected to some press accounts of the trip , particularly the use in one story of the word " exquisite " to describe Chinese sportsmanship in using some lowerI ranked players against the Americans .                     