@@729276

txt A series of escalating crises in the last week has culminated in a situation in CanDerra in which the leadership of the Australian Government is under threat  --  and indeed the government itself could conceivably fall It is not a matter of high policy that has placed Prime Minister John G. Gorton and his government in jeopardy , but the politics of Cabinet personalities and the apparent manipulation of news . The principal characters in the drama are the Prime Minister , his Defense Minister , Malcolm Fraser ? whose resignation Monday precipitated the final crisis  --  and the chief of the Army staff , Gen. Sir Thomas Daly . The whole affair blew up out of a comparatively trivial incident . The Australian Broadcasting Commission ( ABC ) man in Vietnam reported from Saigon that the Australian Army was phasing out its civic action program . In Canberra , Mr. Fraser categorically denied this . but when the ABC man hacked up his claim with direct evidence , Mr. Fraser was left looking somewhat embarrassed . Vietnamdiscussed At this stage , the incident was regarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarded as of only short duration now . But the incident triggered the Defense Minister 's anger at the Army . In a series of background briefings to Canberra political correspondents , Mr. Fraser outlined a series of episodes in which the Army had acted without reference to Canberra or had misled the defense headquarters in Canberra . Mr. Fraser is a young , thrusting politician who is widely characterized as having an abrasive personality . His demeanor has not been the sole source of his argument with the Army , but it has been a significant factor . Of greater importance , however , has been the fact that Mr. Fraser has reigned as political head of the Defense Department at a time when the whole structure of the department was undergoing a process of civilianization . Naturally enough , the armed services resented the reduction in their power base implicit in this changeover . // *Australian news management perils regime // One of the greatest irritants was the establishment of a Joint Intelligence Organization ( JIG ) run and largely staffed by nonmilitary men . The Army fought hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Mr. Fraser . Newspaper article It was the .1I0. which figured in the second stage of the buildup to the present crisis . A Sydney newspaper carried a report that the JI0 had been requested by Mr. Fraser to report on the Army 's activities in Vietnam because he did not believe what he was being told by the Army This report ? ? as shown to Pi ime Minister Gorton  --  for comment  --  before being published . Mr. Gorton did not comment but called in Sir Thomas and told him that the report would be appearing m the paper and that it would be denied when it appeared the next day Mr Fraser . under instructions from Mr. Colton formally denied she story . Then a second story critical of Army-ministei ial relations appeared in a national news magazine . This story was denied point by point by Mr Fraser . Then the next morning , a report of the private meeting between Sir Thomas Daly and Mr. Gorton was published in a morning newspaper . The report claimed that Sir Thomas had accused Mr. Frnse : - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coLeague , the Minister for the Army , Mr. Peacock . The Prime Minister issued a denial of the alleged conversation . However , that night a Canberra journalist claimed that the Prime Minister had in fact seen the report of his meeting with Sir Thomas and refused to comment on it . It was stated that had the Prime Minister chosen to do so , he could have had the story stopped simply by denying it prior to publication instead of after publication . Furthermore , it was claimed that the news-magazine story denied by Mr. Fraser had actually emanated from Mr. Fraser in the form of a background briefing Both these allegations were subsequently confirmed Both Mr. Fraser and Mr. Gorton stood accused of news manipulation , but where Mr. Fraser had been motivated by a desire to pressure the Army into iecogmzing the supremacy of the elected politicians , Mr. Gorton was depicted as being out to discredit Mr Fraser  --  his Cabinet colleague . After a weekend of press speculation , Mr. Fraser Monday announced he was resigning . His letter of resignation read in part , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which indicates significant disloyalty to a senior minister . " In a statement to Parliament explaining his resignation . Mr. Fraser said Mr. Gorton had a " dangerous reluctance to consult Cabinet and an obstinate determination to get his own way . " Mr. Gorton replied he could not understand why Mr. Fraser resigned and said Mr. Fraser had been a good defense minister . The Prime Minister added that as far as he knew , there was never any ill feeling between Mr. Fraser and himself .                     