@@732136

txt Top city officials have recommended to Mayor Beame that , because of the fiscal crisis , 1 the city suspend its plans to finance the construction or rehabilitation of virtually all the housing it has planned for the next few years , it was learned yesterday . The Mayor has " reacted very positively " to the proposal , one source in the administration said , though Mr. Beame has not yet made a final decision . He is expected to do so within the next few days . The suspension would involve 50,000 apartments . They account for a major part of all the housing construction or rehabilitation in various stages of planning in the city by all levels of government and by private builders . Over ** Needed Well over $1-billion would be needed for the 50,000 units , officials project , and unless alternative financing ' 4.5 found from a combination of private lending institutions and Federal programs , the planned construction and rehabilitation can not be carried out .. This would deal a further blow to the already depressed housing industry here , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since World War II , with housing starts heading for rock-bottom levels . If Mr. Beame decides in favor of a suspension , one official said , the city would assume a new role in building and rehabilitating housing by helping developers and builders " tap other sources " for funds , such as the Federal Government and private lending institutions . The official noted , however , that it was precisely because such sources were not sufficient in the past that the city had undertaken its own housingfinance programs . Borrowing Difficulty Seen Among the officials believed to have proposed the suspension of further projects are Roger Starr , the city 's Housing and Development Administrator . John E. Zuccotti , chairman of the City Planning Commission , is also known to be involved in the deliberations . In general , Beame administration officials feel that , given the city 's fiscal problems , it can not hope to borrow ? the funds for housing . Thus , some feel that there is no longer any point in spending manpower and time to process the planned projects , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also in the future and instead use the money for existing buildthat reduced borrowing would ings in immediate need of recut future debt service for the habilitation. city , in line with a policy of The programs that would be fiscal reform . involved in the suspension are High officials in the Beame the Mitchell-Lama program for administration stressed that if financing new construction and the Municipal Loan Program the Mayor decided to suspend for renovating slum housing . the programs , the city would Housing already built or remake a major effort to press habilitated under these profor the alternative financing grams would not be affected needed . by the suspensions , nor would they things other y housing already under con-Among struction , said , they would work to real -- sources in the ad locate available Federal corn- ministration said . And some projects in more advanced community development aid so t. a finance to used be could co it some of the 50,000 stages of planning might still least apartment units , which go ahead , even if the Mayor planned declared a suspension , one ofwould be mostly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the great bulk of the Details of how they might projects in various stages of do this would have to await Planning under these programs a statement from the Mayor , ? 30,000 apartments in Mitchellthey said , but they noted that Lama planning and 20,000 in one course might be to cut Municipal Loan Program planback on current plans for ac- ping  --  would be affected , the quiring sites for new housing sources said . Under the Mitchell-Lama program , the city provides longterm , reduced-interest mortgage loans and major real-estate tax reductions to developers of new housing . In the last 20 years some 50,000 apartments in 125 projects have been built with Mitchell-Lama aid from the city . The state has a similar , separate program . The 50,000 built apartments have been for middle-income families , but the city has been pressing to combine MitchellLama financing with rent subsidies authorized by a new Federal program to produce new housing for thousands of poor and moderate-income families . During the Lindsay administration the Municipal Loan Program was beset by major scandals . Asked to comment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Municipal Loan Program might now be suspended , Sidney Frigand , Mayor Beame 's press secretary , said yesterday : " I can confirm that this is a matter that has been seriously under discussion . " Any suspension , another official noted , would be for the " forseeable future . "                     