@@728680

txt Political candidates in the Deep South are not expected to adapt hard-line , antiblack tactics in the wake of the recent Wallace victory in Alabama . The South just is n't that solid on racial matters any more . The racial issue has continued very much alive , in one form or another , since post-Civil War times in this area . What George C. Wallace demonstrated in Alabama was that the kind of hard-core racial appeal , which many thought had faded in the last decade or so can trigger enough reflex action in the voting booth to squeak by in an Alabama election . Before pushed into a corner by his Alabama opponent , Gov . Albert P. Brewer , even Mr. Wallace was making his appeal for the segregationist vote in the more sophisticated approach of the 1960 's and ' 70 's : " freedom of choice , " local control as opposed to federal intervention , and unfair persecution of the South for situations equally rife in the North . This is the approach which has been used in the incipient campaigns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Georgia , and North Carolina . Even before Mr. Wallace mounted his Alabama campaign , Republican Gov . Claude R. Kirk Jr . of Florida was championing the cause of " free choice " and the neighborhood ( all-white ) school . And United States Rep. Albert W. Watson ( R ) of South Carolina had based much of his successful quest for the GOP nomination for governor on the same kind of appeal . // *Some South candidates ride backlash , ' avoid hard line // In Georgia , Republican gubernatorial hopeful James L. Bentley , elected as a Democrat to the Controller General 's post four years ago , already was making it clear he was first in line to pick up outgoing Democratic Gov . Lester G. Maddox 's lance as chief jouster with the desegregation " conspiracy . " It is true that , shortly after the Alabama vote , Georgia became the first state to have an avowed " racist " ? J. B. Stoner ? as a gubernatorial candidate . Mr. Stoner  --  who eschews " darkie and Jew votes " ? gained some public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr . It is not candidacies such as this , however , that make moderates like former Gov . Carl B. Sanders of Georgia uneasy . It 's the likelihood that more serious contenders will be tempted to utilize the " white backlash " against recent Negro gains in an attempt to gain advantage either in upcoming primaries or the November general election . Here the Wallace example is a factor . Mr. Sanders , considered a heavy favorite to become governor again , is trying to emphasize other issues , such as environment and the need for more educational funds . Racially moderate candidates of both parties who are expected to emerge in other races will try to skirt the race issue . Antibussing victory The possible white backlash stirred by recent gains in black registration and therefore black power at the polls was utilized by Mr. Wallace , but he did n't create it . One straw in the wind was a recent school board vote in Charlotte and Mecklenberg County , N.C. There the only black incumbent on the board was voted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antibussing group . In many Southern counties , white registration recently has offset heavy registra- tion by blacks in drives conducted under provisions of the 1965 Voting Rights Act . Mr. Wallace 's success in Alabama was due in part to just such a reaction to black registration and subsequent success in local elections . The sizable black vote in the Southern states acts two ways : It causes some candidates to moderate or liberalize their positions just enough to pick up black support without alienating too many whites . And it creates a backlash a la the Wallace vote . Negro participation in the Southern election process is at a peak now . There are more black officeholders than ever before . Blacks nominated In last week 's South Carolina primary , veteran United States Rep. John L. McMillan ( D ) was forced into a runoff against a black candidate , and four other blacks won nomination to the State Legislature . These are firsts for what is probably the most laggard Southern state in granting voting rights to Negroes . Civil-rights workers are laboring mightily to get Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year . Without its safeguards they expect much of the black vote built up in the past five years to dissipate . On another front , the Nixon administration may be aiding the cause of moderate candidates  --  most of them Democrats ? by trying to close the books on the school desegregation issue . If the Department of Justice can win a United States Supreme Court ruling that de facto segregation is beyond the constitutional ban on discrimination in education , the school-race issue will abate mightily in the South . In its most cynical interpretation , the administration position is aimed at helping the Republican Party in the 1970 and 1972 elections . But it could pave the way for some Democratic victories .                     