@@732825

txt For all its confusing aspects , the " clash by night " between Chairman Arthur Burns of the Federal Reserve Board and the economic advisers of President-elect Carter has served the useful purpose of focusing national attention on the critical issue of whether , and how , the Carter Administration should seek to stimulate a more rapid rate or economic expansion soon after it takes office in January . During the election campaign Mr. Carter said he would not decide whether to recommend a tax cut until he saw how the recovery proceeded for the rest of this year . This was , and remains , a responsible position . However , the evidence is growing that the economy will need additional stimulus next year , to reduce unemployment from its present rate of 8 percent ? or possibly to keep it from going even higher . Indeed , some danger exists that the economic recovery may abort unless the present slowdown is arrested . The growth of real gross national product in the third quarter of 1976 slackened even more than preliminary figures had indicated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial capacity decreased . With so much slack in the economy , business investment in new plant and equipment ? so essential as a " second-stage booster " for continuing to trigger greater consumer demand and capital spending . The fervent adherence this past year by President Ford 's chief economic advisers , Messrs . Simon , Greenspan and Burns , to the position that the economy would continue to rise in a strong and healthy manner if only the same prudent fiscal and monetary policies were pursued to fight inflation and restore " confidence , " may well have cost Mr. Ford the election . Mr. Greenspan forecast that unemployment would get down " well below " 7 percent by the end of the year . But instead of declining , unemployment has gone back up to 7.9 percent . Dr. Burns a few days ago appeared to be offering Mr. Carter the same minatory advice against greater economic stimulus that he had given Mr. Ford . But , when that advice seemed to have put him on a collision course with Mr. Carter and his economic advisers , Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax cut , if it appeared that the economy was faltering . Dr. Burns insists , however , that such a tax cut should be " broadly based " and permanent , with benefits going to both individuals and businesses ? " to minimize social conflict . " His recommendation poses real problems for the newly elected President . For Mr. Carter has committed himself to achieving a balanced budget during his first term , to designing and launching new social programs , and to reforming the tax system . He would doubtless be loath to see billions of dollars in tax revenues permanently lopped off at the very start of his Administration  --  even assuming that Congress would readily go along . This is why Mr. Carter 's advisers have been exploring possible means of providing early and effective support for the economy ? as through tax rebates on 1976 incomes  --  that would not put Mr. Carter in a hastily constructed bind that would inhibit longer-term spending programs or short-circuit the Congressional budget process , which conservatives as well as liberals have hailed as a major achievement in fiscal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flexible and adequately stimulative tax reduction in relation to future revenue needs should not be closed off prematurely . But there is another major dimension of policy planning that requires further debate ? the Fed 's monetary policy . A tax cut ( or spending increase ) can not alone do the job of accelerating national economic growth . For if , in the face of a bigger budget deficit , the Federal Reserve simply should hold down the growth of the money supply , interest rates would rise , less capital would be available for private borrowers , and business investment and housing would be choked off . A stimulative fiscal policy by the Administration and Congress requires an accommodative monetary policy by the Fed . An urgent task of national economic policy is therefore to integrate fiscal and monetary policy , to put the economy back on the track toward full employment . The " independent " Fed and " independent " White House need to work closely and sympathetically together . But it is the democratically elected White House and Con ? congress that have to determine national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reserve System .                     