@@732837

txt President-elect Carter reaffirmed the American commitment to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in a message delivered Thursday by Secretary of State Henry Kissinger . Kissinger also gave a last warning to the NATO ministers that growing Soviet economic power means growing military power , sources said . In his message , Carter said , " Our NATO alliance lies at the heart of the partnership between North America and Western Europe , " NATO IS TILE essential Instrument for enhancing our collective security , " he said . " The American commitment to maintaining the NATO alliance shall be sustained and strengthened under my administration . " Kissinger read the 130-word message to NATO foreign ministers at the opening session of the semiannual ministerial conference . According to sources at'a closed-door meeting with the ministers , Kissinger said . the broad outlines of American foreign policy will be the same under the Carter administration as under President Ford . OFFICIALS SAID Kissinger told the ministers NATO Is the most important instrument of Western cooperation and a military balance between East and West should remain its top aim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first use of nuclear weapons , claiming it would reduce the uncertainty which he said is important in deterring a Soviet attack . Kissinger also noted that a balance of non-nuclear weapons never had prevented war . It was probably Kissinger 's final appearance before an international conference . Participants said it was an emotional moment for the secretary and his NATO colleagues , mast of whqm he has dealt with closely during his three years in office . the HONORARY president of the NATO council , Portuguese Foreign Minister Jose Medelros Ferreira , said the council " with the greatest regret was saying farewell to an eminent figure of world diplomacy who left an indelible mark . " One participant said Kissinger appeared close to tears as Ferreira spoke . ON RHODESIA , Kissinger said the U. S. took the initiative because it did not want to be identified with the defense of the privileged position of white Rhodesians . He reportedly said good relations with China were possible as long as Peking had confidence in U.S. ability to balance the Soviet Union in world influence .   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         