@@728986

txt Vice President Spiro Agnew , in a speech here last night , called for the side-tracking of radicals and the election of Sen. Ralph Smith IR. , III . . Praising Chicago 's " sentinels in blue , " the Vice President said Chicago police were nationally insulted in 1968 as " storm troppers in blue " by Smith 's Democratic opponent , Adlai Stevenson HI . Ms remarks were at a $250-aplate dinner for 3,021 guests in the Conrad Hilton Hotel . The security force of Chicago police for the Agnew visit totals 362 , covering his arrival yesterday afternoon and his movements until he departs at about noon today . Kept at bay across the street from the hotel were 100 shouting pickets . But they did not appear to disturb the dinner guests as they arrived . Started in Springfield Agnew started his jet campaign in Illinois on Sept. 10 in Springfield when he initiated his term " radiclibk " for radical liberals , and fired some of his heaviest salvos last night . The Vice President characterized Smith with the words " consistency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I call him an Adlai-comelately on the issue of law and order . " Agnew was applauded dozens of times during his address which turned out to be the most profitable Republican fund-raising affair in Chicago history . The guests were divided between the International Ballroom and Grand Ballroom . Agnew said G. 0 . P. candidates are needed to turn back " legislative saboteurs " of constructive Nixon programs . The President is expected to talk about that himself on his scheduled visit here Oct. 23 and 29 . He chided some news media for down-playing the rock-throwing at President Nixon in Vermont last week . This attack was by " young radical thugs , " he said . In contrast , a top play was given by the same news media to the spitting at Lyndon B. Johnson in a Texas hotel by right-wingers in 1960 , Agnew said . Patience Running Out Agnew said the American patience with " arrogant and amoral misfits " should have been exhausted . " Henceforth let us grant these radicals , with their filthy slogans and their rock-throwing or worse , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ henceforth hold them in the unvarnished contempt their conduct so richly deserves , " Agnew said . But " sophisticated media " advise us constantly to ascertain the message behind the filthy words , the Vice President said . He said his own listening convinces him they have nothing to say . Stevenson now is only one of many radical liberal candidates across the nation who are specializing in charging that Agnew is " a peddler of hate , " the Vice President said . The " hate " charges of Stevenson are not reported as name-calling or divisiveness , Agnew said . " We hear no whimpering about ' polarization ' from this mud-slinging , " Agnew said . " And why not ? Because we are led to believe radical liberals just never stoop to scurrility . " Agnew added : " Maybe they disagree that bomb throwers and obscenityshouters should be separated from society ' like rotten apples . ' " Cites Switches on Order There is an odd sound in the nation which is the flip-flopping of radical liberals on law and order because they detect ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the polls Nov. 3 , he said . " That screech you hear ds the stripping of gears as these political speedsters switch to full speed ahead on campus unrest , ' Agnew said . Vice President Agnew said there Is great hope for peace , law and order , and economic progress : " If the Clark Clifford types would stop encouraging Hanoi to wait for more ? American concessions . Stop Under-Cutting " If radical liberals like Ralph Smith 's opponent would stop under-cutting our allies . " If you of Illinois say ' no ' to the political profligates and elect men like Ralph Smith who will hold the fiscal line . " In his talk , Smith charged that Stevenson has betrayed his own professed ideals and challenged him to resign from the Senate race . " My opponent has been going around saying that the commitment made by the United States in Viet Nam need not be honored because it was made by a corrupt government which we have been propping up , " Smith said . " Well , he himself is propping up a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a challenge . If I were such a man , I would demand that he resign such an office oral would resign the nomination . " Smith 's comments were in apparent reference to the recent public controversy surrounding the office of County Assessor P. J. Cullerton.                     