@@728593

txt Secretary of Welfare Robert H. Finch was quoted today by the Associated Press and the New York Times News Service as having said that the " rhetoric j of Vice President Agnew con ' tributed to heating up the climate in which the Kent State university students were killed , " Finch later issued a state-1 meet thru the health , education , and welfare department in which he denied making the i accusation . Meanwhile , in a recorded in- I terview with United Press International which followed his meeting with the war protest-1 ers , Finch said that President Nixon would have a " very serious case of credibility " if he failed to meet his target of removing United States troops from Cambodia by the end of June . Hints at Resignation He made comments which some reporters took as hints that he would resign if that goal was not met . Finch was reported to have made the remark about Agnew as he stood amid a group of about 40 young war protesters on a grassy mall across Independence avenue from his department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Neither by direct statement nor by allusion have I ever indicated that any statement by the Vice President contributed to the tragedy at Kent State . " Reporter Stands on Quote A spokesman for HEW said the secretary 's remarks on the subject of rhetoric were limited to ones stressing that everyone must be very careful in their , public utterances . Richard L. Barnes , the Associated Press reporter who covered the session , however , said that he was standing less than five feet from Finch , and have alienated them from the President . Dozens of other high-level administrators filtered thru the growing crowd , pausing at times to hold private sessions with small clusters of students . The New York Times reporter said that for the first time the administration was making a ' real attempt to talk with its critics during a mass demonstration ago inst established policy . that . he quoted the secretary correctly . A TRIBUNE reporter made a call in an attempt to discuss the situation personally with Finch . A spokesman for Finch replied : " My God , no . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " UPI reporters said that alibi " Finch did not respond directly to the question of resignation , a student who talked with him earlier quoted the secretary as having said he would take that action if troops . are not withdrawn on schedule , " Obviously I believe that he Dile President believes in his course of action , that he 's going to abide by these constraints with respect to penetration , with respect to having completed the Cambodian exercise , and it would be a very serious case of credibility if these conditions were not met , " Finch said during the interview . Pnrsites the Question Seeking to pursue the resignation question , one reporter started to ask : " You mean if we were not out of Cambodia by June . . Fi n c h interrupted . " Yeah . Sure , " he said . " Finch 's reported comments on Agnew 's rhetoric and his stated fears for Nixon 's credibility , came only four days after Walter .1 . Hickel , secretary of the interior , said in a letter to Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  not in their attitudes so much as their motives  --  can serve little purpose other than further to cement those attitudes to a solidity impossible to penetrate with reason . " Student Asks Question The subject arose today when a student asked Finch what led to the deaths at Kent , and Finch said it was " a whole series of causitive things , including some of the Agnew rhetoric . " The AP reporter quoted Finch as saying that the rhetoric " contributed to heating up the climate in which the Kent State students were killed . " Altho Finch was said to have had more rapport with the protesters than other administration officials , he was not the only one to mingle and seek out conversations with the young demonstrators . In contrast to the October a n d November Washington demonstrations when the administration ignored the demonstrators , a New York Times reporter said that dialog between officials and protesters was taking place everywhere . Students Visit Building Students tramped thru the H. E. W. building . and Lewis H. Butler , assistant secretary for planning and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communication gap " has gotten to a lot of people that have n't been gotten before . " AI the White House , young aids to the President were going out into the streets to invite young demonstrators into their offices to discuss the issues that Candor Order of Day As with Finch , candor was the order rather than the exception . Moments before Finch made the remarks about the Vice President , a high official of the justice department was quoted as having told another group of students that he thought Judge Julius J. Hoffman , who I presided over the conspiracy ; trial of the Chicago 7 , was fair minded , altho " personally I dislike him intensely , " An aid to the official later . asked a reporter who listened to the conversation not to report it .                     