@@729935

txt The Vietnamese Communists made it plain today that President Nixon 's peace proposals last night were unacceptable . The North Vietnamese delegation to the peace talks acNorth Vietnam and Vietcong statements are on Page 15. cused the President of having uttered " brazen " threats of war in his television speech , which it termed a " perfidious maneuver to deceive the American electorate in an election year . " The Vietcong delegation labeled the Nixon proposals for a cease-fire and a new presidential election in South Vietnam a scheme for maintaining American puppet regimes in Indochina . Neither statement formally I rejected the proposals , though both denounced them . The Vietcong said they were reserving a formal reply for tomorrow 's session of the Paris conference , when the Nixon plan is to be submitted officially . First Since October , 1970 It will be the first new proposal for a general settlement to be submitted to the conference by the United States since Oct. 8 , 1969 . The eight-point proposal , offered jointly with South Vietnam , includes a new presidential election in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resign : all political elements , including the National Liberation Front , would participate . The plan also calls for total withdrawal of United States and allied forces from the South within six months of an agreement , the release of military and civilian prisoners , a ceasefire and international supervision and guarantees . Rejection Predicted Even before Mr. Nixon spoke commentators here were predicting , on the basis of speculative dispatches from Washington , that the Communists would reject any offer he made that left President Thieu in place . The disclosure of Henry A. Kissinger 's 12 secret meetings with the Communists here came as something of a surprise . The one occasion when there was active speculation about such a meeting was last July 12 , when Mr. Kissinger paused here on his way home from his thenstill-secret visit to Peking . But he appeared to snub an open invitation by the North Vietnamese , and the American delegation denied knowledge of any encounter . In fact , President Nixon disclosed , his adviser on national security affairs did meet then with Xuan Thuy , Hanoi 's chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mEmber of the North Vietnamese Communist Politburo . French officials declined to ' shed ' further light on the encounters . The Foreign Ministry referred questioners to the presidency . In Niamey , Niger , where President Pompidou is on a state visit , it was reported that the meetings had been suggested during a talk between Foreign Minister Maurice Schumann and Mr. Kissinger at the United Nations in the fall of 1969 . The sources , who said the French did not participate in the meetings , would not reveal tie site or the procedures . It was speculated that Mr. Kissinger landed at a military airport and was driven to a secluded meeting place in the suburns of Paris . In their statement tonight the North Vietnamese said that in both the public and the secret meetings " the Nixon Administration did not respond to the two questions fundamental for the just and logical peaceful settlement of the Vietnam problem . " It said that the United States had refused to withdraw its forces and arms and dismantle its bases and to cease all acts of war " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " persisted in maintaining the group of Nguyen Van Thieu . " The statement said the " threats of war " in Mr. Nixon 's speech were a " brazen challenge to the Vietnamese people , the American people and peaceloving people around the world . " ' Sham Peace , Real War ' " We have often pointed out that Mr. Nixon talked one way and acted another , " it said . " He spoke of sham peace but made real war . " The statement by the socalled Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam described the ceasefire proposal as " only a maneuver aimed at forcing the peoples of South Vietnam and Laos and Cambodia to renounce their just patriotic struggle while the United States continues to maintain regimes in its pay in those countries , " The proposal for elections , it continued , " is also only a maneuver aimed at forcing the South Vietnamese people to allow the present Saigon administration , set up by the United States " to gain the right to participate in the vote ' within the framework of the regime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Under this " maneuver , " it said , the United States would try to " keep intact all of the military , administrative and police apparatus , as well as the whole system of concentration camps and prisons of Nguyen Van Thieu , including the ' tiger cages . ' " Neither statement alluded to the offer by President Thieu to resign . A neutralist Vietnamese leader said privately that he thought tile offer represented a major political defeat for Mr. Thieu in the eyes of the Vietnamese and , hence , the beginning of serious negotiations to end the war .                     