@@730398

txt Delegates to the 30th Republican National Convention concluded most of the preliminaries today while waiting for possible new Viet Nam peace news from President Nixon . Much of the attention was being directed toward the Camp David , Md. , meeting of the President with Henry A. Kissinger and William P. Rogers , secretary of state , after Kissinger 's conferences in Paris and Saigon . There was a vast amount of speculation by delegates that the meeting , at the least , would produce a statement of further troop withdrawals from South Viet Nam  --  possibly by the President in his acceptance speech . Ford Expects Word House Republican Leader Gerald Ford Mich. , when asked about the peace possibilities by reporters , said : " I am impressed by the amount of traveling Henry Kissinger is doing . I do n't think he is doing it for his health . There is the possibility there will be something . " I hope it comes tomorrow , regardless of whether it would have an effect on the convention . I want this war over . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saigon , and Tokyo . He flew to Camp David , Md. , where he is to brief President Nixon on his . discussion with North and South Vietnamese officials . Nixon 's staff here was in almost total control of rules , platform stands , and other convention timing to be climaxed with the President 's acceptance speech . Nixon is scheduled to arrive here Tuesday but will not appear before the full convention until Wednesday night after the nomination . Vice President Agnew , also to be nominated Wednesday night , will arrive here tomorrow . Mrs. Nixon and her two daughters are also expected tomorrow to begin a round of social events with delegates . " Bugging " Issue Is Alive Altho there was little dissent in the delegate ranks , newsmen continued to press administration officials over the " bugging " of the Watergate headquarters of the Democratic National Committee on June 17 . Five persons were arrested inside the Democratic headquarters , one of whom was a former security employe of the Committee to Reelect the President . News stories since the incident have linked two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the break-in . Richard G. Kleindienst , attorney general , said in an interview with Thc Chicago Tribune that an intensive gran jury investigation has been under way in Washington . " Somebody , " He said " is going to jail . " Kleindienst said he expected federal grand 5 , try . action " very soon , " possibly within a , veek . He declined to name any persons under investigation , but said he had directed the United States attorney in the District of Columbia to prosecute in an impdrtial way . Sen. George S. , taking the lead of former Democrat Chairman Lawrence F. O'Brien , has charged-the Republican committee with political espionage in a campaign attack . One apparent result of the case is the stringent security in force here at the Doral Hotel , which houses committee and White House officials . Clark , campaign director for the Committee to Reelect the President , said at an afternoon press conference after being repeatedly questioned about the Watergate caper : " I am absolutely satisfied that the so-called Watergate caper will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asked why he was so certain , said that former committee director John Mitchell had also run an independent investigation . This investigation , he said , showed with absolute certainty that there was n't any involvement by White House staffers or any person in a position of authority in ' the committee . specifically ruled out any involvement by Maurice Stans , campaign finance chairman ; Mitchell ; or Charles Colson , special assistant to the President . He said none of them had any knowledge or involvement . The statement confirmed other reports that Mitchell had been extremely distressed by the Watergate case .                     