@@729779

txt More than 1,000 demonstrators , slinging bottles , corn , eggs and vulgar slogans , amassed in Grant Park across from the Conrad Hilton Hotel last night to protest appearances by President Nixon and Vice President Agnew . As Republican Party VIPs stepped from limousines in their tuxedos and evening gowns , they were greeted with obscene catcalls and boos . An especially angry reception was given to millionaire W. Clement Stone , who arrived at the $500-a-plate fund raising dinner with a party of eight in a gold Cadillac . The demonstrators carrying Viet Cong flags and handmade placards began assembling at 5:10 p. m. , more than five hours before the President spoke . Protest Welfare Cuts Peace groups , Students for a Democratic Society , and black welfare organizations protested the Nixon Administration 's Viet Nam policies and Gov . Ogilvie 's welfare cuts . Inside the hotel , a group of six persons led by Sylvia Kushner , chairman of the Chicago Peace Council , and Richard Rubenstein , political science professor at Roosevelt University , staged a sit-in in the south lobby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guests going to the dinner in the Grand Ballroom . The group shouted " Stop the war , stop the killing " at the guests trying to move by them into the dining area . Police cleared a path for the guests but did not remove the demonstrators , who left peacefully later . Kept Behind Barricades Outside , a heavy contingent of police held the demonstrators on the east side of Michigan Avenue behind barricades as speakers on a bullhorn led chants calling Nixon and Ogilvie obscene names . Three persons were arrested as one demonstrator , later identified as John Edmondson , 19 , of 635 N. Sheridan Rd. , Waukegan , apparently broke thru a barricade into police lines . Two other men , identified as Ronald Clark , 20 , of 207 John St. , De Kalb , and Edward Stubitsch , 22 , of 5208 S. Menard Av. , also were arrested as they joined Edmondson in a clash with police . Police later said Edmondson had thrown one of several bot , tles tossed in the demonstration . All three were charged with disorderly conduct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regular uniform had stood in intervals in front of the hotel where the demonstrators gathered . As the arrests were made , other demonstrators hurled sticks , eggs , and bottles and the regular police were replaced by task force officers in riot gear . Most demonstrators remained behind police lines . Several hotel guests attending a soft water service convention were startled when they were booed as they entered the hotel . " I guess they do n't like soft water , " said one out-of-town conventioneer as an egg tell at his feet . The President was whisked Ulm a side entrance on 8th Street away from the demonstrators under heavy security . The protesters dispersed quietly after they learned the President had entered the hotel .                     