@@728857

txt Investigators said tonight that the powerful explosion which ripped thru a research center at the University of Wisconsin before dawn today , killing a researcher and injuring four persons , was detonated from a stolen truck parked in a driveway beside the six-story structure . They said traces of explosives were found in remains of the truck . Students told police that a panel truck had been parked alongside the building last night . Authorities said they found no traces of explosives inside the battered building . The . Federal Bureau of Investigation and military intelligence officials took charge of the investigation into the blast . ANOTHER OUTRAGE AT MADISON See the editorial page // Rubble litters driveway of Sterling Hall at University of Wisconsin after building was ripped by explosion . Truck Was Stolen Detective Stanley Davenport said the truck , a 1067 white Ford Falcon , was owned by Larry Travis of Madison , who Robert Fassnacht . . . bomb victim said the truck was stolen while he was on vacation in California . The explosion at Sterling Hall occurred at 3:42 a. m. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call from a man who said : " ley , pig , there 's a bomb in the math research building on the university campus . Clear the building . " The basement and first floor of Sterling Hall were occupied by the university 's physics department , the second thru the fifth by the Army Mathematics Research Center and the sixth floor by the university 's astronomy department . No Kid Stuff Frank Roberts , deputy state fire marshal , said the explosion was of - unbelievable power . " 1 is no kid stuff , " he said . ' the blast damaged other campus buildings , uprooted trees , damaged automobiles in the area and shattered windows in buildings 10 blocks away . Sterling Hall has been the target of antiwar demonstrations . Chief Ralph Hanson of the campus police said he was taking a " hard look " at a radical campus organization . Father of Three Killed in the blast was Robert Fassnacht , 33 , a postdoctorate research assistant employed in the physics department and father of three . The injured were identified as David Schuster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Africa ; Paul Quin , 29 , a research associate in physics ; Norbert Sutter , 57 , a night watchman ; and an unidentified patient in the University Hospital , who was cut by flying glass . Sutter suffered cuts and a possible facial fracture . Schuster had a shoulder fracture . Quin was treated for lacerations and released from the hospital . Jack Lynch , a nuclear physics graduate student who entered the building after the blast and found the dead man in the basement checked into a hospital for tests for possible tritium poisoning . Tritium is a radioactive hydrogen isotope . Schuster , who was found near where a tritium container was stored , also took the tests . Radiation Source Intact Blanchard Converse , a physics professor , said there was no cause for radiation concern . He said there was only one source of radioactivity in the building and that was found intact . This was corroborated by Lloyd Buechner , assistant fire chief , and Robert Radtke , health physicist at the university 's medical school in charge of radiation safety , who said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tight Campus Security I Parts of the campus were placed under tight security to- ' I night to guard against any I repetition of the bombing . At least 200 campus and city policemen and Dane County sheriff 's deputies stood guard around such buildings as the ' Army and Navy Reserve Officers Training Corps headquarters and the Chemistry Hospital buildings , which also were damaged in the explosion . A university engineer said the damage to the research center and its equipment alone may approach $6 million . A spokesman for Gov . Warren P. Knowles said the FBI and military intelligence would coordinate the investigation because of the center 's use of federal funds . The governor conferred with university and police officials on how public buildings , especially on university campuses , might be protected . Calls It Insane Act Knowles called the bombing an " insane act " and pledged full resources of the state " to help bring to justice those responsible for this outrage . " The basement and the first floor of Sterling Hall were demolished . There was damage elsewhere in the building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jutted from the reinforced concrete and brick veneer building . Ruptured pipes flooded the basement with nearly a foot of water . The explosion made a shambles of at least a score of rooms containing valuable equipment , including , one graduate student said , at least 20 years of data books . Papers considered valuable to Army research were destroyed . " This is an unspeakable crime , " Chancellor H. Edwin Young said as he stood in the rubble outside the building . " Nothing we can say will rectify the violence that has been committed against innocent members of the university community . . . . We extend our deepest sympathy to the families of those who have been affected by this tragedy . " Warnings from Radicals The 35,000-student campus is in the lull between the end of the summer sessions and the beginning of the fall semester . There have been warnings from radicals that the university would not be allowed to open . Chancellor Young and Fred H. Harrington , university president , issued a statement assuring that the campus would open . They called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bernard C. Zeigler , president of the board of regents , said " there are present in our country professionally trained revolutionists whose goals are to hit the foundatioun of our society and cause the ultimate breakdown of our form of government . " A police spokesman said if there had been more time between the telephone call to the police dispatcher and the explosion many policemen would " undoubtedly " ha ve been among the casualties . A source in the Fire Department said a plastic type bomb was suspected . However , Edward Hayes , special agent , of the Milwaukee FBI office , said investigators had not yet determined the exact type of explosive .                     