@@729803

txt The Senate Appropriations Committee cut $3.3-billion from the defense budget today but refused to impose mandatory Vietnam troop withdrawals upon the Administration . The committee , by a vote of 14 to 10 , rejected an amendment to the defense appropriations bill specifying that the President could not use defense funds in Indochina except ' to withdraw troops . At the same time , the committee , by a vote of 14 to 13 , adopted an amendment requiring the withdrawal of 60,000 American troops from western Europe by next June . The two committee votes set the stage for renewed battles on troops in Vietnam and in the Atlantic alliance when the defense bill reaches the Senate floor in the next few days . Senate Test Is Due The Administration appeared to have the votes to defeat both withdrawal amendments . But it was also apparent that the Administration would have difficulty restoring any funds to the defense budget , which the committee has pared below the level sought by the Administration . The amendment on Vietnam troop withdrawal will be reoffered on the Senate floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will accept passively the ' statement by President Nixon yesterday that he would ignore a policy laid down by Congress that the United States should , promptly withdraw its troops from Indochina , subject only to the release of American prisoners of war . That policy was incorporated in an amendment in the military procurement bill that was signed into law by the President yesterday . Today Senator Hugh Scott , the Senate Republican Leader , defended the President 's right to ignore the policy declaration , saying that Mr. Nixon was operating within his rights al . chief executive . But among some Senators , particularly the doves , there was considerable indignation , if largely privately expressed , over what they regarded as Presidential defiance of a policy laid down by Congress . The Vietnam amendment will be co-sponsored by the inner power structure of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , Democratic Senators Mike Mansfield of Montana and Frank Church of Idaho , and Republican Senators George D. Aiken of Vermont , John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky and Clifford P. Case of New Jersey . In effect , their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impose a withdrawal policy on the President . The amendment would specify that , subject to the release of the prisoners , defense funds could not be used for further hostilities in Indochina , but only for withdraw . ing American troops . it . Rebuttal to Nixon Implied 1 ' Their amendment implies that withdrawal can not be con ' tingent upon the level of enemy activity , the progress of Vietnamization or progress toward a negotiated settlement . All these factors were cited by the President yesterday as determinents of his withdrawal policy , In both the House ' and I ' Senate , the odds appeared to be against the amendment . During debate on the foreign t aid bill last month a similar amendment , offered by Sena ' tors Cooper and Church , was defeated by 47 to 44 . Yesterday , a somewhat similar amendment , setting a June 1 hued cutoff , was rejected by the House , 238 to 164. t The amendment involving the North Atlantic Treaty Organization was offered by Senator Mansfield , the Senate Majority Leader , who for more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troop strength in Western Europe . His amendment was a modified version of one he offered last May to the draft bill , requiring a 50 per cent cut in the American force in Western Europe by the end of this year . After a strenuous campaign on the part of the Administration , the earlier Mansfield amendment was defeated by a vote of 61 to 36 . The defense appropriations bill approved by the committee provides $70,242,513,000 . That is $3,301,316,000 less than the Administration requested and $805,500,000 less than the House approved yesterday . Liberals Bank on Ellender While the Administration is certain to resist the deeper cuts by the Senate committee , it faces important opposition from Senator Allen J. Ellender , chairman of the Appropriations Committee . Senate liberals , unable to make any significant cuts through the Armed Services Committee , have been looking to Senator Ellender to take the lead in cutting the defense budget . Senator Ellender said today that the " cuts will not affect our security in any manner " and pointed to the Administration 's withdrawal from Vietnam as justification for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war is practically over in Vietnam and the Administration assures us we are not getting involved in any more Vietnams , " the Louisiana Democrat said . " Therefore this is an opportune time to cut back unnecessary military spending . " " We must re-evaluate our priorities , " he continued . " Everyone says we have critical domestic problems . These military savings can be used to step up our programs in education , poverty , pollution and other fields . "                     