@@728487

txt The London borough of Lambeth lies directly across the River Thames from the Houses of Parliament . It 's a high-density immigrant area where one out of every three births is colored . The ratio is similar in several other London boroughs , and though the peak dips somewhat away from London , the percentage of colored births ranges from 20 to 25 percent in as many as eight other English cities . These facts are contained in the latest figures released by the Registrar-General 's office , listing birth figures in England and Wales . And with the government 's having coincidentally called a two-day conference this week to review the 1968 Immigrants Act  --  with people in dense-immigration areas a priority matter  --  the question of race again leaps to the fore . 15 years hence A government estimate puts Britain 's colored population at 21/2 million 15 years from now . The antiimmigration lobby considers a figure of at least 5 million to be more accurate . For Britons , the true picture seems to depend very much on which side of the immigration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's immigration population , the higher the future estimates of the colored population climb . This is where Enoch Powell , outspoken Conservative member of Parliament for Wolverhampton South-West , again joins the battle sounding his trumpet of warning . The Registrar-General 's figures , he declares , show an annual rate of 47,000 or nearly 35 percent above the government estimate in 1967 of " a little under 35,000 a year . " " Clearly the government estimate now must be drastically revised upward " he says . Powell reasoning disputed Jim Rose , author of what is today regarded as the definitive study on the British race issue , " Colour and Citizenship , " emphatically refutes this theory . In an interview Mr. Rose reiterates a forecast made in this report which took five years to compile . From a figure of 1.1 million in 1968 , he said , the total colored populatiion in Britain would rise to about 2 million or 2.3 million on high fertility assumptions in 1986 . " The Registrar-General 's figures for the last half year are in line with what we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said at his office in the Institute of Race Relations . To Mr. Rose the figures come as no surprise . He considers a bulge in the colored birthrate inevitable . It swelled with the influx of mainly Asian wives of childbearing age joining their voucher-holding husbands and would deflate when the supply of wives was exhausted at the end of 1972 . Until then the birthrate would rise . Thereafter it would dip . Assisting the declining process would be the absorption of new immigrants into urban areas . This process of urbanization , international demographers note , results in a decline in the birthrate of former rural inhabitants in whose original homelands large families are an insurance for the parents against old age . Urbanization with its greater prosperity helped eliminate this social need . Mrs. Joy Page , secretary of the London and Counties Tenants Federation , an anti- immigration lobby , and herself a nurse who has served in Asia and Africa , is angry about such ' assumptions . In an interview she said she regarded Mr. ' Rose 's arguments as " completely spurious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would box his ears very thoroughly and take him by the scruff of his neck to Calcutta where I have seen no sign of the births ' de- . creasing , " she said . ? Mrs. Page not only foresees a continuing rise in the colored birthrate , but also believes that the present colored population must be much higher than the official estimate because her current welfare costs appear disproportionate for a population of only 1.25 million . " Galloping on beyond the 3 million mark " is her estimate . A fairly prevalent view among the British public is that the colored population is higher than the official estimate ( approximately 1 to 1.25 million ) . The report " Colour and Citizenship " says that as many ' , as one-quarter of those interviewed during the course of the research put the figure as high as 5 million ? an estimate its author attributes to fear and prejudice . Mr. Rose bases his optimism on a declining birthrate from patterns emerging from the West Indian community . // Britons debate colored-birthrate figures // " The figures of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the West Indian population and which have been kept each year since 1958 show an increase every year until 1963 and then a progressive decline up to 1968 . " The totals of 1968 compared with the total of 1963 show a drop of 25 percent , and yet the adult West Indian population increased since 1961 by 40 percent , " he said . Misconceptions distort view " The Indian-Pakistani migration ' is more recent than the West Indian and dates largely from 1961 . . . . In about eight years time there will be the same decline for Indians , " he predicts . Because color so often becomes an emotive issue , misconceptions sometimes obscure or even distort the correct picture . One misconception , despite the publicity given to the commonwealth Act , is that immigrants continue to pour in in large numbers . Last year , in fact , immigration dropped by 30 percent . Another misconception is that Britain still is opening doors to unskilled workers at a time of not inconsiderable unemployment . This argument was voided by the 1965 white paper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to professional workers  --  such as doctors , teachers , and science graduates . " People , " says Mr. Rose , " whose fertility rates are similar to professional people here , about two a family . " What is generally known and agreed upon is that in some areas there is an overconcentration of colored people . In London such areas are Brent , Harringey , Lambeth , and Hackney . A spokesman for the borough of Lambeth , where approximately 18 to 20 percent of the total population is colored , said that the colored community does " present a strain on services . " Because of their background there was greater need than the indigenous population for child welfare and general advice . " Education , " he continued , " is a problem because some of them do n't know how to read or write and need to be given special attention . " The problems that overconcentration produce may vary widely within a single borough . Brent Corporation , for instance , which embraces the largest single colored community in any one British borough , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one school . But at the Queen Frederika School in London NW 10 , 68.5 percent in the infant school are colored . In the junior school it is 67.1 percent . At Chamberlayne Junior High the figure is 63 percent . The overall average is 23.6 percent for secondary schools and 28.75 percent in primary schools . At Harringey 28.8 percent of the total school enrollment is colored , but a spokesman for the borough said he did not believe this constituted a problem for the community . " We live with our immigrants . We do not make a problem of them . We have 254,000 people living here , and they live amicably together , " he said . Perhaps the wisest comment on the entire controversy came from Aaron Haynes , liaison officer for the Wolverhampton Council 's community relations , who said , " The trouble with figures like this is that people draw what conclusions they want to from them . "                     