@@733705

txt The sudden downfall of Italian Giovanni Leone is noteworthy not so much for its superficial resemblance to the American Watergate scandal as for the crucial role played by the Italian Communist Party . Within three hours of the party 's decision to call for President Leone 's immediate resignation the lawyer 's long political career was finished . In 12 hours he had packed his bags , made a final TV address to the nation , and left his officialresidence , the Quirinal Palace , for the last time . Now the questions being asked here are : Who will the Communists support as Mr. Leone 's successor ? And what price will they demand for doing so ? Clearly , it is said here , the Communists aim to use the Leone affair as a lever to push themselves forward into the government . If so , the price of a new Roman Catholic president from the ranks of the Christian Democratic Party could well be Communist ministers in the next Cabinet . Indeed , the country 's future political stability now appears to depend largelyon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats and Communists , to agree on a suitable new head of state . In other words , thiS will be a critical test of Communist Party leader Enrico Berlinguer 's " historic compromise " in working with the Christian Democrats . Unhappily , the natural candidate , the man who originated the tacit Christian Democrat-Communist alliance , Aldo Moro , was murdered by his terrorist captors in May . But for that Red Brigades intervention , the presidency had seemed certain to go to Mr. Moro when // From page 1 Italian Communist in next Cabinet ? Mr. Leone 's seven-year term ran out at the end of the year . Now the combined shocks of Mr. Moro 's violent death and Mr. Leone 's sudden ouster have put the whole political scene in flux . Whatever gains the ruling Christian Democrats made by their firm handling of the Moro kidnap and murder case seem likely to be wiped out by the Leone scandal . Local elections are scheduled for this weekend for more than a million voters in the Italian Alps . Party leaders and political analysts will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Christian Democrat vote . Conversely . the Communists ' continuing influence has been made very plain ? despite the loss of popular standing that they appeared to suffer immediately following the Morn case . A left-wing press campaign of denigration of President Leone 's embarrassing personal financial affairs and dubious business associates had been going on for months , but with no result . The President 's name also has been associated with the Lockheed bribery scandal . There were denials from the President 's office . and his sons started an action for defamation against the journalist/author of a book cataloging alleged financial activities incompatible with his high office of state . But once the Communists decided to move in their new self-appointed role of guardian ofpublic morality in Italy , Giovanni Leone 's career in politics was at an abrupt end . The new President will be elected June 29 by an electoral college of just over 1,000 members composed of the joint session of both Houses of Parliament , plus some 50 regional representatives . Normally Mr. Leone , a Christian Democrat , ought to be succeeded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might support a Catholic candidate . The main Christian Democrat contenders for the presidency are likely to be Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti , party secretary Benigno Zaccagnini , and Sen. Amintore Fanfani who is standing in as temporary head of state by virtue of being President of the Senate . Partisan feelings apart , most Italians are aware of the lack of a guide at the helm of state and would welcome a man of strength and stature at the Quirinal Palace . There is even speculation that former president Giuseppi Saragat , now 80 years old , might be called out of retirement to return to the presidential residence . Once the new president is elected , the Prime Minister will submit his resignation as he is required to do by tradition . At the moment , the Communists insist they want to avoid a new government crisis and general election . But they are being very careful in their public pronouncements and keeping their options open .                     