@@728570

txt The Lindsay administration has quietly imposed a job freeze on the uniformed police and sanitation forces to offset unexpected additional expenses in the current budget . The freeze took effect without disclosure in February after it was announced that more than 2,000 policemen had been added to the force last year when Mayor Lindsay , running for re-election , called crime the overriding issue in the campaign . Frederick 0 . R. Hayes , the city 's Budget Director , disclosed yesterday that he had ordered the freeze in February to offset unanticipated health costs and unexpectedly heavy costs of borrowing . " On uniformed police officers , hiring has been off completely , " Mr. Hayes said , " and we 've had to do the same thing on the sanitation force as well . " Increased Force Still Sought However , a City Hall press spokesman said that " the Mayor still holds " to a plan announced during the mayoral campaign to increase the police force by 4,000 ? to 36,000 ? in his second term . The job freeze came to light after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and denied reports that the police and sanitation budgets had been increased this year despite earlier predictions of an $80-million " budget gap " that was subsequently filled . Mr. Hayes said after the television program that those budgets had not been increased but that all the hiring for the year had been done during the campaign months and shortly thereafter . Consequently , funds // for additional personnel had been exhausted in both departmental budgets , which ran from July 1 to June 30 . " We 're still uptight on getting through the current year , " Mr. Hayes said in an interview . " It 's the toughest year we 've had so far . " He said that increased short-term borrowing had cost the city $20-million more than was anticipated and that increased health costs totaled an additional $30-million . The Budget Director added that economies  --  but not a job freeze  --  had been imposed on all other city agencies to make up the increased expenses . He estimated that the expense budget for the current year would be $100-million more than was Initially authorized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 252 vacancies exist in the Police Department , which has a quota of 32,038 persons . The quota is set by the Budget Director in preparing the line budget . A press spokesman for the Police Department said that 2,000 men were on the Police Department 's waiting lists , and had passed the written examination but had not yet taken their physical examination . Written Test Canceled A written examination scheduled for Feb. 14 was caneeled by the Police Department . One result of the cancellation was that 200 college students who had been expected to take this test at their schools were unable to do so . Mayor Lindsay , who put 3,500 policemen on overtime last September when he expanded the fourth platoon , also placed 1,300 sanitation workers on overtime last September in response to criticism that garbage collections had become less frequent , and the city 's streets increasingly dirty . The Sanitation Department says that it paid 256,000 hours in overtime for work on Sundays in September , October and November . It hired 738 men between July and December last year . The Sanitation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's quota of 10,370 uniformed sanitationmen has 500 vacancies , and a total of 9,870 men . John DeLury , president of the Uniformed Sanitationmen 's Association , said of the job freeze : " I do n't know how in God 's world they can freeze the hiring of men in the Department of Sanitation when it 's inadequate to clean this city . We need at least 2,500 more men if they 're going to do any concentration on keeping the city 's streets clean . " Jerome Kretchmer , Environmental Protection Administrator , said that he expected the city to begin hiring more sanitationmen about June 15 . This conforms to the expectation of Mr. Hayes , who said that " maybe things can be loosened up a little bit earlier than July 1 . "                     