@@734181

txt China said today that its army suffered 20,000 killed and wounded in the four-week war with Vietnam in February and March . Gen. Wu Xiuquan , the deputy chief of staff , who gave the first official Chinese report on the number of casualties , also said that 50,000 Vietnamese were killed and wounded in the Chinese invasion of . the northern provinces of Vietnam . Senior officers at the Pentagon were surprised at the extent of Chinese casualties , which were disclosed by the Chinese general to a delegation from the French Institute of Higher Studies for National Defense that is visiting Peking . General Wu 's statement was quoted by Agence France-Presse in a report from Peking . Evaluation of Chinese Report The American officers pointed out that the Chinese were unlikely to inflate their own losses although they might inflate the Vietnamese casualties . The Pentagon sources said the usual ratio of dead to wounded is one killed for every three wounded , meaning the Chinese would have lost 5,000 dead . This , they said , was more than the number of Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a little more than oneeleventh of the more than 59,000 Americans killed there in eight and a half years . An American general said troops attacking fixed positions in the opening phase of an invasion , as the Chinese were doing in northern Vietnam , usually suffered twice as many losses as the defenders . In those circumstances , he said , the Chinese ratio of dead to wounded may have been higher than one to three . Allowances could be made , he said , if the attacking troops were regular army troops , China 's best armed and trained forces , and the defenders were only frontier forces . However , in a movie shown to diplomats in the United States that depicts the campaign from the Chinese viewpoint , it was repeatedly stressed that the attackers were not regular army troops but // frontier troops defending their homes against Vietnamese forays . Other Officers said that even in the Tet offensive , the 1968 attack by Communist forces across South Vietnam , American losses in killed and wounded did not approach the 20,000 figure . A Vietnamese source @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietamese bad killed 20,000 Chinese in the war . General Wu reported that 200,000 Chinese troops were deployed against a Vietnamese force estimated at 100,000 . Whatever the composition of the attacking forces , they did include tanks , according to the official Chinese movie . Frontier forces , American experts on the area said , are not customarily armed with tanks or heavy artillery . General Wu did not mention Vietnamese prisoners taken to China . It is unlikely , American experts said , that the Vietnamese were able to capture many Chinese , although some of the Chinese wounded may now be in Vietnamese hands . The comparatively high Chinese casualties may be ascribed to its army 's doctrine of engaging the enemy as soon as possible . The Chinese believe that they have no equals in hand-to-hand fighting . In this case , an American source said , the Vietnamese , at least in the middle stages of the war , did not deploy sufficient artillery to break up Chinese infantry attacks before they penetrated Vietnamese positions . American military sources with knowledge of both armies said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to its shortage of modem arms and equipment . The Chinese did not have armored personnel carriers such as Western armies use to carry infantry into battle ; le this , their first offensive operation outside China since the Korean War ; some elements of attacking infantry rode into battle on tanks and were vulnerable to welltrained infantry that bad not been attacked by supporting aircraft . The Vietnamese , observers said at the time , were well trained . The Chinese Air Force did not support the infantry at any time during the campaign ; , - although reconnaissance aircraft were used as spotters for the artillery that the Chinese used extensively in all phases of the war . General Wu emphasized to the French that his army was 15 years behind Western armed forces . Ile stressed that The gap could be closed through cooperation between the West and China .                     