@@733437

txt Letters WALTER HOFFMANNCHARLES C. PRICEGIOVANNI AGNELLI ( Rev . ) DANIEL McCARTHYMARCIA B ... pg . A22 Letters On the Need to Replace Our War System ' To the Editor : The decline of the dollar abroad , unemployment at home , decaying cities and a stagnant economy ! How many Americans recognize this as a forecast predictable from the large fraction of American talent and capital siphoned off from uses beneficial to our economy into ? the arms race . The dollar declines almost daily against the mark and the yen , yet Germany and Japan are far more dependent on outside energy sources than we are . The big difference is that they , by virtue of the peace treaties of World War II , can not spend heavily for armaments and so can invest wisely in their productive domestic economies . We can no longer afford the myth that defense spending is good for our economy . Under Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy , this country had top-level efforts under way to end the arms race and to replace the war system with a civilized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Agreed Principles for General and Complete Disarmament , " approved unanimously by the U.N . General Assembly in 1961 , the U.S. military-industrial complex sabotaged American negotiations toward this goal . We were turned away to the military goal of arms control ( really a means of preserving the war system ) . For the first time in over a decade , we again have a President who talks . about genuine disarmament as a desirable goal . If the U.S. would spend 1 percent of what we now spend on the military on a vigorous and serious " research and development " effort aimed at replacing the war system of international organization with a civilized system of law and order under a strengthened and reprincipled U.N. , we could within 10 years well have turned the corner away from the continuing economic deterioration of the arms race and the inevitable extermination and extincWm of nuclear war . We could then devote adequate energy , effort and investment to rebuilding our decaying cities , rejuvenating our obsolescent industrial establishment and providing the sound economy on which the future security and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be much less unhappy with the large increases in military spending by the Carter Administration and I would become slightly more optimistic about the survival of humanity if I could see some evidence of vigorous and serious U.S. commitment to work for refinement , development and implementation of the " Agreed Principles of Generai and Complete Disarmament " at the forthcoming special U.N . General Assembly on disarmament . This will not guarantee success , but we simply can no longer afford not to try to end the arms race by replacing the war system with a system of law and order . CHARLES C. PRICE Philadelphia , Jan. 4 , 1978 // Alexa Grace Impotent U.N . ' General ' The Imperfect ' Tax Paradise ' To the Editor : I must comment on inaccuracies and omissions in the Jan. 4 advertisement by New York State Commerce Commissioner John Dyson . I have no desire to scare people away from our state but would like to see our faults corrected rather than ignored . Commissioner Dyson claims that a " company pays taxes only on its profits , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profit . " Not so . I am a stockholder and officer of a 40-year-old New York City company that has lost money for the last several years after over 35 years of profitable operation . The Federal Government recognizes our losses and actually refunds the taxes paid in previous , profitable years . However , the state claims that stockholders ' salaries must be included in computing profit . The company therefore is paying approximately $15,000 each year on these " profits . " Of course , the recipient stockholders who live in the tax paradise Mr. Dyson describes again pay personal income tax on their salaries . I , incidentally , work about 55 hours a week in our 50-employee firm performing the functions of technical director and vice president in charge of production , labor relations , administration and , increasingly , government relations . I feel that I earn my salary and resent , as much as the Commissioner would , the implication that it is the equivalent of unearned income . As Commissioner Dyson must know , the larger part of the net job loss in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moving out of the state , but of a " death " rate of firms that is higher than the " birth " rate of new enterprises . It follows that he should be trying to help save the many small firms that are trying to stay alive in New York rather than playing with figures to show that New York taxes are low . Our taxes are high ; our electric rates are two to three times as high as our competitors ' in New Jersey ; our To the Editor : Your Dec. 30 editorial " An Economic General for the U.N . " missed the mark . The new post of Director General at the U.N . tails far short of the recommendations of the report of the committee of 25 experts headed by Richard Gardner . The Gardner report , which was endorsed by the Campaign for U.N . Reform and by both the Ford and Carter Administrations , had recommended the consolidation of all pre-investment U.N . activity under a single U.N . Development Authority headed by an administrator directly responsible to a Director General tor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the newly created Director General post has no real authority over any of the existing farflung fiefdoms in the U.N . economic system , such as the U.N.D.P. , F.A.O. , I.D.A. , U.N.I.D.O. or the World Bank . To call the new position an " economic czar " as your news story did or an " economic general " as your editorial did is grossly misleading . In reality this new powerless position in the U.N . bureaucracy will merely supplement the work now performed by the Under Secretary General for Economic and Social Affairs . WALTER HOFFMANN National Chairman Campaign for U.N . Reform Wayne , N.J. , Jan. 3 , 1973 a bunch of murderers because the Spanish civil war , as everybody knows , was a bloodbath , nor that the population of Cambodia should be compared to a conglomerate of bloodthirsty people because of the genocide taking place there . Americans can not be identified with the assassins of Abraham Lincoln , Martin Luther King and John F. Kennedy . Portraying Italy as a country of murderers is a dangerous thing because by the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Al Capones , while we all know the contributions Italian-Americans have made to America 's development . Human nature is a blend of aggressiveness , moderation , generosity and selfishness , in general including both good and bad qualities . Under certain circumstances , the evil side of people is bound to come out in the open . This is the case of Italy today . It should not be considered a fatal and natural feature of our life . There is a strong determination to live and work in peace , and that determination is at least as strong as the destructive violence that we are now facing . If we have had our Borgias , we have had our St. Francises as well  --  and millions of hard-working , law-abiding and good-natured people between them . GIOVANNI AGNELLI Turin , Italy , Jan. 4 , 19'i8 The writer is chairman of Fiat , S.p.A . Hating Is Not Thinking ' To the Editor : This is in response to your Jan. 1 editorial " Nazis , Skokie and the A.C.L.U. " It is self-evident that we all have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " parade , " and that speech can be practically anything we like . Nevertheless , it behooves us all , including the A.C.L.U. , to keep in mind that when the exercise of any of these freedoms deliberately provokes hatred and ill feeling and racial animosity it is not really an exercise of one 's constitutional right to free speech and freedom to parade . As Gerald W. Johnson said in " This American People " : " Hating is not thinking , and when a man uses words to express mere hatred he is not exercising the right of free speech guaranteed by the Constitution . What he is trying to do is to provoke a fight , and maliciously disturbing the peace is not a right , it is a crime . " MARCIA BOROWSKY Edison , N.J. , Jan. 2 , 1978 Thrift Finds a Target To the Editor : During my years on the U.S. House of Representative 's Agriculture Committee I fought to cut wasteful spending from farm subsidy programs . Hundreds of millions are spent each year to support peanut and tobacco growers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now the Agriculture Department has acted and has made a most significant move : It has eliminated the subsidy that has provided needy young children with a second half-pint of milk with their meals . The reason given is " the concern of Congress that some of the free milk is wasted . " The Times , being a family newspaper , would not allow me to give a oneword response to that explanation of this unfair and unkind action . PETER A. PEYSER Irvington , N.Y. , Jan. 6 , 1978 Italy : To Live and Work in Peace To the Editor : I feel compelled to offer a few remarks after seeing on your Jan. 2 OpEd Page the reproduction of a poster portraying myself as a " wanted person " to illustrate the interview about today 's Italy given by Rosario Romeo . As to the poster , I am quite amazed that it could be described in your caption simply as an " Italian political poster . " It was , in fact , a leaflet sporadically hand-distributed over a year ago by an ultraleft group with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that operate at the fringe of our institutional political life . It would be the same as if any of the many aggressive posters produced in the 1960 's by , say , the Weathermen or the Black Panthers , and depicting prominent American politicians as criminals could be taken to reflect the American political life . As for the contents of Professor Romeo 's interview , whose qualities as a historian can not be questioned but whose views on Italy I can only partially share , I would like to comment that , in the difficult times in which we are living , there is no doubt that violence is not an Italian monopoly . In fact , the same things that occur here also take place , and have taken place in the past , in many other countries . For examples , no one could reasonably infer that the Spaniards are Riddle To the Editor : Half the fun of the new Mayor 's banning of discrimination against homosexuals is reading the bizarre reactions of other city officials . A Fire Department official feels it would require new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fellow have in mind ? And a Pblice Department official fumes that you ca n't send a homosexual to arrest another homosexual . I guess that must be some kind of riddle , like the one about why firemen wear red suspenders . O.K. , I give up ? why ca n't you send a homosexual to arrest another homosexual ? ( ReV.1 DANIEL MCCARTHY New York , Jan. 5 , 1978 cost per yard for solid-waste , removal is almost five times that of a competitors in New Jersey , and , of course , our New York City real estate tax is ridiculous . With all this , who needs the double income tax on earned salaries of stockholders who provide most of the executive and supervisory management of most small firms ? This makes a mockery of the Commissioner 's claim that " a company pays tax only on its profits . " Since the state characterizes my salary as profit and then taxes it as such , I feel free to characterize as self-serving a two-page spread complete with picture , paid for by my taxes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times in his pitch . I am also dubious about the red-tape cutters he has " specially trained . " Are they trained to write sentences like , " For the first time in 50 years the personal income tax rate is down , permanently " ? I plan to write for the pamphlets the Commissioner describes , but I can not promise to digest the facts . They probably lust wo n't stay down . NAME WITHHELD Rockville Centre , Jan. 4 , 1978                     