@@730449

txt Senator George accused President Nixon yesterday of being " afraid of the people . " At a news conference in the Royal Ballroom of the Americana Hotel here , the Democratic Presidential candidate renewed his challenge to his Republican opponent to engage in a series of debates on television . " I know he 's hiding , " Senator said : " He 's ' afraid of the people . " Meanwhile , a poll released yesterday by Louis Harris showed Mr. trailing ' Mr. Nixon by 34 percentage points , the same figure reported in the latest Gallup poll . Both polls say that Mr. Nixon has a sizible electoral majority . Shows Anger The reiteration of Mr. Mc . Govern 's challenge came in answer to a question as to ' , whether he was using Senator I Edward M. Kennedy of Massachussetts , who has campaigned across the country with him for four days , as a " crutch. ? The questioner said that Herbert G. Klein , the President 's director of communications , had made such a charge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " What did Mr. Klein think he was ? " Senator asked angrily . " Is he campaigning for the Presidency ? Instead of sending Mr. Klein up here , the President ought to come himself . " Senator Kennedy , who appeared at the news conference with Mr. , said : " I just wonder why the President will not accept Senator 's challenge . He accepted it in 1960 when he wanted to get his point of view across . " Senator has been attacking Mr. Nixon almost constantly in the last two weeks , trying to goad him into dropping his stance of being above the political battle . The Democratic nominee and his senior advisers are convinced that their best chance of improving their standings in the national public opinion polls and of overtaking Mr. Nixon by the election Nov. 7 is to get the President to campaign on his own behalf . If he does , they are known to believe , voters will have a chance to make a marhto-man comparison between the two candidates . They also hope that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No Response Likely Although the camp has hurled the debate challenge time after time , Mr. Nixon 's campaign strategists have let it be known that they have no intention of accepting it . They also seem content to let Mr. Nixon continue to remain as far from the fray as possible for a while longer . Meanwhile , Cabinet members and other surrogates for the President have been replying to Mr. 's charges and making their own accusations against him on an almost daily basis . Senator took note of that at yesterday 's news con ference . " I do n't think he looks like a crutch , " Senator said of Mr. Kennedy . " Here 's an incumbent President who does n't even leave the White House . He has 30 or 40 people all out shooting at me every day . I think Mr. Klein is going to find Senator Kennedy is more than a crutch . He 's been a great help . " Senator Kennedy , asked how he assessed this week 's trip through Middle Western and Eastern cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more enthusiastic crowds , said that he had been " tremendously impressed by the warmth and support given to Senator . " ' Message Getting Across ' " I think his message is getting across , " Mr. Kennedy said . " I think it 's important that it does . " As for Senator 's showings in the national polls , Senator Kennedy added in an allusion to the primaries : " I do n't think there 's anyone in the country who can look a pollster in the eye like George after what happened this spring . " " The only poll that counts is the one on Nov. 7 , " Senator interjected . After leaving Philadelphia , where they addressed a large street rally early Wednesday evening , Senators and Kennedy flew to Albany yesterday morning for a noontime rally on the steps of the State Capitol . Although it had been raining much of the morning and the skies were still threatening , about 12,000 persons , many of them youngsters , gathered on the Capitol grounds . Senator apologized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being fixed and then drew a roar Of laughter when he said in an oblique reference to the alleged bugging of the Democratic National Headquarters : " We do n't have as many electric wire experts with us as President Nixon does . " Audience Drenched Less than half way through Mr. 's speech , the skies opened up and heavy rain drenched the audience . Umbrellas popped open all across the lawn , and some people on the outskirts started to drift away . For a couple of minutes , Senator continued to talk , but as the water ran ' down his face and across the rostrum , he shouted : " Before we all drown , let 's resolve to go out and win this election . " ? With that , he and Senator Kennedy ducked for cover , followed by dozens of slipping , scrambling staff people , Secret Service agents and newsmen . Last night , the two Senators attended two private fund-raising dinners here before flying to Waterbury , Conn. , for an outdoor rally . It was in Waterbury in ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ memorable campaign greetings . Arriving hours late for a night rally , he found thousands of persons still waiting determinedly and enthusiastically for his appearance . Crowds stood two and three deep at many places as his motorcade approached the . outskirts of Waterbury about 2:35 A.M. on Nov. 6 . By 3 A.M. , between 20,000 and 26,000 persons Were estimated to be standing in the main square . Last night , Senator was greeted in Waterbury by an enthusiastic crowd of 8,000 to 10,000 , some of whom had waited as long as two hours .                     