@@733121

txt The 27-nation north-south talks ended early today with major oil-producing countries and other developing lands refusing to agree 0 the demands of the . United States and ' the . rest of the industrial world for continuing consultations on energy questions . While the eight so-called rich countries of the north thus failed to achieve a .. principal objectives , the 19 developing  --  or poor countries of the south Won some economic concessions in the form of pledges of assistance . But they regarded the pledges as inadequate . The disappointment of both sides was expressed in the communiqu ? issued -- at the end of 18 months of talks whose aim had been to agree on a program of international economic reforms to help the poorer countries of the world and improve the industrial countries ' relations with them . Results Fall Short ' The ? developing countries said " the results fall short of the objectives envisaged , " although they recognized that " certain progress has been made . " The industrial countries expressed regret at the lack of agreement . on energy but welcomed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole , the conference took place . " Similar assessments had been made during the final hours of the conference by individual delegates . The Jamaican Foreign Minister , Percival J. Patterson , asserted that " the conference was not a failure , " noting " modest advances in a few limited fields . " And Britain 's Foreign Secretary , Dr. David , Owen , said that , although the industrial countries had failed to achieve their energy aims , " we are not making any threats . " Rich Countries Give Up The final defeat of the industrial nations on this issue came during an exhausting all-night bargaining session that ended yesterday morning : The developing nations successfully resisted through the night the rich countries ' demand for the creation of a new international body where oil exporters and consumers could continue to consult . The concessions that rich countries made to the poor include an extra $1 billion in aid this year , a plan to begin negotiations on stabilizing raw material priceg later this year , and various other promises of assistance to the developing nations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steps to improve the economic position of the poorer countries , to be worked out in existing international forums like the World Bank and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development . Per the industrial countries , continuing discussions on energy were an important objective because the north-south talks originally began as an attempt to open discussions with the oil exporting countrieS about the implications of higher oil prices for the rest of the world . However , at the insistence of the oil producers and- with French support , the agenda of the meeting ? at the Kleber Conference Center  --  was expanded to include the full range of economic problems confronting the developing world . Industrial countries went along with these difficult talks  --  formally called the Conference on International Economic Cooperation and Development  --  for 18 months partly for humanitarian reasons , partly because they wanted better relations with the developing world , but always in the hope that the talks would encourage the oil exporting countries to follow what the rich regard as a more reasonable pricing policy . According to conference sources . the Saudi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the start of the final north-south session this week that the energy dialogue be continued much as the industrial countries wanted . However , the other oil exporters , with backing from other developing countries , balked at allowing any influence over their price setting . Both sides have made their most positive statements to date on stabilizing raw material prices through new commodity agreements that would be financed from a common fund . This understanding reflects a marked change in attitude by the Carter Administration from its Republican predecessors , who were suspicious of any steps to regulate primary product markets . Nevertheless , the industrialized countries are still refusing to be committed in principle to any price stabilization plans , until details have been worked out . They also oppose the so-called indexing of raw material prices  --  or pegging them ? to the rate of world inflation , as the developing nations want . Although the rich countries are to produce SI billion extra in aid this year and Japan has agreed to double the assistance it gives poor countries over the next five ? years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total debts of $200 billion , they are demanding a moratorium on repayments and a pledge by all the rich countries to increase their aid to the seven tenths of one percent of their wealth ; recommended by the United Nations . The industrial side at the talks consisted of delegations representing the United States , Japan , Canada , Australia , Switzerland , Sweden , Spain and the European Common Market , which spoke for all nine of its members , among them West Germany , France and Britain . The 19 developing nations included seven oil producers belonging to the Organization for Petroleum Exporting Countries  --  Saudi Arabia , Iran , Iraq , Algeria , Indonesia , Venezuela and Nigeria . The 12 other developing lands represented were India , Pakistan , Yugoslavia , Egypt , Cameroon , Zaire , Zambia , Argentina , Brazil , Mexico , Peru and Jamaica .                     