@@728410

txt President Nixon announced today the choice of Edward B. Miller , a 47-year-old management lawyer from Chicago , for the post of chairman of the National Labor Relations Board . The selection of Mr. Miller , after months of behind-thescenes wrangling , appeared to rebuff the demands of Senate conservatives and industry lobbyists for an explicit change of direction at the five-man board . Mr. Miller was seen here as a compromise candidate even before his specific views on issues were known ' . At the same time , Mr. Miller 's selection appeared certain to produce another Senate test between the Nixon Administration and organized labor . George Meany , president of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations , said in Miami earlier this week that he would oppose Mr. Miller 's confirmation . Though indicating that he had not found " anything bad " in Mr. Miller 's record , Mr. Meany said : " The job is not a place for a corporation attorney , any more than it is for a labor attorney . " Mr. Miller 's appointment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ December , of Sam Zagoria , formerly a newspaperman and legislative assistant to Senator Clifford P. Case , Republican of New Jersey . The White House indicated that if Mr. Miller 's nomination to the five-year term were confirmed , he would then be designated chairman of the board , to succeed Frank W. McCulloch , who served two terms since being appointed first by President Kennedy in 1961 . Democrats will hold a 3-to-2 majority of the board until Mr. McCulloch 's term expires in August . The board adjudicates about 30,000 labor disputes every year . Secretary of Labor George P. Shultz , who , screened at least a dozen candidates for the N.L.R.B. chairman 's post , introduced Mr. Miller , a Republican , at a White House never conference this afternoon and said that Mr. Miller had passed three basic tests for the job . He described Mr. Miller as a lawyer of outstanding competence , dedicated to a " reasonable " labor board and practically experienced in the field of labor-management negotiations . Mr. Miller characterized the current board , which the United States Chamber of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor , as " not unreasonable . " Mr. Miller is a partner in the Chicago firm of Pope , Ballard , Uriell , Kennedy , Shepard &; Fowle . He said that while he had never represented a union he had extensive experience with , labor and enjoyed a high degree of mutual respect with labor officials . He said he hopes that Mr. Meany would modify his opposition before the Senate begins hearings on the confirmation . During the long in-fighting over the post , the principal issue has been not how to appease the labor movement but rather how and whether to signal a broad change in the board 's policy , in management 's direction , after a decade of Democratic control . During the 1968 campaign , President Nixon indicated that he wanted to chart a new course at the labor board , comparable to the changes he has implemented in his appointments to the Supreme Court . Two months before his election , Mr. Nixon suggested that the N.L.R.B. 's administration of the Taft-Hartley Act of 1947 had distorted Congress ' original intent , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time has now come , " Mr .. Nixon declared then , " when we need to completely reappraise Taft-Hartley to see that the proper balance is restored . " Encouraged by the campaign statement , Senator Barry Goldwater and Senator Paul Fannin of Arizona petitioned the President , with 20 other Senate conservatives , for the appointment of Thomas D. Shroyer , an aide to the late Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio when the TaftHartley Act was passed . Senator Jacob K. Javits of New York , the ranking Republican on the Senate Labor Committee , urged in response that the President reappoint Mr. Zagoria . When that proposal was vetoed , Senator Javits pressed in vain for the nomination of his own administrative assistant , Frank Cummings , of New York . The selection of Mr. Miller was viewed on Capitol Hill today as an expression of Secretary Shultz 's middle-of-the road views and also of his political independence . A spokesman for Senator Fannin said that the Arizona Republican would not oppose Mr. Miller . A spokesman at Senator Javits 's office indicated that the Senator had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Miller was born in Milwaukee on March 26 , 1922 . He was graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1942 , attended the Harvard Business School , and took his law degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1947.                     