@@728614

txt Two persons were killed and 12 wounded early today after the police opened fire on a women 's dormitory at Jackson State College here . Fifteen students were carried out of the dormitory after the shooting . It was not determined immediately whether they had been wounded or cut by flying glass . A heavy , concentrated barrage of gunfire , lasting seven to 10 seconds , was directed at the building . Students in front of the building dropped to the ground to take cover . The polire said they returned fire after someone had shot at them . On five other campuses the police battled protesters Thursday , but elsewhere , the nationwide student antiwar protest appeared to have abated . National Guard troops moved onto the Jackson State campus after rock and bottle-throwing erupted for the second straight night . There were conflicting reports as to how Wednesday night 's disorder began . Several students said it was triggered by a white youth passing out ant iwar leaflets , and others said it started when a handful ' of nonstudents started pelting passing cars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explanation of why the disorder resumed . Police Battle Protesters By FRANK J. PRIAL The police used gas yesterday on students at the Ohio University at Athens and at the University of Maryland campus in College Park , broke up a rock and paint - throwing session at Indiana University and battled with demonstrators at Eastern Michigan University in Ypsilanti and . at Illinois State University . Despite these incidents , however , the nationwide antiwar protest seemed to have abated . Representatives of 250 colleges and universities met at Yale to plan constructive antiwar activities to replace that part of the student demonstrations in the last two weeks that has been violent . As for those who support President Nixon on the war , New York City construction workers called off a parade and rally in lower Manhattan today . Instead , they will stage a giant rally in front of City Hall next Wednesday which they promised would be peaceful . At a dinner at the Americana hotel , Mayor Lindsay asked the American Jewish Committee to try to ease tensions among ethnic groups to defuse the present explosive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ohio University , police wearing dungaree ' cover - alls hurled tear-gas cannisters into a crowd of more than 1,000 students who formed on the campus and marched toward the downtown area , throwing some rocks at a bookstore and smashing windows in a police cruiser . More than 1,000 National Guardsmen troops , alerted when disturbances broke out Wednesday night , remained on ' standby duty . The Ohio University incident was apparently prompted by the suspension of seven students on Wednesday and the refusal by the university 's president , Claude W. Sowle , to close the university in sympathy with the death of the four Kent State University students and opposition to the Vietnam war . At the University of Maryland , one guardsman was reported injured by a missile thrown by students retreating down U.S. Route 1 near the campus . Guardsmen and state ' troopers marching shoulder to shoulder cleared the highway of 5,000 students . Earlier , a group of students seized the administration building . A student strike has closed the university since May 1 . Eight Indiana University students were arrested in Bloomington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were at other colleges . In Ypsilanti , streets were littered with broken glass , furniture and burned barricades after Eastern Michigan University students protested an 8 P.M.-to-5 A.M. curfew . The police used tear gas for the third night to confine the students to dormitories . ? At - Illinois State , an assistant dean was hospitalized with head injuries after a melee between 40 students and an equal number of policemen . There , too , students were challenging a night-long curfew . In New York , a group of construction workers withdrew a request for a Police Department permit to stage a parade and rally at noon today . At the same time , the president of the Building and Construction Trades Council , Peter Brennan , said his group was planning a rally for Wednesday in City Hall Park . Mr. Brennan said in a statement that the building trades unions hoped to have Wednesday declared " a special flag day , " and urged supporters of the Nixon Administration 's war policy to fly the flag on that day . College , 134 West 51st Street , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when , according to the police , they attempted to interfere with classes . Some teachers and administrators said antiwar protesters had terrorized other students , pulling them out of class and threatening them , even though the police were in the building at the time . At New York University , the University Senate voted to " terminate as soon as legally possible " the school 's relations with R.O.T.C. A spokesman said that the university 's contract with the Air Frce required a year 's notice , but it was believed that the contract could be ended before then . A contract with the Army calls for termination " by mutual agreement . " At Rutgers University in New Brunswick , N. J. , however , the board of governors overruled a faculty decision and voted to continue R.O.T.C. at the state school . Under the faculty plan , no incoming freshman in the class of 1974 would have been able to enroll in the military training program . An Eisenhower Aids Nixon WASHINGTON , May 14 ( UPI ) ? Susie Eisenhower , a granddaughter of former President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White House mail room temporarily to show her support of President Nixon 's policies . Miss Eisenhower , 18 years old , is the sister of David Eisenhower . She is a senior at West Town Alma Mater Bombed Also in New York , a bomb partially damaged the statue of Alma Mater at Columbia University . The explosion , which occurred before dawn , tore a hole in the side of the statue . No one was injured , but the blast was heard for several blocks in the Morningside Heights area . Later in the day , the police arrested three City College students on charges of breaking into R.O.T.C. offices in Townsend Harris Hall last week and destroying $5,000 worth of Government property . They were Margot Goodman , 21 years old , of 245 East 180th Street , the Bronx ; Ben Zion Ptashnik , 20 , of 154-51 20th Road , Whitestone , Queens , and Robert Stirbl , 21 , of 382 Wadsworth Avenue . The incident followed a protest march of 2,000 students on May 5 , the day after the fatal shootings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ School in West Town , Pa.                     