@@730210

txt United Press Internationall Angela Yvonne Davis was an aloof , shy girl in her childhood and young womanhood . That remoteness was evident even after she became the center of a controversy climaxed by a trial observed around the world . In her 13 weeks in the courtroom , the slender , 28-year-old black intellectual seemed almost apart from the proceedings even tho her own freedom was at stake . Altho given court permission to act as her own attorney , she spoke out only twice , once to deliver an opening statement and the second time to briefly cross-examine and disqualify a witness as prejudiced . Most Striking Trait Her aloofness , coupled with an ability to speak articulately , is one of her most striking traits . Angela Davis was born Jan. 26 , 1944 , in Birmingham , Ala. , the eldest of four children of Frank and Sallye Davis . Frank Davis had taught in the public schools for eight years but quit to open a gasoline station the year after Angela was born . Mrs. Davis , who has a master 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teacher . Angela Davis showed precociousness from the age of 3 when her mother started her on piano lessons . She made straight A 's at Parker High School , and was a drum majorette . Attends N. Y. School At 15 , she got a grant to attend the Elisabeth Irwin School in New York 's Greenwich Village , a " progressive " experimental institution , where she found the going much tougher . French was her most difficult subject , and she displayed her staunchness of character by making that her major . In New York she lived with the family of Dr. William Howard Melish , a white Protestant minister . It was the beginning of a period of eight years in which Angela 's contacts were almost exclusively white . She went en to Brandeis University , ' outside Boston , again making top grades , and spent her junior year on an exchange program at the Sorbonne in Paris . In her senior year , she became engrossed in the theories of New Left philosopher Herbert Marcuse , and took all the courses he offered . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two years at the Karl Marx Institute of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe University is Frankfurt . During that period she had a brief love affair with a young white German student , which finally ended under the disapproval of both sets of parents . Joins Communist Party In 1967 , Angela went to the University of California at San Diego to study for her Ph , D. under Marcuse , and , for the first time , became involved with black activists on the campus . In 1969 , she was hired as assistant professor in the philosophy department at the University of California in Los Angeles . During that same year , she had joined the Che Lumumba branch of the Communist Party in Los Angeles . That came to the attention of the university regents . They fired Miss Davis , but a Superior Court judge ruled that dismissal solely on grounds she was a Communist was illegal , and ordered her reinstated . She taught thru the fall of 1069 and into the spring of 1070 , when the regents voted to refuse to renew her contract because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1970 , angered by what she considered her " persecution " by the regents , that she f i r s t met George Jackson in a Salinas , Cal. , courtroom , and her fervent activities in behalf of the Soledad Brothers began .                     