@@730306

txt Hundreds of airline passengers submitted to luggage searches yesterday at O'Hare International Airport as two airlines began a new policy of checking all hand carried bags that are taken aboard 727 aircraft . Tho some flights were delayed , most passengers did not comp 1 a in as agents checked suitcases . " You should see the stuff people c a rry in their luggage , " said an American Airlines passenger service agent . " I had no idea how interesting this job was going to be ! " Yesterday , several minutes before two groups of passengers were to board these jets , United and American Airline officials told them that all those carrying bags and purses must have their luggage searched . " This is because of the recent increased numb er of hijackings , " an of f lei al tpld Mrs. George Merrion of Oklahoma City . " Oh , I do n't mind , " said the housewife . " It 's a good idea . I 'd rather go thru a search than be flown to Cuba by a mad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ table placed in the boarding area at American Airline 's passenger gate . Spot luggage checks are conducted for non-727 aircraft . The 727 jets have become the target of intensive passenger searches because the planes are regarded as the " hijacker 's favorite plane , " said a United Air Line official . On a flight to Oklahoma City yesterday , Bob Romano , an American Airlines s e r vice agent , ran into a hag full of foul smelling Wisconsin cheese carried by a woman passenger . Sex magazines are commonly found in the briefcases and overnight bags of red faced businessmen . So far , the most dangerous weapon found was a kitchen knife a conventioneer was taking home to his wife . Just to be safe , it was locked in a cabinet aboard the 727 and returned to the passenger when he arrived at his destination . " Every time I get on a jet , I worry about being hijacked , " said Miss Ruth Turner , 18 , a coed from R o c k f or d . " The search was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . " " All airlines should check this thoroly , " contended Robert Fleming , a businessman on his way to Dallas . " I 'm all for it . " The baggage searches came about in the wake of a Federal Aviation Administration request that the airlines take new measures to prevent weapons from being taken aboard airplanes . An FAA spokesman said an alarming number of hijackings have been carried out with arms or explosives concealed in hand carried luggage .                     