@@729249

txt The fallout from what Polish workers have gained in their struggle with the Communist Party leadership over the past two months now is evident all over Eastern Europe . Press and other media in European Communist capitals are focusing attention on issues like housing and automobiles  --  the long-awaited family car foi the little man -- in a way they have not been spotlighted through years of regime complacency . Polish workers nave won immediate reliefs on their worst grievances . They forced a change in the top leadership of the trade unions , formed their own militant work committees , and got withdrawal of a wage-payment system which would have inflict ? i new hardships . The more recent wave of strikes in Po- land 's great textile city of Lodz was halted only by the government 's cancellation of the price rises which were the actual spark for the initial December explosion . Stirred by these happenings , Communist Party leaders elsewhere in Eastern Europe now talk of the trade unions being allowed a " genuine " role at last in looking after their members ' interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ automobiles and housing . More goods promised Even the Soviet Union seems to have felt its effects . Thi Soviets ' 1971-75 economic plan was delayed in publication by apparent differences in the leadership between those advocating more emphasis on consumer needs and the " conservatives " still bent on heavy industrial priorities The plan was , it is believed , virtually completed at a Central Committee meeting shortly before the Polish " December . " But it was not made public until two months after these events . It is more than likely that its final outline - - with its unprecedented stress on an upsurge in living standards ? was clinched by the lessons visible in all that had happened in Poland . It was , it seemed , a victory for the newly consumer-minded elements concerned in Soviet planning . East Europeans  --  always sharply tuned to trends on the wind from the Soviet Union , and especially watchful now on the eve of the Soviet Party Congress  --  are reading it that way anyhow . They are relieved by Russia 's apparent awareness of the acuteness now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it because , they say , this means a setback for the political hard-liners . The Soviet plan promises a near 50 percent increase in goods of every kind in the shops by 1975 . At the other end of the scale , Romania  --  one of the laggards in domestic reform in the area ? is promised something similar . // *Polish gains stir other East Europeans // The Soviet plan promises a near 50 percent increase in goods of every kind in the shops by 1975 . At the other end of the scale , Romania ? one of the laggards in domestic reform in the area ? is promised something similar . From December on , Bucharest 's shops have carried an increasing flow and variety of goods . Though consumers will still take second place to output of means of industrial production , increases of up to 40 percent in foodstuffs are promised for 1971 . " This year " exulted one of the Romanian provincial city radios " customers will be presented with the latest fashions ? from mini to maxi and midi ? and shoes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also will be on sale . " One of the first assurances given the rebellious Poles was for rapid motorization through production of a new small-engine automobile at a price within working class budgets . Poland ( population 30 million ) has a half-million privately owned cars ? where the United States stood in 1913 and West European countries in the mid- ' 30 's . Compared with other East European states today , the lag is still more pronounced . In Czechoslovakia and East Germany , there is a private car for approximately every 20 inhabitants . Even Hungary ? which makes no automobiles itself ? has a car for every 54 people , while Poland 's ratio is 1 to 67 . High priority The private auto now is set as high as housing on the consumer needs to which almost general bloc unrest has compelled Communist regimes to give more heed . Hungary has the advantage of stability through a promising reform , already in its third year , which Poland and others well may endeavor to emulate . Even so , Hungary 's new five-year plan includes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half-million ? 1 for every 20 Hungarians ? by the end of 1975 . Hungary , Czechoslovakia , and East Germany together are studying a vast joint project for a plant in Slovakia with an ultimate capacity of 400,000 cars yearly . Under the reform , trade unions in Hungary have already gained considerable voice . They now are pressing for still more . So the ripples from Poland widen and widen . If a liberalized regime is , in fact , achieved in Warsaw , it can only be on the basis of a new equilibrium and understanding between the workers ? now fully awake again to their power ? and the party . Following Hungary 's example , it could be an irresistible encouragement to the workers in all other East European countries .                     