@@729389

txt President Nixon today nominated four Federal judges to fill long-standing vacancies on the United States courts in the New York City area . Nominated by the President to fill the two vacancies on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit , which covers New York , Connecticut and Vermont , were the following : tiWalter R. Mansfield of Manhattan , who has been a judge on the Federal district court for the Southern District of New York since 1966. 4IWilliam Hughes Mulligan of Dronxville , who has been dean of the Fordham University Law School since 1956 . Nominated to fill vacancies on the two Federal district courts headquartered in New York City were the following : IlLawrence W. Pierce of Canaan , N. Y. , former chairman of the New York State Narcotics Addiction , , Control Commission , to be a judge on the United States district court for the Southern District of New York . liMark A. Costantino of Staten Island , a New York City Civil Court judge , to be a judge on the United States district court for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the four judges today along with the nomination by the White House April 12 of Murray I. Gurfein , a Manhattan lawyer , to be a United States district judge for the Southern District , fill half the vacancies on the Federal judiciary in New York , including one that has been open for nearly 20 months . The nominations are subject to confirmation by the Senate , but no trouble is anticipated since both New York Senators ? Jacob K. Javits , a Republican , and James L. Buckley , a **30;973;TOOLONG on the selections in advance and the Senators issued a joint news release this afternoon announcing the : laminations . Officials of the bar associations and the judiciary have been complaining for some time about the delay in filling the vacancies , particularly those on the district court bench . In February , an American Bar Association committee issued a report ' noting that President Nixon had not appointed any Federal judges in the New York courts since he took office more than two years ago . Sources familiar with the selection process said the delay stemmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nominees suggested last fall by Senator Javits and then Senator Charles E. Goodell and by the replacement of Mr. Goodell by Mr. Buckley in the November election . Traditionally , an Administration does not nominate judges without the clearance of the Senators from the state involved , and it was not until last month that Senators Javits and Buckley agreed on the nominees at a meeting with Attorney General John N. Mitchell . It was understood that the Whit &; House accelerated the announcement of the nominations after a call last Friday from Mr. Mitchell , who was said to be eager to have the vacancies filled . Other Nominees Urged Judge Mansfield originally had been backed for a Federal district judgeship in 1966 by Senator Javits . It was understood that Mr. Pierce had the , strong backing of Governor Rockefeller , while Judge Costantino was supported by the Republican state committee . At the moment there are four , remaining vacancies on the district court for the Southern Disriot and one in Eastern Disrict . It N ? N understood that nominees suggested for the remaining posts by both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bar committees and the Justice Depart . ment . The elevation of Judge Mansfield to the Court of Appeals will create an additional vacancy in the Southern District , which covers Manhattan , the Bronx and nine upstate counties . The eastern district is composed of Brooklyn , Queens , Staten Island and Nassau and Suffolk Counties . Judge Manfield , who is 59 years old , is a former assistant United States Attorney and was a lawyer in private practice in New York City before going on the Federal district bench . He ' succeeds Leonard P. Moore , 1 who retired from active service on the Court of Appeals March 1 . Former Rockefeller Aide Dean Mulligan , who is 53 , is a graduate of Fordham Law School and became an associate professor there in 1953 . He has been a member of the New York State Law Revision Commission since 1958 and headed , a citizens committee on the reappointment of the Legislature for Governor Rockefeller in 1964 . He will succeed J. Edward Lumbard , who is re'tiring from the Court of Appeals . Mr. Pierce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the State University of New York at Albany since leaving the state narcotics unit last year . He is a former Deputy Police Commissioner in New York City , a former Assistant District Attorney for Kings County and a former head of the State Division for Youth . He succeeds William B. Herlands , who died in 1969 . Judge Costantino , 51 , was first elected to the former City Court in 1956 and since 1958 he has served by designation as a State Supreme Court justice . He fills a new district judgeship created by Congress last . June . Federal judges are appointed for life . District judges receive $40,000 a year ; Court of Appeals judges , $42,500.                     