@@729696

txt A controversy involving nine states , Congress and the Atomic Energy Commission is coming to a head in Colorado over the health dangers of leftover radioactive sands used by builders in thousands of locations . In the last few weeks , the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy has been asked to hold hearings on the problem by two of its own members , a Colorado health official has charged the Federal Government with " extreme irresponsibility , " and a leading environmentalist has accused the A.E.C. of trying to cover up the situation . The problem , which has been building in magnitude and intensity of feeling since the late nineteen-fifties , centers on a form of radioactive trash : sandy material called " tailings " that have been dumped out by uranium mills since the beginning of the atomic age . By 1969 , an estimated total of 83 million tons of uranium mill tailings had piled up in Colorado , Utah , Wyoming , , South Dakota , Arizona , New , Mexico , Texas , Washington andl Oregon . Known to Cause Cancer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radioactive material , the tailings are rich in elements that are known causes of cancer . And many of the structures involved have radioactivity that is considered unacceptable . Although the ore-processing mills from which the tailings come were licensed and rigidly controlled by the Atomic Energy Commission , some are known to have given the tailings away free to builders who found them an excellent base and backfill material for concrete slabs , patios and basements in homes , offices , factories and public buildings . In Colorado , an estimated ' total of 150,000 to 200,000 tons of tailings were given away for such uses between 1953 and 1956 from a single mill in the city of Grand Junction . Tailings have been found at 4,984 locations in the Grand Junction area . The total is 45 per cent of 11,192 structures studied . State health investigators , aided by the atomic commission , have found an additional 1,507 abnormally high radioactive readings apparently caused by use of tailings in 10 other small Colorado cities and towns . The State Health Department , backed by the Federal Environmental Protection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee , has recommended that all tailings be removed from within 10 feet of habitable structures . The removal was recommended last week in a fourto-three vote of a Federal-state steering committee on the problem in Denver . The Atomic Energy Commission and the United States Public Health Service voted against the recommendation . Such a removal program , involving digging out tailings from underneath structures , could cost $20-million in Colorado alone , according to a study just completed for the commission . Who Would Pay ? Exactly who would pay such costs has not been settled . The A.E.C. study estimates the average cost per nome for removal at $3,220 . But the Federal agency has maintained for years that the tailings are not its responsibility . State health officials say the commission created the problem and must pay for solving it . The tailings are rich in a number of radioactive elements , including thorium , radium and lead . All are produced as unstable atoms decay in what scientists call the uranium-radium decay series . As uranium decays naturally , it changes into thorium , which then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it turns into a gas called radon that seeps through concrete and quickly decays into polonium and radioactive forms of lead and bismuth . These last three radioactive elements , called radon " daughters , " have been " recognized for more than 40 years as the cause of high rates of lung cancer among uranium and radium miners . The same radiation from radon daughters that affects the miners is now found in and around homes ? in Colorado because of the use of mill tailings . Processing at uranium mills removes only 15 per cent of the radioactivity from the ores that are brought in , according to a study by the Colorado Health Department . The other 85 per cent goes onto the dump pile . Because of the extraordinarily long life of radium and thorium , the piles represent a long-term health problem . Long-Term Effect There is no immediate effect from inhaling low levels of radon daughters . Cancer often does not show up for 20 or 30 years and is believed to stem from malformations caused by irradiating cells in the lungs . The problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapid . The Surgeon General of the Public Health Service has set much lower standards for radon levels in the home than those for miners , who are adults and who receive doses of radon daughters for only 40 hours a week . Dr. Roy L. Cleeret'executive director of the State Health Department , said in an interview that he believed the Atomic Energy Commission was " solely responsible " for the problem .. " We wrote the A.E.C. some years ago and asked the question as to whether their laws and licensing authority extended to the tailings piles , " Dr. Cleere said . He said the commission replied that the tailings were not its responsibility . " I do n't think that 's acceptable , " Dr. Cleere said of the commission 's position . Will Consider Aid A cautiously worded statement issued by A.E.C. public information officers at the agency 's headquarters in Germantown , Md. , said : " The question of possible financial assist . ance will be taken up at the appropriate time . " Health Department workers drew up suggested letters to be sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ danger in their homes . One department official said the letters had been reviewed by A.E.C. men who struck out so many phrases that " all that was left was ' Dear sir ' and ' Sincerely . ' " In early September Glen E. Keller Jr. , president of the board of health , sharply rejected any suggestion that the matter was not one for Federal action . " I submit that the Federal Government has exercised ex ? treme irresponsibility in this situation , " he said . He coupled the statement with an attack on Representative Wayne N. Aspinall , Democrat of Colorado , who is a member of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy . Last week Mr. Aspinall and Senator Peter H. Dominick , Republican of Colorado and also a committee member , formally . requested a hearing by the joint committee on possible health hazards from tailings . Dr. H. Peter Metzger of Boutder , head of the Colorado Committee for Environmental Information , produced a letter from Dr. Martin Biles of the A.E.C. 's division of occupational safety that said that health departments in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter sent March 7 , 1961 , that tailings. were a potential health problem . At Dr. Metzger 's request , the Colorado Department of Health searched its files but could find no trace of such a letter . The other eight state health departments involved were asked by the Colorado department if they could find such a letter , None found any trace of it . In a letter to Senator Dominick on Aug. 27 , Dr. Metzger remarked of the nine missing letters that it was " an attempt to rewrite history in order to avoid blame for what is certain to become the agency 's most embarrassing problem : the indoor radon problem . "                     