@@733354

txt Leonid Brezhnev 's offer to suspend civilian as well as military nuclear explosions is a breakthrough for a comprehensive test ban and for Soviet-American relations in general . It is the outcome not only of diplomatic negotiations , important as that has been , but of years of discussion between scientists of the two countries . It was by convincing a handful of Soviet scientists , then others , that there are few safe or sound uses for " peaceful nuclear explosions " that American scientists and diplomats appear to have contributed to the reversal in ? Soviet policy . That is a rare phenomenon but it provides justification for the great effort to expand private and semi-official Soviet contacts with the West in a wide variety of fields . Only a few years ago , Soviet minds seemed closed on this issue . There was a conviction that vast , little-populated territories in the Soviet Union lent themselves to the use of nuclear explosions to dig canals , reverse rivers and develop mineral resources . But , as Soviet scientists were gradually exposed to American studies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American scientific community seems to have had an impact in Moscow . That impact Increased in 1974 when Washington unilaterally decided to halt further civilian explosions . A crucial turning point came , also in 1974 , when India exploded a nuclear device  --  after diverting materials from a civilian program  --  claiming the explosion was for peaceful purposes only . There is no way to distinguish between a civilian and a military nuclear blast and the Indian explosion was a reminder that the chief purpose of the original test-ban negotiations in the 1950 's was to close the nuclear mu ' ) ana nait tee spreaa cm nuclear weapons . With Brazil , Pakistan and other countries seeking dangerous nuclear technology , Soviet and American interest in a comprehensive test ban revived last spring . Arms control director Paul Warnke has insisted since June that exclusion of civilian explosions from the ban would defeat the chief purpose of the treaty . That perseverance has now been rewarded . Important issues remain before the permanent treaty that the United States wants can be achieved . What is close to agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and France formally accept the ban before binding itself permanently , but their tacit acceptance may suffice . Washington and Moscow are also agreed in principle on some form of on-site inspection of suspicious events . Just how this will be made effective remains to be worked out . But many scientists believe that only small explosions of marginal military value are likely to escape detection . There are objections on both sides from military men , now overruled , who want to develop smaller but more powerful warheads for new missiles through continued underground tests ; tests above ground have been banned by agreement of 104 nations since 1963 . The military also argue that without periodic testing of existing warheads , which can deteriorate , confidence in their reliability would decline . But political leaders in Moscow as well as Washington appear to recognize that this could be a stabilizing factor . High confidence in warhead reliability is not needed to deter attack , but is important for a pre-emptive first strike . A little less confidence could be a good thing for mankind .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       