@@733772

txt Letters Youth Crime : ' An Open Season for Politicians ' To the Editor : For over 600 years , wild swings have characterized positions on criminal responsibility and punishment of youthful offenders under both English and American law . In England in 1338 , responsibility was scaled up to 13 and 14 years of age . In the 16th century , Fitzherbert argued that the age of 15 should be treated as marking the line between legal responsibility and immaturity . Yet by the 18th century , brutal sentences , including death , imposed on children became the order of the day . In the 20th century juvenile courts were established . Within fewer centuries , swings in America have been equally extreme . Cruel punishment of children in precolonial law included the death penalty . It could even be invoked by parents who had " lost control " of their children , though there is no record of its imposition . The 19th-century reform movement sought protection of chili . dren by removal from penal institu- ' Lions through the creation of the juvenile court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues of age and criminal intent . New concepts embraced child development , different rates of growth , physical and psychological problems of children and adolescents . Today , demands for punishment , even life imprisonment for children , are in the ascendancy . Once again , youthful offenders are spoken of as criminal offenders by both civil libertarians and the " law and order boys , " for far different reasons . The first seek all the protections of due process assured to adults . The second seek to have children returned to what Governor Carey has rightly called " the disaster of the criminal courts . " The transfer of children and youths from the family court to the criminal courts is evidence of bankruptcy , and its cynical proponents know this will serve neither youth no/r the community . More and more , incarceration , incapacitation , retribution for those who have committed what would be " crimes " if committed by adults are targeted against children . In New York , the leading proponent of incapacitation for children demands the scalp of the director of the Division @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subsequently committed a hideous crime . He demands 100 percent surety that before any youths are released they will commit no further offenses . But are there truly any areas in human existence in which 100 percent surety can reasonably be demanded ? Unhappily , this has become an open season for politicians in pursuit of personal success to raise arms against children and youths . Self-righteous in pronouncements on ridding the community of violent youths , they fail to acknowledge any conflict of interest . The guardianship of youth and the community is too important to be left in such hands . JUSTINE WISE POLIER New York , July 27 , 1978 The writer is a retired New York State Family Court judge . // dnraftect Are We in the Midst Of the Only Bang ? ' Of Soviet Arms and ' Unwarranted ' Pessimism To the Editor : You have reported several times recently that confirmation of the " big bang " theory of the creation of the universe has been reached . I personally subscribe to the theory , both from a theological and physical perspective . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are in the midst of the first and only " bang . " Many have suggested that we are not ; that our universe will expand to the point that " total gravity " and intermolecular elasticity will allow , and then a collapsing will begin ? back to the hard core of energy and hydrogen from which we have all begun . This cycle of the universe , were it proven , would have profound effects on our theology and our understanding of the roles of basic forces at work in the universe . Let 's hope we find out soon . MICHAEL R. HARBERT New York , July 24 , 1978 Training for Judges To the Editor : Your article of July 13 on Judge Joan Carey notes that newly appointed judges take the bench with " little in the way of official training . " It should be noted that the Office of Court Administration does conduct a week-long seminar for new judges , to which Judge Carey will be invited , in December of each year . Ideally we would like to offer such seminars immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of judicial appointments across the state during the year makes it most appropriate for us to schedule the seminar soon after the November elections so that , in addition to judges recently appointed , newly elected judges may attend before they assume office in January . RICHARD J. BARTLETT State Administrative Judge New York , July 21 , 1978 To The Editor : On July 17 a Times news analysis reported that " an authoritative study published in the Congressional Record last year concluded that by 1980 or 1981 . 12 to 60 percent of land-based Soviet warheads could destroy at least 75 percent ... of American missile silos , " and that 100 percent of U.S. land-based and sea-based ballistic missiles could destroy only about 15 percent of Soviet silos . This study reflects pessimism unwarranted by the facts . It was performed by a House Armed Services Committee staff member , and was based on figures I had published a year earlier in Foreign Policy magazine . But the staff study misinterpreted my data and made a number of other errors , all emphasizing Soviet . capability while minimizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States would use a wasteful and ineffective targeting strategy , gave the Soviets credit To convey the idea that the Louisiana explosion ? at Continental Grain Company 's export elevator ? was fueled by dust that Was returned to the elevator rather than removed is to ignore testimony before a House subcommittee in February of this year . At that hearing , it Was established that the elevator in Westwego , La. , with over $2 million in dust collection and control systems , did not return dust , to the grain in the elevator . The dust was collected at a remote central point and trucked away for other approved uses . That the elevator was " clean " was attested to publicly by top officials of the Federal Grain Inspection Service . It should be clearly understood that the National Grain and Feed Association 's recommendations do include changes in dust handling practices , not the deferral of such changes . This group , along with properly concerned grain companies and others , has assigned high priority to study of elevator explosion occurrences . It is extremely difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in the Westwego , facility , for example , nearly 100 different safety devices , from smoke detectors and alarm systems to sophisticated interlocks and automatic shutdown systems , were operative at the time of the explosion . Still , it happened . today for developments they will not have for many years , if ever , and ignored advances we have already made . My colleague Congressman Bob Carr ( D-Mich. ) subsequently examined my data while avoiding the errors of the staff study . His conclusions , also published in the Congressional Record , are that in the early mid-80 's 54 percent of available Soviet missile warheads could destroy 67 percent of U.S. silos , while the United States could destroy 82 percent of Soviet silos by expanding only 43 percent of its warheads . Mr. Carr 's position is supported by the official published Defense Department analysis showing that even if the Soviets were to attack us by surprise , after our retaliation our remaining strategic capability would be equal to or greater than theirs at any time within the next decade . THOMAS J. DOWNEY @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , July 18 , 1978 The problem is not one of safety first , then ; it is a matter of gaining moreknowledge . Of the grain elevator explosions since 1976 , the cause has been determined in only 38 percent of the disasters . We submit that measures voluntarily adopted by grain elevator operators on the basis of valid technical data widely disseminated can be far more effective than steeper fines and more regulation not based on such data . CLARENCE D. PALMBY Vice President , Public Affairs Continental Grain Company New York , July 27 , 1978 ? From the Editor : We did not mean to imply that every grain elevator explosion could be blamed on the practice of returning dust to the elevator to increase the weight of shipments . That is just one factor . Others include sloppy housekeeping , which allows dust to accumulate ; neglect of equipment that overheats ; careless welding , and the like . Most experts at a recent National Academy of Sciences symposium argued that the surest way to avoid explosions is to minimize the dust accumulations that often fuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The . National Grain and Feed Association , however , said its " prime concern " is to " minimize the potential for a primary explosion . . . . Housekeeping practices and means to limit the amounts of grain dust present in grain elevators serve mainly to limit the possibility of secondary explosions . " To Prevent Grain Elevator Explosions To the Editor : The implication of your editorial " Those Explosive Grain Elevators " ( July 27 ) is of a . wanton grain elevator industry openly flouting considerations of safety and society . Federal Blue-Collar Wages : The Heart of the Problem ' To the Editor : In his recent letter , Kenneth T. Blaylock , president of the American Federation of Government Employees , took you to task for supporting legislation introduced by Senator Eagleton to extend to the Federal bluecollar work force the 5.5 percent pay cap proposed by President Carter for Federal white-collar and military employees . The Times 's position that Government blue-collar workers are averaging 8 percent more than their privatesector counterparts was , according to Mr. Blaylock , incorrect since you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surveys of each standard metropolitan survey area to match the rates paid in the private sector . " ( Emphasis added . ) But Mr. Blaylock neglected to explain how they are matched , and that is the heart of the problem . The law provides that wages paid to Federal workers at Step 2 ( of five possible steps in each grade ) be pegged to average wages in the private sector . Pay at Step 2 then becomes the reference point for calculating increases in the remaining steps . Government workers in Step I thereupon receive 96 percent of Step 2 wages , while workers in Steps 3 , 4 and 5 receive 104 , 108 and 112 percent , respectively , of Step 2 wages . The rub is that four out of five Federal blue-collar employees are above Step 2 , and the typical employee , being close to Step 4 , now receives ? as The Times correctly stated ? about 8 percent more than the average private-sector worker in a comparable job . More than half of the Government blue-collar work force is in Pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the private-sector wage . Both the Ford and Carter Administrations proposed legislation to correct this anomaly by simply matching average Federal wages to average local prevailing wages , a measure that could save more than $2 billion in the first five years after enactment . But so far , largely because of the union 's influence , the key Congressional committees have dragged their feet , and the Carter Administration is unlikely to push the issue too hard for fear of endangering its Civil Service reform bill . Thus , given the gloomy prospects for correcting the pay formula anytime soon , inclusion of blue-collar employees under a Federal pay cap is justified , if only to bring them a little closer to an appropriate market wage . And faced with the alternatives of additional arbitrary meat-ax cuts or pay system reform , perhaps even the union will see the benefits of the latter . MARTIN BINKIN Foreign Policy Studies Program The Brookings Institution Washington , July 20 , 1978 The Times welcomes letters from readers . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we regret that we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters .                     