@@730129

txt C. Jackson Grayson Jr. , chairman of the Price Commission , i told the nation 's publishers at the annual meeting of the Associated Press today that the commission has inaugurated a series of major actions which will result in hundreds of millions of dollars in , price reductions , rolling back prices , and providing customer refunds . A second line of defense against inflation , to " place our principal business control mechanism on profit margins and markups " provided " a major breakthru , a major landmark in this country 's war on inflation , " Grayson said at Controls Opposed Department of Agriculture officials are strongly opposed to controls on food prices at any level , Richard Lyng , assistant secretary of agriculture says . Page 9. the meeting in the Waldorf-Astorie Hotel . A feature of the meeting was a film presentation of interviews with some o f the nation 's leaders in Washington . In one , Secretary of State William P. Rogers said President Nixon hopes to sign a strategic arms limitation agreement with the Soviet Union when he goes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been making some progress in those talks , and the President hopes we can culminate those talks when we are in Moscow , " he said . Among other subjects to be discussed , Rogers said , was the shipment of Soviet arms to North Viet Nam , tho " we ca n't tell now how extensive these discussions will be . " Grayson said reports of price reductions by major companies , " some of them considerable , " will begin appearing this week , and that " you will see more and more . " The reason is that the Price Commission has begun to receive first-quarter and annual reports of firms " under orders to us. " altho a few hundred have come in , he said , by the middle of May " we will have received 2,500 such reports from the biggest companies in the nation , which do almost half of all business in the United States . " The reports will show that a new kind of price violation , " not hitherto discernible , will become clear for the first time ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Tens of Thousands In some companies , he said , the reductions will be in the tens of thousands of dollars . " In others , the reductions will be several millions of dollars , " he said . " Some companies will be doing this voluntarily as they see themselves approaching our ceiling . Othe r s , who have already breached the ceiling , will be issued price reduction orders . " Explaining that the profit margin is a percentage figure , not a dollar figure , Grayson said the commission 's measure put an upper control over the total firm profit margin .                     