@@732225

txt SOMEWHERE BETWEEN visual Sills and New Math , a philosophical split has developed in education that has opened the door back to basics : the three Rs , memorization , and some say , . With their morality tales , phonics drills , and poems about God 's goodness , MeGuffey 's Eclectic Readers were the mainstay of millions of students from 1836 ? when the first two volumes were published  --  until after the turn of the century . Spurred by a rekindling of interest , Van Nostrand Reinhold , a New York City publishing house , began reprinting the readers  --  a primer and six textbooks ? in 1969 from the original plates of the 1879 editions , ' along with Noah Webster 's old spelling book . LAST YEAR , 50,18m espies were sold , and this year sales are up 30 per cent . " We can count en them , " said Sam Prosser , the publisher 's national sales manager . " They sell like clockwork , extremely steadily . " Prosser concedes that few public school districts use the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , humor- less , teacher and preacher born in rural Pennsylvania . But , he said , many private , conservative , Christian schools use them extensively . And the John Birch Society purchases the readers to sell in its stores . Prosser believes the readers are riding tire coattails of a back-to-basics movement in education and also benefit from a nostalgia craze spurred by the Bicentennial . WHAT ATTRACTS the church-run schools to MeGuffey 's is the books ' emphasis on moral values and recognition of a Christian God . The Rev. Paul Lindstrom , headmaster of Christian Liberty Academy , in Prospect Heights , said his school has used the readers since 1968 . " The reading material is first class , superior to much of the material in modern readers , " Lindstrom said . " And we like the morals the stories teach . It supplements our Bible program . If a student Is learning about honesty in the Bible , he can also read a story about honesty in 's . " The world portrayed by 's is a rarified one . The ideal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who made his living by farming . City slickers always got their punishment in the end . ONE EDITION of the readers went so far as to include a pronunciation exercise with the sentence , " He detests all Papists . " Women 's roles in the readers surely make feminist revisionists cringe . The girls in 's mostly sat around the hearth with their sewing or occasionally picked berries iri the forest , ? while the boys earned money as bootblacks and built block houses . And about the only reference to a minority group was In a story in the third reader called " The New Year . " A boy named Edward donated two shiny silver dollars his father had given him for books to a destitute German family who had n't eaten in days . in 's world , hard work and virtuous living always led to success and happiness . Consider the alternative : IN " BEWARE of the First Drink . " poor old Tom Smith fell into bad company when circumstances forced him to move to the city . Ho turned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he began gambling and drinking . All that ' ugh living caught up with him in the end when he was sentenced . to a 10-year prison term for stealing . The story is accompanied by an illustration of Tom in a striped jailbird outfit heaving a sledge hammer in a prison workyard . Similarly , those who disobeyed their parents , lied and were selfish or uncharitable also got their comeuppance . NOT EVERY selection had a moral . The books contained descriptive passages about the Himalaya Mountains , corn growing , sheep shearing , monkeys , and hummingbirds . In the fourth , fifth , and sixth readers , the material has selections from literature . Included are excerpts from the works of Daniel Defoe , Nathaniel Hawthorne , Henry Thoreau , Louisa May Al-colt , Charles Dickens , and William Shakespeare . By the age of 13 the precocious Mc-Gaffey was teaching in rural Ohio schools to earn money for college . After receiving a college degree , Me . Gaffey took a post as instructor of ancient languages at Miami University , Oxford , Ohio , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , He later became president of Ohio Universi ? ty in Athens . BUT IN between all that , MeGaffey set up a model school in his home for neighborhood children . Writing his own materials led to a contract with a Cincinnati publishing firm and publication of the readers  --  the first four in 1030 and 1037 . In those days , going to school meant endless memorization and toiling over penmanship exercises with quill pens . And then , Mother and Father , the church , and even the textbooks agreed on what was right and wrong without competition from television and movies . " Their effect on shaping the consciousness of middle America during that period was very great , " said Stanley Lindberg , an associate professor of English at Ohio University who is completing a book on the readers for publication this spring . " SOUTH OF the Mason-Dixon Line and west of the Allegheny Mountains , 's had a virtual monopoly , " he said . " There has been very little serious analysis of the impact these books had on the country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yarns from many sources , often rewriting minor authors to avoid charges of plagiarism . He apparently wanted to develop an alternative to the New England Primer , also widely used at the time , which dwelled heavily on death . But nostalgia notwithstanding , most educators agree that these readers just do n't stack up against today 's more lavish texts , workbooks , films , and videotapes . " It was a great reader in its day , " said George Weber , associate director of the Council for Basic Education , in Washington , a group formed 10 years ago to push for emphasis on basic skills . " Compared with today 's books , the phonics lessons are poor and the vocabulary is antiquated . We do n't recommend them . There are much better , more attractive books from which to choose , " Weber said . Bur THE Rev. Eugene Yingling , headmaster of Fairhaven Christian Academy in Chesterton , Ind. , could n't disagree more . His school has used the books since it opened four years ago . ' They 're charaeter-building , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . and they 're strong on phonics . " The level of public school achievement has been declining , and these books go back to a time when education was something to work for . A typical sixth grader today could n't get through the 's sixth reader . " Sixty years ago , those with eighth grade educations had more upstairs than some college graduates today , in my opinion . "                     