@@731765

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor Oil-Import Fee : The To the Editor : The recent appeal ( and resulting lawsuit ) of New England Governors to President Ford suggesting that the Northeast be exempted from the proposed oil-import fee because of its heavy reliance on imported oil is one of the most provincial approaches that we have yet witnessed during the energy crisis . As Governor of Texas , I feel called upon to respond to my good friends from New England by pointing out that we are perhaps more aware than they of the problems the consuming segments of our country are facing with the Ford energy proposals . Texas  --  and I realize that most people are not aware of this  --  is the largest consumer of energy in the country . The large role Texas plays in our domestic energy picture has made a national attitude on our part viable in the past , but more and more of late I have begun to view the provincialism of New England  --  and of other consuming states in the Union  --  as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestic problems . If I were to follow the lead of the New England states , I could call for the state 's energy-related industries to fill the needs of Texas consumers before we begin to send our natural gas and domestically produced oil from state-owned lands to the rest of the country . Provincialism would allow me to consider preserving the oil drawn from Texas land . We have , for almost Embattled Midtown To the Editor : May I offer my congratulations on the Jan. 5 column by Ada Louise Huxtable anent the threatened degradation of the Villard Houses by erection of a 52-story hotel and office building immediately to the rear . As the oldest of Henry Villard 's grandchildren , I should like to join most emphatically in her protest . To gut the handsome interior of the historic landmark 's central section for a hotel entrance and lobby and to preserve the facade as a sort of false front is desecration enough , but to connect it with a towering commercial structure with which it has about as much in common as a Roman temple has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to good taste but a shameless violation of esthetic standards . As Ms. Huxtable points out so rightly , the plan 's total disregard of the site 's artistic potential is a death-dealing rather than a life-saving " solution " for a noble edifice , one of the few remaining examples of a golden past . Is New York a city with a soul so dead as to permit this shot-gun mar. riage between Italian Renaissance and perpendicular modern ? Has no one the imagination or the means to devise a better way of protecting our cultural To Rescue Our Cities : A National Bond Issue To the Editor : Our cities  --  big , little and in between ? are in deep financial trouble . One of the basic reasons is the heavy debt load cities carry and the enormous interest expense . Perhaps there is a way that Washington could help by creating an entirely new kind of tax-exempt issue . This could be called a National Municipal Bond Issue . Floated like other U.S. obligations by the Treasury , the issue would combine millions upon millions of dollars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series of national issues , backed by the Federal Government . Whereas the present local issues may be carrying interest rates close to 10 per cent , this new national municipal issue would carry a base rate of , for example , 5 per cent with a floating scale upward tied to a prime rate so that as the prime rate goes up , holders of these national municipal issues would reap the benefit of increasing rates of interest . And New Provincialism three years , been producing Texas oil at 100 per cent of the maximum efficient rate in order to counter the unreliability of foreign sources . The statement made by the New England Governors , requesting that their segment of the country be exempted from the $3 import fee , could he justifiably made by our own state , for the same reasons . The only differences would be the substitution of the word " Texas " for the words " New England , " and to multiply by almost two the loss expected by all the New England states combined . Texas , by virtue of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consuming state , relies heavily on foreign oil , just as does New England . Not only is it a source of energy for our individual citizens , but it is a cornerstone of our great petrochemical industry , the backbone of our state economy . We in Texas still fully intend to continue our traditional role as the nation 's energy supplier ; but if the rest of the country continues to insist on viewing energy problems from a political regional viewpoint , we will be severely jeopardized in our ability to fulfill that role . President Ford 's energy proposals are not the answers to our problems , as the New England states have pointed out . But an exemption to a bad policy for one section of the country certainly is not a viable counterproposal . DOLPH BRISCOE Austin , Tex. , Jan. 29 , 1975 Landmarks heritage , or does n't anybody care ? I am sure that those illustrious architects , Meade and White , who were responsible for the building , would cringe in their respective graves if they knew what was afoot . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Jan. 22 , 1975 ? To the Editor : The ill-considered opinion of Judge Saypol , in voiding the commendable action of the City Landmarks Preservation Commission to preserve the Grand Central Railroad Station , appalls me . More than thirty years ago a distinguished and sensitive judge of the New York State Court of Appeals wrote , in part , the following in a decision which prevented the continuing occupancy of land by a huge billboard at one end of one of the upstate Hudson River bridges : " Beauty may not be a queen , but she is not an outcast beyond the pale of protection and respect . She may at least shelter herself under the wing of safety , morality or decency . " If a law can be interpreted so as to prevent the erection of a billboard , or cause a billboard to be removed , surely the law creating the City Landmarks Preservation Commission is broad enough in its written or applied meaning to prevent the destruction of a structure that the commission designated for preservation  --  in this case , the Grand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rise to prevent the demolition of this eminently distinguished Renaissance landmark or the erection over it of a monstrous , incongruous glass-andsteel structure , which would destroy it . Beauty , in this instance , must be sheltered " under the wing of safety , morality or decency . " Are we so complacent , so uncivilized and so callous that we can not rally to save our monuments from the immoral forces of indecency in this dark age of decadence ? GILMORE D. CLARKE New York , Jan. 24 , 1975 The writer is former chairman of the National Commission of Fine Arts . if the prime goes down , the interest ca n't fall below the set percentage , such as the 5 per cent . The new monies raised by the National Municipal Bond Issue would pay off the present local municipal bond issues . In effect , Washington would be refinancing the local municipals before any of them default . Washington would guarantee the new national municipals ; the cities would be obliged to pay principal and interest back to Washington , but their interest rate would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ save the difference . These new national municipal bonds should , of course , be exempt from local , state and national taxes . The interest savings to the cities could be substantial enough to prevent increasing property taxes in many cities and thus bring relief to property owners . And finally , it is easily conceivable that future local municipal bond needs could he pooled in a monthly national municipal bond issue , thus building in lower interest rates in the future . LARRY BRUENN Tarrytown , N. Y. , Feb. 1 , 1975 Room for OPEC Money To the Editor : Many Americans are raising eyebrows at the news of increasing Middle Eastern interest in investing oil money in the United States . Concern about the current drain of dollars from the United States to the Middle East becomes paranoia as Americans face the prospect of oil-rich nations increasing their investment in the United States . Businessmen , the media and Congress raise the Spector of foreign domination of our economic life , even though Middle Eastern oil money in the United States is still a minuscule part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the industrialized nations , particularly the United States , preached to the developing nations the virtues of private foreign investment as a catalyst for industry , commerce , income and employment . Yet today these same advocates of private investment are arguing that foreign investment in the United States may have a crippling effect on this economy and even endanger our national security . When President Salvador Allende raised similar arguments in Chile , he was denounced as a Communist interested in nationalizing American enterprises and discouraging private foreign investment . One can only ask , " If foreign investment is bad here , can it be all that good elsewhere ? " It is time we assess the role of foreign investment fairly . The United States is still a major foreign investor , and the OPEC countries also realize the powerful potential of their oil wealth . It is in the best interests of all to devise ways and means through negotiation , and not confrontation , to find acceptable channels for investment of surplus wealth . We must realize that our economies have become a world economy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must cooperate equally to build a new international system . Productive investment of surplus wealth in both the developing and the industrialized nations may help solve the current economic crisis and stimulate income and employment . We should design rational and fair investment policies for all . ABDUL Q. J. SHAIKH , RANDALL HANSIS North Adams , Mass. , Jan. 29 , 1975 ? Toward Rationing Cars To the Editor : In recent discussions of automobiles and their bearing on the energy crisis , suggestions have included raising the price of gasoline , rationing gasoline and building smaller , more economical cars . With an apology to the late Robert Benchley ( who , as an undergraduate at Harvard University , discussed an international fishing treaty not from the point of view of one of the three signatory nations but from that of the fish ) , I point out that as yet no one has suggested rationing cars . Nevertheless , such a step must be considered . No matter how little gasoline each car might require , total gasoline consumption will not decrease if automobile manufacturers are free to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ families . To restrict both gasoline consumption and the number of automobiles in use , it will be necessary in the future to coordinate urban ( that is , community ) planning and inter-city transportation systems . BRUCE WALLACE Ithaca , N.Y. , Feb. 3 , 1975 ? 2 City Unions ' Example To the Editor : I wish to applaud the successful efforts of the police and fire unions to thwart layoffs of their members . Their plan to work extra man-hours , without compensation , is exactly the type of idea this country now needs to help it out of the economic crisis . In a time when a lack of productivity is one of our main problems , the idea is refreshing . I hope that workers in private industry and other unions will take example from the actions of the police and fire unions and put time and effort into saving our economy . RICHARD B. WEISENFELD Flushing , N. Y. , Feb. 2 , 1975 ? Questions on a Column To the Editor : Freud wrote to Thomas Mann : " May I in the name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that you will not do or say something cowardly or low ? the words of 4. writer are like actions ? and that you , in times which tend to confuse judgment , find the right way and show it to others . " It is a matter of general agreement that we may face an upheaval of our society or even war if we do n't sueceed in overcoming recession and im flation in a foreseeable future . And in such perilous times , William Safire dares to imply that our Secretary of State acts in collusion with a potential enemy and is in control of our President column Feb. 31 . I have enjoyed many of Mr. Safire 's previous essays , often admired his knowledge , wit and brilliant definitions , but with all allowance for the traditionally adversary press/government relationship , I 'd like to ask whether the " Rabbit Punch " essay was " fit to print " or a serious disservice to our country . ERICH LEW:Ns Rego Park . N.Y. , Feb. 4 , 1975 The opinions expressed by The Times 's six columnists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Op-Ed Page , are entirely their own . The views of The New York Times as such are presented exclusively on the Editorial Page. ? Editor , The Times .                     