@@732307

txt Congress approved a compromise bill Friday that will block a Jan. 1 tax increase and sent the measure to President Ford , who said he will sign it . The House by 372 to 10 , and the Senate by voice vote , broke an impasse that had threatened to end the temporary antirecession tax cuts enacted earlier this year . The compromise , achieved only min utes before Congress adjourned for the Christmas holidays , meant that withholding taxes will not to up in January , but instead will continue at the reduced levels the 1975 tax cut provided last spring . OVERALL , THE bill goes beyond this year 's cuts and will mean a slight reduction in income taxes next year for most taxpayers . A spokesman said Ford , who on Wednesday had vetoed the bill because it lacked any pledge to hold to a federal spending ceiling , viewed the compromise as " a good-faith commitment by the Congress to match future tax reductions with dollar-for-dollar reductions in projected spending . " Congress will be dealing with tax reductions again by mid-summer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months of 1976 . White House Press Secretary Ron Nessen said , " The President is very pleased by the actions taken in the Congress tonight on the tax bill . " NESSEN SAID Ford considered the outcome a victory . He said he did not know exactly when the bill would be signed . " The essence of the bill , then , is that taxpayers will continue to enjoy a measure of tax relief in 1976 and that for the first time in history , future reductions in taxes will lead to similar reductions in spending , " Nessen said . He said Ford would continue to press for a larger tax cut to follow when the six-month extension expires , and to push for congressional approval of his proposed 5395 billion budget ceiling for 1977 . It was this specific ceiling that Ford demanded initially as his price for signing any tax cut , but the loose language in the bill he finally accepted says nothing about any ceiling . After finishing their work on the bill , the Senate and House both adjourned until Jan. 19 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $15,000 a year would have paid $180 more per year on President Ford vetoes a 545 billion appropriations bill because it provides nearly SI billion more than he had requested . Page 5 . Consumer prices increased one-tenth of a per cent here in November . considerably less than the na ? tional figure . Page 3. an annual basis . But the poor would have been hardest-hit . A family of four earning $6,000 yearly would have paid 5410 more in taxes . The White House had expressed concern that the House version of the spending language was not as strong as the Senate plan . As a result , several senators agreed to place in the Congressional Record statements saying flatly that the intent of the two plans was precisely the same . The problem concerned what language Congress would use to express its agreement with Ford 's determination that federal expenditures in 1977 should be held down . THE WORDING had to be innocuous enough to satisfy liberal Democrats , who wanted to protect the congressional budget process , but still sound enough like a spending-cut commitment to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and House versions appeared to be nothing more than the use of different words . Although the Senate said " Congress shares the President 's determination to reduce spending , " the House said " Congress is . . . determined to continue to control spending . " The House version prevailed . Both houses agreed that if economic conditions allow , Congress will cut the budget for 1977 , assuming the six-month tax cut is renewed in July for the remainder of 1976 . The final measure promises reduced spending " equal to any additional reduction in taxes . " THE SENATE had to approve the bill twice because of the differences over language with the House . Before the Senate 's first 72-to-7 vote , Sen. William V. Roth IR. , Del. ) announced Ford had pledged to support the package , even though it fell far short of the President 's demand that any tax cut be coupled with a dollar-fordollar reduction in federal spending .                     