@@729848

txt Congress gave its final approval tonight to legislation extending through April , 1973 , the Presidential authority to control wages , prices and rents . Under the measure , rentcontrolled apartments in New York City and elsewhere would be subject to Federal regulation . The Price Commission would be free to establish rules permitting the scheduled rent increases on controlled apartments to go into effect or prohibiting them from doing so . In approving the Economic Stabilization Act , Congress generally gave President Nixon what he had asked for . Therefore , his signature on the bill is assured . However , while the President wanted to leave all rules for economic controls up to the Pay Board , the Price Commission and the Cost of Living Council , Congress added provisions that somewhat restricted these agencies ' authority . Among the major provisions of the legislation were the following : Wage increases that were scheduled to become effective after Aug. 15 but were blocked by , the freeze will have to be paid retroactively if they are not " unreasonably inconsistent " with the Federal guidelines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stepped up in anticipation of the pay rises . t1Federal civilian and military employes will receive a 5.5 per cent pay rise as of Jan. 1 . President Nixon had postponed these scheduled raises until July 1 . ( aThe President is required to establish controls on increases in interest rates and dividend payments unless he declares , on a category-bycategory basis , that these controls are not necessary . %lass transit systems , such as the Metropolitan Transit Authority in New York City , that are not subject to Federal or state regulation are required to seek the permission of the Price Commission before they raise their fares . 41The chairmen of the Pay Board and of the Price Com-1 mission are made subject to Senate confirmation within 60 days , and any future appointments to these panels will have to be confirmed . fiThe Pay Board and the Price Commission are given the authority to ' subpoena witnesses and documents . lMerthants or landlords who raise their prices or rents by more than the allowable amount will be subject to suite by consumers for triple the amount of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fabian kach9ch URGES CHECK ON RENTS : Prank J. Brasco , Democrat of Brooklyn , said aim of House bill was to assure an investigation of increases in the rents of controlled apartments . will be subject to a fine of $5 , - 000 . Other violations will be subject to a civil penaltY of $2,500 maximum for each infraction . The conference agreement on the stabilization legislation was initially passed by the Senate last night , and speedy House action today had been expected . When the measure reached the House floor early this afternoon , however , a point of order was registered against a provision of the conferees ' agreement that allowed the salaries of top Congressional staff members to be raised . No Recorded Vote This provision was not allowable under the rules of Congress because it had not appeared in the original House or Senate bill . By the time another conference was formed to delete the objectionable language , it was early evening . Within an hour , the bill was then approved first by the Senate and then by the House with little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controversy over the legislation today revolved around whether rent-controlled apartments would fall under Federal control policies . There are 1.4 million rentcontrolled residential units in New York City and a few in other cities . Tenants in 1.1 million of these New York apartments face rent increases of as much as 7.5 per cent in January . Rents on 345,000 other rent-stabilized units in the city may rise from 8 to 13 per cent as leases expire . Under a Price Commission ruling Nov. 22 , rents under state or local control would be exempt from Federal guidelines . The bill that was adopted today included the following sentence ? " No state or portion thereof shall be exempt from any application of this title with respect to rents solely by virtue of the fact that it regulates rent by state or local law , regulation or policy . " Purpose of Provision In the brief debate in the House today , Representative Frank . J. Brasco , Democrat of Brooklyn , chief sponsor of this ' language , said that its purpose was to assure that the Price Commission would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make sure that they were consistent with the commission 's policy . Representative Wright Patman , Democrat of Texas , floor manager of the legislation , agreed that this was the correct interpretation . Real estate interests in New York lobbied unsuccessfully this week for a statement that rentcontrolled buildings would be exempt from the Price Commission 's rules . The Price Commission has not established comprehensive guidelines for rent increases . The Rent Board , which advises , the commission , is believed to have recommended that rent increases be held to a small amount , perhaps 2 or 3 per cent . Even if this standard is set , the Price Commission could still permit the scheduled rent increases to become effective in New York . But the bill would require the commission to study the proposed increases , rather than to permit them to go into effect automatically .                     