@@732069

txt William C. Whyte almost gagged on his breakfast the morning after last November 's congressional elections . The Washington-based vice president of U.S. Steel Corp . ate that morning with other top corporate lobbyists , all of whom felt queasy at the thought of the two-to-one Democratic congressional majorities yielded by the balloting . It was , they agreed , " a catastrophic election for business , " likely to lead to an onslaught of anti-business legislation in 1975 , Mr. Whyte recalls . Business was " facing an Armageddon " in the new Congress . another key lobbyist told the group . " We figured we 'd better get organized and do something about it , " Mr. Whyte says . From that morning on , the corporate world began mobilizing  --  from the chairmen of the board on down . The result has been a business blitz on Washington unequalled in recent years , featuring limousine lobbyists like Henry Ford and David Rockefeller , and grass-roots pressure from the hinterlands . This campaign has helped turn a potential legislative clobbering into a relatively harmless ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ postponed , business lobbyists agree . " Damage Control " " Business is doing better ( in Congress ) than it thought it would , and better than I thought it would , " observes Charls E. Walker , an ex-Treasury official who has become probably the leading free-lance business lobbyist in Washington . Mr. Whyte of U.S. Steel concurs : " It certainly has turned out much better than anyone could have anticipated . " It is n't that Congress is showering corporations with favors . " This is a damage-control operation , " explains one top business lobbyist , Thus , the business campaign is aimed more at blocking unwelcome legislation than in pushing bills big companies favor . The feared wave of antibusiness laws has n't materialized . The Capitol Hill graveyard already contains such Democratic-sponsored corpses as strip-mine controls , credit allocation . new wage-price controls and other bills fought by business lobbyists . Other environmental , consumer-protection and antitrust measures are still alive but face strong business opposition and possible vetoes by President Ford . Business has taken a few lumps , of course . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies , a $1.7 billion-a-year tax hike for them . But the same bill provided $3.4 billion a year in new tax benefits for growth hinges on capital investment has turned the longstanding " tax reform " debate around : Now lawmakers are n't arguing so much about " closing loopholes " as about providing new business tax incentives to spur job-creating investment . Plenty of Help Corporate lobbyists admit that their own efforts , though unusually intense this year . account for only a small ' part of the changed outlook . They are getting plenty of help from other quarters , including : ? A friendly White House . President Ford 's frequent vetoes , and veto threats , are business 's best ' defense against unwelcome legislation , corporate lobbyists say . They have worked hard to see that Congress sustains his vetoes . " The challenge to business this year was to provide one-third plus one " vote to uphold the veto , comments a corporate lobbyist  --  meaning enough votes in Congress to prevent a two-thirds majority overriding a veto . On the positive side , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican administration help to promote business interests . -A disorganized opposition . Leadership fumbles and disarray among Democrats have helped , business lobbyists , , confide . The big crop of freshman Democratic lawmakers is turning out to be less liberal and " antibusiness " than expected , they note , and some new committee chairmen , notably the banking panels ' heads , are much less fearsome in action than they were in prospect . ? A recession-hit labor movement . Union officials worried about high unemployment are lobbying alongside businessmen on issues where jobs are at stake . Support from the AFL-C10 helped pass the enlarged investment tax credit and is crucial to the chances for administration-proposed tax breaks for electric utilities . The United Auto Workers ' lobbying help has greatly strengthened the auto industry 's fight against tougher auto-exhaust rules and new taxes on gasoline-guzzling cars . Focus on Jobs The economic slump 's impact has significantly affected Congress 's handling of business issues , lobbyists and Capitol Hill sources say . High unemployment has made lawmakers listen more carefully to industry 's claims that - tighter job-safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could mean plant closings or layoffs . " If you are trying to make business provide more jobs , " says one lobbyist , " you do n't kick them around so much . " " Jobs , that 's the No. ' 1 issue on the Hill today , " - argues Mr. Whyte of U.S. Steel . " The more we can relate our needs to providing jobs , the more we can have some success , " he adds . On Capitol FEE , Congress ws.tcners are impressed wIth the business lobby 's effort year . " Business is really up there in force , swatting down flies , " says a Ford &dr,; ts  --  stra. on lobbyist . " Never have I seen so many he'i'ress lobbyists before , " he adds . " When I go to a tax hearing or a banking hearing these days , there are so many ' around I can hardly find a seat . " Business is n't just relying on Its usual corps of Washington-based company repre- ' sents.tives and umbrella groups such as the Chambee of Commerce and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ More than ever , the corporate world is deploying its highest-paid executives as Washington lobbyists . It 's also generating more grassroots pressure on lawmakers through local plant managers and others back in the Con , gressmen 's home districts . 1 " The business community is finally wakiing up and starting to get itself as well-organized as other groups , " comments one corporate lobbyist . " The guys who are ' really getting active are the chief executives . In the old days , they 'd send a vice president to Washington . but now they are willing to come themselves and testify and call on Congressmen , " he adds . The Business Roundtable , which has about 150 of the nation 's largest corporations as members , is largely responsible for mobilizing the limousine lobbyists . " The main thing we do is get the chief executives involved " in Washington affairs , says John Post , Roundtable executive director . " They have got to come here and sit down and talk with members of Congress and the administration " to sell business 's viewpoint , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tiny staff but does much to coordinate the lobbying efforts of major corporations on issues of broad business interest . Among the big-name executives active in Roundtable lobbying on such issues as tax revision , pollution control , antitrust law and consumerism are Reginald H. Jones , chairman of General Electric Co. : John D. Harper , chairman of Aluminum Co. of America ; Robert S. Hatfield , chairman of Continental Can Co. and 0 . Pendleton Thomas , chairman of B. F. Goodrich Co Pressure From Home The grass-roots lobbying , on the other hand , recognizes the fact that a Congressman often is less impressed by a corporate chieftain than by a plant manager or local banker from back home . " What we realized is basic  --  that the Congressman listens most to voices that come from his district , " ' says U.S. Steel 's Mr. Whyte , who has helped organize a combined grass-roots effort by the U.S. Chamber , NAM and other business groups . " I 've never seen the business community pull together more than they have on this , " comments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political and economic forces at work , seem to be paying off , at least in the " damage-control " sense . Business lobbying has helped kill or water down numerous Democratic-sponsored proposals considered inimical to industry . The banking Industry , for example , has staved off several measures pushed by the new chairmen of the banking committees , Rep. Henry Reuss and Sen. William Proxmire , both Wisconsin Democrats . When Congress convened last January , bankers feared being shackled with restrictive legislation . But it has n't turned out that way . Rep. Reuss 's plan to force banks to allocate credit to certain " priority uses , " stn as housing and agriculture , and away from speculative or nonessential areas , was the first target of the banking lobby . The American Bankers Association mobilized scores of local " contact bankers " around the country to appeal to the 43 members of Mr. Reuss 's committee , says ABA lobbyist Gerald M. Lowrie . A " Super Job " The calls and visits from home-town bankers , combined with opposition from the Ford administration and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " These guys ( Democratic Congressmen ) do n't give a damn about the ABA , " says one banking-committee staffer . " But when they get a call from the banker back home , they listen . " With his support waning , Rep. Reuss then introduced a substitute bill that would have required b:g banks merely to report their lending in various categories to the Fed ; but even that milder measure lost on the House floor , 205 to 183 , as 76 Democrats deserted their leadership . In the Senate , " the banks did a super job of lobbying , " says Sen. Proxmire , to kill a bill he sponsored . The measure would have restricted the growing use of electronic funds-transfer stations , which can be set up at a shopping center or other remote location and plugged into a bank 's computer to make deposits and withdrawals . Bank lobbyists argued that the Proxmire bill was an antiprogress measure , and won over four of the panel 's eight Democrats , plus all five Republicans , to table the legislation on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sen. Proxmire . " David Rockefeller , the chairman of the Chase Manhattan Bank , came in to see me and lobbied hard " on a pending bill authorizing an audit of the Federal Reserve System by the General Accounting Office , a congressional watchdog agency . Mr. Proxmire reports . " Arthurl Burns ( chairman of the Fed ) has got Rockefeller real excited about it , " says the Senator . The Fed chairman ' strongly opposes a GAO audit as an encroachment on his independence and has enlisted the aid of bankers in seeking to defeat the bill , Mr. Proxmire says . Gasoline Guzzlers The auto industry has used its top brass and the recession-induced support of the United Auto Workers to fight legislation that would impose tougher auto-mileage standards and exhaust limits . That battle is n't over , but the industry has won some preliminary rounds . The UAW and the auto companies teamed up to help defeat , on the House floor last month , a stiff tax on gasoline-guzzling cars that had been approved by the Ways and Means Committee . The industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the union fears layoffs at the bigcar factories . The UAW and the companies also are united in lobbying for a five-year moratorium on any tightening of auto emission rules . Freshman Democrat Philip Sharp of Indiana attests to the high-level lobbying the auto industry is using Rep Sharp , sponsor of a measure imposing mandatory fuel-efficiency standards on auto makers , ' says he and other House Commerce Committee members were visited by Ford Motor Co. chairman Henry Ford and General Motors Corp president E. M. Estes . " They were hoping all of us would stick with President Ford 's program of voluntary standards " for auto-mileage improvement , he says . The " low-key " visit by the big auto brass was " kind of flattering " but did n't sway him , Mr Sharp says . The House adopted his plan in a bill now pending in the Senate . The Business Roundtable has orchestrated an intense lobbying campaign against an antitrust bill pending in the House . The bill would empower states to sue on behalf of their citizens to recover triple damages caused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a law would trigger a rash of lawsuits against them . The House Judiciary Committee recently approved the bill , but only after substantially narrowing its scope . " The business people put on a full-scale attack on the committee . " a staff aide reports . " We had the heavies ( tcp corporate executives ) flying in from headquarters all over the country for oneon-one visits with members . It was an extraordinary effort , " he says . The lobbying blitz succeeded in reopening the bill for amendments to limit its scope even after it was approved by a subcommittee . The strong opposition clouds the bill 's future , backers say .                     