@@733496

txt President Carter 's effort to reorganize the Federal Government has been widely regarded as methodical , well planned and stubbornly pursued . But Congressional sources agree that , like some other Presidential projects , it will probably bear fruit more slowly than Mr. Carter wished and be more modest in scope than he once hoped . The President 's first year in office was , primarily , a year of preparation and of tuning the mechanism of government reorganization . This year is expected to produce more substantial proposals for change , proposals affecting such things as education , border control and civil rights enforcement , but probably not many of them . Mr , Carter 's advisers and sources on Capitol Hill say they believe that five or six so-called " reorganization plans " arc about all Congress can deal with in 1978 . Under the reorganization legislation Mr. Carter got from Congress last year , he can propose such plans to consolidate or combine agencies performing related functions . Either house of Congress can veto the plans within 60 days . All Centralizing Not Feasible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , the positive approval of a majority of both houses . It is beginning to become clear that the " complete " reorganization of the Government that Mr. Carter promised in his election campaign is gradually being replaced by a somewhat more modest goal that might fairly be called " major " changes in the Government . The Carter team is learning that , while there are many illogical things about the existing structure , it can also be Illogical or even dangerous to attempt to eliminate all the " overlaps and duplications " or to centralize all related functions . Thus , reorganization plans tend to become more limited as they approach final form . For instance , a reorganization plan to be put forward soon on " border management " will probably propose that the United States Customs Bureau and the Immigration and Naturalization Service he combined to better combat the illegal entry of aliens and of contraband . But such agencies as the Coast Guard and the Drug Enforcement Agency will probably he asked only to " cooperate more closely " without being welded into the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ functions , such as maritime safety and oil-spill control , that have nothing to do with border control , " a Congressional committee staff expert said . " You do n't have to reorganize everything to effectively use resources . " In addition to the border management plan . Mr. Carter will submit in February a plan to reorganize the enforcement of civil rights employment laws by blending some other scattered agencies into the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission . Perhaps three or four other plans , selected from 29 studies in the Office of Management and Budget , will be chosen for later submission . For Education Department Mr. Carter will also seek legislation to create a new Cabinet-level department of education , although in this case , too , the idea of combining all the educational functions scattered through a multitude of agencies is no longer seen as desirable or practicable . Other legislation will seek to split the Civil Service Commission and its functions into a personnel management office that can better reward productive workers , and an independent merit system protection board to protect Federal workers from unwarranted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may not seem dramatic , it is " still a very rich menu , " according to Harrison Wellford , who is executive associate director for reorganization and management in the Office of Management and Budget and who heads the President 's Reorganization Project . Mr. Carter and his reorganization team " are not finding it as easy as they once thought , " a Congressional source said . This remark did not reflect hostility . Mr. Carter , who has had serious difficulties with Congress on a number of fronts , has been notably successful so far in creating and maintaining a harmonious and fruitful relationship with the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee and the House Committee on Government Operations , which handle reorganization plans and legislation . Lance Criticism Resented Some onlookers shuddered in September when Bert Lance , then the director of O.M.B. , attacked the motives , fairness and veracity of Senators Abraham A. Ribicoff , Democrat of Connecticut , and Charles H. Percy , Republican of Illinois , at committee hearings on Mr. Lance 's controversial banking practices . There was a feeling that the Administration was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member of the committee . However , relations were not marred by . that collision , partly ? because Mr. ' Ribicoff and Mr. Percy are both sympaahetic to the Presidents goal of reorganization . Mr. Wellford has also been careAil to keep the Senate committee and  --  the House committee , whose chairman is Representative Jack Brooks of Texas , better informed than some Administration officials have kept other power centers in Congress . " There are no better professionals anywhere in Congress , " Mr. Wellford said of the committees and their staffs . " I could n't expect or want any more cooperation from anyone , " said Senator Ribicoff of the White House and of Mr. Wellford 's team . Representative Brooks , who is not given to hyperbole and who is a close reader of fine print , said the Administration had been " reasonably responsiyet ' to committee suggestions for changes in reorganization plans . 2 Plans Passed Readily One result is that last year legislation to create the new Department of Energy passed easily and Congress acquiesced readily in two reorganization plans , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other to combine the United States Information Agency and the , Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs of the State Department into a new semi-independent agency . Neither plan was very complex or controversial , and both reflected relatively minor changes . Unavoidably , much of 1977 was devoted to a study by task forces prowling the labyrinth of bureaucracy , but this meant there was not much visible drama . Perhaps as a result of this lack of drama , public confidence in the President 's pledge to reorganize seems to have declined on a steady curve . In five New York Times/CBS News polls conducted from January 1977 to January 1978 , people were asked if they believed Mr. Carter would be able to streamline the Government and make it more efficient . The affirmative answers declined in each poll from a high of 57 percent in the first to 35 percent in the latest , a pattern consistent with other declining expectations about the President . The 1977 " warm-up , " as a Congressional source calls it , is only one reason for the modest pace of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reorganization plan is before Congress , the law permits the President to offer amendments that , in practical terms , would almost always result from Congressional requests to modify unwelcome aspects of the plan . This provision was insisted upon by Congress . The committees therefore really have only 30 days to hold hearings on a plan , study it and bargain with the White House over controversial elements . In the second 30 days a committee 's only recourse is to accept or reject totally a plan that it may oppose only in part . For this reason , the two committees extracted - from the Administration last year an agreement that only one " substantive " plan would be before Congress at one time in the initial 30-day period . There is considerably more room for trouble and controversy about reorganization this year than last . Mr. Carter has already had to try to referee several " turfing " battles within his Administration as departments and agencies resist a loss of authority and program function . These can almost surely be resolved by Presidential discipline and decision . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Controversial Plans A plan to reorder and possibly combine three agencies that deal with Federal action in responding to natural , accidental and wartime civil disasters might not meet serious opposition . But a project to " reorganize " natural resource and environmental programs , for instance , is so fraught with possible controversy that Mr. Wellford says it is no longer certain it will be on this year 's agenda . Environmentalists have protested strongly such possible " options " as making the Environmental Protection Agency a subordinate part of a new Natural Resources Department or of moving some of the E.P.A . ' s pollution control research to the Energy Department . " Once you step on vested interests there would be trouble , " Senator Ribicoff said . Another source , who asked not to be identified , said , " The Government Operations Committees are pretty friendly , but this year plans are earning that will stir up other members of Congress . " Also reflected in the situation is a sort of inner tension between Mr. Carter and many other interests on the tone and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if regulatory functions or those meant to protect public welfare should be folded into a so-called " promotional " agency , even if it seems " logical . " The Energy Department , they assert , can not be trusted to handle pollution questions because its main priority is to promote energy creation . Doubt o ? Objectivity Moreover , Mr. Carter is so politically committed to the concept of reorganization that it is possible to doubt he can be wholly objective about specific cases . As Richard Pettigrew , his special assistant for reorganization , said in a recent speech , Mr. Carter is the only Presidential candidate ever to " run " on the issue of reorganization .. Mr. Wellford remarked : " If you are primarily concerned with organizational symmetry , you tend to be less sympathetic to the slogan which we try to follow of ' If it ai n't broke , do n't fix it . ' There has got to be a concrete benefit . If something is working basically well , it does n't make sense to go through the agony of reorganizatiort . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not claim to be working well that Mr. Carter and his team have great scope for action in the next three years . But Congress will have the last say . Mr. Brooks commented : " There should he no reorganization for the sake of reorganization . The committee has made it clear these plans will not be rubberstamped , but will undergo close scrutiny . "                     