@@732396

txt The 25th Congress of the Soviet Communist Party , which opens tomorrow in Moscow , is likely to be a rather stereotyped and surprise-free meeting . On the surface , the Soviet ship of state is riding through smooth waters under the guidance of a cooperative and experienced team headed by Admiral Brezhnev . Such mutinous sentiments as exist down below appear to be well under control . Even the rumors about Mr. Brezhnev 's ill health have died down ; and the consensus of most observers is that he and his associates in command of the Kremlin will continue in power . But conventional wisdom is not always a good guide to what will happen at Communist Party congresses . There was no advance warning in 1952 , for example , that Stalin would use the 19th Congress to pack the arty leadership to pave the way for the massive purge Ibt his veteran associates that he planned before his bwn life fortunately ended . Nor was there any expectation in the West four years later , in February 1956 , that Nikita Khrushchev would convulse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . More recently still ; at the 22d Congress in October 1961 , no outsider had any hint beforehand that the meeting would begin with a ferocious verbal assault on Albania that would lead Chou En-lai to denounce Soviet action openly and quit Moscow even before the meeting ended . Memory of these and other surprises of the past suggests caution in predicting the tenor of this week 's proceedings in Moscow . It is not difficult to see areas of Soviet life which are probably sources of disagreement and even rancor in the Kremlin leadership , though no sign is shown externally . The Soviet agricultural debacle of last year must still be a tender point , especially , since it came after a decade during which the Soviet regime  --  following a policy fully identified with Mr. Brezhnev  --  has poured vast amounts of capital investment into farm ' lands with no commensurate return . It would seem unlikely too that there are no sharp differences of opinion about foreign policy , and especially about how to take advantage of the simultaneous disarray of the United States in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struggle in the leadership is not even hidden . And such elderly comrades as Messrs . Brezhnev , Kosygin , Suslov and Podgorny can hardly be unaware that a horde of ambitious younger men waits impatiently for them to leave center stage so that a new generation may bask in the spotlight . The fact is that the external calm , order and stability of the Soviet Union do not fully reflect reality . Under this surface  --  both in the Kremlin leadership and in the country at large  --  strong sources of tension and forces for change are creating pressures which are very real even though repressed . Millions , of Soviet citizens realize the anomalies and incongruities in the fact that their leaders can land rockets on Venus but can not grow enough grain at home to feed the Soviet people . Millions of Ukrainians , Byelorussians , Latvians , Estonians , Lithuanians , Jews ; Georgians , Armenians , Azerbaidzhanis , Kazakhs , Uzbeks and other non-Russians wonder why they remain subjugated in an era when colonialism has been destroyed almost everywhere else . There is no perceptible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Moscow in the days immediately ahead . But the calm , continuity and stability that Moscow emphasizes now are somewhat reminiscent of the happy peasant villages Potemkin once displayed to Catherine the Great .                     