@@731888

txt Letters tars St-t-r-r-etching it out One of the most overlooked aspects of soap operas ( " Life can be beautiful/relevant by Anthony Astrachan , March 23 ) , that adds to their specia'ness , is the terrific amount of time they take to milk the hell out of a given situation . Just like folk . For instance : In one hour of prime-time television Chad Everett , on " Medical Center , " has to find out why his patient , Sophie , is sneezing nonstop . He must then confirm the diagnosis , get her husband to understand what the change in their lifestyle will be , and make their son return to college . Now that 's unrealistic . But on soaps , it 's , oh , so different . In one week of a soap 's air-time you would first find Sophie coming to terms with the fact that she is indeed sneezing her brains out . Just like me . She 's not even going to have the guts to see her doctor for four additional weeks , for fear of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of course , once she does decide to see her doctor she 'll get an immediate appointment , not like me , but after this amount of time and suffering I wish her well ! Let 's hang on to our soaps . There is nothing like them in the world ! RONNI WARREN ASHCROFT New York City Arrest is n't everything The article by James Q. Wilson , a Harvard professor whose cure for crime is " Lock ' em up " ( March 9 ) , contains an interesting example of the rhetorical use of statistical data . According to Professor Wilson , " in New York County ( Manhattan ) there were , in 1973 , 31,098 felony arrests . . . . Of those arrested , only 4,130 pleaded guilty or were convicted on a felony charge ; 81 per cent of the felony arrests were disposed of by pleading guilty to a misdemeanor or by discharging the case . " These portentously quoted figures hide the real questions : How many were found not guilty ? How many were discharged because the evidence did not support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those arrested were guilty and that the discharges represented a failure of the judiciary system . Has he never heard of police rashness in arresting and charging people , or of charges that no prosecutor would sanely present to a judge or jury ? Professor Wilson concludes with the astonishing pronouncement : " Wicked people exist . Nothing avails except to set them apart from innocent people . " Back to unreprievable life sentences , or to " The Scarlet Letter . " PROF . S. E. LURIA Center for Cancer Research Massachusetts Institute of Technology Cambridge , Mass . James Q. Wilson replies : Professor Luria , a distinguished biologist , rushes to assert that many , perhaps most , persons arrested for felonies are in fact innocent . I wish he had paused before writing his letter to interview a few public defenders , defense attorneys and members of Legal Aid . He would have discovered that the proportion of genuinely innocent persons is quite small . I hope Professor Luria is not seeking a cure for cancer with the same reckless disregard for facts that he brings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a preference for " unreprievable life sentences " or " The Scarlet Letter " is not only false , but silly . Why must intelligent people argue serious issues in such irresponsible ways ? Fundamental wrongs We could not help but feel uneasy about what we perceived to be a tendency in Professor Wilson 's argument to play down the significance of the crime problem as a manifestation of deeply rooted social ills in the United States . Even allowing for the usual variations in recording procedures , etc. , one can not help but be struck by the wide differences between the crime statistics of New York City and London ( cities of comparable size ) : Murders : London 113 ; New York 1,690 . Rapes : London 135 ; New York 3,735 . Felonies and misdemeanors : London 354,000 ; New York 1,530,000 . The extent of the crime problem in large cities in the United States is unique among advanced industrialized nations . Only very small fractions of huge differences such as those indicated by the figures above can be explained by the fact that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those arrested and convicted , as the article claims . Instead , the differences point to someLetters thing fundamentally wrong at the heart of our socio-economic structure : Our culture evolves on an educational and economic system that breeds interracial antagonisms and the atomistic , unsocially minded pursuit of wealth . Moreover , these processes are informally reinforced by the declining role of family and community ties and the glorification of violence through the popular media , to name two of the most obvic= factors . It has been said a million times before , but it is worth repeating , that , in the long run , only if we face up to such basic problems can we hope to improve on the present tragic situation . in this respect the much-maligned , " bleeding-heart liberals " are 100 per cent right ! AMEDEO AND ELENI ODONI Cambridge , Mass . Theoretical contradictions James Wilson has all the credentials to earn a place of influence in the pages of The Times Magazine : He is an academic who served as a member of the Presidential Commission which gave us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing more than the fanning of the flames of fear of a concerned and frightened society . His observation that " wicked people exist " could bring on an entire new source of funds for academic people . They could do endless studies to determine who the wicked people are and who will determine the wicked people . Mr. Wilson could then quote all of these studies in some future essay which would reveal that crime has increased . More to the point of his article , the author indicates that he reached his conclusions by poring through endless crime commission reports . Nowhere does he tell us that he has ever talked to men and women who have committed crimes and who have done time . Perhaps this secluded view explains his theoretical contradictions . Early in the essay Mr. Wilson states , " Most serious crime is committed by repeatenl . " Later he laments about the courts and that " 81 per cent of the felony arrests were disposed of by pleading guilty to a misdemeanor or by discharging the case . " Is he asking , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier stated cemented antisocial be-havior ? We know a little about the problems faced by repeaters when they come back to the Streets . Academicians , with large Government grants , frequently mail us questionnaires to fill out so they can give their " expert " reports . Some of the things which I have noted , working with men and women out of prison , are that a major portion of ex-convicts were battered , abused , or neglected children . Most ended up in youth houses , foster homes , reformatories or orphanages where physical abuse was accepted as an inevitable part of life . Many men and women who commit acts of crime are acting off feelings of anger , alienation and hostility . Rather than confronting these feelings , men and women simply become conditioned to their prison environment . When they are released  --  as We meet them in the Fortune Society office  --  most are unable to make the basic decisions necessary for existing on the street . By institutionalizing a person , we have made it possible for the prisoner to function better under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change the behavior patterns of people who commit crimes ; if we made them sociable rather than antisocial ? Wilson offers a reduction of 20 per cent of the crimes as minimal . How about approaching it with the thought that we could reduce crime a great deal more if 20 per cent of the people who might return to crime had other options ? ( That 20 per cent would probably represent a much greater percentage of crimes . ) We have the tools and the knowledge to begin solving some of our problems . We have only lacked the passion to do so . DAVID ROTHENBERG Executive Director , - The Fortune Society New York City James Q. Wilson replies : Mr. Rothenberg and the Odonis criticize me for failing to take into account the social , and especially the familial , causes of crime . I do take them very much into account , though not in the part of my book excerpted by this Magazine . But I conclude that , though familial and other forces play a large role in explaining crime , there is little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones or otherWise eliminate the causes of crime . Though the much lower crime rate in London is chiefly the result of social differences , alas , there is no way we can turn New York into London . In the meantime , while waiting for some cures to be discovered , we must do the best we can to protect innocent persons from criminals , no matter how they are produced . I have reviewed virtually every major effort ( for which I could discover evidence ) to reduce crime by removing its causes and find little support for the view that any presently known strategy , consistent with our civil liberties , works . Mr. Rothenberg assures us that , " we have the tools and knowledge to begin solving some of our problems , " but does not indicate what they are . I find that strange , coming from a person who accuses me of failing to produce evidence . By the way , his gratuituous slur ? that I have never interviewed convicts and criminals  --  is wholly untrue . I hope the efforts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desirable as they may be on other grounds , there is not yet much evidence that halfway houses and similar programs reduce the recidivism rate . I wish it were otherwise . Suburban crime I wish to commend Professor Wilson ' for the most perceptive thoughts about the nature of crime and the productive means for its conLetters trol that I have read or heard of in a long time . All of his observations thoroughly apply to Connecticut , where courts are floundering and the corrections system seems misguided in its goals . As the chief executive of a heretofore rather quiet suburban community of 30,000 , where crime increased 20 per cent during 1974 ( including three murders , one of which was committed in a holdup ) , I have been pondering the crime problem almost daily . My conclusions , based upon up-close observations , completely jibe with Professor Wilson 's . PETER M. CURRY Town Manager , Newington , Conn . Repetitions Nina Totenberg 's article on the Supreme Court ( " Behind the marble , beneath the robes , " March 16 ) was fascinating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first time she wrote it , in an article which appeared in the February , 1974 , issue of the Washingtonian magazine . It contains the same revelations about the Chief Justice 's motives for changing his votes on certain cases ; his occasional misuse of the power to decide which Justice will write majority opinions ; the agreement between the liberal Justices not to hear First Amendment cases for fear of the result ; the reduction of the influence of Justices Brennan and Stewart ; and the Justices ' individual reactions to the screening of allegedly pornographic movies . IRA S. SHAPIRO Chicago Nina Totenberg replies : It is always nice for a reporter to see that she has fans who read her work so carefully . But I can not agree with Mr. Shapiro 's characterization of my article . My piece in The Times was more than 75 per cent brand-new material , and it was damned difficult to get . No institution of Government ? not even the F.B.I. ? is so veiled in secrecy as is the Court . Frankly , I think I did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentions were significantly expanded from what I had written before . Naturally , when a reporter specializes in an area , as I do , she writes stories that repeat some information . Indeed , I think I would have been derelict in my duty and dishonest in the picture I presented to the reader if I had ' written a story about how the current Court functions and not included , for example , the information about Chief Justice Burger 's opinion management and the liberals ' voting strategies .                     