@@734097

txt A high-level delegation to China from the Bank of America . the largest bank in the U.S .. has received an especially warm welcome in Peking . sparking speculation that a major financing might be in the works . Bank of America officials reached by telephone in Peking said it is n't so . But the rumor mill had these facts to contend with : ? A Chinese official attending a reception Tuesday night at the American embassy in Peking let slip that " some kind of deal " had been signed with Bank of America . He did n't give any details . ? U listen-Men , a vice premier and China 's leading economics official , told Bank of America president A. W. Clausen Tuesday afternoon that the bank " was welcome to set up an office in Peking , " according to Hsinhua , the Chinese news agency . ? American businessmen in Peking noted that Mr. Clausen was getting royal treatment , including a chauffeur-driven Mercedes , which picks him up at the Peking Hotel . Visiting American businessmen usually get a Chinese-made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted several billion dollars in bank financing from European banks and has been offered commercial loans totaling 527 billion by banks in Europe and Japan . But the way for U.S. bank loans was cleared only March 1 when the U.S. and China resumed full-scale diplomatic relations after a 30-year lapse . Bank of America officials conceded only the obvious : that Mr. Clausen and the other bank officials were in Peking to discuss business with their hosts . But Louis Saubolle , a ' bank vice president and head of Bank of America 's Asian representative office in Hong Kong . denied that an announce-melt of a major loan was imminent . " I do n't see anything developing soon , " he said by telephone from Peking . As Hsinhua paraphrased it , Mr. Clausen told the Chinese Vice Premier that " the people of the U.S. were very happy about the normalization of U.S.-China relations ... adding that they were looking forward to opportunities of helping each other . " Then . Mr. Clausen " expressed the hope that an office of his bank would be set up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hsinhua reported . Vice Premier Li responded : " Though our social systems are different , our two countries can still have more interchanges , and we can cooperate very well . " Then he added , " the Bank of America was welcome to set up an office in Peking , " Hsinhua said . The news agency said that among the officials present at the meeting between Mr. Clausen and Mr. II was Chia ? Pelphsin , chairman of the Bank of China , which handles China 's foreign financial transactions , including long-term loans . Mr. Clausen had met Monday with Mr. Chian and other officials of the Bank of China . When American banks set up offices in Peking , the Bank of China is expected to open offices in New York or Washington . " Eminently Credit-wortby " Mr. Clausen was quoted last week , before he entered China , as saying that the Bank of America considered China " eminently credit-worthy . " But he declined to discuss possible loans for Peking . American businessmen in Peking , reached by telephone , said they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set up a syndicated loan of close to $1 billion . Bank of America would lead the syndicate for the loan , which would n't be tied to any specific project . these unverified reports said . Only time will tell if the rumors of a possible Bank of America-led loan are true . Some American bankers are known to be wary of seeking ' Chinese loan business because of the small margins on which Peking is insisting . Peking 's tough demands are said to be delaying signing of 58 billion in Japanese bank loans designed to finance Japanese exports of plants and equipment to China . Individual U.S. banks are also constrained in the amount they can lend China by federal regulations that limit each bank 's total credit extended to an individual borrower to 10% of that bank 's paid-in capital , reserves and undistributed dividends . There is only one ultimate borrower on all loans to Peking . the Chinese government .                     