@@731038

txt The United States and three of its principal West European allies have exchanged conciliatory messages in the last week , all designed to patch up differences that had arisen over American policies and actions in the Middle East crisis . The latest , a top Administration official said today , was a letter from President Nixon delivered yesterday to Chancellor Willy Brandt of West Germany in answer to the Chancellor 's letter of Sunday . Kissinger Briefs Envoys Replying to Mr. Brandt 's statement that the Nixon Administration could have been quicker ? and more explicit in keeping American allies informed of its assessment of the crisis and American moves , Mr. Nixon is understood to have promised fuller consultation in the future . It was believed that similar pledges had been made to other allies . Mr. Brandt said in his letter that West Germany was upset to discover last week that the United States continued to resupply Israel with American weapons after the cease-fire of Oct. 22 . The Administration official said that messages had also been exchanged with Britain and Italy in an attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Atlantic Treaty Organization . In addition , Secretary of State Kissinger called in the ambassadors of the NATO countries today to brief them on his trip to Arab countries next week and the current status of efforts for a peace settlement in the Middle East . Chancellor Brandt had said in his letter that West Germany was upset to discover last week that the United States continued to resupply Israel with American weapons after the cease-fire of Oct. 22 . Mr. Nixon is said to have replied that he regarded the differences of opinion as " settled . " A West German spokesman in Bonn characterized the Nixon letter as " friendly and frank . " Despite the efforts at conciliation , the Administration official said , the rift over the Middle East between the United States and its principal allies ? Britain , France and West Germany  --  remained serious and involved fundamental questions of the alliance . However , a top United States official said that the rift over the Middle East between the United States and its principal allies  --  Britain , France and West Germany  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Nixon Administration , the official said , publicly reproached the Europeans over the last seven days because it was felt that many of the allies failed the United States in critical moments on three counts . He said that the Europeans , with the exception of Portugal and the Netherlands had refused to have anything to do with the United States effort to resupply Israel with weapons in some cases denying overflight and refueling by American planes . In addition , the official said , the Administration was upset because Britain and other nations refused in the first week of the Arab-Israeli war to promote cease-fire proposals in the United Nations Security Council . Finally , the official said , , the United States was upset because the allies refused in the North Atlantic Council in Brussels to respond to American requests that they jointly chill their trade and political relations with the Soviet bloc and Yugoslavia because of the proArab actions of the Communist governments . " The question now is whether we are partners or not , whether we are just partners for their benefit in NATO , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . " During the Middle East war , " he continued , " we saw the allies running for cover , running away from us , and this reinforced the concept that it is not a partnership . We tried to persuade them that if Israel went down the drain it would change the power balance against NATO and give the Russians a strategic advantage . This was the confrontation part of it . " In a five-page statement issued today , Senator Edward F. Kennedy , Democrat of Massachusetts , accused the Administration of " heedlessly creating a crisis in the Atlantic alliance " and called for reaffirmation of " the principle of allied consultation . "                     