@@733975

txt Iran 's already-precarious civilian government incurred a major setback yesterday that American officials believe all but ends this latest effort to restor stability . Gen. Feridyoun Djam , the designated defense minister and only man of stature in the new government , declined the post and was expected to leave Tehran for London . The participation of Gen. Djam , a former army chief of staff highly respected by the military . had been considered vital if the new government were to have the support of the armed forces . His participation had . been uncertain all along but his name was submitted to the shah Saturday along with other cabinet ministers . Meanwhile , demonstrations demanding the abdication of the shah continued across Iran without any new word on when the monarch might leave Tehran for the vacation he says he wants once order is restored . The latest blow to the new government of Prime Minister Shahpur Bakhtiar could further delay the shah 's departure . American officials continue publicly to support the Bakhnar government but privately believe its days are numbered . They doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if this one fails " So Polarized " " We 've reached the point where the option of moderate nationalists putting together a coalition that can draw some support from both the religious forces and the military is gone : : says one American official . " The situation is so polarized , there is n't any hope of a middle ground solution anymore . " This has led to growing concern here about the likelihood of a military coup that would bring some general to power While some of the shah 's hard-line army supporters are known to favor tougher measures to quell anti-shah demonstrators , American officials fear an order to slaughter Iranians would divide the army , eliminating the last chance for restoring order . " A divided army only plays into the hands of the shah 's religious opponents and the Soviets . " says one U.S. official . Gen. Djam 's decision to reject the defense post , according to diplomatic sources here , reflects his belief that the Bakhtiar government lacks the support to reimpose order in strife-torn Iran . For the most part . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political following . The former Iranian army chief of staff also was influenced , sources say , by religious opposition to the new Bakhtiar government . Ayatollah Khomeini , the exiled Moslem leader who has been orchestrating anti-shah demonstrations from his residence outside Paris , has denounced the civilian government and urged his followers to keep its ministers from entering their offices . Checking Their Fury Despite resumption of violence in Iran yesterday , American officials believe antishah demonstrators are checking their fury in hopes the shah can be persuaded to leave the country . With the shah gone , rightist Moslems would be free to welcome the return of Mr. Khomeini and then begin an allout effort to bring down the Bakhtiar government . Without the shah , the military would be demoralized and divided , these officials believe , reducing any check on Mr. Khomeini 's power to name his own ruler . The Carter administration remains divided over whether to urge the shah to leave Tehran . While some officials here say his departure is necessary if the weak Bakhtiar government is to have any chance of succeeding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe the shah 's presence increases the chances of keeping the military unified , thus preserving one force for order . The reluctance in Washington to urge the shah to go increases as the Bakhtiar government weakens , and that becomes another strike against Prime Minister Bakhtiar 's chances for success .                     