@@732893

txt Through sea changes in weaponry , in the balance of -. power and in the number and nature of potential adversaries , our Navy has designed itself for 50 years around 15 mighty capital ships , the ceiling that emerged from the Washington Naval Treaty of 1922 . Capital once meant battleships , eventually attack carriers . The magic , mysterious number 15 became enshrined , but the price thereof , of course , has gone steadily higher along with the ships ' combat capacity . When it came time to replace four of the 15 carriers in recent years , the cost was further raised by going from conventional to nuclear power to drive them . In 1975 , at the behest of Admiral Hyman Rickover , the Congress overrode Administration objections-and stipulated that all future carriers , their escorts and other major combat ships must be nuclear-powered , at a cost of up to 80 percent more than the conventional . Now comes word that the expiring Ford Administration has rejected a Navy request for yet another nuclearpowered carrier . Unless reversed by the Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning of the end of the super-carrier era . We hope it will . It has not been shown  --  since the destruction of the Japanese fleet three decades ago  --  what conceivable war requires an American fleet of 15 super-carrier task forces . ( Russia has none , nor is it building any ) . Rising costs forced the decommissioning of two of these task forces last year , but the country 's carrier admirals , still dominant in the ? Pentagon , have persisted in wishing to invest the largest part of their resources to preserve the carrier fleet . The giant nuclear carrier can attain greater sustained speed , carry more high-performance jet fighters and maneuver independently from fleet oilers . But the carrier task force as a whole remains dependent on conventionally powered ships for escort , defense and supply . When nuclear escorts are added to reduce this dependence , the soaring costs reach into outer space . The conventionally powered carrier John F. Kennedy cost $280 million in 1967 . The nuclear-powered Nimitz , completed in 1975 , cost more than $1 billion . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Defense Secretary Schlesinger proposed three years ago that we quit with four nuclear carriers and let the total number of carriers decline to 12 , with eight smaller non-nuclear replacements costing only $550 million each . A return to something like that plan  --  which would give the fleet , in addition , some " sea control " ships carrying helicopters and vertical take-off planes  --  would improve the Navy 's ability to handle its overriding mission in war : keeping open the sea lanes to our allies in Western Europe . Costly carriers are not effective in that role . The Congressional Budget Office estimates that $7 billion could be saved over five years by turning from a preoccupation with super-carriers to attack Soviet targets ? a mission of doubtful value . The savings could be spent on the smaller warships needed to hold the Sealanes , against Russian submarines , the main Soviet naval threat . Defining the right mission for the right weapon must be our chief concern in evaluating military spending . The next Pentagon budget will give the Carter Administration another chance to make sense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shipbuilding program . Carriers remain useful floating air bases in an era in which the nation may still want to project its power into troubled waters . By abandoning the mystique of 15 ? and the obsession with 90,000-ton nuclear-propelled behemoths  --  the Navy could build the fleet needed for an Atlantic war and the more limited naval challenges that may occur elsewhere .                     