@@731194

txt Delegates from the world 's leading oil-consuming countries agreed today on an agenda for the Washington energy conference beginning tomorrow . But on the basis of preliminary talks today , most American and European officials seemed to agree that the results of the two-day meeting called by President Nixon would probably be limited to general declarations and would fall short of the " action conference " first contemplated by Washington . The United States hoped , however , that the communique issued at the end of the meetings on Tuesday would contain language pointing to increased cooperation in the future and would call for further meetings between the major and the lesser oil-consuming nations , and then between consuming and producing countries . At the State Department , where a preparatory session took place today , it was evident that the French were going to insist on avoiding any steps that would be binding on other countries  --  such as the American plan for the creation of a " code of conduct " to govern two-way deals between con1 sumers and producers . The French have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separate deals , and today announced a $5-billion agreement with Iran . Paris has been proposing that the West Europeans make their own long-term arrangements with the Arabs and that these efforts exclude the United States . American officials have argued that such deals tended to maintain high prices for oil , and that in the long run , the Europeans would find themselves in difficult balance-of-payments situations . The United States believes that while it is able to deal effectively with the oil producers itself because it imports less of its oil than other countries , the only salvation for the world economy is cooperation among all nations . The French , however , have traditionally sought to limit American economic influence in Europe and have expressed fear that the oil conference was another effort at American hegemony . The French view has the backing of the eight other members of the Common Market , and this is expected to inhibit such Market members as Britain and West Germany from joining with the United States in seeking to push // through the conference any " cooperative action program , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials refused to describe the conference in gloomy terms . Instead , senior officials insisted that there was a general view among the major consuming nations that something had to be done to insure long-term supplies of oil at reasonable prices that would also provide adequate returns to the producers . It was hoped by the Americans that as a result of the conference , some of the European and Japanese skepticism toward common action would be dissipated and that future efforts could be undertaken in such areas as research , supply allocation and monetary policy . The agenda , worked out at the preparatory meeting held by representatives from the 13 nations attending the conference as well as by delegates from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the Common Market , consists of the following items : Opening remarks by Secretary of State Kissinger , Foreign Minister Walter Scheel of West Germany , who is spokesman for the Common Market members , and by others . 9A discussion of the energy situation and its implications , which will include a detailed presentation by the United States of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not as " bleak " as some had believed . 9A discussion of initiatives for international cooperation and the examination of new proposals . This item will allow the United States to put forth ' its proposals for the establishment of working groups , but it was not believed likely that there would be time for more , than discussion of such proposals . 9The issuance of a final com- , muniqud , which will be drafted ! during the conference . Most of Day Set American officials expected that the opening remarks and the study of the energy situation would take up most of tomorrow 's session . The delegates have been invited to a working dinner at the White House tomorrow night . . At the same time that today 's preparatory meeting was being conducted by William H. Donaldson , the American Under Secretary of State for Security Assistance , Mr. Kissinger was meeting privately with several leaders who had arrived last night and today . He had breakfast with Mr. Scheel and then an hour 's meeting with Mitchell W. Sharp , Canada 's Secretary of State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference was not , going to settle the major oil problems . " The best we can hope for is an exposure of the problems , " he said . Later Mr. Kissinger had lunch with Foreign Minister Masayoshi Ohira of Japan and in the afternoon met with Common Market officials . In discussions at the ' State Department , foreign officials were telling reporters that the oil crisis seemed to have abated in Europe and that this had taken some of the urgency out of the conference . But there was a consensus that the price remained too high for the economic well-being of the world . Some officials said that there would probably be considerable discussion on the value of conservation measures to reduce the demand for oil and thereby to bring down prices . There must also be a discussion of incentives to the oil producers to increase production , a German said , ' but not in a way that could suggest a confrontation between consumers and producers . " Besides the United States the other countries attending are : Belgium , Britain , Canada , Denmark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Japan , Luxem-H bourg , the Netherlands and Norway .                     