@@731744

txt China 's long-deferred National People 's Congress held its first session in a decade this week , acqording to a communique issued tonight , and solidly endorsed the political leadership of Premier Chou En-lai . The Congress , China 's top legislative body , approved a new state Constitution and slate of ministers before its secret five-day meeting concluded yesterday in the Great Hall of the People in Peking . The 76-year-old Mr. Chou , who has supposedly been convalescing in a hospital since April , was on hand to deliver the basic report on the Government 's program and to be reelected as Premier , a post he has held for a quarter of a . century . Before Mao 's Picture He spoke from a rostrum that was dominated by a huge portrait of Chairman Mao Tse-tung , but the 81-year-old leaderstayed away from the meeting . There was no explanation for his absence , but analysts here noted that elements in the leadership that have appeared to be closest in'recent years to Mr. Mao fared poorly in the distribution of ministerial posts . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mao and praised his " revolutionary line in foreign affairs " but offered no indication that he had endorsed the decisions the Congress had taken . The new governmental lineup , composed of 12 Deputy Premiers and 29 ministers , was heavily weighted in favor of senior and elderly officials who have long been close to Mr. Chou . As such , it was a striking confirmation of the administrative status quo . Defense Post Filled The crucial post of Defense Minister , which has not been publicly filled since Lin Piao died in an alleged coup attempt in September 1971 , went to Yeh Chien-ying , who is 76 . Mr. Yeh , a veteran of the epic Long March and a one-time marshal of the People 's Liberation Army , has been serving in a caretaker role as acting Defense Minister in recent years . No posts were assigned to three key members of a supposedly " radical " faction in the leadership of the Communist party that is believed to have been behind the anti-Confucian ideological campaign last year . // That campaign was widely interpreted as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders who appeared to have been slighted were Wang Hung-wen , a youthful Shanghai activist who was catapulted into the third position in the party hierarchy ' in August 1973 as a symbol of the leadership 's rejuvenation ; Yao Wen-yuan , a polemicist , also from Shanghai , who first came into prominence at the start of the Cultural Revolution , and Chiang Ching , Chairman Mao 's wife . The communique on the Congress mentioned them merely as having been seated on the rostrum . The only figure in what is loosely known as the " Shanghai group " to be given any real authority was Chang Chunchiao , a member of the StandingoCommittee of the Politburo , who was named a Deputy Premier and assigned the important task of presenting the new Constitution to the 2,864 delegates attending the Congress . Mr. Chang , who is about 65 , also came to prominence in the Cultural Revolution . In recent years he has apparently had a key organizational function in the Communist party . Whether he maintains his old political alliances with the so-called " radicals " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been serving as Premier Chou 's surrogate in recent months , was listed ahead of Mr. Chang on the roster of Deputy Premiers . The third Deputy Premier was Li Hsien-nien , the top economic administrator , who was followed on the list by Chen Hsi-lien , commander of the vital Peking military region and the only active military , commander to be named to anl important post at the Congress . These four men would apfi pear to be the core of thsnew collective leadership that Pmmier Chou has been quietly shaping in his hospital retreat . In addition , a Politburo member from Mr. Mao 's native Hunan Province , Hua Kuo-feng , was not only named a Deputy Premier but given the key if somewhat risky job of Minister of Public Security . According to persistent ' rumors , the last two occupants of that post died at the hands of assassins . ' A Congress of Victory ' The texts of the new constitution and Premier Chou 's report on the Congress were not ' ? made public tonight . The com- , munique described the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ congress of victory " and vowed that China would become " a powerful modern socialist country.IP It echoed one of Chairman Mao 's cherished themes by noting that many of the delegates to the Congress " are outstanding people who have come to the fore in the Great P.roletar- ? Ian Cultural Revolution and the movement to criticize Lin Piao and Confucius . " But it was precisely that group that seemed to be passed Over when the positions of power and responsibility were distributed . In fact , Mr. Teng was purged in the Cultural Revolution and Mr. Yeh was pushed to the sidelines , while the more recent campaign seemed to threaten the durable Premier . The absent Chairman was last reported to be in Peking at the end of May . On Thursday , when the Congress was windIng up its deliberations , Mr. Mao met Franz-Josef Strauss , the former West German official , at an undisclosed location in central China . Mr. Mao appeared enfeebled in the photograph taken at that meeting , as he has in other recent pictures . But if he is well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be well enough to have made a ceremonial appearance at the Congress had he wanted to do so . Dominant for 40 Years The dominant figure in the Chinese Revolution for 40 years now , both as a tactician and theorist , Mr. Mao has really never had , or even sought , absolute ? authority over the dayto-day management of . the country 's affairs . But his commitment to the idea of mass mobilization for revolutionary ends and his deepseated mistrust of bureaucracy have regularly brought him into conflict with those who were actually running the party and government . Periodically in these conflicts , the Chairman 's authority has been partially eclipsed but he has always managed to reassert it . The question now must be whether he has the time cm energy to reassert it again .                     