@@728394

txt If the gorillas and penguins of London Zoo are feeling superior at the moment , they 've a right to . The Ministry of Housing has just declared that the houses they live in are to be listed as of special architectural importance . Other listed structures in London , this time for humans , are four suburban underground stations , two big stores  --  Simpson 's of Piccadilly and Peter Jones ? and the gleaming black-glass-fronted offices of the Daily Express newspaper . All were built in the 1930 's . Now that they 're listed , none of the buildings can be demolished or seriously altered without special permission . The owners do n't seem to mind . Says one , " We 're glad to have been recognized . It gives us an added importance . " The gorillas and penguins are withholding comment . m Transoeean swap Like President Nixon , Prime Minister Wilson has stamped " high priority " on environmental solutions during the ' 70 's . The already lively exchange of ideas and opinions across the Atlantic is therefore bound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antidiscrimination race legislation on the American experience . The U.S. in turn has taken a close interest in Britain 's highly praised policing methods . On the drug scene , remedies and penal correctives in both countries are showing increasing similarity . What senior government ministers here would like is a common discussion  --  if not a common policy  --  on a number of mutual social and environmental problems in the new decade . The Community Development Program at Nuffield , started only last July , is attracting an interested American presence . The program 's purpose is to assess the needs of people who have been severely deprived socially and to bring together all resources to meet these needs . At a press luncheon for American correspondents recently , Home Secretary James Callaghan pledged : " We shall certainly do our best to exchange information . And I myself hope the same goes for you , too . " ? Something for nothing Britons expect prices of their major newspapers to rise again , perhaps substantially . They now range from 5 pence ( 5 cents ) to a shilling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cheapest goes to 6 pence , which is probable , it ca n't be held there for long . Because , come the decimal revolution in 1971 , the sixpenny coin will be kaput . Three of the new pence ( totaling between 7 and 8 cents ) may then become the standard for the cheaper papers . The National Board for Price and Incomes reports that four national newspapers are facing a critical financial crisis and may fold . Then how come local giveaway papers are increasing in number ? They tap the almost limitless reservoir of local advertising . And local papers are read as much for the ads as for the news . m Airway emediation ' Coming : computer control of air traffic over Britain . The College of Air Traffic Control has been opened . And a computer system called " Mediator " is being grafted onto the present system of manual control . In the next 18 weeks , 300 controllers will take cram courses at the college to learn how to handle the new monster . 0 Freewheeling fair Fiji In the 1960 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Almost overnight the continent of Africa blossomed into a proliferation of newly independent states . But after Swaziland , it looked as if the end of the independence line had been reached . Now Fiji has surprised everyone . It is going for independence at a time when most observers thought it would remain under the shelter of the British shield . One reason for this line of thinking : the local Fijians , outnumbered by immigrant Indians , might , it was believed , fear for their security if independence was declared . But now the two groups feel they can work together in a spirit of mutual trust . Result : a roundtable constitutional conference in London in April which could lead to full independence for this small Pacific colony in October this year . When it comes , Fiji will become the 29th member state of the Commonwealth and the 127th member of the United Nations .                     