@@733555

txt TEL AVIV ** Menadem Begin returned Friday from his " difficult " talks with President Carter and ran into a growing Israeli leadership crisis and reports of an Americaninspired " dump Begin " movement . Defense Minister Ezer Weizman , a member of Begin 's Likud bloc , publicly called for a government of national unity committed to peace , one that would include the opposition Labor Party . The Jerusalem Post said Labor intends to call for Begin 's resignation In a no-confidenco vote in parliament over his handling of Middle East peace moves . WEIZMAN RECENTLY threatened to resign because of disagreement with Begin over Israeli settlements in occupied territory . But he indicated Begin should continue as head of government in a new coalition . Nevertheless , the timing of Weizman 's move led to speculation he was heading a movement to oust Begin . The defense minister Is . a former air force commander who received praise from the Carter administration when he went to Washington earlier this month . In Washington , Secretary of State Cyrus Vance denied reports circulating in Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an agreement with Begin and is hoping for a change in leadership . Bogin responded angrily to the reports U.S. officials would like to see him removed from office to enhance the pros . pects of a peace settlement , " THE PRIME MINISTER of Israel Is elected by the people of Israel and not by a representative of the United States , " Begin said . Cabinet members // qwq Begin foes may seek his ouster // and other government officials who came to greet him at the airport loudly applauded his retort . Speculation about a possible dump ? 13egin movement inspired by the Americans arose when the state-run radio and television , which still favors Labor , broadcast reports Thursday night that a senior U.S. official told an Israeli official " an alternative to Begin 's administration " should be in power . The leftist Mapam Party newspaper , Al Hamishmar , identified the American official as Richard Viets , the charge d'affaires at the U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv . Mapam said it will hold Begin responsible if the peace talks with Egypt collapse . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Begin returned home from the U.S. , the Israeli national radio said Washington relayed three Egyptian demands to Begin that Israel must meet before peace negotiations can resume . BEGIN TOLD reporters on arrival at Ben-Gurion Airport that during his " difficult " White House talks with President Carter he was faced with several demands that he found unacceptable . He would not define them . The radio listed the Egyptian demands as : ? A prior commitment by Israel to withdraw to the pre-1967 war borders on all fronts . ? A referendum in the occupied West Bank of Jordan and the Gaza strip to pave the way for a Palestinian homeland linked to Jordan . ? Rejection of the stationing of United Nations forces in the Sinai . The Labor Party , which fully backed the invasion of Lebanon , indicated Friday it would continua to refuse to join the Begin government .                     