@@730319

txt Henry Kissinger met in Paris for six and a half hours today in secret talks with North Vietnamese officials . The White House later indicated there will be more such sessions , It was the first time Kissinger had met privately with Hanoi Politburo member Le Due Tho and Minister Xuan Thuy , of the Hanoi delegation to the Paris peace talks , since May 2 . The White House announced after today 's session that " furthere will be many such sesannounced as they are ' held . " Suspended by Nixon After the May 2 meeting , Nixon suspended the peace talks , charging the Communists were not interested in serious negotiations . Even before Kissinger arrived back in Washington , , the State Department announced that the United States will participate in the , plenary peace talks , scheduled for tomorrow . Those talks were resumed last Thursday , with administration officials expressing " guarded optimism " that the Communists were ready to negotiate seriously . Ronald L. Ziegler , White Le Duc Tho House press secretary , said that both sides had agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration officials have long insisted that any hope for settling the war at the peace table was at the private Kissinger sessions , rather than at the public meetings , which have been used , according to Nixon administration officials , as a publicity forum for Communist charges against the U. S. The previous Kissinger talks were revealed by the White House after the talks were suspended ' last May and , , since that time , reporters have attempted to monitor Kissinger 's movements . He was with the ? President at the Western White House in San Clemente , Cal. , but was not listed on the manifest of Nixon 's plane when he flew back to Washington last night . Ziegler , while refusing to discuss his whereabouts , did indicate that he might well be in Paris . Kissinger had taken his children back to Washington Monday night , Ziegler said , but then he refused to provide any more information . Return to.Washington With Le Duc Tho expressing a willingness to meet with Kissinger , there appeared little doubt that the two were getting together , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , signed by Ziegler , on the bulletin board of the White Houe press center . It said simply that Kissinger was meeting in Paris with the North Vietnamese officials and was expected back today . Kissinger returned to Washington later today . He immediately went into conference with the President , A State Department official , asked why there was an announcement of " secret talks , " replied , " We 're an odd lot by and large , and I 'll have to leave it at that . "                     