@@733516

txt The first 100 appointments in the administration of Mayor Koch ? in most cases the key appointments the new Mayor will make  --  are composed of about equal parts of campaign and Congressional aides , holdovers from the administration of Mayor Abraham D. Beame and people recommended by search panels . The three-way split is evident if one examines the Mayor 's intial appointees  --  the first of 300 major jobs he has to fill . And , an examination shows , charges of " cronyism " leveled against Mayor Koch by some news media critics and privately by some fellow politicians are exaggera ted . The charges grow out of the familiar faces among the Deputy Mayors and the large number of Congressional and campaign aides in Mayor Koch 's governmental inner circle . Two predecessors , John V. Lindsay and Mr. Beame , were more likely to reach out to the business world  --  or even out of the city , in the case of Mr. Lindsay ? and were less likely , to turn to aides in the positions the Mayors held before they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Koch represented the so-called " silk-stocking " district in the House of Representatives before his election as Mayor  --  said he did not bring a single member of his Congressional staff to his administration , and less than a dozen of Mr. Beame 's aides in the City Comptroller 's office moved with Mr. Beame from the Municipal Building across Centre Street to City Hall . Mr. Koch 's Congressional staff , in contrast , has been a seemingly inexhaustible source of Koch administration aides . Koch " cronies " were most likely to be on the immediate staff of the Mayor or his deputies at City Hall . The others were most likely to be in the various departments . The salaries of many of these appoint // ees have skyrocketed  --  doubling in some cases ? as they joined the administration in jobs paying $30,000 to $50,000 a year . compare ? ' to campaign or Congressional salaries in the $15,000-to-$25,000 range . Such moves are not uncommon , since campaign workers are usually young and low-salaried . They are often the only ones who can afford to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Several other patterns emerged in the study of the new administration appointees . Among them were the following : fiAside from the Mayor himself , three men have been instrumental in most of the appointments  --  Deputy Mayors David W. Brown and Herman Badillo and an outsider , Stephen Berger , former executive director of the Emergency Financial Control Board and an unofficial Koch adviser . All three are building substantial empires within the administration , with Mr. Brown in position to become Mayor Koch 's most powerful deputy . 9Blacks and Puerto Ricans have indeed been underrepresented compared with the previous administration , as they have charged . The outer boroughs are also very underrepresented , a situation that will undoubtedly be aggravted as communities deteriorate especially in Brooklyn and the Bronx . 9Many holdovers from the Beame administration remain in office . Some are marked for dismissal but have been kept on until a replacement can be found . Others , such as Jay L. Turoff  --  who got his job as chairman of the Taxi and Limousine Commission through the Brooklyn Democratic organization during the waning days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and will he retained if Mayor Koch considers them effective . ( iThe Liberal Party , which rejected Mr. Koch , a longtime ally , in favor of Gower .. nor Carey 's choice for Mayor , Secretary of State Mario M. Cuomo , has been completely frozen out of the Koch administration  --  are , in effect , on trial and will Party leadership did him a great injustice , and he 's right , " said the only elected Liberal city official , Councilman Henry Stern , a friend of Mr. Koch's. 41The Democratic Party , which initially supported Mr. Beame for renomination and then split between Mr. Koch and Mr. Cuomo in the primary runoff , has clear pipelines into the new administration through John LoCicero , the Mayor 's special assistant and former Greenwich Village district leader . Even before he went to City Hall . he managed the remarkable feat of communicating with the regulars as well as his fellow reform Democrats . Ever the pragmatist , Mr. LoCicero said : " I like to look for people Who were helpful to us . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Koch administration appointments , but by no means all . The seven Deputy Mayors , the Mayor 's ton aides , are an example . Two of them , Mr. Brown and Roney Menschel , are friends and former Congressional aides , although Mr. Brown was most recently chairman of the State Investigation Commission . Two are clearly political ? Mr. Badillo and Basil A. Paterson , Mr. Koch 's bow to black and Puerto Rican leaders who supported him in the runoff primary . The three others  --  Philip L. Toia , Herbert Sturz and Robert J. Milano  --  were selected because of their special backgrounds , but that does not mean they did not have important connections with the administration . Mr. Toia , Deputy Mayor for Finance , was State Budget Director and a close associate of Mr. Berger , a former state Commissioner of Social Services . Mr. Milano , Deputy Mayor for Economic ? Development , is a retired businessman who worked with both Mr. Paterson and Mr. Berger , respectively , on the Charter Revision Commission and the Temporary Commission to Study the City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Deputy Mayor for Criminal Justice , was director of the Vera Institute for Criminal Justice . ' rhe staffs of the Deputy Mayors , except . for Mr. Badillo , as well as the Mayor 's own staff , are the favorite nesting grounds for Mr. Koch 's campaign and Congressional workers . Potential Power to Ilire Mr. Badillo 's influence at City Hall is evident in the fact that most of his personal staff represent rewards for Mr. Badillo 's , and not necessarily Mr. Koch 's , followers . Mr. Badillo 's potential power is also evident in " - his own emphasis on the 160 " management people " he directs , " not just a Deputy Mayor with five assistants . " Deputy Mayor Brown 's potential power ? not fully exercised , several Koch aides said  --  stems from his closeness to the Mayor and his roles as the administration official , other than the Mayor himself , primarily responsible for hiring and the setting of salary scales . One of Mr. Brown 's coups was the choice of his recommendation , William Leibowitz , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Judiciary , which will screen prospective judicial appointees . Mr. Koch did not even know Mr. Leibowitz , according to ' City Hall ; aides . Mr. Brown and Mr. Berger are also close ? " Berger and I talk a lot , " Mr. Brown said  --  making them a politically potent inside-outside combination . Among the close associates of Mr. Berger in the administration , in addition to Mr. Toia , are three former staff members of the Emergency Financial Control Board . They are Richard Halvorsen and John Weston , both on Deputy Mayor Brown 's staff and Tony Gleidman on Deputy Mayor Paterson 's staff . Closest of all to Mr. Berger is Cynthia Wainwright , the new Deputy Correction Commissioner . She is his wife and was ; art assistant director of a statistics pro ! gram in the State Division of Criminal Justice Services before her current appointment . The Correction Department is an example of an agency undergoing a major shake-up in the change of administrations . The new Commissioner is William Ciuros Jr. , a nonpolitical former Deputy State Correction Commissioner . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obvious in the case of other new Correction Department officials . In the highly sensitive Police Department , the Joseph Hoffman " connection " is the key element in the most . drastic departmental shake-up in many years . The new Police Commissioner , Robert J. , was recommended by John Keenan , the special state prosecutor , who ; was a prospect himself ; by District Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau of Manhattan , 1 who has been quietly advising Mayor Koch on some appointments , and by Mr .. Koch 's special panel , which also recom mended former Police Commissioner Donald F. Cawley , But Mr. Koch wanted an outsider . Mr. selected Joseph Hoffman , a former police official who was vice president of the city 's Health and Hospitals Corporation , to be his First Deputy Commissioner . He had met Mr. Hoffman through a mutual friend . Mr. Hoffman has , in turn , been directly responsible for the extensive shake-up by appointing to the top positions in the department career police officials whom he knew when most of them were lieutenants in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Among them were William 3 . Devine , James B. Meehan , Matthew and Donald Rowan . The traditional political Sanitation Department , in contrast , has remained untouched . The Commissioner , Anthony Vaccarello , a professional with close ties to the Brooklyn Democratic organization , was retained by Mayor Koch despite an adverse recommendation by a Koch panel on the department . ' rhe Mayor , his aides said , was impressed by Mr. Vaccarello 's performance in recent snowstorms . Koch aides conceded that the Brooklyn Democratic connection did not hurt eithe ? , To them it was a classic example of performance and politics coming to the same conclusion .                     