@@732190

txt CHICAGO AREA residents , concerned about high crime rates , poor schools , and other urban ills , generally are pessimistic about living conditions in the future . Uncertainty and pessimism were op-parent when 530 randomly selected metropolitan Chicagoans were asked in a survey about the quality of future urban life . " I 'm not even sure there will be a Chicago in the next 10 to 15 years , " said a Blue Island . man , reflecting one of the most pessimistic opinions . THROUGHOUT the metropolitan area , crime is seen as the No. 1 problem . Unemployment and poor schools also were cited as major problems by many . The survey did find , however , thatmost Chicagoans believe this area offers better services and greater opportunities than other metropolitan areas . The randomly selected Chicago arse residents interviewed by telephone wereasked this question about the City of Chicago : " . . . do you think that 10 or 15 years from now , the city will be a better place to live , worse , or about the same ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent ? About the same-20 per cent ? Not sure-14 per cent RESPONDENTS were asked the same , question about the future of the suburbs . " . . do you think that 10 or 15 years from now the quality of suburban life will be better , worse , or about the same as now ? " The results : ? Better-23 per cent ? Worse-30 per cent ? About the same-32 per cent ? Do n't know , uncertain-15 per cent ONLY 10 PER CENT of the suburban respondents foresaw a " better " Chicago in 10 to 15 years , a view held by 28 percent of the city respondents . But the deterioration of Chicago was often predicted-41 per cent of those living in the city said Chicago would be a worse place to live in the future , and 46 per cent of those living in the suburbs agreed . Suburbanites were only slightly more optimistic abbut the future of their communities . While 26 per cent of Lie suburbanites saw the subdrban areas becoming better places to live , so did 20 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suburban residents  --  about one in every three  --  said the suburbs would either remain the same or deteriorate as places to live in a decade or more . ALTHOUGH AS MANY blacks as whites  --  about 40 per cent  --  agreed the city 's future was n't good , there were more optimists among blacks than among whites . Only 22 per cent of all whites interviewed thought the city would be a better place to live in the future , but 35 per cent of the blacks thought so . When asked about the immediate , five-year future , of the neighborhoods and communities where they now live , respondents were tended to be slightly less pessimistic than in their views of the entire city and suburbs . " I think it 's people who make the living conditions , " commented an Evergreen Park woman . " They can run a neighborhood down or improve it . " A South Sider predicted the suburbs will get better " if you take good people and keep them the suburbs nice and clean . It depends on if people who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were asked to look back five years and to say whether the suburbs and neighborhoods they live in today generally are better places to live now , or are worse than five years ago , or are about the same . City and suburban residents differed sharply about what had happened to their immediate communities over the last five years . Thirty-seven per cent of the suburban residents said their communities had become better places to live , while only 18 per cent of the city dwellers said their neighborhoods had improved . Forty per cent of the city respondents said their neighborhoods were worse today than five years ago , whereas only 21 per cent of the suburbanites said things were worse . THE DIFFERENCE between the experiences of black and white respon dents was even sharper : Nearly half of the blacks-46 per cent  --  said their neighborhoods were worse than five years ago , a view held by only a fourth ? 28 per cent  --  of the whites surveyed . But asked , " If you could live anywhere in the Chicago metropolitan area , would you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , clear majorities of both city and suburban residents said " no . " Blacks , despite their concern about deteriorating neighborhood. , were almost evenly divided over whether they 'd move or not . ? Of those who said they would like to move , 62 per cent said they 'd choose suburban living over the city . THE KEENEST interest in moving was shown by younger people and those living in changing neighborhoods . A white man on the North Side , expressing little confidence in the city and planning a move to the suburbs , said : " My neighborhood 's gradually declining ; the Puerto Ricans are moving in . " Although many of the expressions of dissatisfaction held obvious racial overtones , most of those indicating an interest in moving sought better housing , a finding that echoes an official Chicago opinion about housing . The city holds that abandoned buildings must be eliminated as an important first step toward curtailing crime and other major problems in the city . " HOUSING IS LIKE a wheel , " said Michael Cummings , chief of the Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ related to education , crime levels , and jobs . " If a person lives in Whole , his resentment will build up . Poor housing is likely to lead to crime . " The general ' attitude of pessimism found in the survey  --  while apparently not inconsistent with current high levels of crime , unemployment , and other urban ills  --  may be a response conditioned partly by ? the media , in the view of Northwestern . University ? urbanologist John . " Every signal they have gotten from the media tells them that they think it 's going to get worse , " he said . " There 's very little information front the media to lead them to think the city will get better . Anyone who thinks the city will get better would fly in the face of available information . "                     