@@728372

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times To End Arms Race To the Editor : Your Feb. 2 editorial " Mr. Nixon 's ABM Decision " is an excellent refutation of all the murky arguments put forward for continuing with MIRV and Safeguard . It is ? regrettable that logic does not seem to prevail in this debate , which turns more upon the old psychological attitudes in America ( and , presumably , in Russia too ) that have fueled the arms race for a quarter-century . Our Government has renounced " superiority " in nuclear arms , but is psychologically still wedded to that concept . President Nixon 's military advisers seem incapable of appreciating Russian anxieties about ABM and MIRV , the rapidly dwindling period of time available to stop MIRY , and the role our weapons decisions play in Russian decisions to proceed with their own new weapons . We are much nearer than the Soviet Union to crossing the threshold into a new era of the nuclear age ; it Is our responsibility to stop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any chance of ending the arms race and , indeed , of gaining any agreement at the SALT talks in Vienna . ROBERT E. HUNTER Washington , Feb. 5 , 1970 ? Studies on Budget To the Editor : Your Feb 9 editorial entitled " The Defense Budget Debate " noted that " studies by former Budget Director Charles Schultze and a team of experts at the Brookings Institution indicate a possibility of a 20 per cent cutback in defense spending after Vietnam . " I am afraid that this statement may give a misleading impression . There are a number of analysts at the Brookings Institution currently engaged in studying various aspects of the Federal budget , both its civilian and military components . Those studies , however , are not designed to produce a single set of budget recommendations at variance with the Administration 's recommendations . Rather they will review a number of different alternatives . In the case of the post-Vietnam military budget , these studies will spell out several possible courses of actions , indicating the national security implications and the budget consequences of each . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense spending some 20 per cent below the current level , other alternatives involving considerably higher figures will be examined as well as some with even lower expenditures . In short , it is not the purpose of the studies being carried on by Brookings analysts to recommend a single military ( or civilian ) budget , but to help raise the level of debate about budgetary matters by examining a series of alternative budgetary policies and programs . CHARLES L. SCHULTZE Senior Fellow Brookings Institution Washington , Feb. 9 , 1970 ? Carswell Ruling To the Editor : Ascertainment of a judge 's ideology through his written opinions is not a simple task . If , however , such an undertaking is to be embarked upon , all such opinions should be considered . G. Harrold Carswell has been criticized for harboring an anticivil rights attitude , as evidenced by his judicial decisions . The case of Fulton v. Emerson Electric Company , however , decided on Dec. 22 , 1969 , by a three-judge panel that included Judge Carswell , is a counterweight to this allegation . The site @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a community that the court noted " . . . has been the locale for other civil rights controversies . " The lower court had dismissed certain employes ' charges under the Civil Rights Act of 1871 , wherein they claimed to have been beaten and otherwise discriminated against when they attempted to engage in apparently lawful union organizing activities . In reversing the lower court , the three-judge panel stated : " The problems alleged here are of constitutional proportions ? an area where courts always have a role . " A fair evaluation of Judge Carswell 's ideology must inelude analysis of his concurrence in this case . If the judge were indeed against civil rights , he would have registered a dissent in the Fulton case . ROBERT LEWIS New York , Feb. 9 , 1970 ? Empty Airline Seats To the Editor : To quote from a recent article in the Times ? " domestic airlines flew more miles of empty seats than full ones last year . " Therein lies the problem of congestion at the airports . Danger at the field and danger in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for airlines to schedule more flights than needed , which requires greater equipment investment , more ground and flight personnel , and extra money for advertising to say nothing about the noise and air pollution . The efforts of respective airlines to blanket competition by scheduling more flights than reasonably required contributes to traveling dangers and rates much higher than reasonable . The regulating - authorities should require that flight schedules be adjusted to about 65 per cent of those flown last year during the same season . This would have the immediate effect of fewer empty seats per flight and rates could be materially lowered beyond the 6.35 per cent just announced . MORTON G. LEDERMAN East Orange , N. J. , Jan. 31 , 1970 ? Historic Herald Square To the Editor : The proposal to change Herald Square to Robert F. Kennedy Square is outrageous . While we are trying to preserve our landmarks we should also be preserving our landmark-names . Herald Square , is as familiar as Times Square , Union Square , or Washington Square . I hope that the Landmarks Commissioner , as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the name Herald Square . L. MAZON New York , Jan. 25 , 1970 Museum 's ? Expansion To the Editor : The Metropolitan Museum of Art is presently i ' plannin , , a very major expansion of its buildings , extending farther into Central Park  --  a step which in our view it can not take without the express permission of the Parks , Recreation and Cultural Affairs Administration . The Museum 's expansion is no doubt designed to add to the great opportunity it already makes available to the public at Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street . However , it is not for the Museum to decide that the public is better off with Museum facilities than with park land . Before the Museum should be encouraged  --  or permitted ? to treat its plans for expansion as a fait accompli , Administrator Heckscher 's Parks , Recreation and Cultural Affairs Administration has a legal obligation to assure itself and the public it represents that the proposed expansion is in the public interest . We ask Administrator Heckscher to set forth to the . public the basis on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public interest and to hold a public hearing promptly to disclose to the press and the general public the plans for the development of the Museum , specifically detailing the nature and extent of the expansion into park land and give New Yorkers an opportunity to express their views . If the P.R.C.A. does not wish to hold such a hearing , we will ask the planning boards concerned with Central Park to arrange hearings at which the P.R.C.A. would be invited to appear . EDWARD HALLAM Tom President , The Parks Council New York , Jan. 29 , 1970                     