@@733715

txt Three underground organizations claimed responsibility today for the early-morning bomb blast at the Palace of Versailles that wrecked three of 14 ground-floor rooms containing art works celebrating the Napoleonic era . But the police , reacting with skepticism , said they had no firm clues . Though the explosion also damaged seven other rooms crammed with works of art , opened a gaping hole in the ceiling and smashed balustrades , doors and windows , most of the principal features of the 17th century palace  --  the Hall of Mirrors , where the World War I peace treaty was signed , the royal apartments , the opera house and the chapel  --  were not touched . Officials estimated that $1 million would be needed to repair the masonry alone in the structure , built for King Louis XIV , the Sun King , just southwest of Paris . A fire department official said the damage was limited because the blast did not start a fire . Long Restoration Process Seen While the top museum official of the Ministry of Culture , Hubert Landais , predicted that restoration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gerald Van der Kemp , said it would take a year . Pointing especially to large oils depicting Napoleon 's major moments of glory that were ripped to ribbons , he said they would have to be " assembled like a jigsaw puzzle . " First to claim responsibility for the bombing , which occurred at 2:05 A.M. and injured a museum guard , was a caller to the Agence France-Presse bureau at Rennes ' , in Brittany . He said he represented the Breton Republican Army , one of . three branches of the Breton Liberation Front . Another anonymous caller said his group , the International Organization of the Jobless , had set off the blast , and still another said the Revolutionary Workers had done it . The police said they had no record of either of the latter groups . The police cordoned off access to the damaged areas so that visitors would not stamp on debris that might be useful in restoration . Litter of Plaster , Stone , Glass Tn the Portrait Gallery running alongside the Empire Suite in the southern wing , the floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wood , branches of a gilded lamp post , hinges . The power of the explosion could be gauged by the way that paintings hung in shreds and furniture lay shattered on the floor next to bits and pieces from curtains . In one room a piece of cloth landed on a white plaster head of Murat , Napoleonic general and one-time King cf Naples . All that remained of plaster busts of an 18th-century biologist , Baron Cuvier , and two contemporary French admirals had been assembled on two gilded Empire stools . Best known among the 20-by-10-foot oils of Napoleonic lore that were gravely damaged is " The First Bestowal of the Legion of Honor to War Invalids " by Debret , first exhibited in 1812 ; another is " General Bonaparte Pardoning Insurgents at Cairo , " by Guerin . Seven other paintings of the series , mostly commissioned by the Emperor himself for hanging in his palaces , will need extensive restoration . Among other items badly damaged are nine Empire chairs , a bench , four candelabra and precious embroidered curtains . Bell Rung at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incident began when someone rang the bell at the front gate . The nearest guard on duty , the one in the south wing , found no one and , puzzled , looked around for a moment . It was then , presumably , that the terrorists smugggled in their bomb , probably from the garden behind the chateau . People had been allowed there exceptionally late because of a celebration in honor of summer and St. John 's Day , complete with fireworks . The guard , his arm injured , telephoned the fire department , only to encounter disbelief , with fire officials apparently interpreting the explosion as the tail end of the fireworks . As for the Breton Liberation Front , in the last 12 years it has been responsible for 206 bombings , most of them in Brittany , according to the latest police statistics . The caller representing it directed his listeners to a statement that called for encouragement . of the Breton language and culture and inveighed against French " oppression " and " imperialism . " The link with Versailles appeared tenuous . Duchess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1491 because she was forced to ? an event that heralded Breton integration into France . Officials including a presidential spokesman strongly condemned those responsible for what was termed a serious threat to the national heritage . There is a distinct pride in Versailles because of its historic role . Planned by Louis XIII in 1627 , it was largely built during the reign of Louis XIV by the architect JulesHardouin Mansard , the decorator Le Brun and the landscape acrchitect Le NOtre . In Louis XIV 's day Versailles housed both the court and the royal administration ? perhaps 20,000 people . It has repeatedly figured in pre-eminent events , both French and international .                     