@@728768

txt The United Arab Republic within a few days will give a favorable reply to the proposal by Secretary of State William P. Rogers for a cease-fire and a resumption of peace negotiations , according to an informed source . The source said that the Egyptian note would advise the United States that this country was prepared to hold its fire for a limited period . This would be in accordance with the United Nations Security Council resolution of Nov. 22 , 1967 , which calls for Israeli withdrawal from occupied territories and recognition of the security and freedom of navigation of all concerned . Both the Israelis andi the Egyptians have previously declared their adherence to the resolution . Talks Held in Moscow According to the source , the approach was agreed upon during the 18 days of intensive discussions between Egyptian and Soviet leaders in Moscow , which ended Thursday evening . He said that the Russians had agreed to deliver a moderate amount of additional arms but had insisted on the desirability of a political rather than a military solution . The Soviet , leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintain the dialogue with the United States despite the " aggressive " sounds that came from Washington during the Moscow meetings . An Israeli Phantom jet was downed Saturday as Is. - rael resumed her bombardment of Soviet-Egyptian missile batteries in the central sector of the Suez Canal zone , it was reported from Jerusalem . Page 9 . The Egyptian Foreign Minister , Mahmoud Riad , is consulting other Arab capitals , particularly Amman , Jordan , on his forthcoming reply to the United States , but it is not expected that this will affect the outcome . However , even a positive reply would leave enormous obstacles to surmount on the road to peace . An immediate problem is the conflict between the Arab and Israeli interpretations of the United Nations resolution . The Arabs place great stress on their view that it calls for evacuation of all the occupied territories , while the Israelis maintain that it is not that specific . Question Reported Open The Rogers proposal is understood to leave this question open , but diplomatic quarters believe that the United States has envisioned an Israeli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The negotiations would cover these and such questions as demilitarized zones and the status of Jerusalem . The Israelis have insisted publicly on direct negotiations , but there is the Rhodes prece- dent  --  the 1949 negotiations on the Mediterannean island of Rhodes in which Arab and Israeli delegates spoke separately to the United States mediator , Dr. Ralph J. Bunche . Dr. Bunche , in turn , carried proposals and counterproposals between the two sides . The Israelis have also said that they are in favor of negotiations without conditions ? but they have held the status of Jerusalem and the Golan heights of Syria was not negotiable . In contrast , the joint SovietEgyptian communiqu ? yesterday called for total withdrawal , and this accord had been presaged for days in headlines here . The press today gave wide publicity to reports of an apology by the British Broadcasting Corporation for an erroneous report to the contrary . The B.B.C. , which has a wide audience in the Arab world , had read a Middle East News Agency dispatch from Moscow as indicating that Foreign Minister Riad had omitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreements . In fact , Mr. Riad had specifically mentioned Jerusalem , the Golan heights , the Gaza Strip and the Sinai Peninsula , according to the original dispatch . Question of Refugees An even thornier question in the opinion of diplomatic observers here , is that of the Palestinian refugees . United Nation resolutions speak of the refugets ' right to return but how many , how soon and under what conditions are subjects for delicate and difficult negotiations . The Palestinians themselves have become a political force in the Arab world and their leaders have so far been intransigent on their unlimited right of return to their former homes in territories now controlled by Israel . Other Arab leaders believe that a generous compromise can still persuade the Palestinians but they ac- I knowledge that this would not be easy and it might be getting harder as time goes on . United Nations headquarters in New York was regarded here as a possible site for the prospective Arab-Israeli negotiations . With the role of the United Nations emphasized in the Soviet - Egyptian communiqu ? that organization would appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen. Odd Bull of Norway , the United Nations truce supervisor , was due to call on authorities here today in connection with the death of a Swedish captain in an observation post on the eastern bank of the Suez Canal Thursday . The maintenance of teams to observe a nonexistent cease-fire is explained by a diplomat here as a tacit acknowledgment by both sides that the situation might be even worse if they were removed and that they might yet have constructive work to do .                     