@@733817

txt As the Camp David summit meeting on the Middle East draws toward a conclusion , the mood surrounding the talks has shifted from one of cautious pessimism to varying degrees of qualified optimism . Attempting to strike a balance between an excess of optimism or of pessimism , White House press spokesman Jody Powell repeated earlier statements that some progress and some flexibility have been evident in the summit negotiations but that more progress and more flexibility are required . Mr. Powell said that the summit leaders had not yet reached agreement on a " framework " which would permit a resumption of direct Egyptian-Israeli negotiations . This had been a stated aim of the summit meetings . An Israeli spokesman denied at the same time news reports alleging that Israel had agreed in principle to withdraw from the occupied West Bank of the Jordan River . The optimism is based on the sketchiest of news reports , rumors , and comments from spokesmen at the summit , which was still cloaked largely in secrecy on the ninth day of talks , Sept. 14 . But sources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that ( 1 ) the talks had lasted as long as they had and ( 2 ) specialists attending the meetings had been working intensively on - documents dealing with what has been achieved so far . " Real work is going on , " said an American source . " Even if it does n't mean total agreement , it does mean it 's not a stalemate . . . . It means there are real possibilities . " Such optimism was not all-pervasive , however . The Egyptian press has been uniformly negative , and the experts say that this must reflect official guidance . The basic theme of Egyptian news reports has been that President Carter made major efforts but failed to get Israel 's Prime Minister Menachem Begin to show the flexibility needed to resolve the question of Israel 's occupation of the largely Arab-populated - West Bank of the Jordan River and the Gaza district . U.S. officials said , however , that it was understood Mr. Begin came to the summit prepared to agree that the question of West Bank sovereignty would be resolved after a five-year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say that the question of sovereignty could be considered , or " discussed , " after an interim period . Mr. Begin was not believed to be prepared to go so far as to commit himself to an eventual Israeli withdrawal from the West Bank and Gaza , which is what Egypt 's President Sadat has been demanding . . What the U.S. has been attempting to do , through the efforts of President Carter , is find a formula which would allow the Israelis to withdraw most of their forces from most of the West Bank while maintaining some security provisions , even beyond a transition period . The U.S. has made a concerted effort to move both the Egyptians and Israelis away from " slogans " on the subject and into detailed discussion of what the West Bank would look like following an Israeli withdrawal . There are two problems involved in this effort . First , the Egyptians are reluctant to get into discussion of the kind of detail which they believe only the local Palestinians and the Jordanians are qualified to deal with . Second , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are suspected of using security concerns to mask a political and ideological unwil-. lingness to give up the West Bank . At the least , the U.S. hopes , however , to be able to bring both Mr. Begin and Mr. Sadat to agreement on a " framework " for a resumption of direct ELyptian-Israeli negotiations . President Sadat had broken off such talks when he became convinced that the Israelis were not willing to budge on the West Bank issue . It was still not certain when the summit would end . White House spokesman Powell de-anted to comment on speculation that the summit was likely to conclude on Sept. 15.                     