@@733069

txt Letters pg . 22 Letters City Schools System : ' What We Do Not Need ' To the Editor : Mayor Beame 's proposal to abolish the Board of Education , to appoint his own Commissioner of Education and treat the school system as another department of the city contradicts American educational policy and would , in my opinion , worsen rather than improve schools . Under our state constitution elementary and secondary education is a state function performed by local educational authorities . In almost all communities , except in our larger cities , Boards of Education are elected by the people . The purpose of this has been to identify education as something separate from ordinary local government . Although we know politics can not be entirely eliminated , partisan politics can be greatly reduced by this system . In the LaGuardia administration partisan politics was minimal . It can be made minimal in New York by a less political method of appointing a Board of Education than the present  --  certainly not by having the professional head of the system appointed by a mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Abroad : The State Security Link To the Editor : A possible answer to any puzzlement over the negative response abroad to our threats to withdraw troops ( or reduce military assistance ) can be found in Will and Ariel Durant 's " The Lessons of History . " These competent philosopher-historians state as a rule that the freedom Tracy Garner of the part depends upon the security of the whole . As security of a country is reduced we can expect an automatic reduction in internal liberty , especially for dissent . Unfortunately , in foreign affairs we must contend not just with our own perceptions of causes , forces and events , but with the often quite different perceptions of people in other nations with different heritages . When Latin Americans are told to give their people more humali rights or get along with less U.S. military assistance , the Latins tell us to keep all our military assistance . Obviously , they perceive the repression of dissent as more important to their survival than U.S. military aid . What this suggests is that the forces of the marketplace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penalty ? play a minimal role in diplomacy , despite the apparent successes of Dr. Kissinger in this regard . It also suggests that if the U.S. really wants to encourage liberal democracy abroad , more attention should go into assuring such countries higher levels of perceived security . If we continue to reduce other nations ' sense of safety , obviously we can expect human rights to be repressed and democracy to fade . DONALD L. MILLER Alexandria , Va. , May 1 , 1977 of Education in the interest of children to oppose a mayor . For example , La Guardia , who interfered in education less than most mayors , tried to take over the purchase of educational materials through his Department of Purchases . This would have made possible the censoring of books by the political authority . The Board of Education defeated this measure in the Legislature , and we had the support of every newspaper in the city . It is nothing new for Mayor Beame to want to assume authority over the school system . I can recall that we had many disputes with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he knew better than the Board of Education or the superintendents where schools should be located and what the educational needs were . I gather from the report in The Times that he now believes he can produce " quality education " by having a central administrative structure with authority similar to that of the Police or Fire Department . A stronger authority structure and a more autocratic school system is just To the Editor : Serious inflation of electricity bills would take place under President Carter 's program to increase use of coal , as long as E.P.A . standards for clean air are enforced . If scrubbers were used to decrease the sulfur in fuel to conform to E.P.A . regulations , hundreds of millions of dollars would be spent , as stated by W.D . Crawford , president of the Edison Institute ; a similar view of the cost of complying with each state 's E.P.A . standards was expressed by C. E. Bagge , president of the National Coal Association ( news story April 15 ) . A tremendous reduction in the permissible level of sulfur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : . , from 2.8 to 0.3 percent , nearly one-tenth the 1968 level . Was such a sharp reduction necessary ? President Carter does not wish to have the environment plundered , but art industrial society can not emulate To the Editor : The recent report that a New York court judge might be disposed to allow trial flights of the Concorde to J.F.K. has prompted me to say , Why not ? I have just returned from a monthlong business tour of France and Great Britain , where I encountered a lot of sadness and bitterness over the fact that we would not allow our staunchest allies to fly their new aircraft into New York City . Our French and British friends ca n't understand it . They 've invested a lot of their limited resources in the Concorde , and its success means a lot to their economies , as well as their national pride . I understand that the Concorde is only 1 or 2 decibels noisier than subsonic passenger aircraft , on a scale of 110 or 112 db . And this in the worst case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the difference. , Certainly it 's no cause for this continual brouhaha . I ride the subway to work , and two trains passing In a station are far noisier than any jet I 've ever heard . I would be happy to be able to fly to Europe in three-and-a-half hours . In any case , I do n't think we should what we do not need . Teachers and children are now too much the victims of autocratic administration and of political interference . Quality education will be determined not by a mayor acting as a deus ex machina but by creating better morale in the school system and by better meeting social problems in our city . Poverty , unemployment , inadequate nutrition and indifference are not helped by adding another level of autocratic control of schools . I hold no brief for the present Board of Education or the method of its appointment . However , the Mayor 's proposal is no solution for its defects . The character and quality of a Board of Education should be faced as an . independent problem . The quality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city . It will not be enhanced by an administration like those of the Police and Fire Departments . JAMES MARSHALL New York , May 3 , 1977 The writer , a member of the City Board of Education from 1935 to 1952 , was its president from 1938 to 1942. the wigwam existence of Minnehaha . The E.P.A . may ultimately be held responsible for a lamentable failure of our time , insofar as it has advised and enforced conditions which have seriously handicapped the development of an advanced coal technology as v. ? : ? 11 as an adequate use of our second geatest resource , bituminous coal . Since the payments to OPEC threaten a state of near-bankruptcy , if continued , the ? present environmental position in respect to anti-stripping bills , reclamation procedures and enforcement of standards of no more than 0.3 percent sulfur in fuel should be regarded as potentially inimical to the security of the nation . A moderate relaxation of the standards regulating the sulfur level in fuel would greatly increase the use of coal and be anti-inflationary , and it would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ BARACH , M.D. New York , April 26 , 1977 treat our closest European friends so badly , with so little justification . One afterthought . I do n't believe there would be much effect of the SST on the ozone layer , compared to the thousands of supersonic military flights at all times . JOHN SEAMAN New York , May 2 , 1977 The writer is associate editor of Electronic Products magazine . Question for Young To the Editor : Ambassador Andrew Young was reported in The Times of May 4 as having said to participants of the biennial meeting of the Economic Commission for Latin America : " We have learned that we can not solve world problems or those of the hemisphere and that ' made in U.S.A. ' does not mean it will necessarily work in Latin America . " Why then should " made in the U.S.A. " work in Africa , in particular South Africa ? MARION CREWS Hartsdale , N.Y. , May 5 , 1977 Toward Relaxed Clean-Air Standards on Coal A Case for Concorde Trial Flights to J.F.K. Housing Laws : Of Rent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editorials in The Times have shaken , annoyed and angered a lot of people . We used to accept your editorials as the voice of New York 's conscience . But no more . Not after the shocker " A Housing Law Nobody Needs " on March 21 ; and the even worse , " A Chance to Repair Rent Control " on April 23 and " Who Dares Touch Rent Control " on April 30 . The April 23 editorial , after about 800 words of misleading rhetoric , said rent control and rent stabilization ought to be allowed to expire . Fortunately the Republican leaders of the State Senate were more interested in not forcing the rest of the middleincome taxpayers out of the city than in listening to you  --  and three days later announced their decision to extend the rent laws for four years . Almost immediately your editorialist on city real estate affairs came with a plea to Governor Carey to veto the extension , and a warning that the Treasury Department may make trouble for us over the city 's maturing debt . And two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York was one of five groups that announced the filing of a suit in Federal Court to make sure the Treasury Department swings into action . The other " major apartment house groups " hacking the Federal Court suit filed b3 , lawyer Roy Cohn are : Community Housing Improvement Program ; Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York ; Bronx Realty Advisory Board ; Builders Council of New York . Whatever happened to that oldfashioned idea that Times editorial writers are impartial , fair-minded experts who consider all aspects of a problem and back the solution that is best for the public ? In spite of your misleading editorials it now seems likely that the rent regulation issue has been solved . This leaves the need for public protection in the conversion of rental buildings to co-ops and condominiums . Your March 21 editorial discussed co-op conversion curbs , concluding : " The law Goodman-Dearie should be allowed to lapse on July 1 . " The whole thrust of this editorial is a reversal of the facts . The purpose of the law , passed in 1974 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to convert their buildings . Landlords are required to present plans which are acceptable to at least 35 percent of the tenants . Thus tenants faced with exorbitant prices and terms , and nowhere to go ( 2.8 percent vacancies ) can join and negotiate fair deals . In Tudor City , where we live , we have special interest in this law , as do Stuyvesant Town , Peter Cooper Village and every middle-income apartment house , because we are the prime conversion targets . We have friends in the city who are still living through conversions that were started before 1974 . Their experiences are frightening . Here 's how conversions are handled ? pre-1974 . The landlord sends around a plan , sometimes door-to-door , late at night , by uniformed guards . A few vacant apartments are sold to friends . Then harassment starts . It is n't landlord harassment . It 's early purchasers , put in by the landlord , against tenants . Every tactic of the worst landlord is used , very legal , and very hard on tenants . They 're harassed out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neighborhoods . Who will do the work and pay the taxes if everybody except the very rich and the very poor are driven out of New York ? Why not the same deal on co-op conversion curbs as on rent stabilization  --  a four-year extension , and ask the same study commission to work on what the law should be after that ? JOHN MCKEAN New York , May 2 , 1977 The writer is president , Tudor City Tenants ' Ass'n. , and chairman , MidManhattan Neighborhood Ass'n.                     