@@734344

txt PUSHED BY higher prices for gasoline , heating oil , and housing , the cost of living in Chicago jumped 1.8 per cent in July , the highest monthly Increase since March . The July increase boosted the Chicago inflation rate to 9.5 per cent for the first seven months of 1979 . Despite Carter administration predictions that the 1979 inflation rate nationally will be about 11 per cent , the inflation in Chicago for the year would be 16.8 per cent if the rate continued at the pace recorded in the first seven months here . The 16.8 per cent inflation rate would be the highest reached in Chicago for a U.S. Steel Corp . plans to close its Waukegan mill and most of its Joliet facilities around Nov. 1 because of " unprofitability , " possibly jeopardizing 1,200 jobs . Page 2. calendar year since 1946 when the rate was 19.8 per cent . THE PRICE Index last month In Chicago was 13.5 per cent higher than the July , 1978 , level . This means the " market basket " of goods and services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last month . Nationally , consumer prices rose only 1 per cent last month , the same as the June increase . The June increase in Chicago was 1.6 per cent . The only bright spot in the July figures released by the U.S. Department of Labor was a moderating of food prices , especially meat . Gasoline Jumped a whopping 42 per cent in the last 12 months , the department said . IN CHICAGO , about three-fifths of last month 's 1.8 per cent increase came from higher housing costs and about one-fifth from higher transportation costs , according to William E. Rice , regional commissioner of the department 's Bureau of Labor Statistics . Rice said housing costs were up 2.5 per cent , mainly as a result df higher home purchase and financing costs but also because of higher fuel oil and piped gas prices . Residential rent cost rose .7 per cent . Higher gasoline costs accounted for the bulk of the 1.7 per cent rise in transportation costs , end higher maintenance and repair costs and used car prices also were factors , although new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ COST of eating out rose 2.8 per cent , food prices were down .9 per cent , affecting a large number of meats , poultry and fish items , and eggs , Rice said . The increase made July the seventh straight month - of Inflation near or above the I per cent mark nationally , the Labor Department said . While some financial expertrlear the fast pace of rising prices could result in an inflation rate near /3 per cent for the Continue I pn pag .. ? col. 5                     