@@732374

txt Handkerchiefs dabbed at eyes all over the courtroom of Circuit Judge Anthony J. Scotillo during a recent theft case bond hearing in Arlington Heights . Judge Scotillo had just heard the mother of an 18-year-old defendant say that she had come into court against the advice of her husband because she loved her son , the eldest of five children , and wanted to help him . She said the boy had been arrested previously for burglary , and has had alcohol and drug problems . Scotillo told the young man his mother was the only friend he had in the world , and asked him when he had last displayed any affection for her . After granting the bond , the judge urged the boy to kiss his mother . The young man hesitated for a long time . " When he finally reached over to her , I could n't call the next case I had such a lump in my throat , " the judge saidlater . Scotillo said he has been prescribing physical affection between parents and children for about five years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boys to shake hands and say thanks . Very often they 've drifted so far apart . They 're in two different worlds . Only a near tragedy can bring them together . " The judge said cultural pressures for " toughness " and independence probably have something to do with the emotional chasm between parents and children . He wo n't say that his prescription evokes great changes in the young people he sees , but he thinks they are on better terms with those who care for them . Chicagoan Peter Bensinger experienced what might be called an eventful few days last week . On Thursday he was in Washington , hearing the news that the Senate had confirmed his nomination as head of the Justice Department 's Drug-Enforcement Administration . On Friday night , he was in the delivery room at Evanston Hospital to witness the birth of his daughter , Elizabeth Brooke . By Sunday night he was back in Washington . Peter 's wife , Judy , said the baby was due Jan. 6 , so the Bensingers had been juggling schedules continually as they awaited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in April . The family includes another daughter , Jennifer , 4 , and Peter 's son , Peter , 18 . The booth in which Clark Gable sat , goblets that touched the lips of the likes of Joan Crawford , and the chandelier that sparkled light upon the Duke and Duchess of Windsor , Noel Coward , Gertrude Lawrence , Elizabeth Taylor , and Richard Burton are n't all that will be auctioned when furnishings of Chicago 's famed Pump Room go on the block at 12:30 p. m . Saturday . Also included in what Pump Room aficionados probably consider the Valentine 's Day Massacre of 1976 will be the Pup Room , that fountain of libation water only for Near North canines and felines and others of the pet population . The stone and bronze shell once ' was commended for kindness to animals by Chicago 's Anti-Cruelty Society . Everything will be open to bids from those who pay $10 per person admittance fee to the champagne bidfest . Auction items will be on display from 10 a. m. until auctioneer Col. Harold Pick sounds his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will reopen in the spring . Those who get their chuckles from reading Town and Country magazine , one of those chronicles of the rich and beautiful , titled and traveled , may be amused by the Duchess D'Uzes ' article in the current issue on her cruise last August aboard the M/S Daphne and her journey into Russia with her pulchritudinous pals . One of those named in the article however , no doubt is less than thrilled . The duchess mentions that " conductor George Solti " was along on the junket , never mentioning what he conducts the Chicago Symphony Orchestra , as we all knowl , and she spelled his first name , Georg , with a final " e . " Tsk , duchess .                     