@@729647

txt Once again , conscientious voters in a primary are being asked to make a difficult decision  --  to pass judgment on the worth of competing judges for the patronage-heavy post of Surrogate of New York County . The predominance of Democrats in Manhattan makes it probable that the man chosen to run on that party 's line in the primary next Tuesday will , in effect , be getting a fourteen year hold on the Surrogate 's chair . The fateful character of this primary illustrates what is wrong with a system that puts the burden on voters to make judicial selections , instead of leaving that responsibility to nonpartisan screening panels . The voters ? decision is doubly difficult when two experienced , respected judges are on the ballot . The Regular Democrats have selected Justice Frederick Backer , ' who has been on the bench for twenty years ? first in Family Court and now in State Supreme Court . The Reform Democrats and the Liberal party have picked Family Court Judge Millard L. Midonick , who has sat on this bench for nine years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court 's judges at the state Constitution Convention . The Democratic contest for a nominee to oppose Surrogate Morris Aarons , a Republican serving under an interim appointment from Governor Rockefeller , has been unusually bitter because the county 's two Surrogates  --  the other is S. Samuel DiFalco , by no stretch of the imagination a reformer  --  control patronage of about a million dollars a year . Traditionally the guardianships they confer are received by former- officeholders and judges back in private practice , district leaders and clubhouse favorites . Another factor is political in a broader sense than who becomes the official nominee for Surrogate : this contest is a test of whether further progress can be made in reforming this politics-ridden branch of the judiciary ? ' the first such test since Mayor Lindsay decided that his Presidential aspirations could best be served as a Democrat . In 1966 Senator Robert F. Kennedy threw his weight behind Supreme Court Justice Samuel Silverman , aiding his election as Surrogate and getting reform ' off to a strong start . Whether Mayor Lindsay will line up with the reformers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he issues a planned statement on the Surrogate 's race this week . The primary fight has had several beneficial effects even if it has forced a tough choice on voters . First , it prompted the deans of three law schools in the city to name a panel to select the best-qualified candidate ( the panel chose Judge Midonick ) . Second , it caused the Association of the Bar of the City of New York and the New York County Lawyers ' Association to study the candidates in advance of a primary instead of just before the election ( both associations , without expressing a preference , have " approved " Justices Backer and Midonick ) . Third , the candidates have agreed to limit campaign spending . Ali these actions set good precedent . The essential question , in our view , comes dawn to which candidate can best take the Surrogate 's Court out of politics and which is most dedicated to reform . Both men have set forth comprehensive proposals for taking . partisanship out of the appointment of guardians , but Judge Midonick 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Justice Backer . More important , the Midonick identification with reform IS much firmer than his rival 's . Aware that both men would make excellent Surrogates , we believe that the cause of reform would be more positively advanced by the selection of Judge Midonick.                     