@@732498

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor Housing Abandonment : ' Reason to Hope ' To the Editor : I am always heartened to see The Times address national problems . However , your April 12 news article on housing abandonment is technically incomplete . Your reporter , Joseph Fried , while noting that housing abandonment is rampant and " complex , " misses the heart of the problem , which is : Building maintenance costs , particularly fuel oil , are significantly outpacing tenants ' incomes . Therefore , proposed rent raises to curb abandonment mean nothing . The question is simply : How can people pay ? Landlords who advocate rent raises and decontrol make no attempt to explain how the income of our population , particularly our poor , can ever keep pace . If tenants can not pay , and rents do not increase , any landlord faces hard economic choices . Building owners can and do choose not to make needed repairs , not to pay taxes , not to provide heat , or to evict tenants in the hope of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choices results in the first step toward a building 's ultimate abandonment . Today 's housing economics just do not work for the owner seeking a profit on old multifamily tenements . This situation is upsetting enough , for it presages the decline of our cities . However , more upsetting is the negativism of the editorial on the topic . By simply stating the complexity and enormity of the problem , it encourages the psychology of abandonment and the loss of hope in the people and institutions of our cities . Courageous owners will find a way to stick it out through hard times . But equally important is the fact that the poor and middle-class citizens of our cities have decided to tackle the problem of abandonment themselves . With The Will of the Heartland To the Editor : Having spent seven years in the Heartland , I can testify that there is no significant isolationism and no loss of will here ( James Reston 's April 23 column ) . As the result of the mistaken Vietnam policy of our political leadership for two decades , Middle America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people simply do not trust the judgment of the Government . They are not impressed by the so-called elites , liberal as well as conservative , and they mistrust the information media almost as much as the Government . Mistrust of Government has deep roots in the American psyche , and this fresh new shoot is a natural result of the circumstances . It is a mistake to interpret this mistrust as loss of will . Middle America has enough will for the whole country . It is waiting for authentic leadership . HOWARD TRIvERS Foreign Service Officer , Ret . Muncie , Ind. , April 25 , 1976 ? Construction Priority To the Editor : I would like to recommend that Governor Carey 's " Council on the New York Economy " give its immediate attention to the problem of the completion of the hundreds of millions of dollars of partially completed construction projects which have been abandoned because of the lack of finances to complete the work . HARRIS L. PRESENT New York , May 5 , 1976 To the Editor : Sidney Baumgarten 's letter April 30 condemning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuisances " exhibiting " flagrant antisocial conduct " makes me very angry . As a young woman addicted to walking , who feels that it should be my right to walk safely wherever any man can , I would like to point out that I feel safer whenever other lone women , prostitutes or otherwise , are on the street with me . I snatch at these indications of my safety because I feel genuinely threatened when walking down even the " safest " streets of New York City . Prostitutes are genuine solicitors displaying their wares for an obviously demanding public . As I walk each morning up Fifth Avenue , I am subjected to any number of unprovoked , unwanted solicitations , which range from loud kissing noises to muttered queries as to whether I would perform a sex act . I ca n't sit in Washington Square Park to read without some man wandering over to deliver his line . I was recently accompanied two blocks by a tousled increasing numbers of " sweat equity " renovations of vacant buildings , the growth of block associations and community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organizations , there is great reason to hope . The people may well succeed where business and government have given up . The Times has an important role to play in saving our cities . And that is to report both sides of the picture . When the citizens of our cities finally lose hope and give up on their homes , abandonment will be more than complex  --  it will be unstoppable . In the meantime , we should all hear both sides of the story . PAUL MOORE Jr . Episcopal Bishop of New York New York , April 29 , 1976 Of Israel 's Progressive Tradition and Survival To the Editor : In her May 3 letter , Dana Seidenberg spoke of two events that should " outrage world Jewry . " One was the new economic cooperation deal between Israel and South Africa and the other the demonstration by 40,000 Israelis to retain all the once Arab-held territories . Ms. Seidenberg is correct when saying that Jews have always had the tradition " of being a progressive , moral force in the world , " but what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Jewish expense . When Jews faced inquisitions they were progressive ; when Jews faced r ? grams they were moral , and when Jews faced the Nazis they were both progressive and moral . Even after the immoral Arab attack on Yom Kippur ( 1973 ) Israel remained progressive and willing to talk peace with any Arab state that recognized its existence . The result was the immoral racist-Zionism U.N . resolution . The time has come to choose between progressivism and other moral traditions on the one hand and survival on the other . When an immoral world boycotts Israel , then Israel should do business with whomever will reciprocate . When an immoral world tells Jews to compromise their religion and the defense of their country by giving away their land , then it is their duty to demonstrate and to fight for what is morally theirs . GLENN PERLMAN Teaneck , N.J. , May 3 , 1976 vagrant reeking of B.O. and liquor who pleaded with me to join him for a " drink . " If this is n't " flagrant antisocial conduct " and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is . A public servant who sees fit to criticize prostitutes , who threaten with nothing but temptation ? and who can indeed measure the extent of their demand in the waiting lines of chauffeur-driven Cadillacs double-parked for blocks up . Seventh Avenue on a Saturday night ? is perceiving the situation in an extremely one-sided manner . As for real-estate values ' fluctuating because of the presence of prostitutes , individual stores might suffer from prostitutes plying their trade on their doorsteps , but business as a whole does not . Prostitution is a symptom rather than a cause of a changing neighborhood , and as part of the richness of city life is as necessary as any other business . How , for instance , could New York ever hold a political convention without prostitutes in abundance ? MICHELE BERTOMEN New York , May 3 , 1976 Politics and the Fed To the Editor : In his April 29 column , William Safire criticizes Governor Carter 's proposal that the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board serve coterminously with the President with the statement : " Monetary policy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the White House in Mr. Carter 's politicization ! ' Mr. Safire might be interested ' to know that in October 1969 , when : I was on the staff of President Nixon 's Council of Economic Advisers , I was asked to prepare a memorandum addressing the question of whether Or not ? there was any historical support for the idea that the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and the President should have coincident terms'of office . Both Mr. Nixon and Mr. Burnso I was told , were interested in .. ther possibility of establishing coincident terms ? of office . There is in fact a great deal of historical support for such a policy . - All of Mr. Burns ' predecessors stated in , public , at one time or another , , that ' , they favored terms of office coincident with the President 's . Indeed , ? ? Mr. Eccles , the first chairman appointed . under the Banking Act of 1935 , which is the legislation establishing .. the . board in its current form , thought that . the chairman should serve at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ version of the Bank- , ing Act of 1935 included a provision to that effect , although the bill as passed ( through the good offices of Senator Carter Glass ) merely stated that the chairman would serve a fouryear term . Commenting on this ' in 1949 , the Hoover Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of Government stated : " Apparently unintentionally , these terms of chairman and vice chairman begin in the last year of each Presidential term . " Excepting the file copy , I have no idea what became of the memorandum I wrote six and a half years ago , ' not am I settled on the merits of the case : I do , however , count myself arming those less certain than Mr. Satire of the unwisdom of centralizing and politicizing monetary policy . In so doing , I find myself in the somewhat mixed company of ( among others ) every Federal Reserve chairman - who has served since 1935 and Mr. Satire 's ' former boss ( and mine ) , Richard Nixon . PAUL N. COURANT Assistant Professor of Economics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1976 ? As Our Mail Meanders To the Editor : There is much concern nowadays about the slowness of the mail system . In fact , it took eleven days for a first ; class piece of mail to come from Princeton ( sixty miles down the road ) to New York . Once I was standing in a horrendously long line at  --  the Roosevelt ' sta-ti on at 55th Street , and I commented to the person in front of me about the sad state of the mails . The reply : . " .1 understand that if you can pass ? the test , you do n't get the job . " That seems totally logical . WILLIAM 1 .... dirm New York , May 3 , 1976 ? A Wrong ' Kindness ' To the Editor : In an April 26 letter , X. Y. Z. defended suicide as " death with dignity , " ' explaining that his wife , terminally ill with cancer , had chosen to kill herself with his " full consent and cooperation . " It is customary , as we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to put them to sleep , " as the euphemism goes ) rather than to let them suffer for a time longer , but that is understandable . In their case there is no hope of a hereafter , no freedom of choice , and their suffering can not have any spiritual purpose . For those of us , however , who believe in God and . in personal immortality , it is grievously wrong to extend this " kindness " ' to human beings ; and even for unbelievers there are cogent legal , medical and social arguments against suicide . Finally , for Christians there is . the added undeniable tact that Jesus Christ did not choose " to die with dignity . " ( Msgr . ) A. V. St. Albans , N. Y. , April 26 , 1976 ? The Pakistani Initiative To the Editor : Twice in recent days  --  in an editorial on April 21 and in the Week in Review on April 25 ? your newspaper has described the Indian Prime Mintsters letter to Prime Minister Bhutto as an Indian initiative . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Pakistan proposal . As pointed out by your New Delhi correspondent , William Borders ( April 20 ) , the " key " to the agreement to resume dialogue for normalizing relations lay in " Pakistan 's conciliatory gesture to withdraw a complaint it had made to the International Civil Aviation Organization about India 's suspension of overflights by Pakistani aircraft made in a letter sent to Prime Minister Gandhi on March 27 . " M. I. Btrrr Minister ( Information ) Embassy of Pakistan Washington , April 29 , - 1976 Prostitution : One-Sided Criticism The Times welcomes letters from readers . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we are unable to acknowledge or ' to return unpublished letters .                     