@@729090

txt A lanky giant with an angled , slightly Lincolnesque face dribbles toward the basket , feints , then ? swish ? effortlessly loops in a fadeaway hook . But what covers the hollows of that earnest face like 12 hours ' worth of snow on a ski slope ? Shaving cream , if these eyes do n't deceive . In one of those dubiously scientific experiments for which TV commercials are famous , Jerry West of the Los Angeles Lakers is trying to score points for an instant lather . Click to what channel you will these days . The basketball , football , and hockey players are there ahead of you . When they 're not " doing their thing " ? and that does add up to a lot of programming time , does n't it ? ? they 're interrupting other people 's programs to deliver a Message from the Sponsor . The athlete-pitchman has become the king of the unhidden persuaders . Logic does a fade-out Once upon a time your Oscar-Emmy-Tony muscleman was pretty well restricted to emoting on behalf of breakfast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a mighty jaw chewing with slow ecstasy a mouthful of strawberries , milk , and what , alas , has tested out to be a little less than Super Flakes . At least there was a pseudologic to it all , like that between pale-cameo New York debutantes and the facial soap they used to endorse . But now athletes and ex-athletes with coyly furrowed sincerity are recommending compact cars , dishwashers , insurance companies . Even savings banks ! Endorsements have always been a measure of celebrity-status rather than what Madison Avenue calls product-relevance . But obviously a new standard of irrelevance is being achieved these days . There is a game called " What 's the Product ? " ? especially suspenseful for the occasional TV-commercial viewer to play . With extravagant leisure , a commercial sets an idyllic scene . A girl walks along a deserted beach . A man strolls a forest path . A yachtsman squints saltily at his sails . But what 's the product ? Hair coloring or soda pop ? Almost reluctantly the sponsor forgoes the scene-setting and names his product . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , like TV entertainment , is mostly a matter of merchandising dreams . Like child like mother It is no coincidence that the more irrelevant , the more indirect television commercials become the more pointed , the less subtle becomes the public 's criticism of them . Ralph Nader has called the vague nonpollutant claims of certain gasolines . another form of smoke screen . The Food and Drug Administration has composed a list of shopping no-nos-369 drug products judged to be either ineffective or hazardous , including those of prominent television advertisers . Angry and organized mothers of America have got the toy manufacturers grabbing their Saturday morning saturation campaigns and retreating , leaving their Johnny Seven guns behind . The mothers are angry because they know their children are susceptible  --  because they know they are susceptible themselves . Like their children , they too crave that their choices in life be sanctioned  --  from mouthwash on up . And the fathers hope against crazy hope that the charismatic blessing of a basketball star will bring a touch of grace into their day , via a shared brand of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we TV viewers push the Blab-Off and run for the refrigerator at spieltime . But we can be reached . Because we do like to dream that we are young athletes  --  walking those beaches , sailing toward those open seas . Do-it-ourselves programming . . . Television commercials can continue to play upon susceptibility , further refining the irrelevant endorsement and the time-honored practice of selling a car by means of a pretty girl standing beside it . But they do so at increasing risks . The television addict is notoriously passive ? why else would he be a television addict ? But his credulity shrinks year by year . Furthermore , the age of the cassette awaits : Everyman his own network programmer . For a captive audience there is now a real promise of alternatives , and the television viewer is having his own revolution of rising expectations . The message to the sponsors is this : Peddling the old dreams may , at last , no longer be good enough . For the new dream in the head of the TV customer is an uncut version @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who think he would miss the time-outs for commercials just have n't been listening to his message .                     