@@729262

txt Dr. Franklin Yoder , Illinois director of public health , made a surprise inspection of several Chicago nursing homes yesterday and described one of the homes as a " horrible , lousy place . " The state 's top health official also announced that st ate health inspectors will be permanently assigned to Chicago within a week for the first time . " We are no longer going to take the city 's word for everything , " said Yoder . " We are not going to discredit the city 's inspections , but their reports on nursing home conditions will only be part of our expanded program . " Gave License Automatically The state automatically has licensed Chicago nursing homes approved by city health inspectors . Yoder said rubberstamping based on city inspections would end after inspectors from his 1,100-member staff in Springfield are assigned to Chicago . He suggested his office may seek " complete control " over nursing home operations in Illinois . The homes visited yesterday by Yoder and his aides were the Mount Pisgah Nursing Home , 4220 S. Champlain Av. ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Park Nursing Home , 1513 S. Albany Av . Dozens of Cans Workmen at Mount Pisgah were in the midst of rOplastering and repainting when Yoder and Russell Bryant , administrator of long term care for the state agency , entered the building . A nurse said the owners began the redecorating job over the weekend . Sinks had been pulled from the wall and dozens of paint cans were found thruout the home . Plumbers were installing now pipes and plastering was under way in many rooms . In rooms where work had not yet begun , the old paint hung in strips from the walls and ceilings . " This is a horrible building , " said Yoder . " It 's a lousy place . They 're starting to do something about it and I suspect it 's a result of THE TRIBLTNE 'S articles . " " Good Evidence " Yoder said that since the Task Force reports of patient neglect and abuse in some private nursing homes began appearing Sunday , his office has received a " barrage of complaints " from relatives of nursing home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in cooperation with the Better Government Association . Bryant opened a drawer in one patient 's room and found a box of prescription pills on which the typewritten name of one patient had been scratched out and another 's written below it . " Are you switching pills for the patients ? " Bryant asked a licensed practical nurse . The nurse denied such practices existed in the home . " When you scratch a name and put another one in , that 's real good evidence you 're switching medicine and that 's absolutely forbidden , " Bryant said . At the Douglas Park Home , the administrator ordered reporters and photographers to leave before she would permit Yoder and Bryant to inspect the home . Yoder emerged about 30 minutes later and said he observed the staff serving the noon meal and thought the food was excellent . He said he noticed minor housekeeping violations , b u t concluded the " patients seem to be pretty well cared for . " Yoder described the Dearborn House as a good example of how " a little money and effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ care shows all over this place . " The home houses 126 patients . In a related development in Washington , Rep. David Prypr ID. , Ark. , an outspoken critic of nursing home operations and the sponsor of a bill to create a committee on aging in the House , said he hopes the disclosures by THE TRIBUNE will prompt similar probes in other large cities .                     