@@729757

txt A former policeman who acknowledged he took up to $1,500 a month in bribes charged yesterday that policemen in Harem paid off their informants with heroin in return for such stolen goods as suits , cigarettes and whisky . The former policeman , dismissed from the department on charges of taking $100 from a drug dealer , also told the Excerpts from the testimony appear on Page 54 . Knapp Commission that policemen working in Harlem frequently talked about using addict informants as their heroin salesmen . The . charge that some New York policemen were deeply and regularly involved in narcotics sales was made by Waverly Logan , a 30-year-old cab driver who'for 11 months was a memo ber of the preventive enforcement patrol , an elite unit of 20 black and Puerto Rican patrolman assigned the specific job of reducing Harlem street crime . Mr. Logan gave his testimony as the Knapp Commission began its second week of public hearings on the extent of police corruption in New York City . Gambling Payoffs Cited The commission , headed by Whitman Knapp , a Wall Street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unit in the city was receiving payoffs from gamblers and the average monthly bribe ranged from $400 to $1,500 for each plainclothes man . The commission heard testiI many that all but two of abproximately 75 patrolman assigned to the Bedford-Stuyvessant section of Brooklyn took small but regular bribes from check-cashing establishments gamblers , tow-truck operators , and supermarket managers . Yesterday the commission counsel , Michael F. Armstrong , asked Mr. Logan , a young , black former patrolman : " Are you aware of any incidents where the narcotics police officers would actually sell narcotics through informants ? In other words , they would sell the narcotics and then the police officers would take a cut ? " " I 've heard of it quite frequently that it has happened , but I never engaged in it myself , " Mr. Logan replied , later noting that he had heard such cases discussed among policemen . Mr. Armstrong also asked the former patrolman whether narcotics police officers made it a practice " to actually sell narcotics to informants for goods and services ? " Mr. Logan said informants would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , anything like that " and then " the cop would give him some narcotics for it . " " And this was a fairly common practice ? " Mr. Armstrong asked . " It was a common practice , " Mr. Logan replied . Witness Under Guard Mr. Logan , who is being guarded by the police , also charged that although two members of the 20-man unit he was assigned to did not actively solicit bribes , that " as far as my knowledge , there was nobody that would n't take money . " The former policeman also said that the average take during his last five months on the Preventive Enforcement Patrol was about $1,500 a month : " What would you say the average of the other people in the group was for a monthly take ? " Mr. Armstrong asked . " I would say the good scorers , the heavy scorers , may make about $3,000 . The average like myself was about $1,500 . " In addition to his comments about narcotics and the size of the average monthly bribes , Mr. Logan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telephone conversation with a nunnamed assistant chief inspector that the special squad was not supposed to make felony gambling arrests . Assistant Chief Inspector Eldridge Waith , now on leave of absence as Commissioner of Public Safety of St. John 's , Virgin Islands , but commander of Manhattan North at the time of Mr. Logan 's statement , was asked for comment in e telephone interview . Chief Waith said he thought that Mr. Logan was " a nut " and that the special squad was a " superior group " that had " three good men " as immediate superiors . " I never told anyone not to make any kind of arrest , " he said : " They could make gambling arrests : I told them anything you see up there , any arrests you want to make , you make it . " There were the following other developments yesterday outside the crowded Knapp Commission hearing room in the building of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York at 42 West 44th Street : , 9The Sergeants ' Benevolent Association tried for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an order signed by Supreme Court Justice Birdie Amsterdam requiring members of the Knapp Commission to show cause today why the hearing should not bp ended . Justice Amsterdam ruled on Oct. 15 against a similar action by the sergeants ' group on the ground that " until the actual situation arises end the rights of an individual are infringed , no basis exists for judicial intervention in advance . " 9Edward J. Kiernan , president of the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association , said the first step in restoring the public confidence in the police " must be the repudiation of Knapp ? Commission tactics which are directly opposed to our ideals of justice , and which will ' inevitably tar every member of the Police Department with the same indiscriminate brush . " Mayor 's Letter Answered Mr. Kiernan 's statement came in a hand-delivered letter replying to a letter Monday from Mayor Lindsay in which the Mayor said that the hearings were a " discomfort and shock " for many citizens and policemen , but that dealing decisively with police corruption was in " the best interest ' of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who Mr. ' Armstrong said had previously told part of his story to agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and members of the Internal Affairs Division of the Police Department , was accompanied on the witness stand by a ' lawyer , Martin Garbus . Mr. Logan was the third commission witness with extensive police experience to describe his gradual introduction to increasingly more serious kinds of police corruption . Mr. Logan told of one occasion when he was assigned to a precinct in Brooklyn when eight or nine cars responded to a reported burglary in a men 's clothing store near Pitkin and Saratoga Avenue . " Everyone was stuffing clothes inside their coats and pants , " he recalled . " A crowd gathered outside and was laughing because everyone was kind of fat with the clothes , " Mr. Logan continued , The former policeman said the patrolman justified the looting of the store on the ground that the owner would make false tax and insurance claims and " we 're just getting ours back , " With Mr. Armstrong acting as his guide , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he and other policemen " scored " or collected an immediate payment from a large number of gamblers and small narcotic dealers . He also told of an unnamed , sergeant advising him that ' ' when he scored " a guy , try to leave him happy . " Asked by a commission member how this , was possible , Mr. Logan said , that it ' you took all the money a narcotics dealer had on him itl was considered good form to " leave him some of his heroin so he could get back into business . " Mr. Armstrong said at the end of , yesterday 's hearings that the commission would present film and tape evidence today of its own investigation into narcotics corruption and take testimony from Paul J. Curran , chairman of the State Commissin of Investigation .                     