@@733882

txt One Democratic analyst calls the GOP gains " remarkable . " Another Democrat comments , " It looks as if all that Republican planning and strategy must have paid off . " An analyst with Democratic allegiances says , " I 'd love to be a Republican strategist right now. ? -I 'd be in fat city . " The subject of all their comments : substantial Republican gains in races for state legislatures across the United States . Almost unnoticed , Republicans poured $2 million into legislative races in Election ' 78 , and the investment paid handsome dividends . Vote counters estimate the party added between 250 and 330 seats in state legislatures , and helped Republicans gain control of both houses in seven additional states . The gains are important for several reasons : ? Republicans desperately need added clout at the state level to protect themselves when Congress is redistricted after 1980 . GOP chairman Bill Brock estimates the party lost as // From page 1 Those GOP victories many as 45 seats in Congress because of ' Democratic-controlled redistricting after the 1970 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GOP an opportunity to build the party from the grass roots up ? rather than from the White House down , as was tried in the past without much success . ? Large numbers of Republican state legislators provide the GOP with a wide selection of politically seasoned candidates to enter into races for Congress and other , high offices . State legislatures are the parties ' " farm clubs " where young politicians are groomed for the big leagues ' Despite its gains in this election , the GOP remains in the minority in most state houses . Every 10 years each state is carved into congressional districts with approximately equal numbers of persons . For many years , political parties , through a process that came to be known as gerrymandering ( named after Elbridge Gerry , governor of Massachusetts in 1812 when the process was first employed ) , . have drawn lines in ways that exclude . the party Out of power from as many seats as possible . Today , with the use of computers and precinct printouts , gerrymandering has become an exact science . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislature in each state , or the governors 's office , hope to block any gerrymandering that could be disastrous . The Nov. 7 election gave them such protection in 30 states , according to chairman Brock . Previously , the GOP had the means to protect itself in only 17 states . Chairman Brock says that in the 1980 elections , the party will again strive for 200 to 300 pickups of legisIdtive seats , which should add even more states to the protected column . . The bulk of the gains this year were centered in the Midwest , West , and New England . States where the GOP captured both houses of the legislature were Utah , Arizona , North Dakota , Kansas , Iowa , Indiana , Vermont , and New Hampshire . Previously , the GOP controlled both houses in only Idaho , Wyoming , South Dakota , and Nebraska .                     