@@729656

txt The 90-day wage and price freeze will not be extended , President Nixon promised today during an extraordinary appearance before a joint session of Congress . He told the lawmakers , however , that a " system " of wage and price stabilization will be created which will assure " that America is not again afflicted by the virus of runaway inflation . " There was no hint during the President 's half hour address , carried live over national radio and television , about what the stabilization system might include . He said he has invited representatives of Congress , business , labor and agriculture to meet with him in the next few days to discuss what should be instituted to control inflation after Nov. 19 when the wage . price freeze ends . The first of these sessions will be held tomorrow , the White House announced . AFL . CIO President George Meany , one of the most vocal critics of the administration 's new eco ? nomic policies , will meet with the President at that time . Others to Attend Other labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of the United Auto Workers ; I. W. Abel , president of the United Steel Workers ; Joseph A. Beirne , president of the Communications Workers , and John Lyons , president of the Iron Workers . While soliciting suggestions about what steps should be taken after the current freeze expires , the President emphaText  --  Page 4 sized in his address that the economic stabilization t e c h ? niques , whatever they are , will be temporary . Asks Speed by Congress " Nothing would be more detrimental to the new pros . perity in the long run than to put the nation 's great , strong free enterprise system in a permanent straitjacket of government controls , " he said . He called on the lawmakers , who returned yesterday from a month-long summer recess , to give speedy approval to his economic proposals announced Aug. 15 . Nixon urged Congress to give top priority to his proposals to remove the 7 per cent excise tax on automobiles ; provide a two-step tax credit for firms purchasing equipment which will create new jobs , and permit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for 1973 to take effect next Jan. 1 . Enactment of the three tax proposals will create a half million jobs in the coming year , Nixon said . Opposes Bigger Changes While seeking quick approval of his measures from the Democratic - controlled Congress , Nixon also cautioned against raising spending and cutting taxes beyond the recommendations he has forwarded . " To spend more than we can afford or to tax less than we can afford is the sure route to prices higher than we can afford , " he told the Senate and House members in the House chernhor , His long-range goal is to provide 100 million new jobs for Americans within the next decade , the President said . He emphasized that while the United States will continue to be a good and generous nation , the time has come to give new attention to America 's own interests . Other nations in the world now are able to compete economically with the U. S. , he said , and the U. S. must react by doing what it thinks is best for its own citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to compete with one hand tied behind its back , " Nixon declared . He said that in order for the U. S. to remain No. 1 in the world economically and compete successfully , there must be a strong America with a healthy economy . The great goals of the U. S. can not be accomplished without the revenues generated by the American free enterprise system , Nixon said , criticizing those who attack the system . Says No Job Is Demeaning " The much-maligned American system has produced more abundance , more widely shared , and more opportunity for more people than any other system , any time , any place in the history of man , " Nixon asserted . He called on Americans to work hard . He repeated the theme of his Labor Day address that no work is demeaning or beneath a person 's dignity if it provides food for his table and shelter for his children . " The thing that is demeaning is for a man to refuse work and then ask someone else who works to pay taxes to keep him on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quick passage of his revenue sharing and welfare reform bills , urging adoption in this session of Congress . " Let us get rid of a welfare system where going on welfare is more profitable than going to work , " Nixon said .                     