@@729489

txt The Federal Trade Commission , invoking previously unused authority , announced its intention today to order all major industries to substantiate their advertising claims . Orders to file data in support of claims Involving the safety , performAnce , efficacy , quality and comparative prices of advertised products will be issued , industry by industry , about every three months . The files will be open to the public . The first order , now being drafted , will ; , be , directed to automobile manufacturers , it was announced . Data filed as a result of the order are expected to be available for public inspection in about six molths . " Eventually we will get out I orders against every major inIdustry , " Joseph Pitofsky , direcItor of the commission 's Consumer Protection Bureau , said , at a news conference . The program , described by Mr. Pitofsky as a " very significant " departure from estab7 , tished procedures , was set up by the five-member commission at a meeting yesterday . In a unanimous resolution , the commission asserted its authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public and said it was motivated by the following con-siderations : ( Public disclosure " can assist ! consumers in making a rational choice among competing claims which purport to be , based on objective evidence . " ( Advertisers are not volun-1 tarily meeting " the public 's need for this information . " ( Public disclosure " can enhance competition by encouraging competitors to challenge advertising claims which have no basis in fact . " ( " The knowledge that documentation or the lack thereof will be made public will encourage advertisers to have on hand adequate substantiation before claims are made . " The commission 's announcement was prompted by a petition filed last tecember by Ralph Nader and other consumer organizations accused advertisers of making " vague claims which give consumers no real understanding " of the performance of their products . In addition , the petitioners contended , advertisers " invoke clinical tests with little scientific basis to substantiate claims and otherwise deliberately mislead and confuse the consumer . " They asked the commission to issue a regulation requiring advertisers to file substantiating data at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , asked for comment on the commission 's somewhat different approach , issued this statement : " If it 's a first step , it 's an encouraging sign . If it 's a full response to our petition , it 's inadequate . " Mr. Pitofsky indicated that the commission had decided to issue periodic orders because it lacked sufficient money and manpower to handle great masses of data from all advertisers simultaneously . In its periodic orders , he said , the commission will list the statements to be substantiated and give the advertisers 60 days to supply the data . lie declined to give any ex- , amples of statements to be questioned . Another source cited as a possibly typical example an advertisement for the Ford Torino as the lowest-priced car in its class . The data called for would probably include the actual prices of the Torino and competitive products and a definition of the word " class . " Possible Application Similarly , the commission may ask the Japanese maker of the Toyota , a popular small car , to prove contention that it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its sealed lubrication system saves owners lubrication expenses . The advertising categories subject to substantiation ? safety , performance , efficacy , quality and comparative prices ? are intended to cover all representations except those " traditionally accepted as puffery , " Mr. Pitofsky said . As an example of puffery , he cited a statement that a candy bar " tastes great . " A contention that a tire " stops quicker " goes beyond acceptable puffery , he said . The commission acted under provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act that empower it to gather facts and report useful information to Congress and the public . Under the law , the commission noted , it will not be able to make public trade secrets , customer lists or financial information " which may be privileged or confidential . " . The commission said it would publish summary reports on data filed in the new program . Miss Myerson Rails Ruling Bess Myerson , the city 's Commissioner of Consumer Affairs , hailed the new ruling yesterday , saying , " At long last the corporation that advertises on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same standards as the individual who signs an affidavit about his neighbor . " She said a local regulation along the same lines proposed by her department would be withdrawn .                     