@@732848

txt Just before Christmas a young woman in New York went to a legal-services office for financial help . While relating her story to the poverty lawyer assigned to the case , the woman said she did not have enough money to buy her children Christmas presents ; The lawyer , a young mother herself , might have been expected to sympathize with her destitute client .. Instead she found herself yelling at the woman , " So go rob Macy 's if you want presents for your kids ! And do n't come back to see me unless you get caught ' and need to be defended in court . " A WELFARE WORKER in California reacted much the same way to a woman who was overly aggressive in asking for more money . " Get out of here , " she ' shouted . " Your time is up . " To herself , she thought , " These people are just animals , " Both of these social service workers were suffering from- " burnout , " an emotional , ailment so labeled by Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ California . After nearly two years Of research Maslach is convinced that burnout is a widespread though little-recognized affliction among those whose job draws them near the problems and miseries of others . PHYSICIANS , psychiatrists , soc i a I workers , prison personnel , mental-health nurses , child-care workers , poverty lawyers , policemen  --  all were found to have difficulty coping with the emotional stress ' from intimate involvement with troubled human beings . Of course , some adjust better than others . The disorder itself is more common in some professions than in others , and is called by various names ( some law enfacement groups have called it theJohn Wayne Syndeomel . But sifting through data from 200 in ? depth Interviews , Maslach was surprised at the consistency of burnout symptoms across a wide range of people-related professions . AND PERIMPS mast disturbing of all , she discovered that most of the professionals questioned were unaware that " they had such a problem . " It was interesting when I asked them if they ever tended to dehumanize in their minds the people they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they all said ' no . ' But when I asked if they ever tried . to detach themselves from their clients , they usually said , ' Oh sure . ' " Dehumanization and detachment really mean about the same thing . " INTERVIEWED IN her Berkeley office , Maslach described methods to achieve this detachment . One of the most common , she said , is to change terms used to describe people , thus making them less human . Sometimes the worker describes them as " animals " or says " they come out from under the rocks . " Sometimes the language is more abstract ? " my caseload " or " the poor . " Another technique is scientific jargon . A patient thus becomes " a coronary , " which accurately describes his medical problem but ignores his humanity . Joking and laughing about a stressful event is another method of reducing personal anxiety . As an example , Maslach cited the battlefield surgeons of " M*A*S'H , " who make " sick " jokes and flirt with the nurses while performing grave operations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less time with the patient or client -- taking longer lunch hours , frequently calling in sick , or strictly enforcing a time limit on interviews . Although any of these methods can be used successfully to deal with stress , Maslach found that they often degenerate into a detached burnout state . " The professional dons such a thick armor that nobody can get through , " she said . Aided by graduate students who conducted interviews and observed professionals , Maslach was astonished at the beginning of her research to learn how little had been done in the field . LITERATURE was pretty thin , " she said . " There has been a lot written on stress but very little on how it affects people dealing in social services . " Maslach 's intent was to investigate how people dealt with this special kind of stress . " The ideal seemed to be ' detached concern ' ? which sounds a little like oll and water  --  but how do people do that ? What are the techniques ? " Then when we investigated , we found that most people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out the window . " Welfare workers . questioned by Masloch and her students said a major factor in this forced dehumanization was a high ratio of clients to staff . " There are just so many that ypu can not afford to sympathize with them all , " explained ova staffer . " If I had only 50 clients , I migrst be able to help them individually . But with 300 clients , I 'm lucky if I can see that they all get their checks . " SERIOUS PERSONNEL shortages also were found to hasten burnout in other professions . Maslach recalls one immigration worker who said case workers in his office had only three minutes to spend with each person applying for an American visa . " After a while they started denying people visas because they had greasy hair or because they had wide lapels , " she said . " This is what burnout can lead to . " Masted ' hastens to point out that she does not believe social-service professions are overloaded with persons who have character flaws . Her argument is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anyone would be adversely affected eventually . RECOGNIZING THAT lack of money usually precludes the most obvious solution  --  hiring more people to reduce the work load  --  Maslach is convinced other steps can be taken to curtail burnout . In one of the psychiatric wards studied , for instance , nurses are permitted to take an alternative chores when they feel too hard-pressed . They can do paperwork or spend the day in the medicine room . Other nurses are glad to fill in , knowing their day for a breather will come soon . Maslach believes most institutions are structured too rigidly and should be altered to allow for this kind of tiineout period . " Unfortunately , most agencies have staff members who deal with the public and staff members who do paperwork , and they never mix them , " she said . " In the short run it may be more efficient but it leads to emotional problems later on . " SUPPORT FROM colleagues Is another way of coping . " I do n't mean staff meetings but an opportunity to cry on someone 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different perspective , " Maslach said , Special training for working closely with people and their problems is also useful . Maslach tells of an incident in May when she spoke to the staff of an alcoholics ' treatment center . As she described how common burnout is , one woman burst into tears . " She cried because she had been feeling there was something wrong with her , " Maslach said . One of the mist common solutions to burnout  --  the one chosen by the poverty lawyer who told her client to go rob Macy 's ? is simply to quit the job that Is causing the problem . Maslach believes that identifying the problem and giving it a name may lead to alternatives short of the drastic solution of withdrawal .                     