@@729037

txt The Lindsay administration will press for major changes in health care , both public and private , in the next session of the Legislature . A package of bills that is now being drafted by lawyers for the city 's Health Services Administration includes the following proposals : ' Institution of financial incentives to hospitals to provide comprehensive care for families and to do away with the impersonal assembly-line procedures that characterize many outpatient departments . ' Creation of a new class of health professionals ? physicians ' assistants ? to relieve doctors of routine chores . ' Establishment of a comprehensive program of treatment of alcoholism . ' Elimination of conflicts between the state and city mental health programs and guaranteeing that the state would pay localities 50 per cent of the cost of public health programs . Statewide Laws Sought Tentative versions have been written for eight pieces of legislation , all of which would be effective statewide . Gordon Chase , the city 's Health Services Administrator , has already begun a series of meetings to rally support from medical societies , government agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on family care by hospitals , Mr. Chase said that it would create a state fund for use by public and private hospitals that submit acceptable plans for ambulatory care units . Families would be seen regularly by the same doctors ? groups of specialists working as teams  --  and not be repeatedly greeted by different physicians who treat each patient as a brand new case . The city 's goal is to set up the ambulatory care units in urban poverty areas . But Gerald Frug , general counsel for the Health Services Administration , noted that they would be equally appropriate in upstate rural areas where comprehensive health care was not readily available . Offers No Cost Estimate Mr. Frug said the final draft of the bill would probably call for matching contributions by local governments , though the city 's share of the cost would be less than 50 per cent . He said he could not estimate the total cost of the program . Another measure would , in effect , consolidate the state and city mental health programs . At present , city programs get 50 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city sometimes tries to get patients under its care sent to state hospitals , where the state pays the entire cost . The state , on the other hand , has tried to put some patients into city facilities where it has to pay only half the cost . Under the bill , all mental health programs would be financed 90 per cent by the state and 10 per cent by the localities . Another of the bills is one that is similar to but broader than a measure now before Congress to provide for a review of professional standards under the Medicare and Medicaid programs . Extends Cost Control " The bill in Washington only protects the public purse , not those of private citizens , " Mr. Chase said . " Our bill would extend cost control to the whole spectrum  --  payments by health insurance companies and by patients themselves . " At his home in Niagara Falls , State Senator Earl W. Brydges , the majority leader , said he would not comment on the Lindsay administration 's health care or other bills until he had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . of Suffolk County , Speaker of the Assembly , could not be reached . Two of the bills are designed to increase medical personnel , including the physicians ' assistant job title . The biggest source of these assistants would be provided by the thousands of medical corpsmen who are discharged each year from ' the military services . In the military , these men are trained to perform many duties that in civilian life can be done legally only by licensed physicians . Several states already sanction physicians ' assistants . In the states that now authorize physicians ' assistants , laws vary as to what they can do . Generally , they can relieve doctors of such time-consuming functions as taking medical histories and making tentative diagnoses . Like registered nurses , they give injections take temperature and blood pressures . But their duties are more advanced , too . For instance , they may make physical examinations , treat burns and sew up cuts . 2 Categories Proposed The bill being drafted by the city would create two types of assistants ? generalists and specialists . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would be registered by the state . His authorized functions would be defined not in the law but in regulations to be adopted later . The specialist would receive less training and would be restricted to performing one or more specific functions , such as taking patients ' medical histories . The second piece of manpower legislation would provide medical school scholarships to students with limited funds who agree to practice after graduation for specified periods in areas with a shortage of medical manpower . The alcoholism program , which contemplates complete financing by the state , would be the first massive effort to deal with the estimated total of 250,000 to 300,000 alcoholics in New York City . Under the bill , the city ( or any other locality ) would submit to the state its plan for a local program involving construction , training , experimentation , prevention and community education . Two of the bills deal with financing . Traditionally the state has reimbursed localities 50 per cent of the cost of public health activity . New York City still receives approximately 50 per cent , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reimbursement to as little as a third . One of the bills would restore the guaranteed 50 per cent reimbursement . The other would repeal the requirement enacted last year that Medicaid recipients pay 20 per cent of the cost of their health care . Opponents of this coinsurance provision say it not only works an undue hardship on Medicaid patients but also causes giant bookkeeping headaches for hospitals , physicians and city agencies that must collect the 20 per cent payments .                     