@@730374

txt The Senate Foreign Relations Committee overwhelmingly rejected proposals by Senator Henry M. Jackson and others today and cleared the way for a full Senate vote tomorrow on the interim agreement with the Soviet Union to limit offensive missiles . The late-afternoon vote in the committee was 11 to 0 , with only the Senate Republican leader , Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania , abstaining . The committee approved a statement that said that amend-I ments to the arms agreement , " should not be approved by the I Senate , as amendments can be and will be interpreted in different Ways by members of the Senate . " Earlier in the day , the House I Foreign Affairs Committee reported out the agreement favorably and a vote was set for Wednesday by the full House of Representatives . Look to Next Phase The action by the , Senate committee came after several days of debate and confusion caused by a last-minute effort by Senator Jackson , Democrat of Washington , to provide a substitute resolution that would put pressure on the Soviet Union , during the life of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arsenal . The original resolution simply approves the President 's entry into the agreement , signed in Moscow in May . The Foreign Relations Committee held that approval of the agreement without amendments or interpretations ' ' will represent clear approval by the Senate of the interim agreement and will provide the best opportunity for Phase 2 negotiations to lead to agreements assuring the over-all equality of nuclear strategic systems and the maintenance of the de // terrent . " The statement issued by Senator J. W. Fulbright , chairman of the committee , specifically noted that the committee " disapproves Lhe Jackson amendment as written and as that amendment was interpreted by its . authors . " Those favoring the amendment had said that they had introduced it to put the Soviet , Union on notice that " if the threat to the survivability. of United States strategic forces is not limited by a follow-on agreement within five years , then our supreme national , interest could be jeopardized , with all that implies . " Troops Held Sufficient They also said that the amendment called upon the President to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equality in the aggregate , taking account of throw-weight . " " Technology can not substitute for numbers , " those in favor of the amendment had said . " You can not freeze technology . Therefore we must have equality measured in terms of numbers and throw-weight . " The White House , at first , had endorsed the language of the Jackson resolution , but yesterday pulled hack somewhat by stressing that the Administration did not necessarily approve the interpretations of the language made by Senator Jackson and others . The interim arms control agreement places a temporary freeze on the number of offensive missiles that the United States and the Soviet Union have . Senator Jackson had asked that any future treaty following the interim pact be based on numerical equality . It was unclear whether the Foreign Relations Committee , action would gain the support ' of a majority of the full Senate . Today , Senator Jackson and his staff said once more that they believed that their amendment would carry on the Senate floor . They had predicted that the Foreign Relations Committee would reject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approved the agreement and the accompanying treaty putting limits on the number of defensive missiles . ? The treaty was ? approved by a Senate vote of 88 to 2 last week . But action on the interim agreement , which requires majority approval in both houses , was postponed by the Senate after controversy developed over the Jackson proposal , which was sprung on the Senate without advance notice . Senator Fulbright , who supports the strategic arms agreement , has strongly opposed the Jackson move because , he said , he felt that it ? would not contribute to a lessening of tension . He told ? newsmen after the committee voted this afternoon that he was " strongly against " the ' Jackson proposal and would lead the floor fight tomorrow against it if iL was offered by its sponsor . The Administration 's position was ambiguous . The White House 's support for the Jackson proviso has never been very strong and Senator Scott 's abstention from the committee vote today indicated that it was not an issue over which President Nixon wanted to make a test @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a briefing given members of Congress by Henry A. Kissinger , President Nixon 's adviser on national security , on June 15 . Mr. Kissinger , speaking for the President , had said : " Our present strategic military situation is sound . Much of the criticism has focused on the imbalance in number of missiles between the United States and the Soviet Union . " But , this only examines one aspect of the problem . To assess the over-all balance it is necessary to consider those forces not in the agreement ; our bomber ' force , which is substantially larger and more effective than the Soviet bomber force , and our forward base system . " Kissinger Cites Sufficiency " When the total picture is viewed , our strategic forces are seen to be completely sufficient , " Mr. Kissinger said . The committee said that its position on the strategic position of the United States was that stated by Mr. Kissinger . The committee action apparently also rejected amendments offered today by Senator Edward W. Brooke , Republican of Massachuals , and Senator Harold E. Hughes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement contain language that would call on the two sides not to develop weapons that might be construed as having first-strike potential . These amendments were offered as a result of disclosures that the Defense Department was accelerating research and development of a more powerful and more accurate missile warhead that could destroy Soviet " hardened " missile silos , a development that critics believe might be construed by the Soviet Union as an effort by the United States to develop a first-strike potential .                     