@@728872

txt Israeli Foreign Minister Abba Eban hinted last night at possible Israeli military action to wipe out surface-to-air missile sites near the Suez Canal if the United States can not persuade the Egyptians and Russians to remove them . Eban appeared in a prefilmed television interview in Tel Aviv . He said Israel had the right to act on its own against missile bases Egypt allegedly set up in violation of the Middle PEACE IN THE BALANCE See the editorial page East cease-fire and that " we have taken this up with the United States and the United States has recognized the facts . " " Israel is entitled by the principle of reciprocity to take action on the political level and on any other level it deems necessary " he said . " We are now pursuing political methods . " ? Envoy Stays Home Eban said Ambasador Yosef Tekoah , Israel 's delegate to the New York talks , would stay in Jerusalem for " further consultations on our positions . " He said a decision would be reached in a few days on whether Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the alleged Egyptian missile violations " is not yet sufficient to solve the problem . " He said what was necessary now was to " redress the situation , prevent further deterioration and draw the conclusions as to the change in the military balance resulting from these violations . " Eban said these were among the aims of Mrs. Meir 's visit to the United States which Israeli officials said had been moved ahead five weeks . Observers said it appeared certain Mrs. Meir would ask the United States to take a harder line against Egyptian and Soviet moves in the Middle East . Observers said it was also likely she would ask the United States for more planes and electronic equipment to counter Russian aid to Egypt . Mrs. Meir originally planned to go to the United States in October to attend the 25th anniversary celebration of the United Nations General Assembly . Diplomatic sources said she would now leave in about 10 days . In another development , Egypt denied charges that it has violated the Suez Canal cease-fire agreement and accused Israel of breaching the agreement . Complains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Riad told Donald Bergus , chief of the United States interests mission in Cairo , that American statements about Egyptian violations were " completely far from the truth . " The minister also told Bergus that Israel had committed numerous violations by building fortifications on the eastern bank of the canal . On the border war front , Arab guerrillas reported heavy fighting along the IsraeliLebanese frontier yesterday . A spokesman said Israel attackes two guerrilla bases on the slopes of Mount Hermon with infantry and planes after a heavy artillery bombardment . Report 2 Killed Officials in Beirut , the Lebanese capital , said two persons were killed and two others wounded in a 20-minute Israeli air raid along the southern border . An Israeli army spokesman in Tel Aviv denied the report of heavy ground fighting with commandos . " Aside from a sortie by our aircraft this afternoon there has been no fighting in that region , " he said . The Associated Press quoted diplomatic sources in Paris yesterday as saying King Hussein of Jordan has asked for Big Four help in the face of an Iraqi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Amman radio quoted Foreign Minister Antoun Atallah as denying last night that his country had asked for Big Four help . The broadcast was monitored in Beirut . The Paris informants said the Amman government made its appeal in separate messages to the ambassadors of the United States , the Soviet Union , France and Great Britain , said the informants.                     