@@728503

txt Pro-African enthusiasts  --  persistent critics of United States policy in Africa  --  are dismayed at witnessing the U.S. exert its first Security Council veto in United Nations history on the Rhodesian question . " Why , " they ask , " did the United States have to cast its first veto on an African issue ? " Official U.S. view is that it had to support Britain , unequivocally , to oppose the use of force to bring down the Ian Smith regime . One Afro-Asian resolution would have required this . Others would have condemned Britain perpetually for not having used force years ago and implied the necessity of using it in the future . Critics lament . They foresee the effect on blacks in the United States as disillusioning them more than ever with American policy in Africa . What saddens critics more is that at least a modest improvement in U.S.-African relations was under way , first tepidly , following the recent African trip of U.S. Secretary of State William P. Rogers . Secondly , and more definitely , by the closing of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if Britain should some day decide to assume control of Rhodesia the logistics of transporting weapons and troops would be enormous . Rhodesia already has a formidable amount of weapons left behind by the British . And Zambia is deeply concerned about them . Already Zambia has offered its landing fields for any British " invasion " of Rhodesia . Zambians feel confident they could take care of any and all objections to Britain overflying other African nations with military equipment . But , political tacticians point out , Britain could easily be construed as violating the sovereignty of another African nation by countries not wishing to appear to be cooperating with a former colonial power . British spokesmen here are quite aware that the Afro-Asian group during the Security Council debate on Rhodesia was riding hard for a British veto . They wanted it for future propaganda exploitaton , it is held . A ) Not overboard ! With the boating season about to open in much of the Northern Hemisphere , professional and amateur seafarers are warned by UNESCO about how to dispose of certain plastic products . Those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canned beverages are posing unthought-of dangers to seafowl . Sea gulls and other birds diving for them in the water from great heights often get their heads stuck in the rings , and so strangle themselves . The solution : if you feel you must throw the six- or eight-pack holders overboard , cut the rings first . Better still , do n't throw them overboard . Dispose of them on land . 0 Groping for answers Demand for reliable ' statistics on environmental problems now is enormous . Relatively speaking , available statistics are inadequate and governments are groping for answers . For instance , Sweden has noted a rising sulfur content in its atmosphere , according to a Swedish foreign office official . About 50 percent of the sulfur comes from Swedish industry and other home sources . But the other 50 percent emanates from industrial Europe . These examples epitomize a problem that surfaces at almost every environmental conference . One part of the problem is national ? and governments have not yet done enough about it . The other is international . By the time the 1972 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are that enough information can be brought together to provide a basis for meaningful action . AI Far-reaching program The modest , though far-reaching , program DI the United Nations-related International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna will reach into 52 countries in 1970 . Even with a small grant of $1,250,000 for technical assistance , work will be done in Jeveloping the peaceful uses of nuclear energy in such interesting projects as : ? Supplying Brazil with equipment to assist in the study of sedimentation movements in Guanabara Bay off Rio de Janeiro . ? Sending an expert to Cameroun to assist m the search for uranium . ? Sending an expert in food preservation m work at the Central Food Research Institute in Budapest , Hungary .                     