@@733608

txt WASHINGTON  --  Gen. Alexander lialg Jr. , supreme allied commander in Europe , threatened to resign recently over the Carter administration 's handling of several defense issues , Including the decision to defer production of the neutron bomb , according to government sources , Haig was persuaded to remain on the job , the sources said , after several candid discussions with Secretary of State Cyrus Vance and Defense Secretary Harold Brown , who expressed concern that a resignation at this point would disrupt the Atlantic alliance and harm United States relations with West Germany . Government sources said that Haig 's offer to resign , which was expressed to Brown last month , followed a series of " surprises " and abrupt decisions in which the general was not consulted . " HE WAS upset that decisions and ideas were being floated without consultation , " said one government source . " He was upset that a small group in ( the ) State Department ) , and the Pentagon and the White House were making decisions in isolation . " Several specific issues spurred Haig @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision to defer production of the controversial high-radiation neutron warhead  --  a decision that provoked debate in Western Europe where U.S intentions strained relations with several European nations , Another incident that distressed Haig , sources said , was a message relayed by the administration to Joseph Luns , secretary general of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , saying there were no plans to discuss certain aspects of cruise missile development with the So.viet Union . ON THE day that bins received the message , sources said , Haig read several messages from Washington about a trip planned by several key . administration officials to discuss proposals with Soviet leaders involving the same elements of the cruise missile cited in the message to Luns . Haig , who works closely with Luns , felt " undercut " and " bewildered , " said one source . Within the last few years Haig has managed to erase some of the controversy that surrounded his appointment to the NATO post in 1974 apd has emerged as one of the most articulate and forceful leaders of the military alliance . HAIG , FORMER aide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Richard Nixon at the time Nixon resigned from the presidency , was reappointed to a second two-year term by President Ford in 1976 , Although the decision can be reversed by Carter , the administration has been aware of Haig 's popularity among European political and military leaders , especially in West Germany , With the Atlantic alliance in disrepair , administration officials have made it plain that the abrupt departure of Haig at this point could weaken NATO even further .                     