@@728661

txt The state director of public aid stopped all welfare payments to Mid-America Ambulance company yesterday and ordered an investigation to determine if the firm should be banned from transporting welfare recipients . Harold 0 . Swank , the state 's top welfare administrator , took the action as THE TRIBUNE and the Better Government association disclosed incidents of mistreatment of the ill and Injured by employes of the company located at 5651 Madison st . Payments to A-Alamo Ambulance company , a Mid-America subsidiary , also were halted . The two firms have billed the state for more than s130,000 in welfare ambulance fees ( lilting the first four months of this year . Other Developments In other related developI . James Y. Carter , city vehicle commissioner , ordered Mid-America ? A-Alamo , ScullyWalton , Berz , Aero , and Alert Amhulance companies to produce their books and records . Carter said- he will hold hearings this month that presumably could result in a recommendation to Mayor Daley that the licenses of the companies be revoked. 2 . Spokesmen claiming they speak for 80 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " outlaws " and pledged their cooperation in all investigations . " Ilad to Be Scandal " Harold Swank David their patients out of business . There can be no second chance in this category . " Followed Accident Hill said the 1967 city ambulance ordinance was enacted after a speeding ambulance killed a pedestrian . Hill said the ordinance was drawn up quickly and by persons not familiar with the needs or conditions existing in the ambulance industry . Hill and Underwood proposed that the mayor appoint an ambulance advisory committee composed of representatives of the city vehicle commission , the health , police and fire departments , and two practicing physicians . This // " The public is finally learning what we have been trying to correct for years , but nobody would listen , " said David Hill , president of the Metropolitan Ambulance association . Hill , who operates the Superior Ambulance company in west suburban Elmhurst , said the association represents 12 ambulance corporations in the Chicago area . " There had to he a scandal to clean this mess up , " said Ray @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. Ilalsted st . Underwood is the immediate past president of the association and his firm is the oldest in the " TchietYre ? is no question that this has hurt the entire industry , " said Underwood . " But it 's a price we are willing to pay if we can get lid of the oulioatli 's .. nl B en traced part of the problem to what they described as a hastily conceived mid inadequate city ordinance that permits ambulance companies to virtually set their 01U1 operating policies . Hill said that while many changes are needed , there is an urgent need at this point to " put those who are mistreating group then would select two ambulance operators to round out the committee , according to the plan . " We also need a specialized training course for ambulance attendants , " said Hill . " At this point , a person can work on an ambulance with only first aid training . It should be part of an overall course , but first Raymond Underwood aid is not enough . We need a comprehensive , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ willing to finance it . " Suggests a Ceiling Underwood said he also believes there should be a " need and necessity " law imposed on lovernight by paying a small lithe ambulance industry that cense fee . They get a foothold would restrict the number of in the industry by paying off ambulances licensed by the whenever they can , " said Uncity. derwood . " They also engage in Such a law would be similar fraudulent and Inflated fees to to the ceiling placed on the overcome the operating costs . number of taxicabs licensed by I The public is not served when Chicago . such conditions are allowed to " These companies spring up exist . "                     