@@731675

txt Americans now have a more detailed warning about the economic " lumps and bumps " President Ford forecast in his press conference this week . At the same time , administration economists are strengthening signals of a potential economic policy change ? notably a tax cut , favored by majority Democrats in Congress . While insisting that the Ford economic plan is " on the right track , " Treasury Secretary William E. Simon has told reporters that some of the public 's economic fears " are well founded . " To add to public concern President Ford 's chief economic adviser , Alan Greenspan , admitted that short-term economic indicators are " moving down faster than we had anticipated . " According to Mr. Greenspan , unemployment will not peak until the third quarter of 1975 . Option held open While Mr. Simon cautioned against gloom " deeper than warranted , " he admitted that a tax cut " is an option the administration is considering to battle mounting recessionary pressure in the economy . The Treasury Secretary stressed that the tax-cut proposal was simply one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in two weeks . But by not ruling out a tax cut entirely , the administration seems to be sealing the fate of the 5 percent income-tax surcharge it has asked Congress to levy on middle income Americans . Nevertheless , Mr. Simon continued to voice support for the surtax . But the view of the economy voiced by Alan Greenspan , chairman of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers , is likely to make a tax cut more politically palatable to the Democratic-controlled Congress than a tax hike . Virulence weakens On the positive side , Mr. Greenspan reported indications of a " weakening in the virulence " of the inflation-rate climb . He estimates that the inflation rate will be between 8 and 7 percent by spring . By R. Norman Matheny , staff photographer Simon  --  game-plan shift ? But the rest of the administration 's updated statistics will cause increased congressional concern and heighten workers ' worries . Layoffs have shown a " very significant increase " in this last month Mr. Greenspan notes , and despite this increase , layoffs will not peak until " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overall unemployment rate is not expected to fall until the third quarter of 1975 and by then will have reached " something over 7 percent " he says . Falling employment confirms signals given by other indicators that the nation 's economic output continues to decline " a bit faster " than previously expected . The decline will continue " into 1975 , " Mr. Greenspan says . Coal-strike uncertainty One element of uncertainty hanging over this gloomy forecast , as Mr. Greenspan spoke , was the nationwide coal strike , unresolved at this writing . If miners were to vote down the proposed contract settlement , Mr. Simon says economic planners " would have to reassess " current forecasts . // * Ford advisers now mull tax-cut option // While administration economic leaders , indicate some flexibility in their economic planning , there also were signs that widespread economic policy changes to deal with " stagflation " are being resisted . When asked under what circumstance he would recommend a program of mandatory wage , price and profit controls favored by many Democrats , Mr. Simon replied , " Iwould @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controls , he says , suffer from poor memory and have " little ability in economic analysis . " Also rejected out of hand , at least for the present , is massive federal public-works spending to stimulate the economy . Massive spending " doesnot cure economic sluggishness , " he says . But Mr. Simon did indicate that if the unemployment rate rose to some unspecified level , the administration would consider requesting additional funds for its $1.5 billion national Employment Assistance Act designed to provide public jobs for unemployed individuals . Jr i .                     