@@734191

txt The presidential political strategy on winning SALT H ratification now rests on the completion of a very difficult and risky maneuver : the calculated attempt on the Carter administration 's part to cause those who oppose the arms pact with the Soviets to be perceived as being antipeace ? even as warmongers whose approach would increase the prospects of a global disaster . Says one top administration official : " The polls show that a majority of Americans favor SALT II . We think they 'll be behind us in our fight for ratification and that , at some point , the Senate will get the message . " Should ratification fail despite this maneuver , the Carter team then is set to carry this battle right into the 1980 election campaign ? convinced that the President would then be perceived as the man of peace and any opponent who had challenged SALT as a " hawk " or man of war . Already , prominent Republicans are seeing how easily the President might push them into this unfavorable political posture . Rep. John B. Anderson ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admits that Mr. Carter may very well be able to jockey the SALT issue around to where , as Mr. Anderson puts it , the President would be seen as the " great peacemaker " and the Republicans would be seen as the " dogs of war . " Another Republican presidential candidate , Sen. Robert Dole of Kansas , also says that " if SALT II becomes a partisan issue , the Republicans will be the losers . The President will be on the side of peace . We have to be careful that we are n't on the other side . " And Republican Congressman Guy Vander Jagt of Michigan , talking to reporters over breakfast May 9 , agreed that Republicans would have to be wary of being viewed as being antipeace in opposing SALT II . " It is a very complicated issue to deal with politically , " he said . Mr. Vander Jagt is chairman of the national Republican congressional committee . The President himself already is implementing the administration strategy , saying that if SALT is not ratified he is prepared to blame // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republicans for the defeat and charge them with shaping " the dark nightmare of unrestrained arms competition " that he says would follow . But at the top levels of the administration the word now is that the Senate and the American people have only seen the smallest beginning of this presidential strategy ? that with SALT H now agreed to , there will be great increase in the way the President hammers on this point . Thus , as the President moves around the United States , engaging in his precampaigning exercises , SALT II and the need for ratification will become his major theme . And if faced with continuing resistance in the Senate he will be stepping up his attack as he attempts to persuade the public that they should perceive his opponents on SALT as being opposed to the peacemaking processes . Carter administration strategists are understood to realize , however , that this effort to push their opponents into an undesirable political corner is not without great risks . They see that the public might perceive it to be wholly unjustified and unfair ? particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being one that is antipeace , but simply one that is protective of US interests . Under those circumstances , opponents of SALT 11 might well convince the public that the President has been " demagoguing " on SALT . And thus , they might turn the SALT issue against Mr. Carter in the 1980 presidential campaign ? if not earlier , in the fight for ratification .                     