@@730120

txt BELFAST  --  Eight days ago a redhaired young man walking on Joy Street near the center of Belfast was ordered by a British security patrol to stop . He ran . The soldiers fired . Joseph McCann , a leader of the outlawed Irish Republican Army , lay dead . Last Wednesday Prime Minister Edward Heath rose in the House of Commons to announce the results of an Inquiry into another incident  --  the " Bloody Sunday " of Jan. 30 when British troops in Londonderry opened fire during a demonstration and 13 Roman Catholics were killed . The report by Lord Widgery , the Lord Chief Justice of England , absolved the troops of the charge of firing without provocation . The two events  --  the killing of a popular I.R.A . leader in controversial circumstances and the issuance of what many Catholics regarded as a whitewash of Bloody Sunday  --  had the effect last week of reversing what had been a hopeful trend toward moderation within Northern Ireland 's inflamed Catholic community . Mr. Heath 's decision a month ago to impose a period of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catholic minority as promising a change in the discriminatory social , economic and political patterns long enforced by the Protestant-dominated provincial government . Now the Catholics have been outraged anew . Their mood has turned sullen . The I.R.A . has been strengthened . And William Whitelaw , the newly appointed British Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , faces bitter resentment on the part of both Catholics and Protestants as he begins his seemingly improbable task of bringing about a reconciliation between the two communities . In some ways , Mr. McCann 's death had a more profound and immediate impact here than the Widgery report . Joe McCann , 24-year-old father of four children , was an articulate leader of the I.R.A . ' s " Official " faction , with many contacts in the Catholic community . " He was a charismatic man , a sort of Che Guevara figure , very much in the new style , " said Kevin McCorry , the key organizer of the Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association . That he was also probably behind the shooting of several young British soldiers is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. McCann , who was on the British Army 's wanted list , was in disguise as he walked on Joy Street . His dark hair had been dyed a carrot red . He wore gold-rimmed spectacles he did not need . Eyewitnesses insist that he was shot and wounded as he ran ; the Catholic community firmly believes that after he staggered and fell a British soldier fired as many as a dozen bullets into him . The question that swept the Catholic community was : If Joe McCann was wounded , why was it necessary to pour more bullets into him ? The depth of feeling about his death was underscored by his funeral , one of the biggest and most emotional I.R.A . funerals in years . Nearly 5,000 persons took part in the procession and thousands more lined the route along Glen Road to Milltown cemetery . In a rare show of unity between both factions of the I.R , A.  --  the " Officials " and the still more radical " Provisionals " ? members of the 21 companies of the Officials marched in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was covered with the Irish tricolor . There were also housewives , youths , children , priests , half a dozen politicians and  --  a surprise visitor from Dublin  --  Cathal Goulding , the Official wing 's chief of staff , who slipped through an elaborate British security net to deliver a graveside oration . British military patrols passed near the cemetery , but any move to seize Mr. Goulding or the other I.R.A . men would have resulted in a riot . Mr. Goulding , his hair fluttering in the breeze , said in a strong voice : " Learn the lesson and learn it well , because Joe McCann was its master : that action on the streets and in the factories and in the homes of the working people is the best education that a people can have . The lesson of the barricades , the lesson of a community thrown upon its own resources  --  this is the revolution . " Ireland had acquired another martyr . The following day the long-awaited Widgery report was released  --  and Catholic anger at the British Government was hardened . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintained a " low key " attitude and had not launched a large-scale operation to arrest hooligans in Londonderry on Jan. 30 , " the clay might have passed off without serious incident . " But the burden of criticism was directed at the organizers of the illegal civil-rights march that led to the tragic incident . " I am entirely satisfied , " said Lord Widgery , " that the first firing in the courtyard was directed at the soldiers . " To Catholics , the report was at best ambiguous , at worst contradictory and a " whitewash . " For instance , there was no evidence that any of the 13 had been shot while handling a firearm or bomb . Yet as noted by John Fiume , a Catholic leader in Londonderry , Lord Widgery failed to go beyond this point and criticize the army for killing the 13 civilians , The army itself has insisted that paratroopers aimed only at gunmen or bomb throwers . Eddy , president of the Nationalist party , who was in the civil rights march on Bloody Sunday , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officer and a British judge upon his darling British Army . I suppose we are lucky he did not also find that the 13 committed suicide . " And James Wray , whose 22-year-old son was killed on Jan 30 , said that when his son was picked up he had three bullets in his back . The Widgery report , Mr. Wray said , has " completely nullified Whitelaw . . . . It is the greatest injection . of support the LRA. could have . " ? BERNARD VVEINRAIJEt Nancy Moran for The New York Tfrnes The coffin of an Irish Republican Army leader killed by British troops in Belfast , was borne to the grave last week . " Ireland has acquired another martyr "  --  and hopes for a turn to moderation have been dimmed .                     