@@728726

txt Thai fighter-bombers launched their first air strikes in Cambodia yesterday , informed sources here said today . Several T-28 light strike aircraft were reported to have destroyed an arms depot and field installations at Ban Phai , a village about five miles from the Thai border province of Sisaket . Sisaket is about 220 miles north east of Bangkok . In Saigon , the United States command reported that 104 American soldiers were killed last week in the Indochina war , an increase Pf 24 over the previous week . In Bangkok , there were unconfirmed reports that Thai planes had also attacked a concentration of Communist troops that overran Ban Phai on Tuesday . According to Reuters , the planes took off from Ubon air base , 540 miles northeast of Bangkok . Thai reinforcements were sent to Sisaket today amid reports that sporadic fighting was continuing at Ban Phai between Communists and Cambodian troops cut off from their units . Meanwhile , about 200 Cambodian soldiers who had been defending Ban Phai , together with their dependents and other civilians , have taken sanctuary in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bangkok sources said , the Communists began the shelling . Some shells fell in Thai territory , the source added . Yesterday 's air raid was said to have been designed to deny the Communists use of the weapons that the retreating units had left behind . The few arms that the units had brought with them into Thailand are believed to be held by Thai police . The Thai Government , however , has not officially acknowledged the raid . Marshal Thanom Kittikachorn , the Premier , today sidestepped a newsman 's question about the use of Thai forces in Cambodia and , specifically , whether the Premier agreed with Secretary of State William P. Rogers that the combat burden now fell on Thailand and South Vietnam . U.S. Losses Announced By IVER PETERSON Special to The New York Tames SAIGON , South Vietnam , July 2 ? The United States command reported today that 104 American soldiers lost their lives in the Indochina war last week . This figure for the week , which ended last Saturday , was an increase of 24 over the previous week but was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last two months . A military spokesman said that 34 Americans had been killed in Cambodia , and that the rest had died in South Vietnam . A total of 417 United States servicemen were wounded during the same period , the report said . Slightly more than half of the wounded required hospital care . The week 's losses brought to 42,858 the number of American soldiers , sailors , marines and airmen killed since the beginning of 1961 , when the first American life was lost in battle . Several thousand other Americans  --  the exact number is unavailable ? have died here in noncombat situations , primarily in accidents and ? from illness . Enemy losses for the week were put at 1,474 killed , of which the South Vietnamese forces were reported to have killed 935 , with a loss of 307 of their own men . The figures thus disclose that the South Vietnamese lost one man for every three enemy soldiers reported killed by their troops . Although such so-called " kill ratios " have been subjetted to widespread derision from observers critical of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider any ratio lower than 10 enemy dead for each South Vietnamese soldier lost unacceptable in terms of Saigon 's long-range battlefield prospects . The United States command put the number of Vietcong and North Vietnamese troops killed since the start of 1961 at 653,675 . In action in South Vietnam , eight United States paratroopers of the 101st Airborne Division were killed in an enemy attack on their camp in the steep hills 25 miles west of Hue . The United States forces reported finding the bodies of 15 enemy soldiers in the area after artillery and helicopter gunships had helped drive off the attack . The United States command also reported that three Air Force planes were shot down in Laos last Tuesday , with one of the crew having been rescued and the remaining eight reported as missing . The communique added that 10 American airmen had been killed over Laos since statistics of the fighting in that country were first made available on March 10.                     