@@729339

txt The new hard-line policy of one-man rule in Greece , asserted since the year end by Premier George Papadopoulos , has resulted in spreading dissatisfaction both in Athens and Washington . Some signs of high-level strain , if not disarray , inside the Greek Government have reached this city from Athens . The more conspicuous developments are : ? A rift seems to have developed between the Premier and the Army-appointed regent , Gen. George Zoitakis , who represents the self-exiled King Constantine . General Zoitakis now feels able to disagree with the Premier in certain incidents and to take a more independent position . ? The chief of staff of the Greek armed forces , Gen. Odysseus Anghelis , is being given a not-too-subtle emphasis , both in Athens and Washington , as a possible alternative to Mr. Papadopoulos . Those who urge or speculate on such a possibility in both capitals suggest he could serve for a period of transition that could ultimately lead away from military dictatorship . President Nixon gave a high United States decoration to General Anghelis whose visit to Washington ended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Adm . Thomas H. Moorer , American chief of staff , and others . ? Inside Greece , leaders of what used to be the two largest political parties , now banned , have adjourned their long rivalry and unwillingness to join forces in opposition to the Papadopoulos regime . A joint declaration critical of martial law has been issued by former Premier Panayiotis Kanellopoulos , head of the right-wing National Radical Union , and by George Mavros and John Zigdis , prominent members of the Center Union , headed by the late George Papandreou . ? Members of the American Embassy staff in Athens have opened contacts with various opposition figures in Greece . They had refrained from such connections until late last year , when the embassy was frustrated in its efforts to move the military junta away from martial law . These and other events , including a con- tinuing effort to develop unity between the various political groups in exile outside Greece . do not offer a basi , ; for predictions as yet . It is reported that Premier Papadopoulos is considering counter measures , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective they can or will be . Future discussed But at the least , it is widely conceded among specialists on the Greek question that the future role of the self-proclaimed dictator , Mr. Papadopoulos , is in question . He is understood to have offered to resign at a secret meeting of the revolutionary council last August , when a similar crisis of dissatisfactions occurred . The resignation was not accepted . He then turned to his current tougher role as self-appointed one-man ruler , and now confronts a new series of dissatisfactions within the government and in Washington , arising from the new situation . // * Greek chief skirts rift // In Washington , hardly anyone has expected the Nixon administration to come out openly and categorically against the military dictatorship in Athens . ( The controlling factor in American relations with Greece until now has been one of security  --  the need of the American armed forces for military facilities in that country while facing the rise of Soviet power and the Middle East crisis ) Issue discussed The issue is a more subtle one : What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent to those who hold actual and potential power in Greece ? Until recent weeks the signals were those Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . of positive support for the Papadopoulos dictatorship , despite a distaste . for its methods . But the latest events , including an exchange of open differences between Secretary of State William P. Rogers and the Athens regime over the quality of its government , raise the question whether President Nixon has begun to send signals of disapproval . on net balance , to Athens . If such proves to be the case , the effect on the internal balance of power within Greece and the ruling regime and on Greek public opinion , which has generally credited Washington with making the dictatorship possible , could be important . First of two articles . Next : Details of the developments involving Generals Zoitakis and Angheles.                     