@@734374

txt Eleven people were killed over the weekend in the growing warfare between extreme left-wing and right-wing elements , and the Government ordered troops to be prepared for further outbreaks this week in connection with Independence Day celebrations next Saturday . Several leftist organizations have as their aim the toppling of the right-wing military Government of President Carlos Humberto Romero , and a spokesman for one , the Popular Unified Action Front , said over the weekend that his group was preparing what he described as a new program of insurrection starting tomorrow . Speaking to reporters at the National Cathedral , which was occupied by a score of front members , the spokesman said there were plans to " confront and disarm " Government security-force personnel in Soyapango , 15 miles north of San Salvador . The policemen of this Central American country of five million were on special alert today as a result of the most direct blow at the President that leftists have delivered to date . This was the killing last Thursday of his brother , Jose Javier Romero , a 56-year-old teacher and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 15 miles north of here , by four masked gunmen who burst in and also wounded his stepdaughter and a household employee . Banners of a leftist organization , the Popular Forces of Liberation , and the Sandinist National Liberation Front , which recently took power in Nicaragua , were found near the bony . President Romero called the killing a " personal provocation " for him but vowed that it would have no effect on the policies of his military regime . In mid-August , the President promised // and he announced that all political exiles could return home . The President spoke in apparent response to urgings by the Carter Administration that he liberalize his policies to avoid a popular uprising similar to the one that overthrew the Government of President Anastasio Somoza Debayle in nearby Nicaragua in July . Archbishop Assails Government The Roman Catholic Archbishop of San Salvador , Oscar Arnulfo Romero , has been a severe critic of the President 's Government , accusing it of persecuting both the church and the people of El Salvador , a country where wealth and land ownership are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Archbishop has also indirectly blamed the Government for the killing of six Catholic priests in El Salvador in the last two years . The violence at the weekend followed a long series of killings , kidnappings , political strikes and church seizures by leftists . Seven of the 11 killed , however , were students who were said to be leftists ; seven others were wounded . The students were riding by car to a recreation area 150 miles east of here on Saturday when they were ambushed by masked gunmen . It was believed that the gummen were rightists who were reacting to the growing leftist violence , much of it led by students . Right-wing squads , reportedly made up of off-duty police officers , have organized in response to what they perceive as the leftist threat , and they are blamed for several killings of persons suspected of being leftists . Four Policemen Slain Also killed on Saturday were three national policemen , who were ambushed in the outskirts of San Salvador . In addition , a regional patrolman was killed in the town of Zacotecoluca , 40 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the leftist guerrilla National Forces of Liberation . Six of the seven slain students were buried yesterday in San Miguel , near the scene of their ambush . A coffin containing the body of the seventh was in front of El Rosario Church here this morning . The church is occupied by members of the Popular Revolutionary Bloc , a group of leftist activists demanding the release of political prisoners who they say are being held by the Government without trial . A spokesman for the bloc at the church said the students were aged 14 to 18 . All those killed , the spokesman said , were members of the bloc . Floral wreaths from various other leftist groups surrounded the coffin , which was draped with the bloc 's banner . The bloc , with a membership estimated at 30,000 , is the largest of three coalitions of peasants , workers and students . In its campaign to win freedom for jailed leaders , it has seized and occupied for varying times several embassies here , the Metropolitan Cathedral and a number of churches . The bloc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some other Latin American countries , are led by people who have emerged from the poor majority of the populace that is struggling with unemployment , inadequate housing , disease and malnutrition . The military has been in control of the Government in El Salvador since 1932 , when it crushed a peasant uprising . Since the early 1960 's it has sought to govern through the National Conciliation Party . Elections have been held at five-year in. tervals , but each time a general has won .                     