@@730383

txt The two brothers and two Julia and two other Lindquisl sisters of Johnny Lindquist , 6 , were removed from their mother 's custody yesterday after one of the children was injured in a fall from a secondstory window of their home at 4729 W. Erie St. Youth Officer Donald DeFranza testified at an emergency hearing before Chief Judge William Sylvester White of Family Court that the childrens ' mother , Irene , had returned home at 5 a. m. yesterday and was sleeping at about 9 a. m. when Julia , 2 , fell 18 feet to the sidewalk . Falls Into Glass Julia 's aunt , Mrs. Patricia Strong , told a reporter . that Julia had been dropping empty beer and soft . drink bottles from - the window to ; the ' sidewalk . and fell into ' the broken glass when ' she apparently leaned too far out of the window . Mrs. Strong said she had children , James , 6 , and Jo . seph , 3 , in her own first floor apartment until she took them upstairs and put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mrs. Lindquist had been " out wth friends . " Julia was taken to St. Anne 's Hospital where she was treated for cuts and bruises . She required several stitches . Julia 's brother , Johnny , has been in a coma in the same hospital since July 28 , after allegedly having been beaten senseless by his natural father , William Lindquist , 31 . The father is being held in . County Jail in lieu of $100,000 bond on a charge of aggravated battery . Sought by State The emergency . bearing ' before Judge White was - sought by the state 's attorney 's office after Julia fell from the window and police were called to investigate . Mrs. Strong said she learned Tribune Photo Mrs. Irene Lindquist awaiting word on the condition of a daughter who fell from a window of her home . of the accident from her daughter , April , 5 , who saw Julia fall . She said she telephoned her sister in law , who was asleep . Police who went to the Lindquist apartment reported water was running in the kitchen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ketchup had peen spattered on the flow . and walls , apparently by the children , and it appeared that dog wastes had not been removed from the apartment for several days . The Lindquists have two dogs . After a 90-minute hearing , Judge White ordered the Lind ' quist children placed in the custody of the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services . The order applies to the two boys , Julia , and another sister , Rose Ann , 8 , who is at summer camp . The state will find foster homes for the children pending another custody hearing S ? pt. 1 .                     