@@728495

txt A key to the sudden flood of mail I opposing Senate confirmation of Judge G. Harrold Carswell to the Supreme court came today from Sen. Howard H. Baker Jr . R. , Tenn . Baker , son-in-law of the late senator from Illinois , Everett Dirksen , received a huge brown envelope containing 200 letters and postcards from the Knoxville , Tenn. , postmaster . " The inclosed were received at this office to be canceled and placed in the mails , " Postmaster C. Edwin Graves wrote Baker . " I thought ycu should be informed that these were originally sent from the state of California . They are not from residents of this great state of Tennessee . " Contents Are Opened Postoffice people said the brown envelope , shipped as parcel post , had been sent to the Southern Patriot , 3210 W. Broadway , Nashville , Tenn . A postal clerk there stamped it " no such street number " and then shipped it on to Knoxville , thinking there might be such an address there . The Knoxville postmaster decided to open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inside a " Dear Friends " I note . The first sentence statedl that the writer was representing " a group of concerned citizens in California . " It said that " every letter that is written to a congressman represents over 600 people as it is unusual for people to write unless it is a subject which concerns them personally . " The covering letter was not signed . The letters and postcards inside were all hand written or hand lettered to camouflage any hint that they were part of an organized lobbying effort , Baker 's office said . Senate Offices Puzzled The Southern Patriot , to which the package of letters was addressed , , was published in Nashville in the late 1940s by the Southern Conference for Human Welfare , an organization branded subversive by the Senate internal security committee . It now is published by the Southern Conference Eduation Fund in Louisville , the committee said . Senate offices have been puzzled by the sudden flood of anti-Carswell mail . The mail to the office of Sen. Robert P. Griffin ER. , Mich. has been running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office of Sen. Peter Dominick IL , Colo. has run .100 to I against the judge . Both Senators were astonished . Sen. Mike Gravel ED. , Alasika , who voted to confirm Judge Clement F. Ilaynswor , th , nounced his opposition to Carswell.                     