@@733307

txt Letters pg . 24 Letters - Hospital Stays : Mideast and the Superpowers The Total Picture To the Editor : A letter from William H. Kincaid published Sept. 27 argded that a major factor in the cost of hospital care was excessive lengths of stay . Certainly efforts to shorten hospital stays should be aggressively pursued . To the Editor . The Times 's Oct. 4 editorial " The Geneva Express ( Via Moscow ) " perpetuates the myth that the Israelis and the Palestinians are independent peoples whose ultimate salvation lies in working out their deep-seated differences between themselves . This is contrary to the existing facts of Mideast history . Both the Israelis and the Palestinians are dependent for their economic and military support on the U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R. , respectively , and no peace conference can be called without the support and participation of the two superpowers , which will be called upon to underwrite whatever agreements are reached . The editorial states that " the Israelis and some Americans are perplexed by the effort to draw the Russians into the substance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been expended to . keep them in the picture but out of action . " I submit that this effort to keep them " out of action " has exacerbated the tensions in the Mideast and contributed to a protracted state of cold war between the U.S.A. and the U. S. S. R. The editorial asks , " To do everything possible to reach Geneva is one approach to a settlement , but is a Soviet-sanctioned deal the only path ? " Not merely a Soviet-sanctioned deal , but an **26;913;TOOLONG deal is the only realistic path to a guaranteed peace . About the Soviet-American statement on the Middle East , the editorial asks , Why ? And why now ? The dynamics of diplomacy suggest the answers : If there are no positive forward steps taken , the status quo will deteriorate into a shooting war which will involve both superpowers . The old saw about " who pays the piper calls the tune " pertains to the current Mideast problems . The U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R. have been paying the piper , and it is only fair that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MAX SPECTOR Maspeth , N.Y. , Oct. 5 , 1977 To the Editor : Your Sept. 21 news story " Optimistic Researchers See Different Kind of Downtown " ignores the new urban reality of the 1970 's when it claims that the big-city central business district is still the focal point of the entire metropolitan area . This obsolete perception fails to recognize that today 's metropolis has beome multinodal with the emergence of large multiple-purpose surburban centers which ring the central city . These suburban cores , which contain concentrations of shopping , employment and entertainment , have become co-equal downtowns in their own right , with suburbanites increasingly organizing their lives around them and avoiding other parts of the metropolitan area . Thus , the " metropolitan community , " if indeed such an entity ever truly existed as - an organized social whole , has been split asunder , with each outlying sector now comprising its own urban world anchored by its own downtown-type regional center . The central city 's sphere of influence has shrunk accordingly and its downtown is now but one metropolitan core among many . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the suburbanization of all employment , including white-collar and service jobs , is accelerating , ' I see scant reason for optimism if the future " viability of downtowns will depend far more on the people who work there . . . . " Had these researchers taken a harder look at the downtown office industry 's recent history , they would have discovered that in most cities  --  New York To the Editor : Two stories in the Oct. 2 New York Times illustrate the sharp contradiction between Soviet declarations and actions in the Middle East . The joint statement issued by Secretary of State Vance and Soviet Foreign Minister Gromyko talks of the need for a " just ansl lasting settlement of the Arab-Israel conflict " and " establishment of normal peaceful relations on the basis of mutual recognition of the principles of sovereignty , territorial integrity and political independence . " At the same time , The Times 's military analyst , Drew Middleton , reports significantly stepped-up Soviet shipments of sophisticated weapons during the past year to Iraq and Libya , the militant leaders of the Arab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elimination of Israel and rejects all formulas for a negotiated settlement . Similar examples of Soviet duplicity and deception on the Middle East abound . On June 25 , 1973 , Soviet party leader Leonid Brezhnev solemnly pledged to President Nixon Soviet cooperation " to do everything in their power so that conflicts " would not arise " to increase international tension . . . . " Three and a half months later , the Soviet Union deliberately failed to warn the United States of the impending Egyptian-Syrian Yom Kippur attack on Israel ? as required by the principles signed between the United States and the Soviet Union ? and instead of cooling the conflict , Moscow openly incited other Arab states to enter the war and to impose an oil embargo . The U.S. can not prevent the Soviet Union from co-chairing the reconvened Geneva conference , but the latest Soviet-American declaration , which encourages an active Soviet partnership , ignores the fact that Soviet amoitions in the Middle East are inimical to our own best interests . It would be ironic if U. S. policies helped to promote Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presence in the area . GEORGE E. GRUEN Director , Middle East Affairs American Jewish Committee New York , Oct. 2 , 1977 especially  --  the growth boom of the late 1960 's has given way to an enormous glut of new central office space in the mid-70 's . As the suburban office industry matures , abetted by the current upsurge in corporate headquarters decentralization ( Times , Aug. 14 ) , it seems clear that the wave of recent downtown office building marks the end of an era of central redevelopment , with today 's few new tenants coming mainly from older commercial buildings in the city center . ( Assoc . Prof. ) PETER 0 . MULLER Geography , Temple University Philadelphia , Oct. 2 , 1977 To Pay for Lunch To the Editor : Mr. Bernstein 's concern letter Oct. 5 for the devastating impact on the G.N.P . if he can not deduct his business lunches would be laudable , if it were n't laughable . Allowing a 50 percent deduction for business meals wo n't interfere with the conclusion of business deals over the table @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of us will have to pay for our own meals . And if he 's really good at closing deals over luncheons , his profit on his deals should heal the wounds of actually paying for the food he eats . Sorry , Mr. B.  --  but Uncle Sam wants you ! JIM GILBERT Lawrence , L. L , Oct. 5 , 1977 of the federally mandated Professional Standards Review Organizations have already started to demonstrate results . However , the length of stay of patients in hospitals must be looked at together with the numbers of people per thousand population who were admitted to hospitals . The most significant figure in understanding how hospitals are used is the total number of days of care per thousand population per year . When New York City is compared with the average of the 100 largest cities , we find the admission rate here to be two-thirds of that average . In other words , only two people are admitted to New York 's hospitals in a given year when three would be admitted in the typical large city . That third person @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis . Indeed , when one looks at the total number of days of care per thousand population one finds that in New York it is 13 percent lower than the average of the 100 largest cities . The Blue Cross/Blue Shield Plan of Greater New York pays for about one-third fewer days of care per thousand than plans in other large cities . There is much that we do not understand about the reasons for these very significant variations among major cities . One can not , however , indict patterns of care by physicians without looking at the total picture and recognizing that New York is using its hospital beds economically and efficiently . S. DAVID POMRINSE , M.D. Pres. , Greater New York Hospital Assn . New York , Oct. 6 , 197 7 The Yankees ' Sin ' To the Editor : Jonathan Schwartz ( Op-Ed Oct. 3 ) would have us believe that the Yankees won the Eastern Division race by purchasing talent " with grim financial determination " and fielding a team of " store-bought and uncourageous " ballplayers . Surely Schwartz must remember that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their bank accounts when free agency became a reality . With grim financial determination , they enticed relief pitcher Bill Campbell from the Twins  --  the same Campbell who set the Red Sox club record with 30 saves and , quite likely , was the reason the Boston club survived until the season 's final 20 hours . Perhaps Schwartz is right . Maybe the Yankees did purchase first place . Their only sin is that they got a better bargain than Boston , which only managed to buy a tie for second . WAYNE S. KABAK New York , Oct .. 3 , 1977 Central Business Districts : ' The End of an Era ' Rikers Island : ' It Is Not Without Reason That These People Risk Death ' To the Editor : As pleased as I was to read The Times 's Sept. 16 article reporting Judge Marvin E. Frankel 's decision which criticized the new Federal detention center , one of the most modern in the country , I nonetheless remain dismayed at how Judge Frankel 's colleague Judge Morris E. Lasker can continue to remain mute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject of a lawsuit before him , continue , unabated at the city 's House of Detention for Men on Rikers Island . The new facility is heaven compared with the Rikers Island hell hole . While I have no argument with Judge Frankel 's decision , where are the ' Federal court priorities ? If our Federal courts in the name of Judge Frankel can move forward on an inmate lawsuit involving the conditions at this modern facility , I wonder why and how Judge Lasker can sit on his hands in deciding the Rikers Island lawsuit , which involves the following claims : inadequate recreational facilities , lack of nutritional meals for those under religious dietary restrictions , strip searches , oppressive housing quartees , and the lumping together of aggressive and nonaggressive inmates in common quarters . In addition , complaints of insects and rodents being found in ill-prepared and sometimes uncooked food , which more often than not is served on dirty trays ; the forced wearing of coveralls and trousers which have been worn by other inmates ( unlaundered ) for contact visits with families ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New York subway system ; not providing minimal necessities for personal hygiene ( towels , razors , laundering ' supplies ) . I have worked within the Rikers Island institution since 1972 and know from observation that all of these conditions exist . If Judge Frankel can render a decision which will prevent Federal detainees from being housed for more than two months at the modern Federal facility , then Judge Lasker should have no alternative but to close down the Men 's Detention Center at Rikers Island , as he laudably did the equally oppressive Tombs in Manhattan . The intolerable conditions that exist at Rikers Island are further evidenced by the ever-increasing ? number of escape attempts . It is not without reason that these people risk drowning in the East-River . THoras J. O'Comact New York , Oct. 5 , 1977 The writer is executive director , Prison Reform Task Force , New York Society for Ethical Culture .                     