@@729644

txt Japanese number their typhoons rather than name them as Americans do . In recent weeks they have been numbering a different kind of blow  --  the Nixon shocks . The first Nixon shock jolted Japan in July when the American President made the dramatic and surprise announcement of his intention to visit Peking , capital of Communist China . No Prior Warning The announcement came with almost no prior warning to Japan , our ally in the Far East . It left Japan in the embarrassing position of supporting a position ? nonrecognition of Red China ? which the United States had pushed on Japan , but now seemed to be preparing to modify without consultation . The second Nixon shock came in August when Nixon made a dramatic and surprise announcement of his intention to make a drastic change in economic policy . He cut the dollar loose from the gold exchange rate . The obvious purpose was to force upward yevaluation of the yen , thus making it cheaper to export American goods ? to . Japan and more expensive . to import . goods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposal for a wage . and . price freeze in the U. S. did not affect.Japan materially . The whiplash of the . second shock , like the tail of a ' typhoon ; hit Japan on Aug. 28 . Japan ' ' was ? faced with a squeeze from ' speculators trying to trade dollars ? depreciated ' by the Nixon economic offensive . It cut the yen loose from its traditional rate of 360 to the dollar and allowed the value of yen to rise . In the first few hours , the value of the dollar in relation to the yen dropped about 8 per cent to 338 to the dollar . Travelers arriving at Tokyo International Airport found that during their long ocean flight they had lost 8 cents of every dollar they had brought with them It was an annoying development for travelers but not really serious except to the very rich and the very poor . For Japan , however , and for the future of the special relationship that had existed between Japan and the U. S. since the end of World War II @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joke Circulates A wry joke circulated in Tokyo : Nixon shock number one came on July 15 . Shock two came on Aug. 15 . Brace yourself for Sept. 15 . Since the last shock and before the new one hits ? if it does ? a fairly clear pattern of reaction to the first two shocks has become evident . It can be summarized as follows : 1 . The United States position is firm as enunciated by Ambassador Armin H. Meyer . Both Presidential actions were necessary and were based on realism and common sense . Communist China exists as a major power in the East ; therefore , Nixon 's visit to Peking is no more than a recognition of a fact that can not be realistically ignored . Japan has become an economic giant ; therefore , It can not realistically expect to continue to receive favored economic treatment at the expense of the United States . Christmas is over , the Japanese are being told . Advance notice of Nixon 's decisions could not be given because leaks of information would have jeopardized the projects . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mixture of injured surprise and suppressed resentment . Repeatedly they argue that Nixon 's method of disclosing his decisions was shabby treatment of a faithful ally and that the . economic offensive against Japanese imports was unnecessary because Japan was preparing to offer remedies for the trade Inequities which they themselves recognized . They associated the surprise and drama of the announcements with political tactics and assert that next year 's election was more on Nixon 's mind than keeping friendly relations with Japan . They concede , at the same time , that the chief Victim of the tactic is Nine Minister Eisaku Sato who lost face when it appeared that he had been slighted by Nixon . Sato , too , must lead his party Into an election next year . Thus election politics is mingled with real politics and motives remain murky . Eye Possible Allies 3 . The second reaction of Japanese leaders has been to canvass the field for possible new political allies and economic partners . Almost without exception this search focuses upon Red China . Peking , tiro It behaves toward Japan in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians and businessmen from Prime Minister Sato on down to the cats and dogs of China-Japan friendship societies . 4 . The Japanese , seeing barriers be-. ing raised against their exports to the U. S. , have begun to turn their attention to pressing internal problems . Social investment is a popular slogan almost universally promoted by newspapers , politicians and planners . Pollution control , more public transportation and utilities and expansion of the consumer share of economic progress are principal features of this campaign . The argument is that if the Japanese economy , a booming marvel for the last 5 years now just beginning to show signs of cooling off , can force the United States economy into a defensive position , it should provide a better life for the Japanese people . 5 . Foreign aid Is the object of intense study by Japanese leaders . The economic resources that might have been committed to trade with the United States now could be diverted to aid for undeveloped countries , thus keeping the domestic economy humming . This is not regarded by Japanese economic planner 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sort of a latter day Marshall Plan that will yield two prime returns  --  expanded trade and grateful friends . The second return is considered of the highest importance because Japanese are uneasy over their lack of defense in case of war , The aid program , as they see it , is a peace offensive . Warn Against Rearmament 6 . The pressures generated by the Nixon policy changes have prompted Japanese newspapers to warn against rearmament as an acceptable response . Japan 's so-called defense budget is up 22 per cent this year . It is still less than 1 per cent of gross national product , but it has been inching up regularly in the last four years . There is In Japan a small military establishment including elements of navy , air force and army . Red China blasts the Japanese as militarists daily In its broadcasts across the Sea of Japan . The Japanese argue that they have learned their lesson and never again will resort to arms . There are those , however , who concede that the younger generation of Japanese may not heed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now being played between Japan and the United States would appear almost certainly to be Nationalist China . Mann 's approach to Peking is a severe blow to Taiwan and Chiang Kai-shek . Japan 's courtship of Red China foreshadows abandonment of the Nationalist Chinese government that it reluctantly recognized as the legitimate ruler of all Chinese territory ? mainland and Formosa ? in 1952 , The Japanese contend that the treaty was forced upon them by John Foster Dulles , then secretary of state , but the decision to choose Red China and reject Nationalist China Is a painful one because trade and cultural ties with Taiwan are strong , Here , the Japanese ? like Americans  --  speak of realism , a word increasingly in vogue among the pragmatists of Washington and Tokyo . See Problems Solved 8 . American businessmen In Tokyo , apprehensive over the new tensions between Japan and the United States , contend that all problems can be worked out if both sides show good will and patience . They contend that both sides have too much to lose to permit trade inequities or political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States and Japan . They assert that the trouble will pass and friendship and cooperation will continue . As the dust settles and new policies evolve , some Japanese leaders charge that the economic offensive against Japanese exports would have been unnecessary If the United States had not mismanaged its own economy . They argue that Americans dug their own economic grave by refusing to take austerity measures against inflation and by sinking too much of the nation 's resources into the Viet Nam War . These attacks upon the United States are not being trumpeted , however . At the moment the concern is for restraint . The Japanese Would rather have solutions to problems and harmonious relations with the United States than a noisy brawl over who is to blame for the new tensions between old friends .                     