@@730133

txt Leonid I. Brezhnev , the Soviet Communist party leader , personally initiated Henry A. Kissinger 's secret weekend trip to Moscow , a well-placed Administration source said today . Mr. Brezhnev and Mr. Kissinger discussed the Vietnam situation and other issues sure to arise during President Nixon 's visit to the Soviet Union next month . The official said that Mr. Brezhnev 's suggestion that a trusted aide of Mr. Nixon come to Moscow was made recently in a letter to the President . Mr , Nixon , after consulting with Mr. Kissinger , his adviser on nas tional security , and with Secre ? tary of State William P. Rogers , decided to send Mr. Kissinger to have his views made known as clearly as possible to Mr. Brezhnev . At a briefing for newsmen tonight , before Mr. Nixon 's Vietnam speech , Mr. Kissinger // appeared extremely optimistic about the prospects for Mr. Nixon 's visit as the result of his mission there from last Thursday to Monday . He said that all negotiations with the Soviet Union were " on course " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have re- , ceived an additional impetus " by his meetings with Mr. Brezhnev . Although vrrtually every matter facing the two nations was discussed , the Administration source said , Vietnam was clearly the major subject . It was understood that Mr. Brezhnev and Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko affirmed the Soviet view that the Paris negotiations should be resumed and that Mr. Kissinger repeated Mr. Nixon 's belief that major powers had a responsibility for urging restraint on those nations they supply with arms . The Administration source said that one factor leading Mr. Nixon to agree to resume the Paris peace talks tomorrow  --  despite an earlier decision to boycott the negotiations until the North Vietnamese ceased their offensive in South Vietnam  --  was the stress put by Mr. Brezhnev on their possible value . 13y resuming the talks , the Administration is testing not only . Hanoi 's intentions , the Administration source said , but also Moscow 's leverage on the North Vietnamese . The general view here is that although Moscow has limited influence over Hanoi 's actions , it serves as a conduit for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ briefing at the White House tonight , was asked if the Russians had specifically given assurances about Hanoi 's willingness to negotiate . Decision Called Unusual He avoided a direct answer , but left the impression that the Russians had been talking along this line . He said " we have some evidence " that productive talks can be expected . Mr. Brezhnev 's correspondence with Mr. Nixon began early last year and has been regular since then . Its contents have been carefully guarded , but have been alluded to by Mr. Kissinger several times ? including his remarks yesterday about his secret trip to Moscow . He said that the two leaders had been in contact , and " in the course of these exchanges , it ' was felt in the last few weeks that a more direct exchange might be desirable . " " Therefore , by mutual agreement , " Mr. Kissinger said , he was sent to Moscow . Mr. Brezhnev 's decision to spend four days with Mr. Kissinger was viewed by Soviet specialists here as unprecedented in recent Soviet history . Mr. Brezhnev @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the specialists said , and moreover , has only in the last two years been seeing any Western officials . He has never spent this much time with an aide to a top official . Mr. Brezhnev , by his actions , a specialist said , was underscoring the importance he attaches to Soviet-American relations and to Mr. Nixon 's visit to Moscow , Leningrad and Kiev , which begins on May 22 . State Department officials were comparing the KissingerBrezhnev meetings with those held by Harry Hopkins , an aide to Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman , who was sent on glacial missions to Moscow to confer with Stalin . In his briefing tonight , Mr. Kissinger seemed impressed as well by the length of time he spent with Mr. Brezhnev . After indirectly confirming that Mr. Brezhnev had initiated his visit to Moscow , Mr. Kissinger said the fact that they had a " mutual interest and serious desire to deal with outstanding issues in a serious way " was more significant than how the trip came about . Among the issues discussed by Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategic arms , now reaching a crucial phase in Helsinki . Gerard C. Smith , the head of the American delegation , returned to Washington today to confer with Mr. Nixon on the prospects for a firstphase agreement . Mr. Nixon has said that he hopes to sign a first-stage agreement on arms limitation while in Moscow . But in the last few weeks , some White House aides have suggested that the Vietnam fighting might inhibit Mr. Nixon from making an agreement short of a freeze on all offensive weapons . The Russians have been refusing to include submarine missiles in a first-stage agreement , and the Defense Department is on record as opposing an accord that does not include submarines . Mr. Kissinger , in outlining tonight his grounds for optimism about the Moscow meeting , referred specifically to the strategic arms talks . He said that the Administration had earlier expected to be able to sign an agreement prior to the Nixon trip , or achieve a breakthrough at Moscow . " Those expectations have been reinforced " as the result of his Moscow talks , Mr. Kissinger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the freeze on some offensive weapons , there would be a treaty putting a freeze on antiballistic missiles  --  the defensive weapons . The two sides are reportedly extremely close on agreement on the numbers of defensive missiles each side will be able to retain  --  estimated at between 150 and 200 . Mr. Kissinger and Mr. Brezhnev also discussed such questions as possible increase in trade between the two countries . While Mr. Kissinger was in Moscow , a high-level United States delegation also there agreed in principle on a merchant marine accord , opening the way to a Soviet-American shipping pact on moving goods between the two countries . That delegation , headed by Nathaniel Samuels , Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs , had no idea that Mr. Kissinger was also in Moscow , a member of that group said today .                     