@@734404

txt President Carter 's words and actions on the issue of Soviet troops in Cuba left the Senate deeply divided today over what it should and would do about the strategic arms limitation treaty with the Soviet Union , Despite a mixed reaction in the Senate , the President told visitors to the White House that he felt encouraged by what he described as a mild Soviet reaction to his television speech yesterday on the troop issue . He said he was confident that his own measures and reported assurances from the Soviet Union had broken the logjam over Senate approval of the arms pact . Page A14 . Senator Howard H. Baker Jr. , of Tennessee , the minority leader , said he opposed delay on the pact , as other Republicans had urged . But he called for drastic amendments and said that , unless they were adopted , the treaty " will not get 60 votes . " If all 100 senators vote , 67 votes will be needed for approval . Republicans Oppose Compromise Senator Baker and other Republicans also indicated that they would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate might adopt a resolution stating the treaty could not go into effect until President Carter certified in writing that a reported Soviet combat unit had somehow been made harmless . . Senator Frank Church , Democrat of Idaho and chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , which is handling the arms treaty , indicated yesterday that he would put forth such a reservation . Today he said that Senate approval of the treaty would require " a clear statement by the President that Soviet combat forces are no longer deployed in Cuba . " By agreement with the Senate majority leader , Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia and with the White House , Senator // Church had postponed committee action on the treaty while President Carter engaged in negotiations with the Soviet Union on the troop issue . With those talks ended for the moment , the President 's public position seemed to open the way for the committee to act and to send the treaty to the Senate floor for debate and a vote this year . However , it was not clear whether the Senate would consent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troop issue , but they do want greater military spending than Mr. Carter has been willing to support . Except for a few liberals , most Senate Republicans condemned Mr. Carter 's speech and what they regarded as largely symbolic actions on the troop issue . Senator Baker called the actions " inadequate " and said , " In a toe-to-toe confrontation , we blinked . " Several Democrats were lukewarm or hostile to the President 's handling of the troop issue , but most liberal Democrats , together with Senator Byrd , supported the argument that the arms treaty was more important than the problem of the Soviet troops . During an exchange on the Senate floor today , Senator Baker told the Democrats that the Republicans had been " remarkably restrained " spectators and had not made the Soviet troop question a major issue in the debate over the arms-limitation treaty . It was Senator Church , Senator Baker said , who reported that there was a Soviet combat unit in Cuba and that the Senate would not approve the treaty until the issue was resolved . There were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floor . Senator Jesse A. Helms of North Carolina , one of the staunchest conservatives among Republicans , said Mr. Carter had failed to show leadership , had made the United States look " ridiculous " and had made what was " tantamount to an admission that Soviet superiority is so great that the United States can not resist . " Senator Byrd , angered , rose to say that Senator Helms was implying that " we should have a nuclear exchange with the Soviet Union . " When Senator Helms tried to protest that he had made no such implication , Senator Byrd became upset because the North Carolina Republican was addressing him in the first person , rather than in the third person as required by Senate rules . Senator Alan Cranston of California , the Senate whip , rose to argue that the Soviet troops did not threaten the United States and added : " It 's time to put aside childish things and childish ways . " " There was never any real relevance between Soviet troops in Cuba and the SALT treaty , " Senator Cranston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was the President and the Democrats who had made the troop issue a test of wills . Senator Baker said at a news conference that , despite the Soviet assurances described by President Carter , the reported brigade was not in Cuba on a training mission and had " never engaged in training . "                     