@@733734

txt A FEDERAL GRAND JURY is widening its investigation into charges that Chicago-area contractors conspired to rig bids nn public building contracts worth millions of dollars in recent years , The Tribune has learned . A number of sheet metal contractors already have been indicted . Sources said plumbing and pipefitting contractors were likely to he next . The grand jury , Marl by prosecutors from the Justice Department 's antitrust division , is looking into projects built by Cook County , the State of Illinois , and the Chicago Board of Education . Contractors are under investigation to determine whether they decided among themselves which firm would submit the low bid for each project while other builders submitted intentionally high bids to give the illusion of competition . The cost to taxpayers may have been inflated by millions of dollars if competition was suppressed , federal prosecutors said . THE FIRST INDICTMENT as a vestal , of the investigation was returned on June 12 , when 18 major Chicago-area sheet metal contracting firms and 12 corporate officials were charged with croon jespcs iring to rig bids on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Sherman Antitrust Act and federal mail fraud statutes , said the defendants and other conspirators were paid more than $100 million for work on public projects during a 13-year conspiracy . The indictment also accused Local 73 of the Sheet Metal Worker , International Association and its president , William Black , of aiding the conspiracy . " Our investigation definitely did n't end with that Indictment , " said one federal investigator . " From what we 've learned , we believe the pattern of conspiracy among the sheet metal companies is n't an isolated case . " HE SAID THAT , based on " the evidence uncovered so far , " the grand jury will have enough material " to keep busy for months and months . " However , he said the Justice Departmerit plans to complete its prosecution of the sheet metal contractors before committing extensive resources to the investigation of other contractors . Although federal agents refused to discuss which other types of contractors are coming under scrutiny , defense lawyers familiar with the investigation cited plumbing and pipefitting as among the probable areas of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cooling , and ventilation systems . The public projects on which bids were rigged , according to the indictment , included construction or renovations at the Cook County Jail complex , the county Criminal Courts building , the new courts building at 1340 S. Michigan Av. , and the court building in west suburban Maywood . DEFENSE LAWYERS said that at least a dozen executives of sheet metal contracting firms received some form of immunity from prosecution in the investigation that resulted in the indictment . More immunity is expected to be granted to other . contractors as the probe widens and prosecutors Se ' testimony from " insiders " who refuse to testify because of possible self-Incrimination.                     