@@730959

txt White House officials , while publicly attempting to downplay friction between Secretary of Treasury Georg e Shultz and Presidential counselor Melvin Laird , today privately expressed some surprise over Shultz 's attacks on Laura . Shultz , in Tokyo for trade talks , told reporters he wished that Laird would keep his " cotton-pickin ' hands " out of economic matters , after newsmen informed him that Laird announced that President Nixon is considering a 10 per cent rebatable surtax on federal income tax . Administration officials had cabled Shultz in Tokyo about the tax proposals , offered by Federal Reserve Chairman Arthur Burns during a meeting with Nixon on Tuesday . Shultz was given no advance notice , however , of the decision to " go public " with the proposals , and first learned in conversation with reporters that Laird had announced the plan . White House aides tried to reach Shultz to clarify matters after his outburst , but he was on a plane by then , heading back for Washington . Nixon ordered Laird to tell reporters about the proposals after he became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given to a House subcommittee , might lead people to think that the proposed tax is about to be offered to Congress . He told Laird to emphasize that the matter is only under study and no derision has been diode . THE PRESIDENT , according to his top aides , told Burns , a longtime advocate of higher taxes to fight inflation , that he would have an open mind and would consider any proposal  --  a gesture that he hoped would pacify Burns , whose federal reserve system has independent power to raise the discount rate to banks , a move that always means higher interest rates for citizens borrowing that same money from the banks . Nixon , already concerned over high interest rates , is reported anxious to dissuade any higher rates . Burns , pleased with reaction to his proposal , told the congressmen that be thought the President might be seriously considering a tax increase When Shultz , half-a-world away in Tokyo , was told about Laird 's briefing , he did not know that it came after a session in Nixon 's Oval Office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on his own . Iris QUICK REACTION , not I characteristic of the generally mild-mannered treasury secretary , might have been partially fueled by reports that Shultz is exerting less and less influence on the economic policies of the Nixon administration . Long an advocate of a free economy , Shultz was instrumental in encouraging relaxation of controls during Phase 3 , a move generally blamed for the recent rise in inflationary rates . And it has been noted that Nixon seems to be turning more and more to Roy Ash , head of his Office of Management and Budget , for economic advice .                     