@@732264

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor In Defense of the Young Doctors To the Editor : It is as difficult to refute Dr. Ashley Montagu 's concern for the humanization of medicine ( Op-Ed Dec. 1 ) as it would be to oppose all the other nostalgic concerns for the good old days . But I should have thought that so distinguished and voluble a scholar of the ascent and descent of man might have put his case in the larger context of the mechanization that has eroded the niceties of life on all fronts rather than turning to tired old saws about the evils of the A.M.A. , the virtues of education reform and the disparaging aside that there is " very little profit in health . " Young doctors , among whom unhappily I can no longer count myself , may well have lost the broadly cultivated and warmly avuncular manner of yesterday 's half-remembered medical gentlemen . They should perhaps be scolded ? for their impatience with the worried well . But their capacity to defer death , to reverse once-irreversible physiological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago could be managed only with resignation and opium deserves at least passing recognition . Medical men are weary of hearing classy put-downs of their general level of culture and their specific failure to espouse preventive medicine . If Dr. Montagu is really concerned about the state of the art of medicine and in To the Editor : On Nov. , 25 , the Federal Election Commission opened the way for a new and potentially massive source of political funds by allowing corporations to collect political donations from employees and stockholders and disperse these funds as the company sees fit . Much was said about the benefits that this action would imply for Republicans , and to a large extent the commission 's rationale appears to have been to offset the contributions To Rid the World Of Nuclear Weapons To the Editor : The nuclear disposal plan offered by Reynolds Moody ( letter Dec. 4 ) is the most hopeful idea in many years of largely suppressed concern about the proliferation of these ghastly weapons . The naive notion of control by secrecy has been proved unworkable again and again . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sanctions a spreading and spiraling competition in arms production which threatens to bankrupt even the richest nations . And now there is talk of controlled nuclear war ! Colonel Moody 's proposal may be deceptively simple , but it aims at the right target , disposal of nuclear weapons , with the right assumption , that we do not need a World Government to ward off this threat to our sweet planet ( and incidentally , to ourselves ) . We do need a nonpolitical body authorized by the common consent of all nations to control and dispose of a real and present danger that sovereign governments , bound to act in their separate interests , are unable to manage . Does anyone doubt that nearly everybody in every nation would favor ridding the world of nuclear arms ? It is time to call on candidates for high office to face this issue and take a stand . DOROTHY DURAND Philadelphia , Dec. 7 , 1975 ? To the Editor : Col. Reynolds Moody 's visionary nuclear disposal plan is naive . Can anyone really believe that the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their nuclear weapons caches ? A so-called World Authority , which reforming its practitioners because he believes that rehumanizing them according to his lights will bring health to the people , he has not done his homework . When the disease-breeding , wetwalled slums of the inner city have been bulldozed and replaced , when inhuman and ' soul-killing poverty has been banished , when highway slaughter has been curbed ( already down significantly with a speed limit of 55 ) , when clouds of cancer-breeding cigarette smoke have scattered , when oceans of alcohol have been dumped elsewhere than down the gullets of the populace , along with tons of nutritionfree junk food , sugar and grease , and when an effective morality has displaced our enthusiasm for drugs and the massive , multisexual circulation of the gonococcus and the spirochete of syphilis , then perhaps it will be time to worry about the manners , the empathy and the general level of culture of our superb medical technicians . It must be remarked , however , that once they can all balance teacups and quote Herodotus , and are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ( we could all use some of that ) , it must not be imagined that there is indeed a Cinderella specialty called preventive medicine , which can undo the real causes of the public 's ill health . WILLIAM 3 . WELCH , M.D. New York , Dec. 1 , 1975 dispersed by labor unions largely to Democrats . Neither practice should be condoned , and if Congress believes that both corporations and unions should be allowed to demonstrate their political affinities , a meaningful and effective limit on these contributions should be imposed . The great danger in political contributions collected from a company 's employees is that many will be coerced to donate , and although the coercion will likely be indirect , it will be sufficient to collect substantial amounts of funds . The commission did state a concern in this area and suggested that guidelines be drawn up to prevent this practice . Since the commission pays no salaries of any corporate employees , it is highly doubtful whether any guidelines can be enforced . This ruling is another step toward Increasing the trend of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the individual . Why an added source of funds is needed when every person in the United States has the right to support , but not to influence , his candidate with a reasonable contribution is beyond the reasoning of many , I am certain . SUMIN TcHEN Higganum , Conn. , Nov. 25 , 1975 the colonel suggests , would be as impotent in preventing war as the League of Nations and the United Nations . After all , where would it get its muscle ? This " plan " recalls Hitler 's famous remark upon learning that the Catholic Church was criticizing the Filhrees aggression : " How many divisions does the Pope have ? " MELVIN RUSSELL . BLAM Lieut . Col. , U.S. Army ' ( Ret . ) Cornwall-on-Hudson , N. Y. , Dec. 5 , 1975 Of Reactors and Liability To the Editor : Your Dec. 2 editorial " Nuclear Safety " misses the reason for the nuclear liability limitation in the PriceAnderson Act : Such editorials are the reason . Those involved in the construction and use of nuclear reactors know them to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the buyers of utility stocks and bonds , the pension and mutual funds which are the sources of the money the utilities must obtain are , or might be , influenced by statements of groups that more and more are making their living by opposing the perfect solution to the environmental and energy crisis : nuclear power . A three-year moratorium on the false rumors , the bad science and the poorly thought-through logic being used by those opposing nuclear power should obsolete the need for the liability limitation of Price-Anderson . R. W. NEWMAN Springdale , Conn. , Dec. 2 , 1975 The drawing in Thursday 's letters columns , erroneously credited to Micha Richter , was the work of Mort Gerberg . Morality and the S.L.A. To the Editor : The State Liquor Authority has declared in grand manner - but without much historical or scientific research that " sale of liquor and ; total nudity are incompatible , " the implication being that it has unearthed proof that when Salome danced , nothing stronger than mint tea was consumed . I feel that it is time that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declarations as to what " morality " requires and look beneath the surface at the motivations of those who wish to dictate patterns of behavior . The moral character of our civilization will in the last analysis be judged more on how we treat our handicapped , underprivileged and elderly , and on our compassion and justice for our fellow man rather than on superficial attempts to dictate changes in behavior that is biologically determined and older than the species itself . Naturally , true morality is difficult to achieve and requires sincere commitment , while flailing against natural human behavior is cheap and easy to come by , grabbing the headlines but not advancing our moral fiber one whit . We should be more concerned about the lack of clothing among our migrant farm workers who need it than the disrobing of a performer in a bistro that is probably overheated anyway . AsA P. RUSKIN , M.D. Brooklyn , Dec. 8 , 1975 The Nadjari ' Damage ' To the Editor : By law ( People v. Ward , 37- AD 2d 174 , 177-8 ) , I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dismissal of Special State Anticorruption Prosecutor Maurice H. Nadjari 's indictments against Judge Rao et al . Neither is Mr. Nadjari Yet he does that and many other things that seem to me to show a total disregard for the " means " to a conviction . Our Constitution , statutes and case law demonstrate that we are as concerned with the means to criminal conviction as we are with conviction itself . If Mr. Nadjari , as the vast majority of prosecutors in this country must , had to face an electorate , I am sure the point would be brought forcibly home to him . I resent the great damage he does to our **28;799;TOOLONG - fundamental - rights image . HENRY D. BLUMBERG District Attorney , Herkimer County Herkimer , N. Y. , Dec. 4 , 1975 Gift From ' , The Greatest ' To the Editor : The Senior Citizens Center for the physically handicapped at 37 Hillside Avenue in Washington Heights , under the auspices of Self Help ( instituted by Jews from Germany ) , is attended primarily by Jewish people . If it were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go to and be left to their solitude . Miraculously and unexpectedly , this center was saved , not by the U.J.A.-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies , nor by any other Jewish organization or wealthy Jews , but by the heavyweight champion , Muhammad Ali , " The Greatest . " Inside his large , handsome physique beats a big , soft heart that evidently knows no discrimination for charity . Ali did not have to rescue this program for votes or fame , nor does he need to seek Jewish favors . For tax purposes he certainly can find enough charitable causes among his black brethren . Ali may just want to do a good deed . Ali may want to reciprocate the generous contributions to black causes made by the Jewish organizations . Ali demonstrates that minorities should help each other , that we need each other . Ali is a true philanthropist . CHARLOTTE WAHLE New York , Dec. 6 , 1975 ? To Speed the Cash.FlOw To the Editor : If cash flow has been and remains so critical a part of New York City 's ability to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to eliminate the seasonal aspects of tax colleCtions ? Surely the owners of real estate should be willing to pay taxes monthly to the city . MARTIN PANZER New York , Dec. 1 , 1975 Unfair to Note Holders To the Editor : An honorable moratorium by New York State would mean paying the note holders the face amount of the interest called for until the note is paid in full . Lowering the interest rate or forcing the note holder to exchange his ( or her ) note for M.A.C . bonds- is manifestly unfair as current . M.A.C . bonds are selling way below par . Suppose note holders declared a moratorium on their taxes due the city and state and only paid 6 epernent interest on their taxes ? RO  --  ERT.:BRIGHTMAN . Great Neck , L. L , : tec , 5,1975 The Candidates ' New Fund Collectors What Default Means To the Editor : Relying on the glad tidings of " shortterm Federal loans to enable New York City to prevent a default " ( news story , Dec. 3 ) , I shall present my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ask for payment . My dictionary defines " default " as failure to pay . What does your Newspeak dictionary call it ? Just a little bit overdue ? CURTIS MICHEL New York , Dec. 3 , 1975                     