@@733518

txt Letters Blueprint for a Reformed School System To the Editor : The adage that a hard case makes bad law is applicable to the current attempts to reform our New York school system . The system is certainly in shambles today , and it should be noted that there are many teachers and principals , competent and devoted , who can not do their best work under the present system of multiple bureaucracies . I agree the Mayor should have more authority than he now has . He should make all appointments and removals from the Board of Education . The board should not have conflicting loyalties , some members to the Mayor and some to Borough Presidents . I would have each Borough President nominate a member to be appointed by the Mayor , and the Mayor appoint four more after all had been screened . by a committee of representative leading citizens . This would be more effective , too , than establishing an 11-mem ? To the Editor : Tinley N. Akar 's Feb. 18 Op-Ed article stated that " Tibet in the 1940 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state . " Nothing is further from the truth . Tibet was not an independent state in the 1940 's . Nor had the internatzional community recognized it as such . Because of the preoccupation of China 's Government with civil and foreign wars during the republican period . Tibet , like several provinces in the interior , was sometimes let alone in the administration of local affairs . Such a lapse of central control ovet To the Editor : Usher Piller 's letter March 4 denigrating Margaret Thatcher and the British public over racism is both emotive and inaccurate in the discussion of why the Conservative Party 's timetable for phasing out immigration has failed to drag the people into the streets . It is not apathy but a realization that vote-catching speeches on immigration controls are a long way from a Nazi creed of an Aryan race . As a British citizen over here on business I feel qualified in making these observations . Mrs. Thatcher has successfully shifted the discussion of race away from the dangerous scaremongering of the fascist party , the Naber board , as has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain functions of the Board of Education , such as multitudinous appeals from local boards , of which it might well be relieved . And the Mayor 's office is better situated to negotiate labor contracts . The Board of Education 's function should be to adopt educational policy on recommendation of and in consultation with the professional staff . It should adopt budgets , which express educational policy . It should not be regarded es an arm of the city government , as just another department under the control of the Mayor . Consequently , the Mayor should not appoint the president and vice president of the board . The board itself should elect those persons under whom it believes it can best function . The proposal to have the Mayor veto ( or appoint ) the Chancellor is wrong . The Chancellor is supposed to be and a part of China 's territory did not , however , waive its sovereign authority in that region . Great Britain , because of its political and economic design in Tibet during the latter part of the 19th century , attempted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " as distinguished from " sovereignty . " Suzerainty generally applies to a political entity which is internally autonomous but externally under the control of the suzerain state . In spite of such an intricate distinction , neither Great Britain nor any other foreign state has ever denied China 's legal authority over Tibet . Many states have certain regions populated by minorities ; China is one of such multi-ethnic nations . In view of the above , the Passport Office of the State Department is correct in listing " China " as " place of birth " in the passport issued to a naturalized American who was born in Tibet or any other area of China . I understand Nagwang Phakchock 's sentiments , as described in Mr. Akar 's article , but Tibet as an integral part of China is not subiect to question either in law or in fact . WELLum L. TUNG Professor of International Law and East Asian Studies Queens College , CUNY Flushing , N.Y. , March 6 , 1978 tional Front , into the arena of parliamentary debate . Parliament was alarmed at any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disquiet was echoed by the media . The " particular British character " Mrs. Thatcher wishes to preserve is one of toleration and equality of all races , colors and creeds ; her statements do not contradict this essential view . The British public 's response to the debate illustrates an intelligent detachment to political hysteria . I would have hoped Americans would applaud rather than condemn such behavior . COLIN D. TWEEDY Linden , N.J. , March 4 , 1978 ought to he an educator , not a politician . Children and their teachers are not to be equated with the consumers and officials in other areas of gove 11 ; mheanvte. confidence hi Mayor Koch . I believe his intentions are good . However , I fear that he has been misled concerning the nature of school systems . Education is a far more intricate and sensitive relationship between the school and its consumers ( parents and children ) than is the case . in other areas of government . The Mayor 's misunderstanding is illustrated by his proposal to appoint Representative Shirley Chisholm to be Chancellor . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not an educator . Finally , however much faith one has in the good intentions of Mayor Koch , he will not always be Mayor . I served on the board of Education under Mayor La Guardia , and my last appointment overlapped the terms of Mayors O'Dwyer and Impelletieri . I have followed the school system ever since , for over 40 years . There was less political interference under La Guardia than under any other Mayor , and yet he , too , at times tried to intervene . On one occasion , when he was urging the board to appoint a friend of his to an important post , I threatened to resign on the ground that he had violated his campaign pledge not to interfere with educational appointments . He retreated . Other Mayors have insisted on the promotion of their favorites , and their appointees have encouraged a system of favoritism in the promotion and placing of teachers . This is the danger of a system which puts the School Board and president and the Chancellor under obligation to a Mayor . All Mayors will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been in the past . The Times editorial of Feb. 22 was right to the point . JAMES MARSHALL New York , March 8 , 1978 The writer , a member of the City Board of Education from 1935 to 1952 , was its president from 1938 to 1942 . Gov . Brown 's Symbols To the Editor : William Irwin Thompson is off base if he thinks that the growing criticism of Gov . Jerry Brown is confined to Eastern journalists who do n't understand California ( Op-Ed Feb. 24 ) . Thoughtful Californians , who refuse to be mesmerized by the manipulation of symbols , have begun to question where Jerry Brown really stands . One year Brown reads Schumacher 's " Small Is Beautiful , " and then advocates an era of limitations . Another year he sees " Star Wars , " and then proposes the building of a California space satellite . His obvious intelligence is no substitute for his coolness , arrogance and aloofness . There are too many bright young men without ? hearts . Jerry Brown will not be judged by the questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and performance . He drives a Plymouth , but he dodges the issues . He sleeps on the floor , but he does not necessarily have his ear to the around . PHILIP A. SCHAEFER Belvedere , Calif. , March 6 , 1978 Tibet : ' An Integral Part of China ' Of Racism in Britain and Mrs. Thatcher 's Words The Refugee Problems Central Park Zoo : The Animals ' Friends Of the Middle East To the Editor : Your March 3 editorial on Mrs. Indira Gandhi 's remarkably successful performance in the mini-elections in several Indian states minimizes the importance of this achievement and presents the most negative view of her record in government . Organizing a new political party in less than two months , campaigning almost single-handedly , beset by highly politicized governmental pressures on many fronts , Mrs. Gandhi defeated the forces of local incumbents , the Government Janata Party and the Congress " regulars . " These are all well-entrenched political groups which have had much more freedom of action , greater access to the media and larger financial resources than Mrs. Gandhi had available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a coordinated smear campaign , has characterized the most important segments of the Indian media in the past year . In the face of all these negatives , Mrs. Gandhi 's victory is an extraordinary performance , which your editorial attempts to understate . On the basis of factual electoral evidence , she is now the single most important political personality in India . Your editorial also presents a most deprecatory view of her tenure of office . Mrs. Gandhi was Prime Minister of India for 11 years , during which she held several democratic elections , In March of last year , well before she needed to do so , Mrs. Gandhi called national elections and abided by the results of the democratic process . There were , as she had stated , several excesses during the 18-month emergency period preceding the 1977 national elections , but there were also major gains which should not be trivialized . Post-election attacks on her appear inspired more by motives of political vendetta than by any desire to ascertain the nature of events . In fairness to truth , when denigrating Mrs. Gandhi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that despite aggressive and often intimidating investigations during the past year she has yet to be convicted of or effectively charged 1 , vith any malfeasance in office . RALPH BUULTJENS New York , March 6 , 1978 ' The writer is chairman of the International Development Forum and of the Society for Asian . Affairs . To the Editor : The March 6 letter from the Jordanian Ambassador to the U.N . is an extraordinary example of distortion . Not for one moment did I suggest in my letter Feb. 26 that Jews from Arab lands should return to their former homes . It is inconceivable that now , as free men , they would agree to go back to the discrimination and persecution which they experienced in certain Arab countries , to be hanged in the public squares of Baghdad , or huddled and harried , as they still are , into the ghettos of Damascus . In referring to the Jewish refugees , I wished to point out , as Dr. Nuseibeh has often heard me make clear in the U.N. , that there exist two refugee prob @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to them both Is to be found in the de facto population exchange which has already taken place ? with the difference that Israel and the Jewish people have rehabilitated the Jewish refugees whom they welcomed into their midst while most Arab governments have done little , it anything , to help their Arab brethren , preferring to perpetuate their refugee status for cynical propaganda purposes , despite their cells on international charity and their own staggering oil wealth . Moreover , the Jewish refugees from Arab lands also have claims , material and legal , which Security Council Resolution 242 recognizes end which will have to be redressed within the framework of a final peace agreement between Israel and the Arab states . ( Ambassador ) C. HERZOG Permanent Representative of Israel to the United Nations New York , March 6 , 1978 The Times welcomes letters from readers . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters . To the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laments the death of " so many of the animals in Central Park Zoo , " leaving the remaining animals alone and supposedly lonely . Ms. Borowska does not consider that many animal species are by nature loners . Tigers , for instance , seek mates only at certain times of the year ; once they have mated , each animal goes its own way , to live in isolation from its own kind for another year ( or until the next breeding season ) . Additionally , a number of the animals spent their earliest years in homes , because of the misguided idea that one can make a " house pet " out of lions , ocelots , capuchin monkeys and capybaras . These animals were donated to the zoo once they had grown too large or become too aggressive for their owners to cope with . Such animals have a strong tendency to be " people-oriented , " to the point where they have no desire for the company of their own kind . ( Interestingly enough , Central Park Zoo has overcome some of the difficulties inherent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who have bred , produced and reared young twice now . ) Finally , the majority of the animals which we are forced to keep alone who would want company are on the receiving end of a great deal of personal attention from the keepers , which , for the most part , seems to satisfy them . There are still problems , however , and I sympathize and agree with Ms. Borowska 's assertion that something must . be done to remedy it . Since the city can not or will not expend the time and money to straighten out the zoo , the citizens of New York City will have to do it , As Ms. Borowska states in her letter , these are our animals . If she really wants to get involved in making some real and positive changes , I would suggest she get in touch with Ms. Karen Starr , coordinator of the Central Park Zoo Association , 830 Fifth Avenue . We 're trying to do something about the situation ; we need all the help we can get from concerned citizens . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Borowska 's letter is our 13-year-old Bobby , who lives with a 10-vear-old lioness named Pat . ) ROBIN BLANCO ? Menagerie Keeper New York , March 2 , 1978 Letter : On Elections in India Indira Gandhi 's ' Extraordinary Performance '                     