@@731719

txt President Ford on Saturday ordered creation of a citizens commission to investigate charges that the Central Intelligence Agency illegally spied on American citizens , Meanwhile , the White House announced that the Department of Justice has begun an inquiry into possible criminal violations by CIA officials . The high-level commission , whose members will be announced next week , as mandated by Ford to report by April 4 . Presidential spokesman Ron Nessen said the report will go to Congress and will be made public . According to a statement issued by the President , the commission will " determine whether the CIA has exceeded its statutory authority . " SUCH AN Investigation Is necessary because " enough questions have been raised that the President feels it Is desirable for a commission to look into this matter , " Nessen told reporters . Ford has interviewed several prospective members but has made no appointments , Nessen added . lie explained that the commission will be comprised of distinguished Americans , but will not include either active or former members of Congress , nor will any person who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A Justice Department spokesman said that " we just do n't comment on investigations . " However , it was learned that the Justice inquiry is aimed at possible violations of federal civil rights statutes . SOURCES SAID that the investigation is In its early stages and that it has not been necessary yet to call on the FBI to participate . Relations between the CIA and the FBI were strained during the period in question , the late 1960s and early 1970s . Under federal law , the FBI is charged with carrying out any necessary internal security police functions ? the kind of activity that the CIA is accused of conducting illegally . A Justice Department official said that if solid evidence of criminal violations is developed , the matter will De submitted to a grand jury . The question of illegal CIA activities arose last month as reports were published alleging that the agency violated its charter by spying on U. S. citizens and by conducting other illegal acts such as burglaries . THE PANEL Was the Idea or Secretary of State Henry Kissinger , who suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the issue by CIA Director William E. Colby . The report , as well as conversations Ford had with Kissinger , Colby , and James Schlesinger , a former CIA director and currently secretary of defense , convinced the President further investigation was necessary . The Colby report apparently will not be released . In his statement , Ford said , " I have today established a commission to ascertain and evaluate any facts relating to activities conducted within the United States by the Central Intelligence Agency that give rise to questions as to whether the agency has exceeded its statutory authority . " IN ADDITION to determining possible violations by the agency , the commission also is charged with deciding " whether existing safeguards are adquote to preclude agency activities that might go beyond its authority . " Ford said he supported separate investigations by appropriate congressional committees . The 1947 charter establishing the CIA expressly prohibits the agency from conducting surveillance or other police activities in the United State , particularly concerning U. S. citizens . However , it has been reported that the CIA carried on massive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accumulated files on 10,000 American citizens . According to the report , most of these files were put together during the time Richard Helms was CIA director , from 1966 to February , 1973 . HELMS , now atnbassador to Iran , has denied any illegal CIA activity during his administration . However , Hessen Pointedly declined to support Helms in his briefing , saying " I do n't really have anything to say about Ambassador Helms . " Helms had met with Kissinger for an hour over . breakfast Saturday morning and later spent 20 minutes alone ' with Ford at the White House . This meeting was at the ambassador 's request , Hessen said . Kissinger has indicated qualified support for the ambassador , saying , " I see no reason so far " for challenging Helms ' denial . But his position in the affair was considerably weakened by Nessen , who twice refused to give Helms any backing . The spokesman declined to support specifically previous statements by administration officials that the CIA conducted illegal surveillance , but he did not deny that the very naming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work .                     