@@729774

txt During a September press conference , President Nixon casually dropped an unfortunate remark that still reverberates in Canada . He had discovered that " Japan is our biggest customer in the world and we are their biggest customer in the world . " In fact , Canada remains this country 's biggest customer by a wide margin . In the first six months in 1971 , the United States sold two-and-a-half times as much by value to Canada as it exported to Japan . For Canadians , already deeply concerned about the impact of Mr. Nixon 's economic measures on their economy , the remark was all too symbolic of a chronic ignorance of  --  and indifference toward  --  this northern neighbor and ally . Their suspicion that nobody in Washington cares is heightened by the fact that Mr. Nixon 's 10 per cent surcharge could cost , Canada $3 billion in a year and boost an unemployment percentage already the highest in a decade . The President 's decision to go ahead with the massive nuclear . test on Amchitka in the face of strong protests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few days , greatly intensified this rising climate of resentment . Pierre Trudeau in office has always eschewed the antiAmerican antics that come naturally to many Canadian politicians . Yet , the Prime Minister was moved by recent events to say of Americans : " I do n't think they know much or care much really about Canada . " He added that , if the United States intended as a permanent policy to " beggar its neighbors , " Canada would be forced into " a fundamental reassessment " of its whole economy . Such words , coupled with the Amchitka affair , signal the lowest point for many years in Canadian-American relations . Blame for this condition doubtless falls on both sides of the border ; in her differences with this country Canada is not always right . Nevertheless , in their own interest , it would be well for Americans to understand why Canada believes it merited exemption from the Nixon economic actions and the threat they pose to Canadian political and economic stability . Canada " floated " its dollar a good fifteen months before Washington demanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revision of nearly 7 per cent hit some Canadian exporters hard . Washington demands that other countries lower tariffs and other trade barriers ; but Canada insists that it maintains no discriminatory trade curbs against the United States . For the last three years Canada has enjoyed a favorable trade balance with the United States ; but prior to 1968 it traditionally ran deficits . Canadians ask whether Washington now contends that the United States must always have trade surpluses , even if one result is a continuation of the buying up of Canadian enterprises with American capital exports . Apart from these arguments on economic practices , Canadians resent the way in which they are regularly ignored or taken for granted by the United States . These American habits long antedate the Nixon Administration , but they become more serious at a time of growing nationalism everywhere . They have become intolerable for a neighbor that is now the world 's tenth largest in dustrial power and that ranks sixth or seventh in per capita international trade . These American practices are wholly unnecessary as well as self-defeating . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could afford to consult as a matter of settled policy it is this important neighbor . What the noises from Canada clearly indicate is that the cost of traditional neglect is escalating dangerously .                     