@@731201

txt Almost unnoticed by a distant world , a cataclysm struck Ethiopia last year as famine swept at least two million farmers and herdsmen , killing uncounted thousands . The famine , centered north of Addis Ababa in the provinces of Wallo and Tigre , was caused primarily by a prolonged and withering drought . The deaths have diminished dramatically , but officials of the Government and of foreign relief agencies estimate that at least 1.7 million people in the original famine area will have to be fed for much of 1974 to prevent renewed starvation . Important obstacles to this vast effort have yet to be over-come , It has become increasingly clear in the last few weeks that the famine is certain to take a heavy toll this year in eastern and southern Ethiopia , areas where the December harvest failed badly or where the livestock that sustain life for nomadic peoples are dead or dying . While it is not yet known how many new drought victims might need assistance , some estimates are that the total.will be more than a mil- lion  --  perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already monumental national problem . The problem seemed to materialize with frightening speed in Wallo and Tigre Provinces last year . What actually happened was that people who had always existed precariously near hunger were gradually pushed by natural and social misfortunes toward  --  and then over ? the edge of disaster . In the worst-affected areas the drought began early in 1971 , and even before in some regions . Although some rain came and some food was harvested as time passed , the trend was downward . Among the hardest-hit groups , slender foodstocks were gradually exhausted . Draft oxen needed to plow died for lack of grazing . Goats and other possessions were sold to buy grain . Then even seed , grain , needed for future exist1 ence , was eaten . Finally , peas'ants who owned land sold it , some for as little as $2.50 . Among the great social consequences of the famine , such land sales were of particular importance , for they tended to increase the concentration of land ownership that was already the greatest single political and social problem in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people began to trek to the distant roads that have never touched their remote and mountainous homelands . Others stayed in the interior , increasingly helpless and immobile . For nomadic tribes in lowland areas  --  Danakils , Adals , Afars and Issas  --  the road to destitution was different but no shorter . First cattle died , then goats and camels . Weakened animals were driven long distances in hopeless quests for grass . In September a report of the United Nations Children 's Fund estimated that 50,000 to 100 , - 000 had died ; many more perished later in the fall . The Government insists the death toll is much smaller , but the argument seems political as well as statistical . In this semifeudal society in which the populations of districts and subdistricts are not even known , an accurate tally may never be possible . Densely Populated Land ? A drought in the sub-Sahara region of six West African nations covers a much larger area and has received more international attention . Ethiopia is much more densely populated , and even relatively small pockets of drought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say the suffering rivals that in Biafra during the Nigerian civil war in 1967-70 . The Government of Emperor Haile Selassie says it was essentially unaware of the famine until mid-April because it was not informed by provincial officials . The Acting Governor of Wallo Province was dismissed and replaced in July . The famine was clearly more than a simple crop failure . A Government report circulated in November entitled " The Drought Problem in Ethiopia " said that one alarming aspect was not merely the magnitude of the food shortage but signs that the underlying cause went beyond the failure of the rains . " Throughout Tigre and good parts of Wallo and elsewhere , the ecological balance has been seriously disturbed , " the report added , saying that while population had grown , the capacity to sustain existence " has been severely curtailed . " Even if farm consolidation The New York Times/Feb. 15 , 1974 The Ethiopian provinces hardest hit by famine are Wallo and Tigre . and other increases in efficiency can be achieved , the report said , " it would still not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employed in these regions . " It suggested resettlement elsewhere in Ethiopia , but many informed sources believe this will be an awesomely difficult problem . A report of the United Nations Development Program said of the nomads ' habitat : " Over wide areas the grass is gone and it will take many years to re-establish . Indeed , there are places where a grass cover may never revive under natural conditions , " The famine has been a tragedy ; it has also been an example  --  at times instructive and at times baffling  --  of how Ethiopia works and of the difficulties of international disaster relief . There seems little question that relief operations were slow to get an effective start ; one concerned foreigner speaks of " hideous delays . " Since then the Government , working with the international agencies , foreign governments and private humanitarian groups , has greatly improved ' the organization of disaster relief and has evolved what are generally agreed to be sound programs to sustain and rehabilitate drought victims . However , the programs are still far from being put into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begun . An example is Wallo Province , the center of the disaster . In that area , as in Tigre , some victims were able to return to their farms and plant a crop that was harvested in December . Acreage was greatly , reduced and the crop is estimated at about 60 per cent of normal . This does mean that many people are feeding themselves , so the population of the province 's 13 relief camps has fallen greatly . The heart of the Government 's 1974 plan is to have as many people as possible return to the roadless interior and plant both a spring and a fall crop . Even if the peasants can regain their land this year , they must be given seed and draft oxen . A system of 70 food-distribution centers must be set up in the interior or people will starve while waiting for the harvest . Although the plan was conceived in November , nothing has been done . None of the 12,500 oxen to be distributed in Wallo have reached the province , the Governor said . suffering has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could ensue if obstacles to carrying out the 1974 feeding program are not overcome quickly . Some Improvement Found A trip to the north seemed to indicate that conditions in the relief centers had dramatically unproved and that severe malnourishment and disease had markedly decreased there . The new crisis areas include much of Harar Province , with a population of perhaps 3.7 million , in the southeast , and Bale , Sidamo-Borana and Gamu-Gofa Provinces in the south . A visit to some of the newly affected areas indicated that people were not yet dying or in extreme hunger , but at least some had exhausted their reserves and were selling possessions to buy food . " We no longer can afford to buy grain by the bag , " said a tattered cattle herder in a small town in eastern Ethiopia . " Now we must buy by the Charges have been made that Ethiopia has spent too little of her own money and resources on relief . Although grain exports are suspended , the country has exported large amounts of such specialized food as beans while requesting 164,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minister said privately that total Government expenditure was about $1.5-million , a figure that may do little to assuage international opinion . From April to August , the most critical period , the Government distributed only about 1,400 metric tons of grain , according to one embassy ; the total may now have reached 9,000 tons of Ethiopian grain . A foreign source said , " We do n't know what Ethiopia has provided . " A possible explanation of the difficulty in mobilizing and transferring Government resources to meet the crisis lies in the fact that Ethiopia is , in effect , one of the last absolute monarchies and has a court government . While the visible scale of cup . "                     