@@733931

txt Secretary of State Cyrus Vance , returning home without hope of sealing a Middle East treaty before the Dec. 17 target date , found " absolute rigidity " among Israeli officials . despite a softened Egyption negotiating stand , American diplomats say While Israeli officials and newspapers lambasted what they termed the last-minute addition of ' tough Egyptian demands " to Mr. Vance 's baggage , officials close to the Vance party said Egyptian President Sadat had , in fact , moderated his stance " We got virtually nothing here , " an American official said after Mr. Vance wound up a third round of talks with Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin in Jerusalem and headed for a brief final stopover here in Cairo Dec. 14 Asked whether a protracted Vance shuttle might still break the deadlock , one US official said he got the " clear impression the parties are not in the necessar mood of give and take to make such a shuttle arrangement 1.1 01-01-while. ** He added that the Israelis , especially . would have to be a " lot more constructive " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From page 1 What next in Mideast talks ? prove possible . Diplomats believed Mr. Vance 's clear failure to get a treaty by the original target date might now usher in a slow period in the talks that could last weeks or even months . Mr. Vance , who had been hoping to meet the Dec. 17 Camp David target date for an Egyptian-Israeli treaty . suddenly said Dec. 13 that he and President Carter had decided to end the Middle East visit Dec 15 Mr Carter later told American businessmen in Washington that Israel had balked at agreement on the two remaining issues to be resolved in the peace treaty . but that efforts to achieve an agreement would continue . tie added that President Sadat " has accepted the text of the treaty - Some sna9s semantic Israeli officials privately mentioned the possibility of a second Camp David-style summit to iron out the remaining differences - which American sources said now were virtually certain to take Mr Vance past the treaty target date Mr Carter and Mr. Vance have both termed that date " very important " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. ance said no firm decision had been taken on the next American diplomatic move and that this would have to await high-level meetings back in Washington . Some of the sticking points between Egypt and Israel . US officials believe , are merely semantic - " like something out of the writings of Thomas Aquinas , " one official said . But it was clear that on at least one major count , wide differences persisted . That was the question of - linkage " between an Egyptian-Israeli treaty and carrying out the blueprint for Palestinian autonomy drawn up at Camp David . US diplomats here said . that Mr Sadat had handed Secretary Vance a much softened version of past Egyptian demands but that the Israeli response was " absolutely rigid " Autonomy issue cited Mr. Begin - in a diplomacy-by-media move that clearly irked some officials in the Vance party - protested to reporters that Mr Vance had brought new Sadat demands from his talks at the Egyptian leaders Nileside rest house north of Cairo . One key demand , Israeli officials told reporters . would tie fulfillment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the autonomy plans for the occupied , Jordan West Bank and Gaza Strip This . US officials said privately . was indeed part of the " proposals endorsed by Egypt " that Mr Vance had brought to Jerusalem But the officials said that , far from a tough new de mand , the proposal represented a rollback from earlier Egyptian policy . " Instead of proposing to link the entire process of normalization - cultural , economic . and the like - to the autonomy question , the only facet now mentioned would be the exchange of ambassadors , " a US diplomat explained . " There could theoretically even be embassies in the two capitals . and consuls in place - but simply no ambassadors until the autonomy plan is in force " Insistence on stages dropped The Egyptians also were understood to have dropped earlier insistence on a specific timetable for each stage in the autonomy process . settling on a single , US-proposed " target date " of December , 1979 . But there were fears among some diplomats that with the current Dec. 17 " target " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egyptians might have new doubts about a similar handling of the autonomy issue . The Israelis . American officials said , were well aware of the earlier , tougher Egyptian position on linkage . " They know it represents a softening , " one official said . And although it clearly would have been naive to expect immediate acquiescence from the Israelis . " we did expect some constructive exchange on the is- sue here , some give , " a disappointed US diplomat pointed out after Mr. Vance 's Jerusalem talks . No budging seen The Israelis have always made it clear they would be more than willing to seal a separate peace with Egypt , something Mr. Sadat has ruled out as counter to " comprehensive " peace in the Middle East . Israel also has repeatedly resisted the Egyptian contention that the twin " frameworks " agreed to three months ago at Camp David - one concerning Egypt , the other the Palestinians - must be linked . What Mr. Vance apparently discovered in the chilled talks in Israel was that regardless of the Dec. 17 target date @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ linkage issue . To the Israelis , that issue is a question of survival . " Perhaps during the peace talks this has been underplayed by our side , but we - or many of us - still consider the West Bank as an integral part of Israel , " one Jerusalem official explained . " Without the West Bank . or without a degree of control over the area , we would be reduced to a narrow and difficultly defensive strip along the Mediterranean . "                     