@@734407

txt The flap over Russian troops in Cuba has focused new attention on Soviet and Cuban activities elsewhere in the world and on proposals as to how to counter them . And , strange though it may seem to some observers , the Cuban minicrisis may contribute to pressures aimed at bringing back some of the secret operations overseas which the US Central Intelligence Agency has apparently for the most part abandoned in recent years . It is not at all clear how much of such pressure might be generated from within the Carter administration or how the administration might ultimately react to the proposals which are now being made from outside the administration . Indeed , proposals to initiate new " covert operations , " as officials call them , apparently have been taken under consideration a number of times over the past two years ? during the fighting in Zaire in the spring of 1978 , for example . But when it has come down to how such operations would actually work out in practice , most such suggestions are reported to have been rejected . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secret operations now are under way to bolster " friendly " persons , leaders , or organizations overseas . One hindrance to any change in this situation is that the administration itself has been divided whenever the question of secret operations ? as opposed . to secret intelligence-gathering ? has arisen . Another problem for advocates of more secret activity is that all such activity now comes under legislative prohibitions or at least under extensive congressional oversight . No one seems to be talking at this stage about getting the United States back into the business of helping to overthrow governments or to re-install fallen governments , such as was done in the 1950s in the case of the Shah of Iran . What is being talked about is more modest in scope , but nonetheless controversial ? such as secret arms shipments to rebel forces fighting Soviet-backed forces in Asia , Africa , and the Middle East . Most such proposals come from fairly conservative quarters , but not in all cases . In the Congress , where concern focused a few years ago on abuses committed by the in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations winning new support telligence agencies , there is today a tendency toward greater concern about the Soviet Union and a need to make the intelligence agencies more effective . The Wall Street Journal , in an editorial on Oct. 3 , had this advice : " Senators who want to do more should start straightening out the reporting requirements for covert activity , so that future administrations could think of steps like shipping a few arms to Afghanistan or other Soviet problem areas . The Cuban episode certainly demonstrates that we need the capability for measured responses to Soviet provocations , short of outright confrontation . " Georgetown University 's Center for Strategic and International Studies ( CSIS ) has just produced a report , the research for which was funded by the US Department of Defense , concluding that , among other things , " it may in some cases be desirable to consider the use of Western proxies and covert activity to help stiffen African forces that can not count on support from other friendly sources . " Some of the findings of the study , in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experts who met in a seminar last April with the report 's five principal authors to discuss the issues . But the authors themselves were in agreement , in the final analysis , that the Carter administration is at fault when it comes to translating its ideas into practical policy in Africa . The report , entitled " Implications of Soviet and Cuban Activities in Africa for US Policy , " is to be made public next week . One of the authors , Dimitri K. Simes , gave two examples of the sort of covert activity he thinks the administration should consider : 1 . Providing American arms , through the Iranians or Pakistanis , to the guerrilla forces in Afghanistan who are fighting a repressive , Soviet-supported government . 2 . " Creating trouble " for the Soviet-backed , Marxist government of South Yemen on the edge of the Arabian peninsula . " What 's inherently immoral about covert operations against South Yemen ? " asked Professor Simes , who is director of Soviet studies at CSIS . " It 's filled with Soviets and Cubans .... You 're @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 're creating trouble all around Saudi Arabia . " The aim of secret operations , he said , would not be to win battles in some all-ornothing manner , but to raise the costs and risks for Moscow . The initial reaction of some administration officials to such proposals , meanwhile , is that it is perhaps more important at this juncture to " help our friends " in Africa and the Middle East such as Morocco . and the Sudan , with more aid and arms , than it is to engage in secret operations aimed at impeding Soviet activities .                     