@@732632

txt Ronald Reagan broke with tradition today and named Senator Richard S. Schweiker of Pennsylvania as the man who will be his running mate if the Californian wins the Republican nomination for President . In Washington , Mr. Schweiker said that he had accepted the invitation because he thought the two men could unify the party . He said that he would begin immediately to try to round up delegates for Mr. Reagan . Page 16 . Mr. Reagan reached all the way across the country and Text of the Reagan statement is printed on page 15. the party spectrum in naming the 50-year-old , two-term Senator , one of the most liberal and pro-labor Republican voices in Congress . The Schweiker announcement came as a complete surprise . As recently as late last week Mr. Reagan was saying that if nominated he would probably let convention delegates select his running mate from a list or candidates he would submit to them . Pressure for Change His desperate struggle with President Ford for uncommitted delegates , particularly in the key Pennsylvania delegation , of which Mr. Schweiker was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President , brought pressure on Mr. Reagan , however , to broaden his appeal . In the past , even incumbent Presidents seeking renomination had traditionally kept the party and the country guessing on the question of a running mate . Mr. Reagan 's bold move in declaring a choice while still far from assured of the nomination could help mollify Northern liberals who have felt alienated by his conservative views and Sunbelt strategies . Risk of a Backlash There would appear to be an apparent risk , however , in a conservative backlash since Mr. Schweiker 's votes in the Senate have been about as liberal as those of Walter F. Mondale , the Vice-Presidential choice of the Democrats . ? The liberal Americans for Democratic Action gave Mr. Schweiker an 89 percent rating in 1975 ? compared with 95 for Senator Mondale  --  while the conservative Americans for Constitutional Action gave him a low rating of 8 . The Senator is also a stalwart supporter of big labor and // last year was accorded a 100 percent rating on his voting record by the Committee on Political Education of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the only Senator to achieve a 100 percent rating from that group . Moreover , Mr. Schweiker supported the common situs picketing bill , favors the regulation of the oil and national gas industries , and opposed most antibusing measures that came before the Senate  --  all positions that Mr. Reagan has strongly opposed throughout the campaign . And throughout the campaign , the former California Governor had repeatedly insisted that he would choose a running mate from someone philosophically compatible and would not make a selection on a " cynical " effort to balance the ticket . The candidate , however , in a terse announcement at the news conference this morning in which he would not take any questions , glossed over any of the differences that placed the two men on opposite philosophical ends of the Republican Party . " I have selected a man of independent thought and action , with a background in business and 16 years in public service , " he asserted . " He is respected by his colleagues , but he has not become a captive of what I call , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him and we have spent a considerable amount of time personally discussing the critical issues that face us today and the principles by which we would lead this nation , " Mr. Reagan continued . He said he was convinced that a Reagan-Schweiker ticket was one " behind which all Republicans can unite and one which will lead our party to victory in November . " With the exception of a casual introduction at the Palm Springs , Calif. , residence of Walter Annenberg , the former Ambassador to England and Philadelphia publisher , the two men had never met before Mr. Reagan summoned the Senator to his Pacific Palisades home for a six-hour discussion on Saturday . John Sears , Mr. Reagan 's national campaign manager who is in the center of the Pierce search for uncommitted delegates , was weeks before the party convenes in Kansas City , Mo . These circumstances , in addition to the challenger 's refusal to answer any questions today , immediately led to speculation about a " deal " inside the Pennsylvania delegation , Before the announcement , The New York Times tabulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Mr. Reagan and four uncommitted . James Lake , Mr. Reagan 's press secretary , said that the Senator was the only person that the candidate had made contact with over the Vice Presidency . An informal list of several names had existed for several months . It included Senator Howard H. Baker Jr . of Tennessee , former Treasury Secretary John B. Connally of Texas , and William E. Simon , the present holder of the Treasury post . Mr. Schweiker 's name was not on it until it was proposed last week by Mr. Sears and Senator Paul Laxalt , chairman of the national Citizens for Reagan campaign . Whatever the arguments made for the selection of the Pennsylvanian , they must have been most persuasive because to a great degree his presence on the ticket will neutralize the liberal target provided by Mr. Mondale on the Democratic side . Mr. Reagan had acknowledged that Jimmy Carter would be a more difficult opponent than some of the more liberal Democrats running for President , and when the Georgian made known his choice of Mr. Mondale , a protege @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ news with great enthusiasm . When asked for examples of agreement between Mr. Reagan and Senator Schweiker , Mr. Lake said they both were opposed to abortion , forced busing and gun control . Mr. Schweiker , he said , " would bring a very strong support and identification in the northeast part of the country that would bring a tremendous balance and strength to the ticket and would provide an indication to Republicans and to voters of that region that the interests of that part of the country will be considered an important part of the Reagan administration . " He said that by letting Republican delegates know exactly what team would represent the party in November , they could assess its potential to help crirry other party candidates into office . Mr. Reagan , by insisting on an all-conservative ticket through the campaign , had frightened moderate and liberals who saw his nomination as a potential repetition of the 1964 defeat of Senator Barry Goldwater as the party 's nominee . The selection of Mr. Schweiker may disarm some of that concern , but now Mr. Reagan must soothe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he would raise a standar dthat left no doubt as to what the Republican Party stood for in principle .                     