@@733315

txt American steel companies and unions won a small victory this week in their fight to shield domestic markets from foreign competition . In a move designed to reduce Congressional pressure for tougher protectionist measures , the Treasury ruled that Japanese producers were selling carbon steel plate in the United States at less than cost , and were thus subject to tariff penalties . The ruling is not likely to satisfy the steel industry , however . It applies " dumping " penalties to only a small fraction of imported steel , and most experts believe that legal relief for the bulk of steel products will not be forthcoming . What the industry really wants is a quota on imports of foreign steel that would free American manufacturers from foreign competition altogether . The Treasury 's dumping decision seems fair . A good case has been made that Japanese carbon plate was sold below cost , an act which is illegal under United States raw and international treaty . But a quota solution to the steel industry 's larger problems would be a serious mistake . A quota @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading to higher consumer prices for hundreds of products . Coming , moreover , on the eve of Geneva negotiations on trade , it could trigger a wave of restrictions by other nations that could cloud the prospects of world trade liberalization . A voluntary import quota for steel , arranged between nations rather than unilaterally imposed , would not be unprecedented . In recent months such agreements have limited imports of television sets and shoes from Japan , Taiwan and Korea . But the problems facing those industries are quite different from those afflicting steel . And the economic impact of a quota for steel would be far greater . Shoe and television set manufacturers were overwhelmed by economic forces over which they had no control . The American steel industry , by contrast , has lost its competitive position at home because firms have failed to modernize and have acceded to sizable wage settlements unjustified by increases in productivity . About one ton in five of American steel is produced in obsolete open-hearth furnaces , a process now abandoned entirely in Japan . American steelworkers ' wages have risen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percent for the average manufacturing worker ? and are scheduled to go up another 30 percent in the next three years . Fixing a limit on steel imports would thus burden American consumers with the costs of outdated production equipment and an exceedingly wellpaid labor force . Those costs can be expected to ripple through prime steel-buying industries , such as autos and construction . The resulting inflation generated 133f this $40-billion-a-year industry would be one more roadblock to the achievement of a full-employment economy with stable prices . A quota for steel would also be a signal that the American commitment to open trade is half-hearted . World-wide recession has left excess production capacity in many industries ; internal pressures to protect domestic markets are severe , particularly in Europe . If we place restrictions on a heavily traded product like steel , we must expect similar restrictions by other countries . The opportunity to negotiate more liberal trade rules would probably disappear , and with it the chance to create jobs in export industries or to stem inflation through international competition . American steel companies have every right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They do , not have the right to ask consumers to bear the burden of their inefficiency .                     