@@728918

txt Fierce fighting persisted for a second day in Amman and northern Jordan today as the Jordanian Army failed to score the quick knockout of Palestinian guerrilla forces it had presumably expected . Reports from Western t mDetails of the fighting were bassics in the Jordanian capscant . Communications with Amman were almost completely cut off except for broadcasts by the army and by the guerrillas . In Washington , the State Department said the United States Embassy in Amman had been hit for the second day by small-arms fire . But officials said they had no reports of injuries to American residents of Jordan and no word on the passengers of hijacked airliners held by the guerrillas.1 ? This afternoon the Army commander in chief and military governor , Field Marshal Habes Majali , called a temporary halt to his attack , saying he wanted to give the guerrillas a chance to swing over to the side of King Hussein . This was interpreted by some observers here as a sign of weakness . The army later pledged it would not attack commando bases near Israeli-held territory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guerrillas called on their forces to conserve ammunition . ital told of continued smallarms fire . Telephones and power were cut . Armored cars patrolled the diplomatic quay ter and a veil of smoke hung over the teeming , hilly city of 600,000 . Curfew Enforced The army maintained its curfew and threatened to shoot anyone on the streets . Casualties are believed to exceed those of the battles in June , /'nen the estimate was 1,000 killed or wounded . In Cairo , the authoritative newspaper Al Ahram reported Saturday that the toll so far in Jordan was about 5,000 killed or wounded . Tension throughout the Middle East was heightened by the announcement of military moves in the eastern Mediterranean to support possible evacuation of refugees from Jordan . The Baghdad radio charged that the United States was getting ready to invade the Arab world under the pretext of evacuating Americans . Warning to U.S. Representatives of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine , the Marxist commando group that hijacked five Western airliners , destroyed four of them and is holding 54 or 55 passengers as hostages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and property in the Middle East if the United States intervened . There was no word of the fate of the hostages . It was presumed that they were being held in small groups in the crowded Palestinian refugee centers in and around Amman . The commandos said these cen- ters had been shelled by Jordanian tanks . The Palestinian Red Crescent said that hundreds of wounded were dying in the streets of Amman for lack of medical attention . It sent an urgent call to the International Committee of the Red Cross in Geneva for firstaid teams , firemen and supplies of blood plasma . Long Fight Feared Concern was widespread here that the fight would continue , with perhaps irreparable damage to the position of King Hussein . A guerrilla source here said it had been assumed that King Hussein would need " 20,000 victims in 24 hours " to win . A European diplomat , speaking of the effect of prolonged guerrilla resistance on the Arab world , said : " If it lasts 5 days , S days , 15 days , there could be a reawakening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the streets in the North Lebanese port of Tripoli today in support of the guerrillas . At a huge rally in Damascus , the Syrian head of state , Dr. Nureddin al-Atassi , pledged that Syria would " spare no blood " to help Palestinian guerrillas in Jordan . However , the 12,000 Iraqi troops and the 1,000 or so Syrian troops in north Jordan apparently did not join the fighting despite appeals by the guerrillas for assistance . Light Artillery Seen An Arab correspondent for the Reuters news agency , Malik al-Huseini , reached the commando hill town of Ramtha , in the rolling hill country just below the Syrian border . He reported seeing guerrilla reinforcements streaming south from training camps in Syria . He said the guerrillas were equipped with light artillery for the first time . The leftist regimes of both Iraq and Syria have given noisy support to the guerrillas and have assailed King Hussein as reactionary and pro-Western . Other Arab nations called for an end to the fighting . President Gamal Abdel Nasser of the United Arab Republic , joined by the leaders of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ King Hussein and to Yasir Arafat , the guerrilla commander in chief , to end the " Arab catastrophe . " The rulers of Kuwait and the sheikdom of ' Qatar also appealed for a cease-fire . Later today , guerrillas in Ramtha came under attack from Bedouin snipers inside the town and from army units outside , according to sources here . Zerqa Again Attacked Elsewhere in northern Jordan , which was proclaimed as a " liberated " area yesterday the guerrillas appeared to lac holding their position . They claimed the capture of Mafraq the site of a former British ail base . However , their stronghold of Zerqa , 15 miles northeast of Amman , which was the scene of the heaviest fighting outside the capital yesterday came under renewed artillery attack . But in Amman the picture was unclear , with army units presumed to be holding the boulevards and suburban areas , while the guerrillas clung to older sections of the city . The guerrillas said Jordanian tanks had made fruitless assaults on their positions this morning . In Beirut , representatives of Al Fatah , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military governor of the northern provincial capital of Irbid , Brig . Bahjat al-Moheisen , and had ordered his execution .                     