@@728784

txt President Nasser 's acceptance of the peace formula proposed by United States Secretary of State William P. Rogers , which together constitute the most import diplomatic initiative on the Middle East taken since June , 1967 : is likely to Drove equally embarrassing to Washington , to Israel , to King Hussein of Jordan , and to the Palestinian resistance movement . This acceptance is not only important , it is unique : This is the very first time that an Arab nationalist leader ? in this case the most important one  --  has agreed publicly with the United States Government on a matter of substance concerning Palestine . The qualifications appended to the Egyptians ' acceptance  --  that they contain nothing new , that a settlement by force remains a possibility , and so on ? these reflect President Nasser 's unease at putting himself in Arab eyes alongside the highly unpopular Americans . Pessimism admitted . The President was Pessimistic about the outcome of the peacemaking process that he has now set in train . This pessimism is based on the firmly held Arab belief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to get Israel to do anything that Israel does not want to do . What is now on test is Washington 's ability to persuade or pressure Israel into accepting its own proposals . Equally on test is Israel 's willingness to backtrack on its words , which have all been bitterly critical of a limited ceasefire ( part of the Rogers plan ) ? though some Arabs say that no Israeli spokesman has yet explained why Israel can not take as much military advantage of a limited cease-fire as can the Egyptians . // *Nasser peace bid a bold step // President Nasser 's soft answer challenges Israel to accept , publicly and without ambiguity , the United Nations Security Council resolution of November , 1967 , as a program of action and not merely as an agenda for discussions . For King Hussein and the Palestinian resistance the position now is not merely embarrassing but fraught with danger . The Rogers plan includes Jordan as one of the three parties concerned in the search for a negotiated settlement ; but almost while Mr. Nasser was speaking , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Palestinian opposition to any negotiated settlement and to all resolutions of the United Nations . Palestinians vehement For the past 10 days in particular , the Palestinians have been especially vehement in their denunciation of negotiations . If these were intended as a pressure tactic against the Egyptian President , they obviously failed . If King Hussein definitely decides to follow Mr. Naser 's example of accepting the Rogers proposal , he will have to remove the Palestinian veto by physically curbing or destroying their armed groupings in Jordan ; or on the other hand the Palestinians will have to curb or eliminate the Jordanian monarch 's power . If the latter happened , then the last hope of peace in this area could well be destroyed . President Nasser 's decision has brought Jordan 's internal contradictions to the point of final showdown . Prestige at stake President Nasser has clearly decided to part company with the Palestinians and their supporters on this issue of a peaceful settlement . His prestige and leadership arc now both very much at stake . For quite some time the Palestinians have criticized Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " These attacks will no longer be muted , and he will probably be accused of withdrawing from the Arab arena into a Nilotic isolationism . But the fact remains that in the struggle against Israel , for and on behalf the Palestine , Egypt has had more soldiers and civilians killed than have the Palestinians . Beirut 's leading newspaper described Mr. Nasser 's acceptance as " the first faint gleam of hope for peace in 23 years . " The emphasis is on " faint " : The road to peace still looks like being turbulent ? especially in Jordan .                     