@@731999

txt CONGRESSIONAL leaders have been told of Central Intelligence Agency involvement in a plot by French dissidents to assassinate the late French President Charles DeGaulle . Within the last two weeks , a CIA representative disclosed sketchy details of the scheme during a briefing of the Capitol Hill leaders on what they can expect to unfold as several Congressional committees begin separate inquiries into the international American spy apparatus . While admittedly vague in specifies , the briefing definitely established that such a plan had at least been discussed and perhaps entertained a decade ago by persons in the CIA . Rut there was no indication given as to how deeply or at what level the proposal penetrated the agency . THIS MUCH , however , was disclosed to the congressmen during the secret briefing : Sometime in the mid-1960s ? probably in 1965 or 1966 ? dissidents in the De-Gaulle government are said to have made contact with the CIA to seek help in a plot to murder the French leader . Which party instigated the contact was not made clear . The scheme was hatched after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the investigation of Central Intelligence Agency activities are by Bob Wiedrich , Tribune columnist . They replace his column , which appears regularly on page 5 of The Sunday Tribune . overt attempts on DeGaulle 's life by eittreme Right-wing opponents had failed in 1961 and 1962 . According to the CIA briefing officer , discussions were held on how best to eliminate DeGaulle , who by then had become a thorn in the side of the Johnson administration because of his ouster of American military bases from French soil and his demands that United States forces be withdrawn from the Indochina War . TIIUS , the followhtg plan is said to have evolved after discussions between CIA personnel and the dissident French . There is , however , no evidence the plot got beyond the talking stage . A hired assassin , armed with a poison ring , was to be slipped into a crowd of old soldiers of France when Gen. DeGaulle was to be the host at a reception for them . The killer would make Ills appearance late in the day when it could be presumed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from shaking hundreds of hands . The assassin would clasp the general 's hand in lethal friendship and De- Gaulle would fail to detect the tiny pin prick of poison as it penetrated his flesh . TILE EXECUTIONER would stroll off to become lost in the crowd as the poison began coursing thru DeGaulle 's veins either to his heart or brain , depending on the deadly potion used . How quickly death would have come was not divulged , if that was even discussed at the time . The scheme bears striking parallels to the plot of Frederick Forsyth 's " Day of the Jackal , " a fictional account of an attempted assassination of DeGadlle during a 1963 celebration of the World War II liberation of Parts . The novel , however , was published In 1971 , well after the French dissidents are believed to have contacted the CIA with their real life proposal . In the outline presented to the congressional leaders , there is no hint of what the CIA 's actual role might have been had , the plot reached fruition . Also , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? for the assassin , provided the ring , or merely given its unofficial sanction to the killing thru financial or other support . FURTHER , no evidence was o f f ered demonstrating that President Johnson either knew of the plot discussions thru the National Security Council or approved of them in any manner . Disclosure of the DeGaulle assassination scenario makes the late general the most powerful foreign leader to crop up in what appears to have been a CIA hit list fashioned during the administrations of Johnson and President John F. Kennedy , himself assassinated in 1963 . Other assassination schemes to which the CIA has been reportedly linked by the Rockefeller Commission include the African colonies . The motives of the CIA personnel who apparently at least entertained the ? assassination plot are less clear . There is no doubt DeGaulle was not then in favor with Washington , having announced his intention to withdraw from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in early 1966 and having ordered the removal of all American military forces and NATO headquarters from France . He had also started a series of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for neutrality in Indochina and an end to foreign Intervention . BY 1966 , DeGaulle had made it perfectly clear that he blamed the United States for the fighting and demanded that the Americans disengage their forces and leave the Vietnamese to resolve their own affairs . He had also jolted ' American foreign policy by declaring a grand design for a united Europe under French leadership . On Nov. 9 , 1970 , Gen. DeGaulle  --  the man called France 's strongest leader since Napoleon  --  died of a heart attack while watching television in his country home in the vilI a g e of Colombey-les-Deux.                     