@@728407

txt Interstate 95 was designed a dec ade and a half ago as a 1,866- mile-long " Main Street " of the East Coast from Maine to Flor ida . But on a map today it looks like a mortally wounded snake , severed in such places as Boston , Philadelphia , Balti more and Washington . Tile faltering pace of con struction of 1-95 through metro politan areas is matched by that of other expressways in city after city across the coun try as urban dwellers give voice to social and environmental ob jections with increasing effect . Some 133 miles of the inter state system alone are being held up in 16 cities . The 42,500-mile network of superhighways , with 90 per cent Federal and 10 per cent state financing , was established in 1956 as a keystone of the Eisenhower Administration . Two-thirds of the network is open now and most of the rest is under construction , but the achievement of the recently extended completion goal of 1974 has become extremely doubtful . Here in Philadelphia the expressway is stalled by apparently successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covered with a landscaped lid and by the insistence of conservationists that it not damage a wildlife refuge . For similar reasons 1-95 has been delayed in Boston , Baltimore and Washington , while in many other cities , such as San Francisco , New York , New Orleans and Milwaukee , other highways considered essential by engineers and planners have been scuttled althogether in response to protests . Roadbuilders are finding it more difficult even to route expressways through parks and poor neighborhoods , for long the line of least resistance . And increasingly vocal protesters are buttressed now by requirements of the 1968 Federal Highway Act that insist upon through consideration of human needs , such as adequate relocation housing . Major Slowdown Francis C. . Turner , Federal highway administrator , said in a telephone interview from Washington that the result has been a major slowdown for expressway building in urban areas . " Now we have to change people 's minds and sell them on a relocation plan , " said Mr. Turner , a highway engineer in the Bureau of Public Roads for 40 years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their responsibility . Because of inflation , Mr. Turner said , delays are sharply increasing the cost of construction . The 19 miles of 1-95 through Baltomore originally were to have cost $200-million . A year ago Federal and state highway officials . increased the estimate to $750-million . Opponents contend that the figure may be soon $1-billion . Delays are also pouring heavy traffic into city thoroughfares from available exits of stalled expressways further clogging the streets and bringing complaints about air and noise- pollution . Here in the nation 's fourth largest city , gll the passions that have exploded in opposition to highways through densely populated neighborhoods in the rest of the country are seen in microcosm in a revolt of residents against the Crosstown Expressway . Dividing the City The eight-lane , 2.8-mile Crosstown would divide South Philadelphia from the City Center , running along shabby , commercial South Street from the Delaware River and the uncompleted 1-95 on the east of the . Schuylkill River and the planned Cobbs Creek Expressway on the west . But residents of the old , stable Negro community in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it would also divide the races , becoming Philadelphia 's MasonDixon Line between Negroes and the town houses of Society Hill and Rittenhouse Square . They charge racial discrimination in the selection of the route , failure to prove a need for a road that would bring more cars to the traffic-glutted center city , and failure to provide an adequate plan to relocate several thousand people who would be uprooted . They appear to be winning , despite the contention of the State Highway Department that the expressway is vital to the region 's expressway system . As long ago as 1967 Mayor James H. J. Tate , heeding complaints of the residents and most of the city 's civil rights and liberal forces , declared the expressway " dead or dying a slow death . " But the Chamber of Commerce persuaded him to reopen the 25-year-old controversy once again with a study committee that has been meeting since last April . Opponents have used it as a public forum . Militants and radicals have joined in the cause . Depth of Bitterness " It is impossible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street , " R. W. Tucker of the Philadelphia Quarterly Meeting of Friends said in an interview . George T. Dukes , a member of the Mayor 's committee and founder of the Citizen 's Cornmittee to Preserve and Develop the Crosstown Community , noted that a 1964 enghieering report commissioned by the expressway planners found the road would serve as an " effective buffer " between town houses redeveloped or the affluent to the north and the " incompatible land uses to the south . " " Negroes never raised their voices in the early days , " Mr. Dukes said quietly . " Now we elo . If the planners can prove a need for a superhighway along South Street they should put a cover on it and build on the cover the homes and parks and things that would bind people together rather than create an open ditch that would keep people apart . " Planners rejected such a covered highway as exorbitant in price . And city officials have said there is now no adequate housing for relocating residents . " Let the people have a victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members , City Managing Director Fred T. Corleto , Planning . Director Edmond M. Bacon and Streets Commissioner David M. Smallwood tried to insist in 1968 on pressing ahead with the crosstown . Construction on the $450-million Delaware Expressway , Philadelphia 's segment of the East Coast 's " Main Street , " inched ahead throughout the 1960 's until it approached the beautifully restored neighborhood of colonial homes just north of South Street called Society Hill . Residents ' formed the Gateway Committee to Preserve Our National Heritage . They rallied nationwide support for t he argument that an elevated expressway would cut off Independence Hall and other histoHe treasures from the river and a planned Penn 's Landing for historic and cruise ships . They won . The plan now is to put the superhighway underground past Society Hill , at a cost of $60-million a mile . Prof. Anthony R. Tomazinis , director of the transportation studies center at the University of Pennsylvania , said in an interview that " one of the major improvements in the field of transportation in the last 10 years " was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paid to social and environmental considerations in planning expressways . " This is bound to cause more and longer delays in urban areas , " he said . " Some highways will have to be eliminated . Mayors are paying more attention to well-organized protests . Minority voices have been elevated in the decision-making process . All this even raises the risk that center cities might get no more new highways . " " Consequently , " he continued , " we are likely to see a trend to more rapid transit for moving people in large . cities . But we still need ' both roads and rapid transit , and the roads that do get built should be better ones because of the legislation that encourages people to scrutinize every proposal much more closely than before . " Such scrutiny has generated donnybrooks in numerous cities . In New York , Mayor Lindsay has declared the muchdebated Lower Manhattan Expressway dead " for all time , " In San Francisco , Mayor Alioto has said that all future freeways will have to be tunneled underground . In Milwaukee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be halted until a housing relocation program is set up . Transportation Secretary John A. Volpe has vetoed a New Orleans highway because it impinged upon esthetic values in the historic- French Quarter . Moreover , In Massachusetts last week , Gov . Francis W. Sargent declared a moratorium on most highway construction in the Boston area pending another in a long series of studies . And in Ohio , Gay . James A. Rhodes declared 1-290 , the long and bitterly contested Clark Freeway through Cleveland and the wealthy , Republican suburb of Shaker Heights , officially dead . The last interstate expressway through the capital city of freeways , Los . Angeles , is slowly coming into existence in southern sections of the county . It has encountered the usual resentment against noise , noxious fumes and destruction of neighborhoods . But the 17-mile , $300-million century freeway through Watts and other depressed neighborhoods is not blocked . Planners have capitalized on experience . Nine municipalities and unincorporated areas on the route have been given a voice in planning the freeway to make it compatible with neighborhood needs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a recent meeting of Philadelphia 's Committee on the Crosstown Expressway , Benjamin Loewenstein , president of a health and welfare organization , expressed a theme now receiving greater priority across the country than ever before : " When we consider the problem of transportation the expressway hopes to solve , we must also consider the human equation . What happens to the oecmle living in that area ? "                     