@@733153

txt Toward a New Marshall Plan ? The 30th anniversary of the Marshall Plan this month has been commemorated in Europe but paid little notice in the United States ? as though it had been an act of generosity requiring European thanks and American blushes . In fact . Washington 's 813.4 billion postwar rescue of Western Europe from economic misery , social disorder and Communist political danger was essentially an act of enlightened self-interest and the United States was a major beneficiary . That needs to be better understood on both sides of the Atlantic . For there is a pressing new need for today 's strong countries In their own interest ? to do more to help the weak , both in Europe again and in the third world . " A rising tide lifts all the ships . " That remark of the 1947-52 Marshall Plan period , even more applicable in today 's interdependent world , ? explained why recovery in Europe was good for the United States ? and vice versa . Dollar aid to finance essential imports enabled West Europe to regain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 12 years , output doubled . As much industrial capacity was accumulated in a decade as . In the previous century . By 1973 , production had doubled again to four times the 1938 level . Ex-enemy Germany was the biggest gainer . Japan , . aided separately , did even better . American overseas investment soared , as did exports , with $54 billion . more sold to Common Market countries from 1958 to 1976 than was sold to us . Moreover , West Europe 's evolving unity ended 70 years of ' French-German wars . Democracy was preserved in the region that is America 's most vital interest abroad . The NATO ? alliance helped deter any westward move by the massive Soviet forces poised in the center of Europe . This era has been evoked , as an example of the kind of " creativity " needed now , both by Henry Kissinger and Zbigniew Brzezinksi . That it has not stirred today 's strong countries ? the United States , West Germany and Japan ? into vigorous counteraction against the economic crisis now gripping West Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that astonishing period , as this writer did as a young reporter in Europe . ? The Europe of 1977 is not that of 1947 , but there are striking similarities . Three years of recession , inflation and payments deficits , triggered by the fivefold OPEC oil-price increase , have brought mass unemployment to the industrial democracies for the first time since the 1930 's . Political instability , spreading everywhere , has led to a resurgence of the French and Italian Communist parties , now on the threshold of office . American warnings alone wo n't keep them out , Economic recovery probably would . As compared to 2 percent of the gross national product given away during the Marshall Plan , American aid was down to one-quarter of one percent of G.N.P . last year . A Marshall Plan for the third world has been suggested by Common Market officials to stimulate export-led growth in the industrial democracies while helping the world 's billion poorest people , who are losing ground . But Bonn , Washington and Tokyo ? 10th , 12th and 13th among the 17 democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only immediate way to reverse the world economic trend and to shore up democracy in Europe is to spur domestic demand and investment in the " locomotive economies " of West Germany , Japan and the Unite ( States , which possess two-thirds a the production of the industrial world The current meeting in Paris of thi Organization for Economic Coopera tion and Development should see Sec. retaries Blumenthal and Vance press again for German and Japanese eco . nomic stimulus and yen upvaluation . They have a strong case . Forecasts prepared by the O.E.C.D . secretariat suggest that West Germany and Japan are falling short of the growth and Import commitments they made at the London economic summit last month . In the United States , production is up but a slowdown is expected for the second half of the year and 1978 . The predicted result for the industrial democracies as a group , as reported by Times correspondent Paul Lewis , is low economic growth , rising unemployment and heavy payments deficits by France , Italy , Portugal and other ailing countries . Oil payments deficits alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now in sight through the International Monetary Fund . To finance present deficits  --  and the imports that recovery would bring ? Europe and Japan are urging the Carter Administration to abandon partisanship and push Congress to ratify the Kissinger-proposed $25 billion " safety net " loan fund already approved by 21 of the 23 other O.E.C.D . countries , Similarly , the way to spur West Germany and Japan to step up economic stimulus and foreign aid , despite some inflation risk , is for the United States to set an example . Jawboning is not enough . But a challenge to joint endeavor could stir memory and imagination in Tokyo and Bonn . ROBERT KLEIMAN                     