@@731406

txt The Department of Health , Education arid Welfare pub , lished today its proposed regulations for ending sex discrimination in education . They would ban such common practices as offering home economics courses solely to girls *and shop courses solely to boys . The proposed regulations would also require fundamental changes in the athletic pro- ! grams that are offered to male and female students , but they Excerpts from U.S. statement on proposed rules , Page 32. stop far short of requiring equal expenditures for athletic . instruction and teams for the two sexes . With certain exceptions , the regulations will apply to educational activities , public and ! private , at all levels , from preschool education to graduate and professional school . Any school found to be in violation of the regulations could , after proper legal procedures , be denied Federal financial aid . Many Areas of Dispute While the greatest controversy during the preparation of Jthe rules has involved the subject of athletics , a large number of other controversial areas are also covered , These areas include admissions policies ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counseling and testing that may have a sex bias ; financial aid for one-sex organizations such as sororities and fraternities ; and a ban on sex-segregated classes in all subjects , except those portions of an over-all health or hygiene class devoted explicitly to sex education . There was also one extremely controversial item that was entirely omitted from the regulations . They fail to cover discriminatory , curriculum materials , such as textbooks that contain sex bias . The department said that any attempt to prohibit the use of such materials " would raise grave constitutional questions under the First Amendment , " which guarantees freedom of the press and freedom of speech . The proposed regulations are designed to particularize the prohibitions against sex discrimination in ' education that were included , in general language , as Title IX of the Education Act Amendments of 1972 . The regulations are subject to change before they become // final . Interested persons will have until Oct. 15 to submit their comments and proposals for change to the department , . Offide for Civil Rights . That means , as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be adopted in time to have much influence on the 1974-75 academic year . The main exception to the regulations , which is untained in the statute , exempfif private undergraduate colleges from the ban on sex discrimination in admissions . Pre-elementary , elementary and secondary schools that receive Federal aid , except for vocational schools , are also exempted from this requirement . However , even educational institutions that are not required to adopt nondiscriminatory admissions policies are covered by the other require . ments of the proposed regulations . With respect to athletics , the proposed regulations embody the general principle that " equal opportunity " for athletic training and competition must be offered to both sexes . Under the regulations , either a single team with both male and female members or sexsegregated teams could be fielded in interscholastic competition . Schools and colleges would be required to make surveys at least once a year to determine the demand for each competitive sport and then to fulfill that demand on some basis of equality . If , for example , a school fields both women 's and men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of sex in provision of necessary equipment or supplies or in any other way " as between the two basketball teams . But the regulations also go on to say that " equal aggregate expenditures are not required . " The regulations do not make clear ? whether offering equal athletic scholarships would be required or even whether such scholarships would have to be offered in the same ratio as the proportion of women and men who express an interest in intercollegiate athletics . The National Collegiate Athetic Association , which has strongly lobbied against any requirement of equal expeditures for men 's and women 's athletics , refused to comment n the proposed regulations on he ground that they had not ' et been received at the asociation 's headquarters in Kansas City . The association 's awyer in Washington also reused to discuss the issue . Representatives of women 's organizations criticized the roposed regulations . Margot Polivy , the Washingon lawyer who represents the Association of Intercollegiate Athletics for Women , criticized what she called " the large number of issues that the regulations leave up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it 's pretty poor , " she said , referring to the time the Department of Health , Education and Welfare has had to work on the regulations since enactment of Title IX of the 1972 act . She said that earlier drafts of the regulations , which circulated among interested parties , explicitly called for requirements that women 's and men 's teams be given equal facilities , coaching and per-diem and travel expenses but that these requirements were left out of the published version . " Without a requirement for equal expeditures , I do n't know what standard they are going to use , " she said . The regulations do require desegregation of noncompetitive sports in institutions of elementary , secondary and higher education . A departmental official said , however , that some " ability grouping " that could have the effect of segregating certain physical education classes might be permitted , if a true educational purpose for such grouping could be demonstrated . Clarification Is Issued A similar concept of permitting segregation in sex education classes was explained by a department official after contradictory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , said at a news ' conference that sex segregation in sex education classes would be permitted . Then the department issued a clarifying statement indicating that it would not . Finally , a spokesman explained that segregation by sex would be permitted for that portion of a health or hygiene class dealing explicitly with sex-related matters , if parents indicated that they did not want their children to attend integrated classes on sex . Among the many widespread practices of educational institutions that would be banned under the regulations are the following : ( Remitting only boys to operate certain equipment , such as slide or movie projection equipment . ( Applying different standards of conduct to boys and girls . liAllowing only boys to be school crossing guards . ( Having summer programs in school buildings  --  even those financed from outside , the school system , such as summer science programs  --  that are open to only one sex . ( Using vocational guidance tests or other counseling materials that contain sex bias . On the other hand , common practices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such as the Girl Scouts or Boy Scouts , to meet on school property . However , no significant amount of financial aid could be given to such groups .                     