@@732506

txt The United States is going to have to deliver ? and deliver soon ? on Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger 's declaration of support for black majority rule in southern Africa if American policy on Africa is to be credible in black Africa as a whole . Rhodesia is the immediate yardstick or litmus test . These are among the immediate questions to which Dr. Kissinger has to give convincing answers if black Africa is to believe him : ? Can he deliver on his declared intent to get Congress to repeal the Byrd amendment which , in American law , authorizes the U.S. to ignore UNsanctions against Rhodesia and import Rhodesian chrome ? ? Can he persuade South Africa to plug another major breach in the UN imposed blockade of white-run Rhodesia : the all-important road and rail routes across South Africa to the sea at Durban ? ? Can he avoid giving the impression that the U.S. is willing or even anxious to further split the black Rhodesian nationalist or guerrilla movement by backing that faction of it most ready to compromise with Rhodesian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to black majority rule ? ? Can he win the understanding and support of such key African countries as Nigeria and Ghana which have " gone sour " on U.S. policy in Africasince events at the turn of the year in Angola and which told the Secretary in effect to stay away from them on his current African tour ? ? Can he open up a channel of communication with either Ian Smith . Prime Minister of white-run Rhodesia , or John Vorster , Prime Minister of white-run South Africa , to persuade the former that time is running out and to secure cooperation of the latter in *speedy execution of American policy in southern Africa ? ? And if he manages to establish this communication , how can he persuade black Africans that his aim is to expedite black African political aims and not merely to help whites salvage some of their privileges ? // * Rhodesia acid test for U.S. Africa policy // Throughout his present journey , Dr. Kissinger has aligned himself with the broad proposals of the British Government for a transfer of power from whites to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indeed , he stopped in Britain on his way out td Africa for talks with the new British Foreign Secretary , Anthony Crosland . And after a week in Africa , Dr. Kissinger let it lie known that the U.S. was willing to consider using Britain as a middleman in any negotiations to secure speedy implementation of American policy in southern Africa . Sir Harold Wilson , until recently British Prime Minister , was mentioned as being particularly well equipped to play a role because of his knowledge gained in earlier ( if unsuccessful ) attempts to negotiate constitutional reform with Mr. Smith , the Rhodesian Prime Minister . But it remains to be seen how broadly Sir Harold ? or any other nominee of the present British Government ? would be acceptable to either white or black Rhodesians . White Rhodesians have little trust in Sir Harold or any other British Labour politician . And the more militant wing of the black Rhodesian nationalists sees continued British involvement as a subterfuge to delay black rule and has called for a formal termination of Britain 's responsibility for Rhodesia in international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Rev. Ndabaningi Sithole refused to meet Dr. Kissinger while he has been in Africa . But Dr. Kissinger did havetalks with Joshua Nkomo , a Rhodesian leader believed to be more willing to reconsider negotiating with whites before irrevocably committing himself to all-out guerrilla war . This , however , could encourage African suspicioris that the U.S. is willing to play off one black Rhodesian faction against another ? and for white advantage . Now for those holes in the wall of sanctions around Rhodesia , intended to pressure Mr. Smith into compromise acceptable to his country 's black majority . On the Byrd amendment ? permitting , under U.S. law , the U.S. to import Rhodesian chrome , much needed in the defense industry ? Dr. Kissinger is unlikely to find on his return any bandwagon rolling in the U.S. Congress to cut off these imports , so helpful to Mr. Smith 's tightly squeezed economy . And on the breach in the UN blockade by way of South Africa , Prime Minister Vorster is equally unlikely to join in sanctions against Rhodesia . South Africa is against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be turned against South Africa itself one day . Yet if Dr. Kissinger does not deliver , not only Nigeria in black Africa will be questioning his sincerity and arguing that he is not interested in black Africans for themselves but only as pawns in the power struggle with the Soviet Union . It was only Soviet success in Angola ( it will be argued ) , not his commitment to majority rule , that brought the secretary at last to black Africa for his first visit in all the seven and more years that he has been at the center of U.S. foreign policy .                     