@@733597

txt France is considering the possibility of developing its own neutron warhead , according to sources in Paris , but is not yet thought to have made a final decision . French press reports , apparently stemming from official leaks , have said the government recently tested a miniaturization process linked to a neutron warhead at its underground testing center in French Polynesia . But expert observers think those reports may be exaggerated . A Cabinet committee is known to be reviewing the possibility of developing the " enhanced radiation warhead , " debating whether the commitment of money and resources is justified . The successful production of a neutron warhead would require several years of research and development . The Defense Ministry has fueled speculation about a test by refusing to confirm or // From page 1 France talks of building its own nuclear warhead deny the press reports . A spokesman reminded newsmen that the government is continually testing nuclear devices and never comments publicly on specific tests . No concession The French privately were dismayed that the United States received no Soviet concession in exchange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the same time , however , France is looking continually for ways to improve the relative standing of its own nuclear force . The French force , which is independent of the NATO militaiy command , is the world 's third largest , but it is less than one-tenth as strong as those of the U.S. or the Soviet Union . France would face two problems in developing a neutron warhead . The engi-nPoring r , 3tn ! y volving making a warhead small enough to go on an artillery shell , is expensive , complicated , and time-consuming . Moreover , present French nuclear strategy does not include the use of " battlefield " nuclear weapons such as the neutron warhead . A neutron warhead , therefore , would be of no military use to France without a change in strategy , which would provoke an important political debate here . Report from Bonn Monitor staff correspondent Elizabeth Pond reports from Bonn : The most important audience in Paris does not really take French aspirations to an independent neutron weapon seriously . This ? plus surprise ? is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its Own neutron warhead with tests in the Pacific . " For the German federal government , a French neutron weapon would offer no temptation to become more independent militarily and politically , " commented the Hesse-Lower Saxony Allgemeine newspaper typically . " First , the defense of Europe is inseparably bound with NATO and the U.S.A. Second , the French could n't give the German Federal Republic any credible guarantee of deterrence . An atomic go-italone policy in Europe would be an illusion . " The German response is significant , for there would be no apparent use for a French neutron warhead except as a joint European defense against Soviet tank superiority ? and this would mean primary deployment of the weapon in frontline West Germany . Even during the exhaustive NATO consultations about an American neutron warhead prior to President Carter 's announced suspension of its development April 7 there was no serious consideration of stationing such a warhead in France . Government circles here treat the Paris reports , which have neither been confirmed nor denied by the French Government , as a French tweaking of Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the neutron weapon . Reuters reported April 19 from Frederikshavn , Den-mark : Six European defense ministers rallied to President Carter 's stand on the neutron bomb and emphasized the importance of a positive Soviet response to his deferment of the controversial new weapon . A communiqu ? issued at the end of a two-day meeting of the NATO nuclear planning group , which includes the United States , also noted with concern the continuing buildup of Soviet military forces and weaponry .                     