@@729675

txt The committee set up by Governor Rockefeller to safeguard the rights of Attica prisoners reported today that a score of inmates had told its members they had been forced to " run a gantlet " of blows from nightsticks after the prison revolt was crushed on Monday . The committee , known as the Goldman Committee , visited the prison again today , and there were the following other developments : CRepresentative Claude Pepper , Democrat of Florida , head of the House Select Committee on Crime , said after spending the day in the prison that the violence reminded him of " occasions when nations have stumbled into war . " lRepresentative William J. Keating , Republican of Ohio , a member of Mr. Pepper 's committee , said they had been shown a video tape made by the state police during the assault on the prison . He said that the hour-long screening included tapes that showed six hostages " blindfolded and with some instrument at their throat . " tine observers ' committee that tried unsuccessfully to negotiate a peaceful end to the take-over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 18 members of the committee said " official intransigence " had caused the killings during the crushing of the rebellion . ( Donald Goff , a prominent New York penal expert who // also belongs to the Goldman Committee , disclosed in an interview that , starting Monday , volunteer lawyers were to be deployed at the Manhattan House of Detention for Menthe Tombs  --  to function as ombudsmen watching over convicts ' lceal and civil rights . Several black clergymen and white state legislators who interviewed inmates in the prison today said some wounded prisoners had told of being shot in the back by state policemen as they lay face down on the ground , with their hands behind their heads . Proposals Weighed Speaking for the committee , set up by Mr. Rockefeller , Clarence B. Jones , editor and publisher of The New York Amsterdam News , also said the group had made several recommendations that were now being considered by prison authorities . These range from giving the prisoners toothbrushes to stationing volunteer monitors inside the prison to insure that guards did not mistreat the inmates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inmates had told him that sonic prisoners were killed by the troopers while trying to surrender , And civil rights lawyers said inmates they had conferred with said the firing by the troopers had been indiscriminate . Mr. Jones and other committee members answered questions from reporters gathered in.front of the prison 's gate . Milling around Mr. Goff and the other notables who came in and out of the prison were journalists , sightseers and a few relatives of inmates . " Oh , God , oh , God , they wo n't let me see him , " screamed Mrs. Elizabeth Holt , mother of an inmate , 35-year-old Leon Holt . A friend drove her away in a mint-green Cadillac . But a hush fell over the battered lawn as Mr. Jones appeared along with the other members of the Goldman Committee , so named because it was chosen by Presiding Justice Harold Goldman of the Appellate Division at the Governor 's request . The committee has also been studying the circumstances surrounding the convict rebellion , in which 10 hostages and 30 prisoners died . Mr. Jones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ H. McCormick , a penal expert arid the other members : Mr. Goff , Luis Nunez , executive director of Aspire , the Puerto Rican organization , and Robert P. Patterson , a member of the law firm of Belknap &; Webb . Reading from notes , Mr. Jones said , " We were the recipients of a number of complaints and reports or allegations of physical abuse of inmates by either the stale guard personnel or the stale troopers during the ' Lime after Cellblock D where the rebellion took place was retaken and during the time they the guards were attempting to process the inmates into their cellblocks " after the assault was mounted . Mr. Jones stressed that the committee , which visited the prison today and yesterday , had " no basis of making an independent verification " on whether ' these allegations were true . He said that at least 17 to 20 inmates had complained , about the alleged beatings , and ' said that several had displayed ' bruises . But committee members said it was not possible to say from the bruises whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reported running of the gantlet . No comment was immediately forthcoming from state authorities on Mr. Jones 's remarks or on other observations made by visitors to the prison today and late yesterday . All comb ment was declined by an aide to State Deputy Attorney General Robert E. Fischer as he distributed a press release at the prison gate . The release said that Dr. Michael Baden , deputy Medical Examiner of New York County , had met with Dr. John F. Edland ; the Monroe County medical examiner , to discuss the deaths in the assault . All details of Dr. Baden 's findings have so far been withheld . He has been examining the bodies of the dead prisoners and hostages . Racial Epithets Alleged Mr. Jones reported that some convicts said some prisoners had been shot because they had ' ' moved the wrong way , " while trying to give themselves up . He said several inmates had reported that assaulting forces shouted , " niggers , we 're going to get you , " when the assault was made . ' Committee members said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the gantlet took place . But despite repeated questions , no committee member would disclose what was allegedly said . Mr. Jones said the alleged " gantlet " incident had taken place , according to the convicts , after the rebellious cellbiock had been secured " and the inmates were being processed " while naked . Another committee member said that according to the accounts " officers " had stood on both sides of " a corridor or a stairwell with sticks and the allegation is they used them . " The legislators and black clergymen did not make clear whether the inmates asserted that the prisoners who were lying on the ground had been shot lo death or wounded . There was no indication of what weapons had been used or at what range . But a number of pisoners are known to lie undergoing treatment for wounds caused by shotgun pellets . The black clergymen and leg'slaters included the Rev. Wyatt Tee Walker , a special assistant , to Governor Rockefeller on urban problems . Mr. Walker said that Black Muslim prisoners had told him that they refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not elaborate . Other . clergymen included J. Metz Rollins , executive director of the National Committee of Black Churchmen , and the Rev. A. Kendall Smith of Beulah Baptist Church in Harlem . The legislators included Assemblyman Franz S. J. Leichter and Antonio G. Olivieri , both Democrat-Liberals of New York City . " We 've seen prisoners who have been shot in the back , " said Mr. Walker . " Some of them do n't think they 're getting the best medical help , " said Mr. Rollins . From Mr. Jones 's remarks it was not immediately clear whether the alleged beatings during the gantlet incident were done by regular prison guards or other security officials involved in security operations this week . National Guard troops and state troopers also took part in the assault .                     