@@731468

txt washington could sense the rush of impeachment events finally hurrying to the Niagara of decision . First came the unanimous Supreme Court decision ordering Mr. Nixon to surrender 64 additional tapes to special prosecutor Leon Jaworski . The opinion was delivered by silver-haired Chief Justice Warren Burger . Associate Justice William H. Rehnquist did not participate . The 21 Democrats and 18 Republicans of the House Judiciary Committee were preparing at this writing to appear under TV lights in the first public legislative debate on impeachment since 1878 At San Clemente , Calif. , a resting President had refrained from cpmment at this writing , and his lawyer , James D. St. Clair , declined to the final minute to say whether Mr. Nixon would accept an adverse decision . His subordinates , meanwhile , threw barbs at impeachment advocates . However , the Supreme Court 's decision earlier in the day , and defections by individual Republican members of the Rodino committee , increased the impression of momentum against Mr. Nixon . The Burger decision cited the landmark case of Marbury v. Madison which it now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the setting for the House impeachment debate that followed on the evening of the same day . // * Historic House panel debate under TV lights // One legislative battle began , and two others impended . Decision to come The Judiciary Committee must decide , by majority vote , whether to report out articles of impeachment to the full House , after two years of traumatic Watergate scandal . In those two years excitement has alternated with boredom . First came newspaper revelations . Next the spectacular Ervin committee with its parade of extraordinary figures . Then the Archibald Cox " fire storm . " Then trials , involving once-powerful administration fugures . And after that the almost unbearable delay of the House Rodino committee taking evidence behind closed doors with progress illuminated only by fitful leaks . The second battle comes on the House floor . The House whl debate the committee 's action , and here , too , the decision is by majority . Almost certainly , again , observers believe the House will vote impeachment , particularly if it gets a strong lead from its committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it will be only the second one in history involving a president . It will involve not merely the future of Mr. Nixon , as constitutional students see it , but also the validity of the whole impeachment process which requires a two-thirds Senate vote to implement . If 34 senators vote for Mr. Nixon , he will not be impeached . In two years the most powerful single instrument to be produced , many feel , is the " summary to the impeachment inquiry " prepared by Rodino committee special counsel John M. Doar and his staff , and supported by former minority counsel Albert E. Jenner . Released last week , it argues that Mr. Nixon has followed a steady pattern of deception and illegal action which is a ground for impeachment . Presidential counsel James St. Clair vigorously argues that impeachment requires disclosure of an actual , indictable crime of major nature , and not a generalized pattern of questionable conduct even if one should exist , which he denies . The Rodino committee and Supreme Court both focus on disclosure of documents . Before today 69 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one possible exception none has challenged the power of the examining committee to force production of evidence . Power recognized Beginning with George Washington , the Doar brief argues , presidents have recognized the power of the House to compel production of evidence in impeachments . In 1846 , President James K. Polk , regarded by historians as a strong president , protested a House investigation but " cheerfully admitted " its ultimate power in impeachment . He said : " In such a case the safety of the republic would be the supreme law , and the power of the House , in pursuit of this object , would penetrate into the most secret recesses of the executive departments . "                     