@@732595

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 31 Letters to the Editor Carter on Foreign Policy : 2 ' Weaknesses ' To the Editor : Two weaknesses stand out in Governor Carter 's otherwise balanced address to the Foreign Policy Association and responses to subsequent questions . Mr. Carter gave undue emphasis to the partnership between North ' America , Western Europe and Japan in the world 's total structure . The stamp of the Trilateral Commission is to overcome the impress of the pentagon of power , though Soviet-American and Sino-American relations will continue to be important for the parties and the world scene . But the Carter address emphasized the importance of the industrial democracies for world order at the expense of north-south dealings . The present Administration has given a high priority to north-south relations after its earlier preoccupations with Russia and China and its experiences with the third world in the wake of the O.P.E.C . challenge . The high priority should carry over into the next Administration , whether Republican or Democratic , if the altered nature of world politics is to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunities for north-south consultations , assisting those countries that are in direst need and joining with others to support Vice-Presidential Job To the Editor : Democratic Presidential candidate Jimmy Carter is to be commended for the manner in which he is currently " interviewing " prospective Vice-Presidential candidates . This process , which necessarily entails public announce . ment of the names of those being considered , allows generous amounts of time for public digestion of possible running mates , thus making highly improbable a repeat of the Eagleton or Agnew fiascoes . Editorials July 9 and today . The fact that Governor Carter is obviously seeking a running mate from the Washington establishment and one with foreign affairs experience and expertise should also be of comfort to the nations of the world and to those In this country who recognize Mr. Carter 's lack of experience and standing in this area . Senator Muskie 's comments after his July 3 " interview " with Governor Carter are especially noteworthy . His hopes that Governor Carter will assign his Vice President responsible and worthwhile tasks are generally regarded as a clich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now has an an excellent opportunity to make the Vice Presidency worth more than the , proverbial " bucket of warm spit . " This can be accomplished by selecting Senator Muskie or Senator Church , both with considerable foreign affairs experience , as his Vice-Presidential running mate and then , after taking office , appointing his Vice President as Secretary of State . There could Jefferson Appended To the Editor : Professor Areskoug argues in his July 6 letter that when morality costs , it should be curtailed . Because " the Watergate affair clearly weakened the ability of the executive branch to conduct foreign policy " and cost the country " a substantial decline in foreign prestige " we should not demand " a reduction in official lawlessness and immorality . " We should , presumably , have ignored its dishonesty and hypocrisy , and swept it all under the rug of expediency . Congress should abandon its " puritan anti-bribery drive against American business abroad . " We should not waste our efforts in " cleaning up our foreign intelligence system , " says the professor . Perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government consists in the art of being honest , " should be supplemented with : " unless it costs us something . " KENASTON TWITCHELL Princeton , N. J. , July 6 , 1976 ? The ' Finest ' in Action To the Editor : At about 6:30 P.M. on June 2 , my wife and I were on our way to a family reunion at 75 Henry Street in Brooklyn . Not having been back to New York for some thirty years , we were lost driving our car under the Brooklyn Bridge . Finally we stopped a patrol car . The young officer said , " Oh , you 're really lost . " I replied in a concerned tone , " Yes , we are , officer . " " ' Well , instead specialized lending agencies . But the country deserves to hear his views on the UNCTAD negotiations , the World Food Council and related matters . Another problem is Mr. Carter 's inconsistent approach to arms transfers . As part of his laudable concern with the United States ' role as the leading arms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of advanced weapons to Kenya and Zaire as a cynical act of rationing arms in the guise of efforts to limit violence and as an incentive for an East-West arms race in Africa . Yet in his later responses to questions , Mr. Carter supported the strengthening of the United States ' commitment to supply Israel with whatever defense aid is necessary to permit it to meet any attack . If Governor Carter is a consistent , principled critic of United States arms transfers , he should apply his ' reservations about transfers to all actual or potential clients of- this country . As one of the most independent Presidential candidates to appear in many years , Mr. Carter has an opportunity to pursue his ideas about the United States ' part in starting or perpetuating regional conflicts by the sale or gift of military hardware . PAUL F. POWER Cincinnati , July 9 , 1976 decucoatz : certainly be no more responsible or relevant position in our Federal Government for a Vice President . To have a Vice President of the United States who is also Secretary of State would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a team and that , should the all-too-common " unthinkable " occur , the succession to the Presidency would be made considerably easier . WILLIAM J. GILMARTIN Alexandria , Va. , July 7 , 1976 of me telling you how to go , you will only get lost again , so why do n't you follow my car and I 'll take you there . " He did ! And now we know why New York 's police are called the " finest . " E. A. SINDEL Palos Verdes Peninsula , Calif . June 13 , 1976 ? Toward Insured Bonds To the Editor : Investors today are increasingly reluctant to purchase municipal bonds because of the general mistrust of the financial condition of local and state governments . To render such obligations more palatable , unprecedented high interest rates are offered , thus placing an additional financial burden for many years to come on already hard-pressed governments . The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was set up years ago and accomplished its purpose of bolstering public confidence in our banking system . Such a Federal instrumentality might be an answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states . Rigid standards for acceptance of a proposed issue could be prescribed , and the borrowing entity assessed a minute percentage of the amount to be raised . Assessments would be deposited in the Federal agency 's reserve fund to take care of infrequent defaults in principal or interest by any of the insured issues . Confidence in the safety of their investments would encourage the purchase of municipal obligations by the individual investor and thereby enable governments to borrow needed funds at lower interest rates . MILTON A. GOTTLIEB Jersey City , July 2 , 1976 Of Oil and Power : - To the Editor : Your June 21 editorial misses the mark in the divestiture debate by ovaemphasiiing price and underemphasizing power , namely the disproportionate influence over our energy destiny by disproportionate corporate control of products which are literally the economic lifeblood of our national body politic . Dividing the largest oil companies into separate spheres of activity niaY be the only way to limit excessive ' economic/political power in the hands of a few petro-giants whose objectives would be nicely served if our Government became their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because despite multimillion-dollar ad campaigns aimed at persuading people that what 's good for Exxon is good for America , that ai n't necessarily so . To hope for containment of power through remedial reinforcement of the antitrust laws is about as realistic as to take literally smokescreen slogans such as " free market . " The ebb and flow of traditional marketplace forces simply do not fit a situation in which a finite product is dominated by a corporate clique that controls 70 percent of U.S. crude production and has no serious incentive for competition at home or abroad . state these views with strong conviction because , as a business executive , I confess " divided patriotism . " I love my country , but on a day-to-day basis I hold a " higher " loyalty to the business enterprise that provides my economic sustenance . Any businessman who says otherwise is practicing deception or self-deception . As a decision-maker in an energy enterprise , I would not allow my coal or geothermal division to undersell my oil unit ( which is why only horizontal divestiture will assure genuine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public interest would benefit if my company were permitted ' to be as large , powerful and free of tax burdens as possible . My professional patriotism would prompt me to do all this because minimizing risks and maximizing gains are things businessmen are supposed to do . What Congress is supposed to dq ig to limit the economic/political power of what Forbes magazine recently . de ; scribed as " organizations only indirectly responsible to the people . " Divestiture is a small first step in that direction . HAROLD WILLENS Chairman , Factory Equipment Corp : Los Angeles , June 22 , 1976 ? To Protect the Laborer ? To the Editor : Action by the Internal Revenue Service against the Teamsters Union pension funds in withdrawing taxexempt status and in making employees liable for payment of taxes on contributions made on their behalf by the employers can only result in harm and injury to innocent persons . It is firing buckshot at alleged corrupt union officials and hitting the innocent bystander , the laborer . I would believe that the time has come for the Government to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for union officials , permitting them to control and deal with vast sums of money without adequate supervision and without participation by the ultimate beneficiary , the union member . The antitrust division of the Justice Department should intervene by appropriate legal action to break up the monopolistic control by a few union officials of the dual function of running a union shop with the myriad duties of tending the needs and interests of its membership and at the same time handling the revenues received , which are actually trust funds to be administered for the benefit of its union members . Committees should be set up ? as separate boards within the union under authority of the Goverrunent , providing for representation by elected union members drawn from union officials and workers , With representation by the Federal ' arid state governments as well as by an outside financial adviser . The Justice Department should act further in breaking up the monolithic structure of single-union control of every phase of labor such as hag occurred in Alaska . In these days of financial concern by the union worker for himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of safeguards for the members of unions can not be overlooked by the Government . Editorial July 6 . IRVING J. ROSENBERG Newark , July 1 , 1976 ? Breakfast Bottleneck To the Editor : The July 7 news article " . . . It 's Breakfast Time at the Regency " explains why the limousines in front of the hotel are allowed to double and triple park there ? at least by implication . I have always wondered when driving or taxiing down Park Avenue , why such a bottleneck was allowed to block the traffic every working week . ROLF MYLLER New York , July 7 , 1976                     