@@733499

txt Soft music drifted into the air . The audience craned its collective necks expectantly . Onto the runway stepped a tall girl in a long , red , square-shouldered winter coat with collar turned up at the back , a brown fur hat , and black , high-heeled boots . The fashion show had begun ? at Moscow 's " House of Fashions " near the Bolshoi Theater , on a cold and snowy afternoon , thousands of miles and several years away from Dior , Givenchy , Cardin , and Saint Laurent . As the models , including one young man , paraded some 60 styles in just under an hour , a steady buzz of argument rose from the Western audience as onlookers tried to decide whether the show was comparable to Paris or Rome ? or conservative , derivative , and dull . " Very practical , good for daily living , " one young Moscow woman commented as the show began with a range of orthodox , faintly military , no-nonsense coats and pantsuits in greens , browns , beiges , and grays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paper patterns for 29 kopecks ( 42 cents ) each . For Soviet audiences , they are what the three-times-a-day showings are all about . Soviet buyers , many of them intensely fashion-conscious after years of austerity , do not go out and look for the dresses they see . Instead they buy a pattern . Either they make it up themselves , have it made by a relative or seamstress , or go to a state made-tomeasure store . " It might cost 20 rubles $29 , all told , " another Soviet woman in the audience said . " And // From page 1 Moscow parades ( its ) latest fashions it might take two weeks . We usually have one or two fittings . " It could also cost much more , and the wait could be longer . The show this correspondent saw , introducing new designs by head designer Vyacheslav Zaitsev and his team , was also apparently aimed at export markets . No photos or TV film were permitted . apparently to prevent other nations from copying from them ( though no official reason was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , first appeared in an unexceptional brown double-breasted suit and almost-clean brown shoes . Kiev it was n't The music remained low and discreet ? a far cry from the Elvis Presley rock heard at a recent showing of Polish fashions in Kiev . Along came another model with a beige coat pleated in the back , twirling as she alternately vanished behind and reappeared from three large columns down the center of the runway . A coat worn over a yellowy dress was dismissed by a Frenchwoman near me as " unattractive plaid . " Colors brightened a little as models moved into late afternoon and evening wear : orange and yellow ( sometimes in the same dress , with mixed results ) . Shoulders were almost invariably padded and square , in the Joan Crawford style . A black and white dress came with a brown artificial flower at the neck . A gray outfit had a brown flower , and a mandarin version a green one . Sports clothes were full , loose , and blousy . Hemlines : midcalf . A sack dress " Just not flattering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dress appeared . . ? 1 ? ? " There 's some imagination , " said another as a model untied a large black shawl trimmed in turquoise and green and flipped it around her waist as an overskirt . The audience buzz rose when younger-style dresses began to appear . They were based on native folk styles ? reds and oranges , head scarves , full skirts , colorful bodice , and em broidery . , Soviet designers have concentrated on modern styles in the past , but now they are using a lot of red to celebrate last year 's 60th anniVersary of the Soviet state. , Sergei appeared from time to time , in single-breasted suits with vests . One was aquamarine . An ice-cream colored suit worn without a tie lost some of its casual effect when relentlessly accompanied by yet another vest . The a series of climaxes : a floating maroon jersey-silk evening dress with long sleeves .. . romantic chiffon , similar to London styles .. . a crimson three-tier evening dress ( as the music played " Stranger in Paradise " ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Moscow Fashion Designers School ( who also painted the swirling designs onto the fabric herself ) . " It was n't so different from Rome , " said a correspondent who has worked there . " The colors here right now are subdued greens and browns . I liked the gypsy folk dresses . " ? " Too conservative and dull , " another onlooker complained as he went out into the snow . " Badly stitched , " said another . " Not bad , " was yet another verdict . Last heard the argument was continuing out on the sidewalk as everyday Russians , considerably plumper and shorter than the models inside , pushed through the snow and the traffic on their daily rounds . . . . . . . .                     