@@733273

txt In the periodic pushing and shoving over Federal tax reform , a great deal of attention is always paid to specific provisions of the tax code and very little to the tax system as a whole . That is understandable . It is the rules of the tax code  --  the deductions for threemartini business lunches or write-offs for oil wells ? that excite attention , not the philosophy of the system . But genuine reform to achieve fairness and simplicity requires a return to basics . If first principles are ignored in planning yet another reform , we run the risk of adding only one more Alice-in-Wonderland layer to the tax law . The basic purpose of the income tax is to collect revenue  --  and that motive should dominate the writing of a new tax code . Many other purposes , some good , some less good , have been imposed on the system since the Depression of the Thirties and they have pushed the tax laws beyond the comprehension of even highly educated and knowledgeable citizens . The habit of using personal and corporate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Government has been taxing with one paragraph of the code , giving rebates with the next , and creating inequities with every phrase . For example , taxes were made steeply progressive , to reduce differences in net income  --  with rates today running as high as 70 percent for upper-bracket earners . But these progressive rates , while extremely popular , proved extremely impractical . When the Federal Government takes such a fat chunk of every additional dollar earned , work and investment are discouraged . So the impulse was born to design a thousand escape clauses  --  loopholes  --  to reduce the actual tax on middleand upper-income families and on corporations . The result is a gigantic mess . The personal income tax is in reality only moderately progressive  --  demanding nothing from the very poor while extracting on the average only about 35 percent of the income of the very rich . And most corporations pay far less than the maximum rate prescribed by law . By their very nature , the special provisions that reduce the progressiveness of the income tax and decrease corporate taxes create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Tax reformers traditionally have attacked equity issues head-on , debating every specific escape clause or tax break on its merits . Having taxed in the first place , and created exemptions or loopholes in the second , the Government has now had to turn around and tax away some loophole gains . For example , to catch individuals who always seem to come out ahead in the exemptions game , reformers created a " minimum tax " that placed a limit on exemptions and made sure that the beneficiaries of loopholes paid at least something in the end . Modest improvements have been achieved in this way , but always at the cost of making the tax laws still more complex . To end this Byzantine struggle between savvy reformers and equally savvy lobbyists , we favor a return to first principles . The income tax should be used solely to obtain revenue , with rates graduated modestly to tax the rich at higher rates than the poor . The posted tax rates on middle- and upper-income families should be cut substantially . All forms of income should be taxed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be eliminated . The promotion of social goals belongs in other laws and on the other side of the Federal budget , the spending side . Outlays to promote investment or to encourage certain forms of conduct or expenditure should be visible and direct . The tax collector should not be , simultaneously , the spender of much of the money he collects . If Congress wishes to favor investors or homeowners or nude sunbathers , let it do so openly by appropriating subsidies . A reform of the tax system should not be used to increase total revenues or to raise the taxes of any particular group . Its purpose should be the elimination of exemptions and loopholes , inequities and complexities . . Getting rid of such special privileges would be offset either by new Federal subsidies or by reduced tax rates . Most taxpayers would come through the change without much loss or gain , but they could have new confidence that they pay no more than others like them in a clear and comprehensible system . The goals of eliminating the grossest inequities and restoring public confidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change . The reforms would not be easy to design , even if everyone were agreed on the need for them . To avoid economic dislocation , the transition to a new system might well require years of gradual change . And exceptions to reform  --  some straying from the first principles  --  might be necessary where the alternatives of open subsidy just are n't practical . But a major effort to . break with the old ways is necessary if the nation 's desire for reform is , at last , to be truly served .                     