@@729140

txt Predicting a good year for the nation 's economy in 1971 and " a very good year " in 1972 , President Nixon said tonight his new budget will be expansionary , but not inflationary . At the same time , he ruled out any new taxes and once again firmly vetoed mandatory controls on wages and prices , as well as milder forms of incomes policies . Appearing on national television , Nixon said the goal of his administration was to restore the nation to full employment in 1972 . Nixon told four network reporters he believes general confidence in the economy can be restored by having an " expansionary budget in deficit " that will not be inflationary and that will not exceed what revenues would be if the economy was operating at a fully employed capacity . He said be expected monetary policy , controled by the federal reserve board , to be " adequate to meet the needs of the economy . " " The year 1971 is going to be a year of expanding economy , " Nixon said , " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in which unemployment ? which is too high ? is going to come under control and is going to recede . " Nineteen seventy one will be a good year ; 1972 will be a very good year , " be stated . Forecast Is Declined Altho the President predicted that the rate of unemployment ? at 5.8 per cent in November ? will being to recede later in the year and that the goal was foil employment in 1972 , be declined to forecast whether this goal would be achieved or what the rate of joblessness would be at year-end . Nixon agreed that =employment , which has averaged about 4.9 per cent thru 1970 , is too high , but he noted that the I rate was lower than in all but three peacetime years over the ; last 10% years . Efts definition of " peacetime years " eliminated the Viet Nam war in which the jobless rate averaged i below 4 per cent in 1968 and 1960 . Denies Inflationary Step Calling his budget to be sob- , mitted shortly to the new Coo- ' gress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deficit will not be inflationary because it will be taking up the current slack in an economy operating at less than full capacity . The President said he will seek no new taxes in his budget for fiscal 1972 , the government 's business year which begins next July 1- However , be said that while a value-added tax was considered to bolster federal revenues and that he may seek such a tax in the future , he ruled it out at this time . Nixon said confidence in the economy is being restored by the slowing in the rate of inflationary increases and by the expansionary budget policies . He noted that while progress against inflation has not been fast , the rise in the wholesale price index has been cut in half and the " retail price index is turning down . " " We are beginning to make real progress , " he said . Nixon reaffirmed his opposition to so-called incomes policies to slow the rise in wages and prices . " I do not plan to ask for wage controls or price controls , " be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guidelines . Arthur F. Burns , chairman of the federal reserve and a close friend and economic mentor to the President , has urged Nixon to adopt an income policy in exchange for greater expansion of the supply of money and credit . The President said be believed that an income policy will not work . Instead , be said be is opting for " an activist economic policy , designed to control inflation , bat at the same time designed to expand the economy . " Nixon also said be has a commitment from the federal reserve for an expansionary monetary policy that will fuel economic growth .                     