@@732928

txt President Sadat has blamed the Communists for the riots and demonstrations that reverberated throughout Egypt last week . But few Egyptians ? even instinctively anti-Communist , better-off Egyptians ? seem to believe that the Communists were indeed behind the troubles . Why , then , is Mr. Sadat making the Communists the scapegoats when , at first sight , there are other candidates at hand for that role ? Other critics of his policies , for example : the " Nasserites , " that is , those who harbor nostalgia for the stricter authoritarian state socialism of Mr. Sadat 's predecessor , the late Gamal Abdel Nasser ; the right-wing , religiously funda // From page 1 *Why Communists get Sadat 's blame mentalist Muslim Brotherhood ; or the supporters or clients of Libyan leader and longtime gadfly of Mr. Sadat , Muammar al-Qaddafi ? Reasoning assessed The answer seems to lie in the fact that the riots could be interpreted as a victory for whoever triggered them , in that they forced Mr. Sadat to rescind the price increases against which the demonstrators were protesting . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could therefore conceivably strengthen the - position within Egypt of the group or organization singled out as being behind them . And it is probably because the Communists are in fact so weak in Egypt that they have been chosen as the " safest " scapegoats . So by last Friday , public prosecutors were alleging that the whole series of disturbances had been planned and executed by a group called the Communist Labor Organization . Cairo 's semi-offical press followed up this announcement with reproductions of inflammatory leaflets found in the houses of the 40-odd alleged organization members rounded up during the week 's arrests , which threw a wide dragnet around over 1,000 rioters and a similar number of curfew-breakers . This writer has so far found few , even of the capital 's staunchly anti-Communist upper class , who give much credence to the official explanation . There is widespread sympathy for the deplorable plight of the urban poor . In some quarters , at least , there is also a feeling that it was surprising not that the riots happened , but rather that they took so long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the government is not to seem to have made a serious political miscalculation in introducing the increases- in the first place ? even granted the economic necessity of doing so ? then some outside force must serve as whipping boy . Egypt 's yawning financial problems remain , so the government would have been unlikely to have put the blame for the riots on the Muslim Brothers , who enjoy more sympathy within the ranks of the country 's rich backers in the Arabian peninsula than either the Nasserites or the Communists . There is a general consensus that the main activists on the left at present are not the Communists ? who had a reputedly fractious history as an underground . party until they dissolved their formal organization in 1964 ? but the Nasserites . Recent liberalization moves taken here include the decision to allow the three trends ( right , left , and center ) inside the ruling Arab Socialist Union party to develop toward more autonomy . Although the Nasserites enjoy much sympathy within the official left grouping , the most significant Nasserite activity apparently takes place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt is these says one " linked with the name of Col. Muammar al-Qaddafi of neighboring Libya . In the past few years , several disturbances inside Egypt have been blamed on Colonel ' Qaddafi 's interference . The Egyptians have accused him on more than one occasion of sending arms to subversives inside Egypt . Arms were used by civilians during the two days of riots . Private guards at least on the staff of one Cairo nightclub shot and killed rioters who attempted to storm the premises . - Some of the rioters were themselves armed . But one Western diplomat noted that all observed rioters ' weapons were of small caliber and nonautomatic ? unlike the modern weaponry alleged to haVe been given by Colonel Qaddafi to rebels , in Upper Egypt . Allegations of Qaddafi-ist support for the rioters seem therefore to have little basis in fact . But a more telling argument against the government 's blaming Colonel Qaddafi was ? perhaps the fear that the genuine and active Nasserites inside Egypt might have gained popular support if officially they could have claimed credit for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communists , one analyst here argued , are probably in no position to exploit such an advantage . So the Communists get the blame .                     