@@731836

txt THE SOUND of feet crunching thru snow and a muffled scream have led ' police to suspect foul play in the disappearance Tuesday of the 14-year-old son of a Rockford alderman . Joseph Didier , son of Ald. George Didier ? Jr. , was believed to have been kidnaped as he delivered morning newspapers just two blocks from his home at 2516 Huffman Blvd . Altho no eyewitnesses have come forward , police nonetheless suspected a kidnaping after talking with a woman whose morning quiet was broken by sounds she then believed were made by her newspaper delivery boy and his younger brother . THE NEWSPAPER had already been tossed on her porch and the Didier youth was moving on when there were footsteps of a second person approaching and a moment of silence , Mrs. Joyce Jackson , of 1923 Fultonv. , told police . She told police that there was a " muffled scream " and a car driving off at a high speed . James Samorian , of 2024 Fulton Av. , found another clue when he saw the Didier youth 's canvas bag @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mrs. Jackson 's home . Only an hour earlier he had called the Didier home to complain that the paper had not been delivered . Capt . Richard . Anderson , chief of detectives , said there were several footprints surrounding the discarded bag of papers , but there was no blood or evidence of a struggle . One hundred policemen joined a search that included the use of snowmobiles in wooded areas after the boy failed to show up for classes at Roosevelt Junior High School . 1 THERE WAS no ransom demand , but the youth 's parents stayed home in case the kidnaper attempted 1 to contact them .. Dither , who operates a flower shop at 501 Vi . State St. , told police that he had not been threatened . and could ' give no motive for the attack . 1 He is a Democrat and has been on the city council for six years . Anderson said ' the abduction was similar to attacks made on two other newspaper deliv- 1 cry boys during the last three 1 years . In those cases , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remote areas where they were I Spray painted and sexually molested by a lone attacker . The most recent incident occurred a year ago when a boy was kidnaped outside a church several blocks from the scene of Tuesday 's kidnaping . ANDERSON SAID police de-1 partments thruout Northern Illinois were alerted to the ab- 1 duction and pictures of the youth were being circulated . The boy was described as 5 foot 6 , weighing 125 pounds , with blue eyes and brown hair . He was wearing dark trousers and a maroon paefa.                     