@@733158

txt AN INCREASING number of scientists are taking UFOs more seriously , and some have even become convinced that they are real . " But the problem we face is the kooky fringe and the threat to our careers , ' says James Harder , professor of hp draullo and biomedical engineering at the University of California . Harder and other scientists are taking part in an International UFO Congress in the Pick-Congress Hotel , which is intended to stimulate legitimate scientific inquiry into the UFO phenomenon , " I started off open-minded in 1960 , but then I ran into some cases that were Impossible to explain as natural phenomena , " said Harder . AN EXAMINATION of three metallic objects , two of which were associated with UFO sightings , convinced Harder that they could have come from extraterrestrial sources . They included a magnesium fragmont found in 1957 at a purported UFO crash site in Brazil , a tungsten-carbon fresment discovered in 1958 at a purported UFO landing site in Sweden , and a mysterious metal ball found near Jacksonville , Fla. , in 1973 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because they faced a " curtain of laughter " from their colleagues and a threat to their jobs or academic positions , said Harder . But that seems to be changing , More scientists are calling for scientific study of unidentified flying objects , he said . A RECENT Stanford University survey of 1,906 astronomers revealed that so per cent favor further UFO studies and 62 said they had seen or recorded " flying saucers " or other UFO-related phenomena . Although there Is little objective evidence of UFOs , some scientists believe that many eyewitness accounts , by reputable observers must be taken seriously . Frank Salisbury , professor of plant physiology at the University of Utah , said his investigation of 80 UFO sightings by more than 900 persons in the Unitah Basin of eastern Utah convinced him that the observers were not lying , " IT IS LIKELY that the objects they saw were being directed by some intelligent force that was putting on a display to impress the witnesses , " Salisbury said . The Utah UFOs wore large and were either round or flat on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ witnesses reported that they came within 50 to 100 feet from them . Dr , J , Allen Hynek , professor of as , tronomy at Northwestern University , said the study of UFOs should be re ? moved from the arena of cultism and religious fanaticism.                     