@@728716

txt The American Medical association 's house of delegates yesterday approved a series of major policies expected to change the way medicine is I practiced in the United Stales . The 244-member house recognized that good health means the absence of poverty , that new systems of delivering health care are needed , that the dependence on the fee-for-service physician as the bulwark of medical care may be at an end , and that there is a greater need for policing doctors ' fees . Provide Service to MI The house said that it is the duty of the A. M ; A. to " apply all possible effort to make medical services of high quality available to all Individuals . " The new policies , approved by the house at the A. AT . A. 's 119th convention in the Palmer House , were seen by many experts as a major attempt on the part of the 223,000-member association to liperalize its IN MEDICAL SPOTLIGHT Other stories involving the many aspects of the American Medical association may , be found on pages 14 , 16 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the actions taken by the house followed a list of far-reaching recommendations made by a special committee headed by Dr. George Himler of New York . Dr. Himler said he was somewhat disappointed that the delegates did not approve all of his committee 's recommendations , ' Seek Insurance Program The A , M. A. has been under intense criticism in many of tile areas in Which action was taken . The action Is expected to partially meet the criticism , IThe h o u s e directed tile A , M. A. 's board of trustees . to develop a malpractice insur- , ance program for physicians . The cost of this insurance has been skyrocketing and in some states it costs a doctor more than $10,000 a ? year for malpractice insurance . The move is expected to bring in many new members because a doctor can not practice without liability insurance . About  |p5,000  doctors , in the country do not belong to the A. M. A. The house opened the door for pre-paid and other group medical plans to flourish . Some critics of the fee-for-service private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have maintained that various group plans could reduce the cost of medicine and at the same time improve medical care . In their efforts to curb rising health costs , the delegates urged state medical societies to establish peer review groups of doctors who would look over each other 's shoulders on the fees they charge . Dr. llimler 's committee , in a stronger recommendation , had asked the A. M. A. to urge each state to set up strong " fee monitoring " committees to control costs . In its new definition of health , the house said the A. M. A. " clearly recognizes the health of individuals as many aspects other than medical care , such as education , housing , environmental control , transportation , civil rights , and the amelioration of poverty . "                     