@@734115

txt AN INCREASE in Chicago 's minimum legal drinking age to 21 was virtually assured Monday when two city council committees unanimously supported it . Under present law , persons 19 and 20 years of age may drink wine and beer in taverns but are not allowed to carry out package goods . The council License and Police and Fire committees , however , voted to recommend the repeal of that clause Monday and urged the full council to vote Wednesday to raise the minimum drinking age for all alcoholic beverages to 21 . Ald. John Madrzyk ( 13th , the chief sponsor of the legislation , grudgingly agreed to the compromise move last summer that would still allow on-premises drinking by persons under 21 . THIS MONTH , however . Madrzyk renewed his campaign to raise the age flatly to 21 , arguing that the limited prohibition was ineffective and still did not solve the problem of teen-age drinking . Only five witnesses testified at the hearing Monday , and all of them urged the increase in the minimum drinking age . Dr. Henry Betts or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age . SINCE THE ILLINOIS drinking age was lowered from 21 to 19 in 1973 , he said , the instances of teen-age automobile accidents had increased by 33 per cent . " Teens may be good fighters , but they are lousy drivers and drinkers , " Betts said , responding to arguments that youths under 21 should be allowed to drink because they can fight in wars . Sylvia Barron , health chairman of the Chicago PTA , urged raising the age on grounds that even preteens are able to get liquor , and many drink it without bothering to find a private place where their parents and other adults can not catch them . " It is a common sight in our neighborhoods to see minors in groups , 12 years and up , drinking openly in our school playgrounds , parks , and on the steps of private homes , " Barron said . " They harass the homeowners , destroy private property , and litter our city with discarded beer cans , " she said . Also testifying in favor of the increase Monday were representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Women 's Cubs . Earlier this month , the Illinois legislature took steps toward the passage of a bill to raise the minimum drinking age in Illinois to 21 . However , under that legislation , home rule municipalities would be able ' to keep the lower minimum drinking age . Madrzyk said lie wanted to take prompt action to raise the drinking age in Chicago to prevent the city from becoming an oasis for suburban teen-age drinkers . Several Chicago suburbs have raised their drinking ages to 21 , luring many teen-age drinkers to Chicago , he said . WHEN ALDERMEN passed the compromise measure outlawing package goods carry-outs last summer , they made it clear that if the teen-age drinking problem in parks and school yards was not solved , the sterner measure would return . Ald , Edward Vrdolyak 110thl urged his fellow aldermen to follow Madrzyk 's lead and vote for the flat increase . " If , you were to hold a referendum in Chicago today , you 'd find a strong vote in favor of raising the drinking age . " Vrdolyak said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beverages to persons under 21 would face fines of from $5 to WO . More important , per- ? soils convicted of selling alcohol to persons under 21 would be subject to loss of their liquor licenses . The ordinance approved Monday also covers private citizens who provide , sell , or give alcoholic beverages to persons under IL Madrzyk said he expected full council passage of the ordinance Wednesday . The law would take effect when it is officially published , probably on or about April 1 . lie said .                     