@@732696

txt Walking through this cheerful town with its terraced vineyards rising fom the bank of the Main River , you would n't believe that there are still people around here who believe in the devil . " Model Germany " proclaim election posters in the streets , suggesting that West Germany 's modern economic and social policies could serve as an example for other countries . But then you come to the cemetery on the edge of town and stand before a simple white cross bearing the name " Michel Anneliese " on a black plate . THE PRETTY 23-year-old coed died after months of excruciating exorcism rites administered by two Roman Catholic priests in her home right across the street from the graveyard . She weighed less than 70 pounds when she died , and her distraught parents called a local doctor and asked him to issue the death certificate required for burial . The doctor refused and called the police . An autopsy attributed the girl 's death to malnutrition and dehydration . And , though it was revealed that Anneliese had refused to eat or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her parents nor the clergy called in a physician . " Now Anneliese is in Heaven , " said her mother , a devout Catholic . She is convinced that her eldest daughter ? who had suffered epileptic seizures siftce her teens ? was possessed by the devil and that only the church could help her . MEANWHILE , the public prosecutor in nearby Aschaffenburg is investigating whether to lodge criminal negligence and manslaughter charges against The Most Rev , Josef Stangl , bishop of Ware-burg , who authorized the exorcism according to the 17th Century Rituale Romanum , a ceremony to drive out evil spirits . Had it not been for the doctor who refused to issue the certificate , the whole thing probably would have been hushed up , " said a local businessman . Who knows whether there are n't more cases of this kind ? " he added . Whether out of shame ? or fear ? most people in Klingenberg do not want to talk , about what happened here . " We knew nothing , " said Mayor Walter Woeber . " Like you , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The exorcists , Father Arnold Renz , 65 , of Schippach , and Father Ernst Alt , 30 , of Ettleben , showed no such reserve . BEFORE A STUNNED nationwide television audience , , Father Renz played tapes on which he recorded the girl 's agonizing screams and Introduced by name the six evil spirits that allegedly possessed her . One was celled Nero , another Lucifer , a third Adolf Hitler , who , he said , always shouted " Hell ! Heil ! " through Anneliese 's body when being addressed . When Father Rene put his hand on her forehead to give emphasis to Ms Latin prayers , she screamed in the local idiom , " Take your filthy paws off . Wt . A do you want ? You can pray as long as you wish . Nobody will listen to you . " Father Renz said this was Lucifer talking , through her . She objected to the Holy water ? " This damn - - - water ! " ? and at one point shouted in desperation at the exorcists , " Oh , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I will make you all crazy . " Though the devils did not like the tape recordings , Father Benz said , he nevertheless made 43 during the nightly sessions in the girl 's home . The tapes have been impounded by the authorities . Nor did he forget to mention that An . neliese , emaciated as she was mustered enough strength to do up to 500 knee-bends a day to free her soul from the demons . Father Alt said recently that eight weeks before her death Anneliese told him , " I feel that it will come on real bad in the summer . I 'm so terribly afraid and I have no strength left . I know I wo n't be able to endure It . " AFTER TILE SHOCKING TV disclosure , Bishop Stangl criticized the exorcists ' breach of confidence in exposing the girl 's torments to a large public audience . Bishop Stangl declared , " Exorcism never can be a substitute for medical help . " He indicated that disciplinary action will be taken against the two priests . The bishop said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conviction that he could not refuse " the request the young woman , her family , and the priests submitted as the last hope . " " To pray for somebody but deny him medical treatment is un-Christian , " he added . The man who first recommended the mystic religious rituals is Adolf Itodewyk , an so-year-old Jesuit . He is considered an authority on exorcism in Germany and has written two books on the subject , although many Catholic priests now consider him a liability . Rodewyk insisted in an interview that Anneliese was doomed and that no doctor could have saved her from starvation . " I HAVE SEEN it In another eve , where we put enough food on the table , " he said . " It was impossible . Perhaps one can force something down , but it will be thrown up again right away . It 's no use . You could have called any doctor you like . He would not have been able to break this condition . " Asked about the number of such cases , he replied , " You @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They hardly become known , but.something is always going on . " Neighbors and friends described Anneliese Michel as a nice , shy girl who was obsessed with religion . Her dormitory room in Wurzburg was filled with religious pictures and symbols , and other students heard her say the rosary , night after night . She had wanted to complete her studies later this year and become a teacher , but her fear that she was possessed evidently took over . Last January , she abruptly , broke off medical treatment for her epileptic attacks and , encouraged by her parents , turned to the church to save her .                     