@@734033

txt For the Boston Ballet . it was a tremendous gamble . After four years of inviting promising young choreographers to showcase works with the company , E. Virginia Williams , the founder and artistic director of the 15-year-old Boston Ballet decided to splurge a major choreographic competition with rdgh visibility . Skeptics pointed out that this could produce poor choreography , which would embarrass the company , and possibly show any company dancing defects , which might have been concealed in the fabric of a familiar program chosen to suit the dancers . Even some of the competing choreographers had initial doubts about what they feared might be a very pressured atmosphere in which to create their works . Unlike solo musicians who enter the burgeoning number of instrumental competitions and have only their own performances to worry about , the choreographers would have to work with the dancers in the Boston company , and this would inevitably mean competing for talent and time . If Miss Williams were a woman to be easily deterred , the Boston Ballet would have folded years ago . It has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and by raids from New York companies who lured away promising dancing talent just when it was needed most at home . With the support of some of her board and especially its chairman , Mrs. Louis Wellington Cabot , Miss Williams announced the competition in June of last year and offered a winner 's prize of 5,000 . Some 253 entries flowed in from around the world . They came on video tape ( sometimes on eastern European systems which western machines can not unscramble 1 , but after two weeks of nine-hour days of judging by Miss Williams and her artistic staff , seven choreographers were chosen . " Getting it down to 50 was easy , " says Miss Williams . " Many of the tapes showed instantly that conceptions were collegemodern , immature and not suitable for a professional company . Picking finalists from the last 15 was much more difficult . " The seven winners were invited to Boston in early November to select dancers and discuss their proposed works with Miss Williams and her artistic staff . Gary Davis came from thi Fusion Dance Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ring in New York . Dancer and choreographer Constantin Patsalas is with the National Ballet of Canada . Tom Pazik is Associate Director of the Atlanta Ballet and Stuart Sebastian is a free-lance choreographer in New York . Bruce Wells , a former NYC Ballet dancer , is resident choreographer for the Connecticut Ballet Co. and John Wilson is professor of dance at the University of Arizona . At this early November encounter a surprising generosity and mutual respect emerged among the seven , something which was to grow during their three-week rehearsal period , which began just after the new year . " We all reached a point quite early on when we realized that we were n't competing against each other but only against ourselves , " said Tom Pazik . " Ballets ca n't compete with each other like teams in a football league , " notes Bruce Wells . " Each of the choreographers was working as hard as he could to give his work the best showcase and at the same time , to learn objectively from the others . " The seven works were given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plus critics from across the nation and a gala audience . Opening the program was Bruce Wells 's lyrical and expansive " Violin Concerto . " Set to the first movement of Tchaikovsky 's Violin Concerto , the work is full of delightful surprises and if there is nothing revolutionary in the choreographic conception , Mr. Wells has produced the kind of ballet which is musically sound and visually delightful . It was distinguished by the superlative dancing of Laura Young and Nicolas Pacana . " Parabola " by Edward Henkel came next . Subtitled , " An impressionistic view of the Brooklyn Bridge , " the work is in three parts set to music by Ravel , Nina Simone and Corelli . There is no attempt in the ballet at representation , to illustrate the fixed points , beams or arches of the bridge . Mr. Henkel takes for his inspiration the unique tensile strength of the parabolic curve ( the curve which holds up the Brooklyn Bridge ) and his dancers move in patterns drawn more from the geometric mysteries of nature than any constructionist architecture . If " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Piano Concerto " to Alberto Ginastera was modem realism of the Glen Tetley variety . Fast , crisp and ambitiously difficult to dance , Mr. Patsalas drew extraordinary performances from Elaine Bauer , Carinne Binda and Augustus Van Heerden . He also established a distinct choreographic personality in the leanness of the movement and its clear lines . If there were moments when Tetley 's " Rite of Spring " leaped to mind , they rose more from the handling of the material than any more direct inspiration . Of the next three works , Cary Davis 's " Poem " danced to a reading of Dylan Thomas 's " Lament , " " The Accident " by Stuart Sebastian and " - The Cut Purse 's Tale " by John Wilson , " The Accident " to music by William Walton was the most interesting . A dramatic rendering of a lovers ' quarrel and its ensuing tragedy , it lacked sufficient focus but its images were strong and often effective . The evening ended on the lyrical note on which it had begun , a richly musical setting of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company , literally on its last legs but dancing with strength and grace . Full of jumps and a lovely duet for Elaine Bauer and David Brown , the work was an excellent finale to a surprisingly good evening . While the gala audience sipped champagne at the post-performance supper and the critics picked their own favorites and correctly predicted the judges ' choice ( which was not the critics ' choice ) , the judges met and voted for their favorite . The prize went to Constantin Patsalas along with a handsome sculpture by Russell Jacques . If a trend was evident in the majority of the works , it was a return to a romantic rinssicism , back to basics of the classical vocabulary . None of the works presented attempted to break through the thresholds established by such innovators as Merce Cunningham or Alwin Nickolais . Images of Ashton . Balanchine , Cranko , Arpino , Tudor and were much more prevalent than those of Martha Graham or other modernists . With only one exception , the ballets were professionally interesting and showed choreographers of varying but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although the season is budgeted to lose $100,000 , the ambitious attempt to discover and showcase young and talented choreographers has been a major dance event . At the same time , the immensely talented and engaging young company of dancers in Boston has proven that they can handle the difficult challenges presented by the competition and that they are fast becoming a major American regional dance troupe.                     