@@733926

txt America 's mammoth trucking industry is rumbling toward its biggest potential shake-up in decades . The Carter White House , spurred on by its successful effort to deregulate US airlines , hopes to bring windfall sasings to %merican consumers by slashing away at the complex rules , fixed prices , prisate ratemaking , and red tape that characterize the trucking industry . But it wo n't be easy . The Teamsters Union opposes major change . Thousands of trucking firms , nersous shippers , and small towns that could lose sers - Ice are also expected to join in the effort to throw roadblocks in the way of White House reformers // From page 1 Red tape wars : next , a looser rein on trucking Congress , ever jealous of its prerogatives , is expected to approach the whole politically risky issue as slowly and cautiously as a big 12-gear rig grinding up a tortuous mountain road . Wage talks intervene The issue is further complicated by wage talks which opened Dec. 14 in Washington between the Teamsters Union and trucking firms . Some insiders fear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? namely . the Teamsters could settle for a wage package within the President 's wage-price guidelines early next year , and in return the White House will agree to go slow on deregulation . No such trade-off has been made , at least . not yet , informed sources say . The Department of Transportation . which has been researching the deregulation issue for Mr. Carter , is due to present an option paper to the White House Dec. 15 . White House officials say they hope to draft final details of a deregulation plan in time for the President 's State of the Union message in January . Debate about trucking deregulation centers around two controversial points : ? That scrapping federal red tape could save consumers up to 20 percent on their shipping costs , or about $4 billion a year . ? That the Interstate Commerce Commission 's ( ICC ) myriad rules and rates are outdated and should be replaced with free-market competition . Most Americans do n't realize it , says a White House official , but many of the shipping rates for trucks in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behind closed doors . and with the shades drawn . " This private rate-setting is legal under an antitrust exemption granted-motor carrier rate bureaus by the Reed-Bullwinkle Act of 1948 , a measure passed over President Harry S. Truman 's veto . Few disapprovals While ICC approval is needed for rates set by the industry 's regional rate bureaus , disapproval is rare . The result is a rate structure that has brought great stability to the industry , good wages to drivers , and handsome profits to the better-run firms . Another possible target of White House action might be entry requirements . New trucking firms ca n't simply buy a few trucks , hire some drivers , and hit the road . They need ICC approval for each specific route ? such as Boston to New York , or Boise to Buffalo . In the past year , under White House encouragement , the ICC has loosened some of these - requirements to encourage greater competition . Since September , 1977 , the ICC has approved 95 percent of the requests to enter the trucking business , up from 82 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't always get the routes they want , however . ) The ICC has also taken a half-dozen other steps , including new freedom for private fleets , such as the 3,200 trucks owned by Montgomery Ward , to carry goods from other ' firms on the " backhaul " leg of a trip ; and rejection of a recent rate increase from the Southern Motor Carrier Rate Conference . ICC chairman Daniel O'Neal also supports other steps to loosen rules ? and appears to be moving so swiftly in that direction that Rep. Harold T. Johnson , chairman of the House Committee on Public Works and Transportation , has demanded that he slow down . Any major changes , Mr. Johnson said in a letter this week to the ICC , should be acted upon by Congress .                     