@@728536

txt Leaders of the bipartisan opposition in the Senate that defeated Judge G. Harrold Carswell urged President Nixon today to reconsider his decision not to nominate a Southerner to the Supreme Court . Tnis conciliatory gesture , however , was combined with an outbdist of indignation over the President 's statement yesterday charging that the Senate had been guilty of " regional discrimination " in the " vicious " and " malicious " way that it blocked first the nomination of Judge Clement F. Haynsworth Jr . and then the nomination of ' Judge Carswell to the Supreme Court . Leading the indignant reaction , Senator Albert Gore , a Tennessee Democrat who voted against both appointments , introduced a resolution assailing the President 's statement as " an assault on the integrity of the Senate . " Majority Restraint Seen To a certain extent , the Gore resolution reflected a widespread resentment within the Senate over the President 's suggestion that an anti-Southern bias in the Senate lay behind the defeat of the two nominations . But the majority sentiment in the Senate was falling behind more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to confirm a qualified Southern judge to the Supreme Court . The names of two possible new nominees were already being circulated here today . They were Judge Harry A. Blackmun of Minnesota , a member of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit , and Federal District Judge Edward T. Gignoux of Maine . It was reported that the Federal Bureau of Investigation was looking into the background of both judges . Meanwhile , in a television interview , Vice President Agnew said the Carswell rejection had been made on the basis of " subjective judgments " after the Senators had been " snowed " by " the liberal media " and subjective judgements " after the pressures from organized labor and civil rights activists . Mr. Agnew , speaking over the Columbia Broadcasting System , said he did not believe President Nixon had made his statement " with a political view in mind . " Senator Alan Cranston , Democrat of California , introduced a resolution expressing the sense of the Senate that it was prepared to consent to Supreme Court nominees ' ' from any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cosponsored by the two bipartisan leaders of the anti-Carswell forces  --  Senator Birch Bayh , Democrat of Indiana , and Edward W. Brooke , Republican of Massachusetts . The Cranston resolution said the Senate " is prepared to consent to the appointment of nominees who are conservatives , or strict constructionists , if that is the President 's desire , or who represent any other appropriate judicial philosophy provided that they are also nominees with the qualifications , stature , talent and temperament necessary in those who serve on our nation 's highest tribunal of justice . " Similar sentiments were contined in a letter to the President written by Senator George S. , Democrat of South Dakota , and signed by more than 25 Senators who voted against the Carswell nomination . The letter said , " We are prepared to support the nomination of a Southerner who is a strict constructionist provided he meets the high legal and judicial and ethical standards which we believe are required for the Supreme Court . " The letter told the President that he was " completely mistaken " in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because they came from the South . It urged him , therefore , " not to be influenced by regional or political considerations or hasty interpretations of the recent Senate actions in such a manner as to preclude the nomination of qualified Southerners to high judicial or executive office . " In his statement last night , Mr. Nixon declared that he was turning outside the South for his . next Supreme Court nominee because he had concluded that with the way the Senate was " presently constituted , ' ! no " strict constructionist " from the South would be confirmed by the Senate . After some apparent wavering , the White House stood by the President 's statement today with no modifications , despite the outburst of criticism in the Senate . Ziegler Bars Softening Following the introduction of the Gore resolution in the early morning , Gerald R. Warren , the deputy White House press secretary , told reporters that the President had no intention of impugninc , the integrity of the Senate . But any interpretation that represented a softening of the President 's statement was quickly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secretary , who advised reporters to continue to focus on the President 's original statement . The President , Mr. Ziegler explained , was not challenging the integrity of individual Senators but believed the Senate as a whole had acted unwisely and hypocritically in rejecting the two nominations . Meanwhile , in often angry statements on the Senate floor , the charge that an anti-Southern bias lay behind the two Court rejections was denied by Senators who had voted against the nominations as well as by some who had voted for them . Probably the denial that made the most impression on the Senate came from Senator James S. Allen , a conservative Democrat from Alabama . " I do not believe that is the attitude of the Senate , " Mr. Allen ' said , " and for that reason I deplore , the statement of the President ' that he is going to look outside the South in his next choice . " Senator Allen announced that he would introduce a reso- ' lution calling upon the President not to exclude Southern judges in picking his next nominee . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pledged that he would support the Allen resolution . The President 's charge was defended by Senators Roman L. Hruska of Nebraska , Gordon Allott of Colorado and Robert J. Dole of Kansas , all conservative Republicans . There were also indications that the White House was intent on pressing home the charge through statements issued by various Republican leaders . In the House , Gerald R. Ford of Michigan , the Republican leader , issued a statement saying the rejections were " a slap in the face or the South . " " The truth is that a hatchet job was done on both of these men by U. S. Senators who find the judicial philosophies of Judges Carswell and Haynsworth greatly at variance with their own thinking , " he said . Representative Rogers C. B. Morton of Maryland , chairman of the Republican National Commitee , issued a statement saying , " It is obvious that despite Senator Bayh 's claims to the contrary those who opposed the Haynsworth and Carswell ' nominations are not willing to accept a qualified Southerner . " Among Senate Democrats there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some pondcal gain out of the defeats . This tactic was regarded in Democratic circles as being part of the Administration 's long-term political objective referred to as the " Southern strategy . " But the immediate targets were seen as Senator Gore and Senator Ralph W. Yarborough , Democrat of Texas , both of whom voted against Judge Carswell on Wednesday and both of whom face difficult re-election campaigns in states that have turned increasingly conservative . That such a tactic may have some political appeal was underscored by the cloakroom comment of one conservative Southern Democratic senator , who , when asked by a colleague what he thought about the P'resident 's statement , . replied : " I do n't like it ; it may make too many of my constituents turn into Republicans . " Judge Gignoux , one of the twojudges reportedly being considered for nomination was recently chosen as one of nine men to draw up a new version of the American Bar Association 's ethical code for judges . He is 53 years old . Judge Blackmun , 61 , is a longtime friend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a Negro couple using a civil rights law of 1866 in a suit against a subdivision developer for refusing to sell them a house . The ruling was later reversed in a historic decision by the Supreme Court . It was learned today that Representative Clark , Republican of Minnesota , visited Attorney General John H. Mitchell yesterday to urge Judge Blackmun 's consideration as the next nominee . It was also learned that Judge Blackmun spent last night in Washington but checked out of the Cosmos Club , where he was staying , before a reporter could get in touch with him today .                     