@@734479

txt Letters MORRIS BASUKEDMUND BLAIR BOLLESSTEVEN G. SINGERLAWRENCE S. FINKELSTEINJEAN MA ... Letters Why Should We Presume That Silence Is Golden ? ' To the Editor : Although the year of George Orwell 's message is scarce four years away , why is it that I feel myself a hostage in the events surrounding the Shah 's wanderings and my country 's marching with a unanimous voice ? Even Senator Kennedy 's criticism of the former ruler of Iran is drowned in a chorus of denunciation from all sides . No one dare speak against the official voice . That past Presidents and Congresses spoke with unanimity in our Vietnam venture did not stop hundreds of thousands of our citizens from criticizing their actions . And the war ceased . Citizen pressure meant something then . Why should we presume that silence is golden now ? Perhaps if there were demonstrations in opposition to the Shah , of support of some sort of restitution to the Iranian people of the billions purportedly taken from his nation by this man and his family , of some sort of cleansing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a legitimate government in Iran and in the installation of this man now still protected on a military base in Texas , perhaps then the citizenry can accomplish what our leaders can not . For all we know , time may show that what has happened ? with the seiIf the Shah Chose To Stand Trial To the Editor : In light of the hundreds of kangaroocourt trials and summary executions that have taken place in Iran since the Islamic revolution , does Helen T. Clements of Cleveland truly believe that the Shah has the " golden opportunity to redeem himself " by returning to Iran to face trial ? letter Nov. 30 ? In returning to Iran , the Shah would neither be able to " defend his and his father 's regime " nor " win respect for him and his family " ; in fact , he would be committing suicide . In the Shah 's own words , he " may be many things , but he is not a fool . " If this makes him a villain in Miss Clements 's eyes , so be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1979 ? To the Edit , : - : What a pa , dox ! Mexico denies the Shah asylur Which the United States provides . Mexico 's present Foreign Minister once described diplomatic asylum as a Latin American , but not a Pan American , institution , by which he meant that it was to be found south , but not north , of the border ( " Mexico and the United Nations , " published for the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , 1958 , p. 190 ) . Mexico 's action seems to invite emulation of Iranian tactics in Latin America . That could undermine the respected and useful Latin American institution of diplomatic asylum . LAWRENCE S. FINICELSTEIN La Grange , III. , Nov. 30 , 1979 zure of our embassy and the increasing military note to our posture and with the possible reinstitution of the draft next year ? that the hostages are part of a game plan to justify further adventures in the Persian Gulf area . For decades , military analysts have pointed to that area as a possible tinderbox . The Gulf of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is hope in some government ( and private ) officials that the Teheran incident will . In any final denouement , it is we the people who will pay , as some of our people are paying in the embassy . Postures and pronouncements of strength Our Iranian Guests To the Editor : There have been too many reports , in Boston and elsewhere , of Iranian students being insulted and attacked , and at least in one instance ( South Carolina ) suspended en masse " until the Teheran hostages are released . " Obviously , foreigners in the U.S. , including students , must abide by our laws . They are deportable if they violate immigration regulations or commit felonies . This being said , when we accept foreign students , we accept the responsibility to treat them as well as we treat our own . It is outrageous to discriminate against them . It is particularly outrageous not to be concerned about our Iranian students , many of whom are unhappy about what is happening in Iran , many of whom fear for the safety of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the upheaval in Iran and the difficulty of transferring funds . We should act toward them with concern and affection , and not make their lives even more difficult . By treating them fairly and well , we have the opportunity to impress upon them what this country stands for . This letter really is an urgent appeal to my fellow presidents and fellow faculty members to make sure that our Iranian students receive the support ( including legal aid ) they may need in the present difficulties . It is an appeal to all American students to cease and desist from actions which may in any way discriminate against Iranian students . Such activities are unworthy of the traditions of the United States and of universities throughout the world . JEAN MAYER President , Tufts University Medford , Mass. , Nov. 26 , 1979 by Mr. Kissinger and Mr. Connally , for instance , can be offset by our citizens openly questioning our leaders . If we do n't , if we allow those " who know best " to pull the strings , if we adopt Orwell 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may just be yielding our lives and our fortunes to the Shah and his supporters in the United States . MORRIS BASUK Plainview , L.I. , Dec. 4 , 1979 To the Editor : A grade-school teacher who liked silence and order in class used to tell us : " God gave you a tongue so you 'd have something to keep quiet . " That philosophy seems to have suddenly seized the whole nation . The Iran crisis is bringing a major shift in America 's posture toward defense , third-world diplomacy and military entanglements . These changes are occuring without discussion , on the grounds that the situation is too delicate to permit anyone , even political candidates , to speak out . Nixon said the same thing about Vietnam during his 1968 campaign . We must have greater faith in democracy . Government by the people requires Wagging tongues . EDMUND BLAIR BOLLES New York , Dec. 4 , 1979 To Settle Teheran 's Anti-U.S . ' Strike ' To the Editor : Perhaps we can better understand the Iranian crisis if we draw an analogy with union-management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country all strikes were illegal , and today some still are . Strike action is one of the last resorts of those people whose grievances are not met . And even though strikes may be illegal , their terminations are negotiated as part of a package , together with union demands . In Iran , the mob , if you like , took an equivalent illegal action as a last resort in order to force the world , and the United States in particular , to hear their grievances . To demand an end to the illegal action is simplistic , just as would be a demand that unions stop illegal strikes without any mediation or arbitration of workers ' grievances . The United States is faced with a situation where it needs to deal with both the grievances and the illegal occupation of its embassy . To avoid any repetition of the holding of diplomatic hostages , a respected international body where small nations can be assured of receiving just and equal treatment must be convened . Moving the Shah to an American military hospital can be interpreted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on behalf of the Shah . At this time we need to open rather than close the door to nee0tiating the resolution of the crisis . RICHARD N. FRYE Aga Khan Professor of Iranian Studies , Harvard University Cambridge , Mass. , Dec. 3 , 1979 Who 's Giving How Much to Palestinian Refugees Inflation Yardstick To the Editor : Once again the precarious correlation between action and rhetoric is manifest in pledges for aid to Palestinian refugees . The United Nations Relief and Works Agency has announced that , of a total of $91 million pledged for next year , it will receive from oil-rich Iraq ? noisiest of the Arab states bemoaning Palestinian suffering ? a paltry $121,600 . From an even wealthier advocate , Saudi Arabia , will come only $1.2 million . More than half of the total pledged , $52 million , has been promised by the United States , persistently accused by both other states of neglect of Palestinians and pro-Israel bias . The Arab states would go far toward improving their credibility with thoughtful Westerners ? and probably a good number of their Arab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in line with their mouths . VERA BEAUDIN SAEEDPOUR New York , Dec. 6 , 1979 To the Editor : Your Nov. 29 editorial " We 're Better Off Than We Think " regrets the use of a price index to show the inflation rate , and I agree . Inflation is defined by my dictionary as an " abnormal increase in the currency . " Would it not be better to take for a period the growth of the money supply , subtract the growth of real production and name the result the measure of inflation ? A. J. DAMES Ridgefield , Conn. , Nov. 29 , 1979 Headway in the Battle Against Rising Hospital Costs To the Editor : Your persistent belief that direct Federal bureaucratic fiscal controls over thousands of hospitals can effectively limit the rate of health-care inflation is becoming increasingly puzzling . Without debating the pros and cons of the specific legislation the Congress has again refused to enact , let us look at the alarming numbers which your Nov. 21 editorial cites as facts . Last year , you say , " hospital-cost inflation " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percent . Not so . First , the data refer to total hospital expenditure trends , not just to cost inflation rates . Total spending for inpatient and outpatient hospital care in this country Is indeed going to be about 13 percent higher in 1979 than in 1978 , but that figure includes increases in the volume of services rendered as well as " cost inflation . " Those increases are substantial nationally , including this year 's projected rise of more than 100,000 in obstetrical deliveries and an upward trend in hospital use by older Americans . The actual rate of hospital cost inflation , not counting growth in utilization , will be about 11 or 12 percent in 1979 by most estimates . The editorial 's comparison of 1979 to an inflation rate last year of 19 percent is simply astonishing . In reality , total hospital expenditures in 1978 were about 13 percent above the year before . Hospital cost inflation alone was somewhat more than 11 percent in 1978 for inpatient and outpatient care . You aver that the rate of hospital cost inflation is higher than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can this be ? The current rate of cost inflation in the economy , not including real growth , is 13 percent or more . The comparable rate in the hospital economy is at least a point or two lower than that . In fact , it is apparent that a combination of many forces has succeeded in the past couple of years in bringing the rate of hospital cost inflation below that of the whole economy . In 1979 , with the gross national product apparently growing about 16 percent ( 13 percent inflation plus 3 percent growth ) , there are few " industries " whose data are as far below the G.N.P . rise . You state that in the " existing system , no one has much incentive to control costs . " Look around ! There are a multitude of health-care cost containment initiatives here and across the country which are obviously having an important cumulative impact . It is no secret that the last increase in Blue Cross and Blue Shield 's community rates for hospital coverage in this region was a modest 7 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in recent years have been kept to approximately the rate of inflation of the Consumer Price Index . The effects of that inflation , however , have been nearly offset by reductions in the utilization of hospital care . Hospital cost inflation is a challenge which will be with us for years to come for many of the reasons you cite . The controls presently in place and under development , involving state government , Blue Cross , the hospitals themselves and other key parties , are working increasingly well . They deserve your attention and study . STEVEN SIEVERTS Vice President , Blue Cross-Blue Shield of Greater New York New York , Dec. 3 , 1979                     