@@730302

txt New York delegates failed early Imlay to select new Democratic National Committee members from the state in the ' confusion surrounding their walkout from the convention floor to protest the allocation of committeemen . The delegates have been authorized to select four of the state 's 12 members of the reconstituted national committee , but they angrily demanded the right to pick eight in the bitter protest on and off the floor ? of the Democratic National Convention last night . Under ' the ' new system approved by the convention this week to expand the committee 's membership , four committee members from New York will hold their posts ex-officio . They are the Democratic State Chairman , Joseph F. Crangle ; the senior vice chairman , Mae Guravich ; and the two incumbent national committee members , Basil A. Paterson and Mrs. Jean Angell . Until this year , the two national committeemen from New York were chosen by the state 's delegation to the national convention . In April the state party changed the rules to let the state committee select them . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pick four committeemen and that four be selected by the state committee , which is controlled by party leaders . The delegates are largely nonorganization Democrats . New York 's delegates cast ballots at a caucus marked by confusion here last evening but Bronx Borough President Robert Abrams , a co-chairman of the delegation , said that delegation leaders had been unable to tally the ballots . He said that he hoped to hold an election by mail but conceded that there might be some question as to the legality of such an election because the delegation legally ceased to exist when the convention adjourned early today . Mr. Abrams said that he would . seek a ruling on the question from the convention parliamentarian , Representative James G. O'Hara of Michigan . 35 Seek Positions The voting was held in an uproarious session attended by many onlookers , and there was some question whether all those who voted were dele. gates and alternates . The delegates had planned to elect eight committeemen with the proviso that the four with the most votes would be selected if the attempt to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 35 candidates , alalmost all nonorganization Democrats , were nominated for the eight posts . Party reforms , including the allocation of the new national committeemen to conform with differences in state populations , were approved overwhelmingly by the convention after the New York delegation returned to the floor after a 40-minute walkout for a caucus . The walkout came despite the entreaties of some New ' York delegates and campaign aides of Senator George that the move would , embarrass the Presidential ) nominee and would delay the proceedings so that he could , not appear on television im prime time to make his acceptance speech . In the end , the Senator did not speak until nearly 3 A.M. The state chairman , Mr. Cranele , had opposed the delegates ' demand seact. all eight of the new na The Now York Times Elizabeth Holtzman on her return front Miami Beach . She is running for Congress from Brooklyn . tional committeemen on the ground that the state committee was the party 's continuing body between conventions and should have a role in the selection . The four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be elected before October . In the chaotic and emotional caucus that followed the walkout last night , Mr. Crangle shouted , " You 're all nuts ! " He contended that the delegates had misunderstood the parliamentary proceedings on the floor and would not affect the results by their walkout . The walkout was the latest clash between Democratic party leaders and the forces in the state since the Senator overwhelmingly won the June 20 Presidential primary in the state .                     