@@728444

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Murtagh 's Remedies To the Editor : The credentials of Edward J. Ennis as a civil libertarian are both distinguished and unchallenged . It was therefore with a sense of utter dismay and bafflement that one read his March 2 letter in defense of Justice Murtagh 's indefinite recess of the Panthers ' pretrial hearing . A desire for the maintenance of courtroom decorum and judicial authority is completely legitimate and proper . But the invocation of unconstitutional means for this or any other end can never be condoned . Justice Murtagh 's quid pro quo for the resumption of the hearings violates two basic rights guaranteed by the Bill of Rights . In requiring , as a precondition to continuation that the defendants promise , in writing , to behave , he is , in effect , exacting an admission of prior misbehavior , in violation of the defendants ' protection against self-incrimination . Furthermore , by setting this precondition , Justice Murtagh has placed the Panthers ' trial in indefinite postponement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trial . Sympathy for Justice Murtagh 's discomfiture in the face of what one may deem unseemly behavior on the part of the defendants should play no part in the way one views the issues in this matter . The fact is that Justice Murtagh has demonstrated either an unwillingness or an inability to avail himself of the constitutional sanctions and authority still at his disposal for dealing with this matter . Editorial March 5 . HERBERT F. HECKER Oakhurst , N. J. , March 7 , 1970 ? Binational State To the Editor : I do n't know where Howard L. Morris gets his facts letter March 2 with resgect to Arab responsibility for killing the binational " dream " of Dr. Judah Magnes , who was indeed a great man . To begin with , to my personal knowledge , Dr. Magnes was working on his ideas of a binational state in Palestine as early as 1927 . Also to my personal knowledge , these ideas were opposed by two powerful American groups who were also opposing the Jewish immigration restrictions imposed by Britain under its mandate . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the creation of a Jewish state in Palestine , stated that a Jewish majority in the area was essential to the success of the group 's purposes . The other group , composed largely of non-Zionists , opposed Dr. Magnes because they believed that the immigration restriction posed a serious obstacle to the effectiveness of the Balfour Declaration and that a state having an Arab majority would virtually nullify the Declaration . There is reason to believe that this position was considerably influenced by Dr. Chaim Weizmann , later to become the first President of Israel . SAMUEL L. Kt-mt New York , March 3 , 1970 ? Federal Aid to Schools To the Editor : Your March 4 editorial concerning President Nixon 's education message stated that ? " For many school systems in the throes of fiscal crisis , it can only sound like a pledge to a drowning man that help will come as soon as the experts find out why he is swimming so poorly . " To carry your analogy a step further , it might be said that we have been throwing our drowning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is suggesting that since all the anchors thrown so far have n't helped , it might be prudent to reflect a bit before we start throwing heavier anchors . G. F. KENNEDY Warren , N. J. , March 4 , 1970 ? Terenzio Resignation To the Editor : The resignation of Commissioner of Hospitals Joseph V. Terenzio ( news story March 4 ) indicates the frightening possibility that the Mayor of the City of New York is preparing further to undercut the already inadequate support given to the municipal hospital system . This system provides the major amount of hospital care given to the poor of the city . It is inconceivable to those of us involved in giving medical care to our fellow citizens that the Mayorc.is again ready to save money at the expense of the health of deprived people . Commissioner Terenzio has struggled to get enough money to run city hospitals at a decent level . Now he indicates his failure , frustration and disappointment by submitting his resignation . The poor sick of this city are the losers . PAUL W. SPEAR , M.D. Director of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Plan for Third Avenue Opposed To the Editor : According to The Times news story of Feb. 15 the chairman of the City Planning Commission is again considering rezoning lower Third Avenue , Eighth to Fourteenth Streets , for high-income housing . It is with profound dismay that I note that this would be approved without another public hearing in spite of the fact that the hearing was held over a year ago , that four of the present seven members of the commission were not then members and did not participate in the hearing process , that the matter was placed in limbo because of overwhelming opposition . The zoning change would directly eliminate 400 middleand low-income units , replacing them with high-income units renting at $120 or higher per room a month . The change would indirectly eliminate thousands of low- and middleincome units by a spill-over effect , driving up real estate values in the surrounding area , resulting in evictions and , redevelopment . This area would become another high-income area as was so clearly illustrated in the case of Yorkville . In light of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this type of building may be worse than . the problem the city is attempting to solve . Unsound Mix The chairman of the commission is quoted in The Times as saying he " would like to see a mix of housing on those block fronts . " Yet our own fiscal experts have informed us that conditioning housing of R10 maximum density on a 20 per cent middle- or low-income mix is not economically sound . With such a provision the builder probably could not obtain financing and even if he were to obtain financing the return on the building would be too , low . This zoning proposal is a repudiation of our proposed Master Plan which discusses the realtors ' desire to remap new areas to higher densities . The plan states that the city is " unalterably opposed to such saturation building . . . the housing shortage has not been caused by zoning standards and it is not going to be resolved by lindercutting them . . . the creation of such luxury tenement districts would be an act of cannibalization . " The only way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the City Planning Commission to file ( or deny ) the Third Avenue rezoning so that it may not be approved without further exposure to public consideration . BEVERLY Moss SPATT Member City Planning Commission New York , March 2 , 1970                     