@@732785

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor Of School Safety and Pupil Suspension To the Editor : It is regrettable that you did not consult with our member principals before reaching your Nov. 3 editorial conclusions regarding the recent increase in pupil suspensions . You assume that " penalties are capriciously applied " and " due process is violated . " However , principals are prepared to document each suspension on the basis of your own criterion : " The schools ' safety must be protected ; teachers as well as fellow-students are entitled to demand the removal of dangerous or seriously disruptive youngsters . " With regard to truancy and cutting of classes , suspension is utilized when it is the only way to reach parents , without whose cooperation there is little hope for correction . I agree with you that " . .. the board should look for effective means of protecting safety and upholding discipline by better methods than merely removing troublemakers from school . " Our principals accept their responsibility , but only within the limitations of a drastically reduced educational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ student 's conduct . Principals must protect children 's rights : They have a professional obligation to protect teachers who want to teach and children who want to earn . PETER S. O'BRIEN President , Council of Supervisors and Administrators Brooklyn , Nov. 4 , 1976 ? To the Editor : In your editorial on " Excessive Suspensions " ( Nov. 3 ) , you deplore the increase in pupil suspensions in New York City schools and call for better means of protecting safety and upholding discipline " than merely removing troublemakers from school . " The 1969 bylaw on pupil suspensions , widely regarded as a model of fairness , recognized that the schools had a responsibility to take all possible steps to prevent the suspension In McCarthy 's Defense To the Editor : Anthony Lewis ' reference ( Nov. 4 ) to Eugene McCarthy as a " spoiled child , " and his statement that it would be a " special blessing " if McCarthy vanished from the political scene as a result of the 1976 election , fit into the sad pattern of conduct that has been displayed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most disheartening lessons of the ( Joseph ) McCarthy era was that when liberals decide to throw in with the political mainstream , whatever it may be at the time , they reserve a special viciousness for their erstwhile comrades who decline to do so . In the recent election campaign , Eugene McCarthy effectively pointed out Jimmy Carter 's shortcomings as a Democratic candidate , as well as those in his political record . The McCarthy candidacy , where the grace of the state and of the media permitted it to present itself , served as a legitimate vehicle for those who had been alienated by Carter 's conduct and style in the primaries and were dissatisfied with the outcome of the nominating process . There is something distinctly illiberal To the Editor : On Oct. 8 , an article on child support by Alvin L. Schorr appeared on the Op-Ed page of The Times . Using unidentified sources and misleading statistics , Mr. Schorr attempted to prove that the new Federal and state child support enforcement program has not been , and will not be , costeffective . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the outset , Mr. Schorr cited " a study performed by a consultant firm " as the only available evidence on collection figures for the new program . He overlooked a recent and far more complete report published by H.E.W . ' s Office of Child Support Enforcement . After calling the Arthur Young report a study of the five most successful child-support programs in the country , Mr. Schorr offered some dismal figures from New York State which were not included in the report . Mr. Schorr demonstrated his highly parochial attitude by not recognizing that most states do a far better job of managing their fiscal affairs than does New York . In contrast , it is worthwhile to look at dollar receipts t in Sacramento County , California . Last year the District Attorney 's office , which operates the program there , spent $2.4 million on child-support enforcement and was of students . The circular stated : " All possible alternatives should be explored to help children resolve their adjustment problems before suspension is considered . . . . The approach should be supportive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in need of help and to enlist the aid of the Board of Education 's pupil personnel services as well as the resources available in the community . " The removal of this kind of support is directly related to the marked increase in suspensions . During the past two years pupil personnel services have been decimated : Hundreds of guidance counselors , psychologists , social workers and attendance teachers have been laid off in the wake of massive budget cuts . In a recent survey , principals in every borough attributed the increase in suspensions to the loss of these services . If no one is available to analyze the causes of the disruptive behavior , contact the family , make the necessary referral for clinical services and follow up with needed measures in the school , how can the school provide the ounce of prevention that will obviate the pound of cure ? In this survey , a principal who lost his guidance services wrote : " This year we had more pre-suspense hearings than in the past five years . Intervention by the guidance counselor earlier might have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Individual supportive counseling to students and parents has been severely curtailed . " Your call for more effective methods of coping with pupil suspensions is thoroughly justified . The way to do it is to provide adequate funding for the New York City schools so that they can restore their pupil personnel services . DAISY K. SHAW Director , Educational and Vocational Guidance Bureau , Board of Education Brooklyn , Nov. 5 , 1976 in the suggestion that independent candidates should remove themselves from contention where they have a chance of altering the outcome of the election . However , should Mr. Lewis decide to anoint a future candidate as the one around whom all must rally , he should do so well before the election so all others will be on notice that they risk being recorded as the " spoiled children " of that particular election year . KURT ANDERSON New York , Nov. 6 , 1976 ? The Futile ' Trick ' To the Editor : In the wake of the Conservative Party 's eleventh-hour effort to deprive Mr. Moynihan of the Liberal Party label , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ironies of the campaign between the two men . Mr. Moynihan ended up receiving more votes on the Democratic Party line alone than Mr. Buckley obtained on the Republican and Conservative lines combined . So much for the intended effect of the Conservatives ' last-minute campaign " dirty trick . " CHARLES E. GERSCH New York , Nov. 5 , 1976 able to collect $8.4 million . Even during the 1973-74 period , when recession set in and unemployment rose dramatically , collections in Sacramento County rose by $1.8 million . Another state commented upon in the article is Michigan . Mr. Schorr misled the reader by mentioning that state and then citing one inaccurate and one incomplete figure on nationwide expenditures and collections . A check with David Bailey at the Michigan Department of Social Services revealed that in the past year $8.3 million has been spent to collect $63 million in Michigan . Finally , Mr. Schorr raises the issue of responsibility . He asserts that " the fundamental problem is to obtain broad agreement on the degree to which a remarried father is responsible for children by his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and can not be abrogated by a father who wishes to desert one family and begin another . The Federal Child Support Enforcement Program is an attempt to make fathers shoulder their rightful share of the financial burden of a child 's upbringing , rather than passing it on to the taxpayer . And it is working . ROGER ROOK President , National District Attorneys Association Oregon City , Ore. , Nov. 5 , 1976 Vaccination ' Encounter ' To the Editor : It is surprising that no one seems to offer human frailties as accountable for the vaccination ( if not vaccine ) deaths . The vaccination setup may have taken a few years off the lives of those who did not die . Old people , especially if they have had coronary attacks , should not be told to stand in line for a couple of hours . Old people in this class should not be herded into crowded rooms , nor should they be treated crudely or exposed to too much excitement . Their dread of death , the newspaper reports of the dangers of the flu to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the place of vaccination and then climbing a couple of flights of stairs are enough of an encounter . There should have been great decorum . Many doctors in white and nurses in white all contributing free time would have been desirable . This was no shindig . It was a multimillion-dollar grand play and experiment for life and health . But we know that the classic approach of medicine has disappeared in the United States with the demise of the Oslerian concept . Physicians are really not doctors anymore  --  they are physicians . We now have the crude , thoughtless approach in medicine borrowed from everyday life , sort of consumer-type medicine . Civilized attitudes and gentleness are disappearing . Unless things are changed , there is little reason why we should not follow in the footsteps of Egypt , Carthage , Greece and Rome . Even an Augustus would be of no value . ARTHUR N. FOXE , M.D. New York , Nov. 4 , 1976 ? Why the Knot Was Cut To the Editor : C. L. Sulzberger ( " Cutting the Gordian Knot , " column @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gordium " . . ? he was told that he would be allowed free entry if he could untie the knot bound together by its first king . The Greek conqueror simply drew his sword , sliced . . . the knot open , and was permitted to march unhampered through the formidable fortifications . " Mr. Sulzberger got his legends wrong . Not only did Alexander enter the city before he even gazed upon the famous knot , but his reason for slicing it was something far more ambitious than the free passage through a fortress . By boldly cutting the knot , Alexander wanted to fulfill the ancient oracle that whoever managed to " untie " the Gordian Knot would become the master of Asia . EDWARD D. ADLER New York , Nov. 7 , 1976 To Aid Abused Children To the Editor : We are writing in reference to the article " Court Urges Agency to Consolidate All Child Sex-Abuse Cases , " which appeared in The Times Oct. 24 . The story may have misled readers . For the better part of a century , representatives of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been available in the criminal courts to provide legal representation and advocacy , as well as referral to relevant programs for child victims of all crimes and especially sexual crimes . These representatives are available to help seven days a week , up to thirteen hours per day . In appropriate abuse and neglect situations , Brooklyn S.P.C.C. is prepared to provide a full treatment program for such victims under the direction of a highly qualified staff . While your article correctly instructs the public to report child abuse to the New York City Department of Social Services Central Registry at 431-4680 , it should be noted that Brooklyn S.P.C.C. also maintains a 24-hour telephone number ? 875-7600 ? to be of service to child victims of crimes not reportable as child abuse because of noninvolvement of a parent . Although the Department of Social Services is limited by state law to paying for specific child-protective services , the Brooklyn S.P.C.C , continues to provide as much service as possible with its own limited money to child victims , who do not meet the legal definition of being abused or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide assistance to the Brooklyn ; S.P.C.C. on behalf of child victims of crime , but in view of the present fiscal crisis it is no longer able to do so . The child-care community strongly , feel 's that state legislation is necessary to make funds available to the city and to the Societies for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children in order to provide for comprehensive legal , medical and social services to child victims of crime . CAROL J. PARRY , ROBERT R. WALSH New York , Nov. 8 , 1976 The writers are , respectively , assistant commissioner , Department of Social Services , and executive director , Brooklyn S.P.C.C. Child Support Program : ' It Is Working '                     