@@733173

txt The final report of the Temporary Commission on City Finances  --  established by the New . York City Council in 1975 and headed by Owen MCGivern , former presiding justice of the Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court  --  tells us how New York got into financial trouble , how it can get out of trouble , and how it can stay out of trouble . The commission 's final report follows 16 interim reports on the city 's critical fiscal problems . In what it intends as its last act , the commission tells ns that the city 's fiscal health has deteriorated not only because national and global trends have sapped its manufacturing industries and encouraged the exodus of many productive citizens , but also because its administrations have reacted unwisely to the resulting challenge . Seeing private industry diminishing , they enlarged the public payrolls . When they found it difficult to meet city payrolls with existing tax revenues , they raised taxes . The increased taxes accelerated the decline and departure of industry . As the tax base diminished , and income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its expenses . When unions demanded higher wages , they were bought off with promissory notes  --  increased pensions and fringe benefits . Ultimately , the unsoundness of the city 's finances became apparent even to its bankers . The decline had become a crisis . To recover , the city could have followed one of two paths . One way , to disown the past by declaring bankruptcy , seems to the commission to have been unfeasible . It would have blurred the image of New York as capable of managing its own destiny . It would have marred the city 's attraction for the types of business ? banking , insurance , financial management , securities transactions ? on which much employment depends . It would have destroyed New York 's political system , the good as well as the bad ; and it would have delayed for years the city 's ability to borrow money , with devastating effects on transportation and other public services . Instead , the city ( and state ) administration chose the second path , to reduce expenses where possible , and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in higher interest costs and required loans from the state and Federal Governments . Outside supervision was a condition of the loans , but the city did not surrender its governmental prerogatives to the courts , as it would have in bankruptcy . To survive under this " dedrementalism " ? as the commission approvingly describes it  --  the city will have to be able to borrow in the private market ; its plant must therefore be put in good shape ; its services must be at roughly acceptable levels , and its workers must continue to meet their responsibilities . The problem then will be to avoid the same mistakes that caused trouble in  --  the first place . For this purpose , the city government must embark on development , using its savings to increase its future resources . Development requires lower taxes , incentives to business for job creation , greater management skill in dealing with public employees , and a reshaping of services to make possible real economies . Finally , the city must guard against once more sacrificing its future . It will probably need state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Setting forth past and present alternatives and making the strategic decisions clear , the Commission has performed a service of great importance . No one in public life can any longer claim he does not understand what went wrong or why .. What the commission should now do is spell out the future as forthrightly as it dealt with the past . How can state law help the city to avoid repeating its troubles ? What national policies are necessary to enable New York ( and other cities ) to identify the real needs of citizens and to respond to them without bankruptcy ? A truly final report might devote itself to explaining the possibilities in detail .                     