@@731764

txt Three years after the break-up of Pakistan , the nation has unexpectedly emerged as the most economically buoyant on the Asian subcontinent . A substantial flow of oil money from the Middle East , lucrative export earnings , steppedup agricultural development and , most crucially , an absence of the widespread hunger that has affected India and Bangladesh have stirred tentative optimism here among Pakistani and international economists . Like neighboring India as well as Bangladesh , Pakistan remains impoverished . Less than 20 per cent of the populace is literate . The per capita income ranges between $80 and $110 , Inflation in the last two years nas reached 50 per , cent . Primitive health care , a population increasing at 3 per cent a year  --  the nation is gaining 5 , - 500 people a day  --  archaic education and ' a feudal , traditionbound society have left Pakistan vulnerable and miserable . Yet Pakistan has proved economically resilient after the 1971 war that saw the nation 's eastern wing break away to create a new nation , Bangladesh . Despite this economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was imperiled by new regional demands for autonomy  --  the nation has managed to pick up the pieces and move forward . Foreign economists here ? Europeans , Americans , those With the World Bank  --  are impressed . " It 's much more hopeful than India or Bangladesh , " said one European economist who has served nearly a decade in the subcontinent . " Given some decent weather and political stability , they 'll be self-sufficient in food in two or three years . They have none of the hang-ups about asking for foreign aid . They have none of the ungodly restrictions that limit investment and production . You do n't have people begging for licenses to expand their cement plants . " The economist continued : " In India , I know a businessman who tried for two years to get a license to import a small steel spring for hand pliers he was producing . These pliers could have earned a hell of a lot of foreign exchange . But he could n't get that license and he just gave up . Now that does n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason for Pakistan 's economic resilience lies in food production . Malnutrition is a problem , but there is a marked absence of widespread hunger in the cities and scant threat of starvation . " We will see to it that nobody dies of starvation , " says Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto . " God forbid if a single person has to face that kind of situation . " Pakistan needs about eight million tons of wheat to feed her population of 70 million . Last year her own production of food reached a record 7.5 million tons , although officials expressed disappointment that it was below the official goal because of floods , damage to two tunnels in the huge new Tarbela irrigation dam and Government policies that did not offer farmers enough money to sell food for urban ration shops . Perhaps the worst drought in 90 years has cut production to 6.5 million tons for the agricultural year that ends in June . But Pakistan has already lined up about 1.3 million tons of food purchases from abroad , and Mr. Bhutto says that the rest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few months . Optimism about Pakistan 's food situation is based largely on the $1.2-billion Tarbela dam , the largest earth and rock-filled dam in the world , which is expected to start Operating in the spring and provide irrigation for cotton , rice and wheat fields that have been chronically short of water . Also , at least three large fertilizer plants are to open in the next three years . Although Pakistani farmers are known to be hard-working , crop yields here axe lower than those of almost any other country , including India . Economists say that a combination of more fertilizer , irrigation and Government incentives could increase yields as much as fivefold . Although Pakistan is almost self-sufficient in food now , she chooses to export rice and import wheat because Pakistanis are essentially wheat eaters . This year , Pakistan hopes to earn about $330-million from rice exports  --  a major foreignexchange earner  --  and that will virtually pay for wheat imports . The Pakistanis pay about half the market price that Indians pay for wheat , This is because the Government here subsidizes wheat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other items , a political move largely designed to keep the populace calm . The food situation here , then , is radically different from that of India or Bangladesh . Current estimates of India 's food-grain production in the 1974-75 agricultural year hover around 100 million tons , and possibly less . The minimal need for India 's 600 million people is 115 million to 120 million tons . Thus , even with imports of six million to seven million tons , India faces severe shortages . The situation in Bangladesh , where 15,000 to 100,000 people have died of starvation , remains alarming because agriculture is primitive and the Government is economically bankrupt and sorely dependent on international aid . One Western economist here said that the most significant development in Pakistan last year was the flow of cash and aid commitments , reaching more than $800-million , from oil producers in the Middle East . This included a $580-million loan from Iran , as well as assistance from Saudi Arabia , Libya and the United Arab Emirates . The Pakistanis - themselves were surprised when more than $40-million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earthquake in northern Pakistan left 5,000 people dead . Furthermore , Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates , Iran and Abu Dhabi are investing heavily in fertilizer plants , textile mills and sugar and cement factories here . The key reason for the heavy aid and investment is the Islamic religious tie and the fact that hundreds of Pakistani technicians , engineers , accountants , doctors and laborers are going to the Arab nations . The Pakistanis themselves are worried and ambivalent about the drain of talent to nations that are sending aid here . Pakistan 's expected exports this year , totaling $2.1-billion , will be only slightly higher than in 1974 . But economists say that the key export items , cotton and cotton textiles , are expected to climb further after a fall in prices last year . The other major export item , rice , is boomine on world markets .                     