@@731982

txt FORMER POLICE Supt. James B. Conlisk was ordered Wednesday to go to Circuit Court and explain why he disclosed the secret testimony he had given before a grand jury investigating reports of illegal spying by Chicago police . Judge Richard Fitzgerald directed that Conlisk appear next Wednesday to explain his disclosure . In another action , Judge Fitzgerald ordered Patrolman John Valkenburg , formerly assigned to undercover duty , to jail for refusing to testify before the grand jury . The judge then released Valkenburg pending a court appearance Thursday . The policeman had spent 00 minutes in a court lockup before gaining freedom . WHEN THE grand jury investigation into reports of police spying began earlier this year , Judge Fitzgerald took the unusual step of reinforcing a law on grand jury secrecy with a special order forbidding disclosures by the state 's attorney 's office and by lawyers for the city . Fitzgerald said Wednesday he probably will extend the special gag order to witnesses , Including Conlisk . Conlisk 's testimony became public Tuesday after he mailed his notes of grand jury proceedings to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were accompanied by a letter asking help from those officials in collecting information that he could present to the grand jury . : MEANWHILE , the state 's attorney 's office began a study to determine whether Conlisk 's disclosures violated the grand jury secrecy law . Conlisk 's disclosures of his grand jury testimony indicate that he engaged in long verbal duels with grand jurors and with Kenneth Gillis and Nicholas Iavarone , assistant state 's attorneys handling the case . The testimony also indicated that the jurors and prosecutors both had accused Conlisk of being evasive . Once , when asked about burglaries by policemen , Conlisk read a four-page statement that included the burglary law . It ended by saying that Conlisk could not answer the question because a man is presumed innocent until convicted , and that only a judge and jury could say when a burglary is committed . Valkenburg , a former member of the police intelligence unit , faces the possibility of being locked up again Thursday if he again refuses to testify before the jury . Wednesday , Valkenburg declined to testify alter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearing in Judge Fitzgerald 's chambers . It was the first grant of immunity given in the police spy investigation and required Valkenburg to testify under the threat of being sent to jail . was brought back before Judge Fitzgerald after being closeted with the jury for a few minutes . Ile told the court he declined to testify " for the protection of my trite and family and because I think if I testified it would damage the image of the Chicago Police Department . " Judge Fitzgerald then ordered Valkenburg to jail , but released the policeman 90 minutes later when he asked for a hearing for the purpose of having an attorney appointed for him . Valkenburg said his former attorneys did not advise him adequately . Judge Fitzgerald appointed Thomas J. Royce , assistant public defender , to represent him and to appear in court at 11 a.m . Thursday with a decision on whether he will testify . IF VM.KENBURG agrees to testify , the judge could delay his order jailing him until next Wednesday , the next scheduled session of the grand jury in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the duration of the grand jury , or as much as 15 months , if he continues to refuse to testify . In two previous appearances before grand juries , Valkenburg invoked the Fifth Amendment , refusing to testify on grounds of possible self-incrimination.                     