@@734505

txt THE KEY LESSON of the Three Mile Island accident is clear : Nuclear power plants are only as reliable as the people who plan , build , and run them . For decades , confidence in nuclear safety rested on a concept known as " defense in depth . " ' That meant atomic power plants were designed and built with multiple . safety systems and backtlPs . R was a confidence based on the belief that machines would come to the rescue whenever a nuclear power plant got into trouble . That belief tumbled like a house of cards on March 28 , 1979 , when-a reactor malfunctioned at the Three Mile Island trial nuclear power plant marl:Lori-isburgh , Pa . It was the worst commercial nuclear power accident in American history . " Meltdown " and " China syndrome " be . came household words . IT ALSO SET the stage for as intense review of nuclear safety , producing a flurry of recent reports which concluded that human error played a major role in the Pennsylvania accident . Investigators discovered , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But Metropolitan Edison Co. reactor operators kept shutting them off , believing they were doing the right thing . " Had these pumps been left to do their designed task , the accident at Three Mile Island could have been averted , " said one account of the accident . Such friulings are forcing the American nuclear enterprise to take a closer look at one of the most basic phases ofthe nuclear life cycle ? nuclear power plant licensing . In the words of the so-called Kemeny Report by the President 's Commission on the TMI accident : " If the country // Nuclear planis face crisis Continneifiem page Mir Calumn-1 wishes , for larger reasons , to confront the risks , that are inherently associated w i t b nuclear power , fundamental changes are necessary if those risks are to be kept.within tolerable limits . " Because of Three Mile Island , 1979 was the first year since 1968 that no new nuclear power plants were licensed to operate in the United States . NRC Chairman Joseph Hendrie already has told Congress that his agency . will not issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for at least six months , and for perhaps as long as two years . In that time , NRC intends to focus on improving the safety of the ' nation 's 72 operating atomic reactors .. Another 92 reactors are being constructed . NRC TECHNICIANS already have coined a bureaucratic phrase encompassing the new branch of nuclear power plant licensing : " Man-machine interface . " Until the TMI accident , at least 10 years would pass from the time a utility announced its intentions to build a nuclear plant to the time it received an NRC operating license . It could take even longer in the future , providing licensing starts up again . ? Nuclear plant licensing always has been a tortuous process , involving a series of moves and countermoves by utilities , governmental regulators , politicians , the public , lobbyists , interveners , and financiers . The utility : Two years or more of planning go into deciding whether to build a power plant , explains Byron Lee , vice president of Commonwealth Edison Co. , the largest investor-owned utility in the country . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's service area , including projections on the need to replace generating equipment that wears out . A nuclear plant is expected.to last 40 years before it is decommissioned , The regulators : The NRC regulates and licenses all nuclear facilities in the United States . " The major objective of the licensing process is to assure that nuclear power plants that receive a construction permit are safe , " says Domenic Vissallo , acting director of the NRC 's division of project management . A utility must apply to the NRC.for permission to build a nuclear plant . Then it has 9 to 11 months to complete reports and hearings on safety evaluation and environmental impact Public bearings on safety and environmental issues typically ? begin 18- to 20 months after the date of application . Thirty months oconlly pass before the NRC issues a construction permit Depending on how many setbacks the utility encounters , construction could take three or mere years . The Kemeny Report found " serious inadequacies " in the NRC 's - licensing and inspection-enforcement activities . It also accused the NRC of reluctance to order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on new plants . Finding the NRC " heavily equipmestoriented rather than people-oriented , " the commission suggested an overhaul of the agency and its management The commission also warned against putting nuclear power plants near major metropolitan areas , questioning the location of plants such as the Zion nuclear facility 40 miles from Chicago and Milwaukee . It would be-virtually impossible to evacuate heavily populated areas on short notice in an emergency . The politicians : Sen. Charles Percy R. , M. and Illinois Atty . Gen. William Scoth are among those who have urged the NRC at one time or another to withhold operating licenses ' for nuclear facilities . Nuclear power is a hot political topic in Washington . Other rerijor decisionmakers in this arena include Congress , the President , state legislatures , and governors . Since they are subject to political pressures , they respond to constituents , public-opinion polls , lobbyists on both sides of the issue , and countless advisory groups . The public : Public voices on nuclear power are both pro and con , although critics usually attract more attention through anti-nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Advocates say nuclear power is a path toward energy independence , and carries fewer risks than other energy technologies . Mrs. Catherine Quigg of Barrington , a critic , says : " I do n't think any plants should be licensed without a definite plan and commitment for ultimate disposal of radioactive wastes , including spent fuel . " Critics often complain that the licensing procedure does not allow them to voice their objections until late in the game , and then they often lose by default because state and federal regulators say millions of dollars already invested in the project would be lost . The interveners : One of the toughest anti-nuclear , forces , they are.so named because they are officially ' allowed to step in and try to halt nucleao licensing . or permits . ' Questions and . challenges by interveners. are allowed at every- hearing , review , and comment stage at state and federal levels on every license or permit necessary for the construction and operation of nuclear power plants . ? ? Interveners usually are.technical , environmental , and citizen ' groups ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is Myron Cherry , . a . Chicago ? lawyer with 10 years of experience battling nuclear power . The financiers : In the end , financiers play-the ultimate role in the - deciaionmaking process . It costs-Si : . billion or more to build . a nuclear power plant these days , and lending institutions Cast their votes of confidence for ' nuclear The staff director of a key Ilsa Senate committee . with nuclear power responsibilities once =anted : Independent of the government 's actions , the - financial community holds the key . Unless the financial community funds the construction of nuclear reactors , they wo n't happen . "                     