@@733039

txt A most comprehensive Federal examination of New York City 's economy  --  by the General Accounting Office for the Congress  --  has hit officialdom here like a pail of cold water . The immediate effect was shocking , but the long-term effect should be wholesome , even helpful . The report rightly punctures the pretense of city leaders that bad bookkeeping and too much borrowing explain New York 's credit crisis . These are only symptoms of far more serious difficulty : the city 's economy has lost the capacity to earn enough money to support the present population and provide necessary services . While the American economy has expanded almost without interruption since the early 1960 's , New York 's has contracted . The city borrowed to hide its declining economic strength , and then fudged its books to hide the extent of the borrowing . The report tells Congress that even if the bookkeeping were straightened out ( as is happening ) and the obligations of the city were met on schedule , the city government would still find itself short of tax dollars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1960 's , while manufacturing jobs in the rest of the country increased by 7 percent , New York lost 19 percent . Since 1969 , the city has been losing 48,000 manufacturing jobs each year . Its population dropped by 300,000 between 1970 and 1975 . Deep cuts in city employment have reduced many services to a point where they can not be cut further without risking a still more precipitous fall in population . Whenever services decline , some people who can move away do so  --  and that includes employers . Indications are that the jobs are not moving into the suburbs or elsewhere . in New York State . Generally , they are leaving the region altogether . This bodes ill not only for the city but for the state . The report makes clear what few elected officials have dared to say publicly : New York 's advantages M geographical location , in access to transportation and in the fortuitous balance of factories and factory labor  --  all of which made New York a wealthy city of nearly eight million people  --  have been lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Unless its economic course changes miraculously for the better , the city will be unable to collect taxes to maintain services even at their present level , to repair and improve its plant , and to meet the debts and pension obligations undertaken in sunnier days . This conclusion is untouched by the fact that the report seems unduly pessimistic in predicting that the city budget will not be balanced for the fiscal year beginning July 1 . It now appears the budget will in fact be balanced , thanks in part to effective cost stabilization , but largely to a sizable one-shot Federal bounty . The importance of Federal contributions to the city economy can not be exaggerated . The report strongly suggests that Congress must prepare to face the consequences , of a shift in economic power from the urban industrial North , a shift rivaling in significance the movement of 19th-century industry away from waterside locations as steam replaced hydropower . If the Federal Government decides to lighten the burden of this critical movement , it must do so not only for New York but for other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the drag on the economy of doing nothing could be greater . Once it decides to intervene , Washington must pick a strategy . Two broad choices suggest themselves : The Federal Government can try to keep impoverished urban populations where they now live , largely helpless , and pay the cities for their care in far more generous ways ; or it can encourage many to move elsewhere . Either way , it must assume an obligation that is Federal in origin and in responsibility . Any effort to assist migration of the poor would have to be preceded by training and accompanied by economic supports . The object would be to bring people into the economic mainstream in parts of the nation where industry is booming and services are expanding . Weighty human and political problems surround both strategies ; they need to be discussed frankly . The G.A.O . report has opened this discussion . As long as Americans persisted in believing that New York 's difficulties were unique , the result of bad management or a profligate concern for the poor , the balancing of the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that budget balancing for a year or two will not compensate for economic decline .                     