@@730125

txt A gentle spring snow patted Mt . Hood National Forest . We cautiously snaked up Route 26 past the towns of Government Camp and Rhododendron , and then down into Sandy , stopping for gas . The man who had sat silent and straight in the back seat for more than an hour stepped out . A young attendant approached  --  and all at once , the man came alive as veteran political campaigner , with a broad grin , a virile handshake , and a rasping hello . " You 're . . . You 're . . . , " the youngster pointed at him  --  trying desperately to recollect . " I 'm Wayne Morse , " he shot back . " Running for the Senate . Just back from a day in Bend  --  campaigning . Can I count on a couple of votes from you and your friend there ? " " Well , I 'll be . Wayne Morse . We got something from you in the mail . My dad used to say : " One thing about Wayne Morse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He 's for the people . " Early foe of war It had all started again . The " grisly lion , " who was retired to his lair in 1968 by a thin brace of recounted votes , was again stalking the tall timbers of the Cascades . He was searching for a passport back to Capitol Hill where for 24 years he had roared at chief executives , cabinet members , braided military men , and fellow congressmen ? loudly denouncing war and " presidential supremacy , " one of the two senators to vote against the Tonkin Gulf resolution , and plugging for " the little man , " the family farmer , the neighborhood businessman , and the union laborer . As a U.S. senator , Wayne Morse served two terms as a Republican , two terms as a Democrat , and all terms as carping critic of the administration in power . His friends lauded his " independence , " his courage , his constitutional conscience . His foes flayed him as a loner , a scourge of presidents , a constant dissenter , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the former University of Oregon Law School dean . But it was n't until ' 68 that Republican newcomer Bob Packwood barely edged him at the ballot box ? retiring him to his prize Devon cattle in Eugene and the college-speaking circuit . Opponents gird But now ? at the behest of many " old friends " ( but against the advice of others ) ? the " old lion " is scrapping for his party 's bid to beat fellow Vietnam " dove , " Republican Sen. Mark 0 . Hatfield in November . The preliminary heat , as always , is a tough one . Former U.S. Rep. Robert Duncan , a salty Scotsman with broad-based middle-of-the-road business support , flanks the maverick Morse on the " right . " And state Sen. Don Winner ? with the clout of the National Consumers League ( he has served as president ) ? is vying for the ecology and youth vote . Mr. Willner is campaigning hard against " old soldiers " ( Morse and Duncan ) . Mr. Duncan , who has warred in the past against Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But Mr. Morse claims his only foes are " the war and President Nixon . " And it was the Vietnam entanglement and the Republican chief executive which quickened him along a 14-hour campaign junket in central Oregon this day . " Nixon has no right to send in troops without Congress , " he bellowed at Central Oregon College undergraduates eating lunch in their student union . " It 's usurpation of power . . . rule by presidential edict . " ( Not too much reaction from the lunch eaters . ) A word for labor " You know , " the candidate continued slowly , " if I passed out examination papers here and asked 10 basic questions on constitutional government , nobody would pass . " ( Still little response . ) " But do n't take offense . Neither would the Foreign Policy Committee of the United States Senate " ( enthusiastic cheers ) . On to the Elks hall and the convention of the Oregon Building and Construction Trades Council . Here the campaigner recalled his early congressional thrusts for collective bargaining and minimum-wage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and several private meetings with fiscal backers later , we pulled into the service station here in Sandy . As we left , heading on a last leg of a long lay 's journey toward Portland , the " Senator " leaned forward and addressed the Iriver  --  one of his former Washington aides . ' Mike , " he quipped , " that was a good Choice of gas stations . One fellow is a sure rote . And the other guy sure seemed internted . " Wayne Morse ? an old political cammigner perhaps heading for his " Last iurrah " ? was obviously enjoying every ninute of his comeback attempt .                     