@@730471

txt This time it 's the Japanese on center stage in Peking . And Japan is reveling in the prospect . Japanese journalists arrived there on Saturday , and reports are already pouring back about Peking 's clear skies , green poplars , red Tien An Men Gate , and generally festive air . Interviews show that the Chinese man in the street is well aware of this week 's visit by Japanese Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka and takes it as natural that neighboring countries should be friends . For the Japanese this is a heady switch from last February , when the glory was all President Nixon 's , and then-prime minister Eisaku Sato sat glumly in front of his TV set watching the spectacle . It 's also a far cry from a few years back , when ' most Japanesereporters were ousted from China during the cultural revolution and " Japanese militarism " was still a prime Chinese target . Most dramatically , it 's a vast change from the last time Japan was officially in China ? as an invading and then a defeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tanaka 's historic trip to Peking and the expected Sino-Japanese normalization as Japan 's " declaration of independence " from the United States . The Tokyo Shimbun sees the visit as " the beginning of Japan 's new ' independent ' policy . " The mass-circulation Asahl sees Sino-Japanese normalization " as a basis for Japan 's new security and foreign policies . " The Nihon Keizai , Japan 's Wall Street Journal , speculates that " the significance of Prime Minister Tanaka 's Peking trip may well be that it will end Japan 's postwar diplomacy , which has been excessively dependent on the United States . " // *Japan basks in Peking spotlight // There are a few more sober reminders , too , in the general elation . The press is not sure that Taiwan is bluffing in its threat to cut off all relations with Japan , including economic ties , when Japan and Peking open diplomatic relations . This possibility does not worry Japan 's major mass-circulation dailies very much , but some of the more conservative papers are concerned about the future of Taiwan as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken note of Mr. Tanaka 's reminder to Peking , on the eve of his departure for that city , that Japan has a Soviet card to paly , too . A personal letter from Mr. Tanaka to Soviet Communist Party chief Leonid I. Brezhnev last Thursday said that Japan wants to develop close relations with the Soviet Union as well as with China and the United States . A peace treaty with the Soviet Union ( formally ending World War II ) is still pending between Tokyo and Moscow . Altogether , the story from China has so dominated the news that it is  --  eclipsing everything else . Even investigation of the alleged murder of a Japanese by an American soldier in Okinawa ? which would ordinarily lead the papers ? has been relegated to second place .                     