@@729226

txt ? A four-man Politburo delegation led by Premier Piotr Jaroszewicz spent four hours yesterday with Lodz textile workers Thin effort to ' end a strike that began on Thursday . The Premier was reported after midnight to have told the workers that the Polish Communist party and the Government understood their problems but that their wage demands were unrealistic . It was not known several hours after the meeting whether the strikers , estimated to number 10,000 , most of them women , would resume work when they reported for the first shifts . Indication of Settlement The fact that Polish authorities finally acknowledged that a work stoppage had taken place , while reporting some details of the confrontation , indicated that they felt that a settlement had been reached . Work stoppages in the port cities of Gdansk and Szczecin last month were reported by Polish authorities only after Edward Gierek , the new Communist party chief , had convinced dockers to resume work after making a personal appeal . The Lodz strikers have been arriving at Me plants but refusing to work . Rumors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said nothing about them . Initial confirmation came after midnight when the Polish press agency said there had been " interruptions of work in some factories . " A Potential Danger The Lodz dispute represented a potentially dangerous situation for Mr. Gierek , who is aware of continuing worker dis satisfaction two months after . the party shake-up that included the ouster of Wladyslaw , Gomulka as party chief . Mr. Gierek took office Dec. 20 after a week of violence in Baltic ports that began with demonstrations over wage demands similar to those that resumed in the north a month later . The textile workers in Lodz similarly have sought to emphasize dissatisfaction with salaries and working conditions through a strike . Mr. Gierek was able to persuade the shipyard workers on his dramatic trip to the north to resume regular activities . He promised some political and economic changes but said there would be no wage increases for some time . Similar Message Given Mr. Jaroszewicz offered much the same message on his trip to Lodz , the country 's second largest city and a traditional textile center crucial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Jan Szydlak , the Politburo 's new ideologist , or trouble shooter ; Jozef Tejchma , also a Politburo member , and Wladyslaw Kruczek , head of the trades union council . The Premier , answering statements by seven workers , was reported by the Polish press agency to have said that the wage demands " were unrealistic and exceeded the Government 's present possibilities . " Mr. Jaroszewicz was said to have told the workers that increased wages in Lodz would come either from other workers or from money intended for investment . The new investment , he said , was intended to provide employment for 1.9 million new workers by 1975 . He appealed to the textile workers not to let anyone weaken the links between them and the leadership , or upset political and economic life or undermine social discipline . Social discipline has been defined by a party spokesman as the need for people to adhere to party and Government decisions , once the decisions have been determined through open discussion . The Premier said that what Poland needed now was work , peace and order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in what appeared to be a large theater in Lodz . Most of those in the audience appeared to be men , although a woman was shown addressing the audience . Strikes , slowdowns and work1 stoppages are almost unheard of in the Soviet bloc because of the centralized nature of : the economic system and the tight control usually exercised by party and government leaders . Mr. Gierek has sought greater communication within the . party and between its officials and nonparty interests in an ' effort to restore the confidence that he said had been lost under what he termed Mr. Gomulka 's autocratic rule . The Lodz dispute comes a day after the Sejm , the parliament , began legislative work on a national economic plan for 1971 that is suposed to in clude improved social services .                     