@@730215

txt New chasms of disagreement appeared to split the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment today as its leader revealed evidence of a falling out among nations on ways to combat global pollution . The conference will open here formally tomorrow , with delegations from 112 countries now expected to attend . A proposed action plan consisting of more than 100 recommendattons for worldwide environmental control has been submitted to delegations for debate over the next two weeks . Disagreement Told " Some governments feel we 've gone too far ; some feel we have not gone far enough , " said Maurice Strong , secretary general of the first gathering of nations concerned with how the environment is affecting the quality of human life around the world . Strong said specific dis ? agreements will become evident as the conference unfolds . This development comes in the wake of a continuing boycott of the conference by five Communist countries  --  the Soviet Union , Hungary , Czechoslovakia , Poland , and Bulgaria . They are protesting the rejection by the U. N. of a bid by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Kurt Waldheim , U. N. secretary general , arrived at Stockholm airport today . Waldheim said he regretted the position taken by the Eastern European countries but that negotiations to break the impasse were continuing . Hopes for Solution " I still hope at the last minute some way out of this dilemma will be found , " he said . U. N. officials were questioned about the prospects for conference success if the East European bloc nations do not attend . Strong said that the Soviet Union participated in conference preparations and that all the boycotting nations had expressed interest in international cooperation on environmental control . He said the boycott has stemmed from a political situation and has nothing to do with the merits of the conference . Key Issue for U. N. Despite these faltering beginnings , Strong expressed the belief that the conference is a key element in the future of the U. N. " I do believe that the future role of the U. N. in the environment demands the success of this conference , " he said . Strong , said the success for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stockholm declaration , an action plan , and new organizational machinery . These would be announced at the end of the conference . " Representatives from the various governments must decide if they can agree on an action plan , " Strong said . " I ca n't assure that result . "                     