@@733067

txt The Ethiopian military regime 's peremptory marching orders to five U.S. and five other foreign installations in Ethiopia is a net gain in the short run for the Soviet Union . It gives the Russians some extra points in the continuing struggle between the superpowers for control of the southern entrance to the Red Sea . But it is a gain that could turn sour for the Russians if Ethiopia falls apart ? as it may well do . It would be sourer still for the Russians if their patronage of Ethiopia so alienated their hitherto prime client in the Horn of Africa , Somalia , that the Somalis left the Soviet camp . Ethiopians and Somalis are age-old foes . Somalia is in fact already being wooed by such anti-Communist fellow-Muslim states as Sudan and Saudi Arabia in a courtship that has the tacit approval of the U.S. Soviet concern aythis is believed to be the main reason for Soviet President Podgorny 's unscheduled visit to Somalia earlier this month on his way home from a trip to southern Africa . Of the U.S. installations given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff , two are in the strife-ridden province of Eritrea and three in the Ethiopian capital , Addis Ababa . The two in Eritrea are : the consulate-general in Asmara and the communications station at Kagnew ; the three in Addis Ababa : the U.S. Information Service office , the Military Assistance Advisory Group , and the Navy Med-*Please turn to Page 6 From page 1 Soviet Ethiopian gain could be short-lived ical Research Unit . The other foreign installations ordered closed are the consulates or honorary consulates in Asmara of Belgium , Britain , France , Italy , and Sudan . The list is interesting : four NATO countries and Sudan . Sudan is singled out presumably because of Sudanese President Nimeiry 's support for the guerrilla movement in Eritrea trying to break away from Ethiopia and of his key role in encouraging a new alignment at the southern end of the Red Sea that would simultaneously exclude Ethiopia and weaken Soviet influence there . ( Up to 100 Americans are reported involved in the Ethiopian order to get out within four days . The State Department in Washington is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apart from that , the Ethiopian orders are not a damaging blow . U.S. military aid to Ethiopia ? once considerable ? is under review by the Carter administration , and the military assistance group was about to be cut by half . The Kagnew communications station , its work now done by satellites , was scheduled to be closed by September of this year . ) The announcement by the Ethiopian Government of the closing of the U.S. installations was full of the Marxist phrases which have come increactingly from the top man in Ethiopia , Lt. Col. Mengistu Haile Mariam , since he purged his rivals in the ruling military group in February . The announcement , for example , described the U.S. Information Service as " one of the means employed by imperialists to weaken the struggle of the oppressed masses of the world , " and as propagating " ideas which clash with , dilute and undermine scientific socialism ? the guiding principle of the Ethiopian oppressed masses . " The Soviet Union , Cuba , and other Soviet-bloc countries were the first and the loudest to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way to the top . He is reported to be already getting military aid from the Russians . This alarms the Sudanese , and their allies the Eguptians , who speculate about a Soviet or Cuban backed move from Ethiopia against themselves , similar ( as they see it ) to the current move against Zaire from Angola . Consequently , Sudanese President Nimeiry ? in a countermove ? is backing more determinedly than ever the breakaway movement and guerrilla operations in Eritrea . But not only the Sudanese and Egyptians are worried about the growing Soviet influence in Ethiopia . The Somalis are likewise asking what it means for them , ' hitherto the biggest recipients of Soviet aid in the Horn . If the Russians take over full patronage of the government in Addis Ababa , the U.S.S.R. could find itself forced to support the Ethiopian position not only on Eritrea but also on the Territory of Mars and Issas , due to get independence from France in nine weeks ' time and long coveted by Somalia . Similarly the U.S.S.R. might be obliged to support Ethiopia in resisting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Altogether Moscow could find it has bitten off more than it can chew .                     