@@734308

txt President N. Sanjiva Reddy of India asked Charan Singh today to form a new government , upholding the 77-year-old maverick politician 's claim to the support of a majority of Parliament 's 538 members . Mr. Singh , who bolted the Janata Party 10 days ago , leading a rebellion against the leadership of Prime Minister Morarji R. Desai , said today that he would announce his choices for ministerial posts on Saturday . At a news conference this evening , Mr. Singh , who seemed delighted , said the major priorities of his government would be to " eliminate unemployment , fight poverty and narrow differences among various classes . " President Reddy 's choice of Mr. Singh as the Prime Minister-designate came after aides scrutinized lists of backers in Parliament that were submitted yesterday by Mr. Singh and his adversary , Mr. Desai . Mr. Singh 's group affirmed the support of 280 members , including 72 followers of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi . Mr. Desai , who resigned as Prime Minister to avoid a no-confidence vote 11 days ago , claimed 279 backers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members who were named on both lists complained of their inclusion on.Mr . Desai 's roll , telling the President they were pledged to Mr. Singh . President Reddy told Mr. Singh he should be prepared to submit his government to a vote of confidence by the third week of August . Whether Mr. Singh 's fragile - majority will ? lessen or be strengthened by that time is a matter of conjecture . While today 's announcement appeared to fill the governmental vacuum , it did not , sUggest that sustained stability was likely . If there are no further defections , Mr. Singh will command the slimmest margin of . support in Parliament . Furthermore , this majority depends on both the continued backing of Mrs. Gandhi 's stalwarts and of members of Parliament adamant in their opposition to her . While his aides courted her in the scramble of endorsements in Parliament , Mr. Singh insisted that Mrs. Gandhi 's help came to him " unconditionally . " He also repeated several times that he Would continue to oppose " authoritarianism , " a code word here for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her emergency rule when she suspended constitutional protectionS in What she said was the interest of greater discipline and stability . Tonight , Mr. Singh declared that none of the Gandhi faction would serve in his government . The delegation would , he said , - sit with the opposition but offer " unconditional support " for his leadership . Mrs. Gandhi Is Happy From her home here , Mrs. Gandhi offered her congratulations to Mr. Singh . " We were working for this , " she said . " I hope the chaotic conditions treated by the Janata Government will end . " The Janata Party arose from the movement to tOpple Mrs. Gandhi . Last Weekend , in an interview , Mrs. Gandhi ' : said she did not expect any change in the prosecutions now pending against her as a consequence of the pivotal support she was extending . When her questioner asked whether Mr. Singh would not be ruling at her pleasure , she nodded and replied , " Yes , or he wo n't rule at all . " But Mr. Singh is also being sustained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mrs. Gandhi 's organization in a traumatic schism . There are also others among Mr. Singh 's newly assenibled coalition who count themselves Mrs : Gandhi 's enemies and victims . In its composition , the coalition assembled by Mr. Singh is as heterogeneous as was the Janata Party before Mr. Singh and his associates left it to challenge to Mr. Desai . It includes defectors from Mrs. Gandhi , defectors from Mr. Desai , Socialists and Mr. Singh 's own constituency representing the interests and aspirations of small landowners . As for Janata , though it was hit hard by defections , it has gained cohesion . The organization that governed for 28 months after the fall of Mrs. Gandhi remains the single largest formal party with 209 members , more than twice that of the next largest group . " About the only thing that is relatively certain , " said one Western diplomat , " is that political instability is likely to remain for some time . " His assumption , shared by many observers , is that defections will continue , increasing the prospect that mid-term elections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majorities dwindled and shifted , President Reddy would be compelled to order elections that otherwise would take place in 1982 . Mrs. Gandhi Still Dominant At this point any elections are viewed by a wide array of political commentators , as most clearly benefiting Mrs. Gandhi , who despite her fall remains the most recognizable and dominant figure in a political arena that gives great weight to the ** personality . Mr. Desai responded to the news of his setback with characteristic stoicism . He said he was not " disheartened " by the President 's choice . When asked whether Mr. Singh 's government would hold together , he responded , " No one can prophesy . " The 83-year-old Mr. Desai spoke at his home here while a car went by carrying an enthusiastic young man who shouted through a microphone , " Long live Charan Singh ! "                     