@@733344

txt Soviet-American relations now are moving on two clearly defined tracks . One leads to agreement , a Brezhnev-Carter summit , and possibly a greater flow of trade . The other leads to new confrontation . So far , Western analysts here believe , the first track seems to be predominant . Both Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev and President Carter have spoken in public in recent days about progress toward a new agreement to limit strategic arms . And Moscow is alive with speculation that a summit can be held either late next month , in December . or early in the new year . In fact , some informed diplomats see a shift in the Soviet attitude toward a summit . Instead of demanding a new arms agreement in advance , the Kremlin now may be willing to see Mr. Brezhnev meet Mr. Carter on the understanding that a new agreement will quickly follow , it is believed . At the same time , the second track is not to be ignored , analysts believe . It is the current sharpening of exchanges between Moscow and Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wake of the 1975 conference of the same nations in Helsinki . Pravda on Oct. 22 and 23 echoed a rising Soviet unhappiness with statements on human rights by chief U.S. delegate Arthur Goldberg . On Oct. 23 it contained the first oblique hint that more U.S. criticism of Moscow on human rights might jeopardize progress on strategic arms // From  --  a e 1 U S.-Soviet summit ? For now , however , it seems that the Soviets are pressing ahead to try to find a solution to the remaining questions blocking a new arms pact . Some Western diplomats believe this is the overriding Soviet concern , and that the Belgrade tension will not blunt it . Others concede that the Pravda comments show a definite Soviet unhappiness . While Mr. Carter himself has been quieter in recent months on human rights inside the Soviet Union , he is under heavy Jewish pressure to speak out when prominent dissenter Anatoly Shcharansky goes on trial . Date of the trial is not yet known . Mr. Shcharansky has been in jail since March 15 . Some Western analysts speculate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trial of four Czechoslovakian dissidents ( who were jailed for terms up to 31/2 years ) as a trial balloon , to test Western reaction to upcoming trials here of Mr. Shcharansky , Yuri Orlov , and Alexander Ginsberg . Agreement hopes bright Showing that the track leading to agreement still seems strong , Mr. Brezhnev said that a definite change for the better has taken place recently in strategic arms talks with the U.S. In a Kremlin dinner toast to visiting Indian Prime Minister Morarji Desai , Oct. 21 , Mr. Brezhnev added that Moscow wanted to reach an agreement without unnecessary delays . This was quite attainable ? provided that the American approach was realistic and businesslike . The speech omitted any criticism of the U.S. , human rights , or Belgrade exchanges . Mr. Brezhnev did add one apparent new idea : to limit military maneuvers to between 50,000 and 60,000 men , to avoid special wariness . President Carter also spoke of a new arms agreement Oct. 22 in Des Moines , Iowa . He said it Was possible within a few weeks but did not specify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rumors fly here on a summit meeting . Some sources believe Mr. Brezhnev and Mr. Carter could meet late next month when Mr. Carter comes to Poland . One of the more imaginative reports has the two leaders sitting on a boat in a river on the Soviet-Polish border . Eastern European sources say the recent quick visit of Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko to Poland could have been linked to summit plans . Western sources tend to believe Mr. Gromyko was simply briefing the Poles on what Moscow wants Warsaw to convey to the President . Some Western sources refuse to rule out a summit before the end of the year . They say the Kremlin now seems ready to accept further arms progress in Geneva as the only condition . Mr. Gromyko returned from talks with Mr. Carter late last month saying a summit must be well prepared and must lead to positive political results . More conservative view Others feel a summit is more likely early next year after the arms treaty is. concluded . In Belgrade , the Soviet strategy is to urge new talks to ease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Goldberg criticizes Moscow for violating human rights . Initial Soviet press coverage of Belgrade was mild . But when Mr. Goldberg , followed by West Germany , began to raise specific issues , such as the 1968 invasion of Czechoslovakia and the loss of religious freedoms here , Pravda began saying such interference was legally unfounded and diplomatically dangerous . The U.S. position is : if Belgrade can criticize South Africa , why not the U.S.S.R. ?                     