@@734330

txt Attorney General Griffin B. Bell gently but firmly I criticized Jimmy Carter 's performance ( as President today , saying that Mr. Carter had tended to " trivialize " the Presidency by working personally on too many minor problems and by trying " to act like he was n't President . " Mr. Carter has " acted like one of the boys , " Mr. Bell said , adding , " The American people want the President to act like the President . " Mr. Bell also said , " I would have had a lot more discipline if I was President . " However , Mr. Bell made it clear that he was not turning against his old friend and that he believed Mr. Carter had started to revive a sagging Administration by concentrating on important issues . ' Moving in Right Direction ' " The President 's moving in the right direction , " Mr. Bell told reporters at a breakfast meeting two days before he is scheduled to relinquish his job and return to Atlanta to practice law , He suggested that Mr. Carter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could rejuvenate his Presidency by the end of this year . " He 's got 120 days , " Mr. Bell said . " I do n't think he should wait until Christmas week . " Mr. Bell said that President Carter and his top White House staff had made a mistake by not working more closely with the establishment in Washington and elsewhere . " The only way to run anything is to be with the establishment , " he said . " You ca n't run it from the outside . " He said that he thought Mr. Carter realized this now and was moving to expand his staff and to improve communication with Washington veterans . " Just watch him , " the Attorney General said . " The President 's getting with the estab- lishment . " Mr. Bell 's comments about the President came as part of what amounted to an informal valedictory this morning . Consuming a breakfast of roasted quail , which he bad shot , and hominy grits with cheese , he mixed flashes of humor and irreverence with blunt assessments of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be shedding his role as a Cabinet member and relishing his future role as a private lawyer and outside adviser to the President . Mr. Bell , who is leaving Washington voluntarily , is the only departing Cabinet member who was not forced out by President Carter in the recent shake-up in the too ranks of the Administration . Other Observations Along with his comments on the President this morning , Mr. Bell made the following points : fICTovernment enforcement of antitrust laws should not be split between the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission , as it is now , but should be consolidated in one agency or the other . " I 'm constantly having to ask John Shenefield how the F.T.C. got into things , " Mr. Bell said , referring to the head of the Justice Department antitrust division . " I 'm wondering whether bus1 nessmen know what the division is. " 9The Justice Department should try to settle its antitrust suit against the International Business Machines Corporation . The case has been tied up in court for 10 years . " I wish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Bell , who excused himself from the case because the Atlanta law firm he worked for before coming to Washington bad done business with I.B.M . " I would have done my best to settle it . Something 's wrong with the court system when a suit lasts this long . " Ole civil rights and antitrust divisions of the Justice Department are inclined to be " elitist , " according to Mr. Bell . He said that the antitrust division , for instance , focuses " so narrowly " on the issue of maintaining competition that it forgets other considerations . " You have to temper the law , " he said . He praised the work of the civil rights division chief , Drew S. Days 3d , but noted that the division had a tradition of liberal officials " who make themselves feel great by helping blacks but do n't let them run " the division . Mr. Days is black . eIThe Justice Department 's office of management and finance needs to be improved , said Mr. Bell . " Their inspection and auditing capacity leaves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he had made an error in not bringing a toplevel businessman into the department to provide management expertise . Despite these criticisms , Mr. Bell said that he was satisfied with the condition of the Justice Department he will turn over to his successor , Benjamin Civiletti . Mr. Bell said that his main accomplishments were to give the department greater independence and professionalism , to " revitalize " the Federal Bureau of Investigation , and to improve the quality of counterintelligence operations , both at the F.B.I . and the Central Intelligence Agency . In the final weeks of his tenure , Mr. Bell has been widely praised here for his stewardship of the Justice Department . Senators who opposed his nomination three department . Asked today why he had apparently succeeded in winning over his critics while President Carter had not , Mr. Bell said , " The President personally undertook to solve too many problems . " He suggested it would have been better for Mr. Carter to concentrate his efforts on one or two problems and leave the rest to his Cabinet . " I 've @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to call on a bill I would n't even have told him was pending , " said Mr. Bell . // The New York rimes Griffin B. Bell He faulted Mr. Carter for not doing enough to build up the Presidency . " The President ca n't spend his time on minutiae , " Mr. Bell said . " He 's got to deal with the big things like inflation and ener-Y- " He said it might have been a mistake for Mr. Carter to reduce the pomp and trappings of power , but he added that improvements were being made at the White House . " They 're doing better , " Mr. Bell joked . " They 're wearing coats and ties . " Personally , Mr. Bell said , he is proud to be a member of the establishment . " It took me 25 years to get in , and no one 's gon na get me out , " he said .                     