@@733017

txt For a nation founded on every man 's inalienable rights , America has been a long time turning universal suffrage into a reality . The abolition of property qualifications for voting was a feature of the Jacksonian Revolution . The Civil War was fought and the Fifteenth Amendment adopted to extend the franchise to blacks , but it took another century before that promise was fully redeemed . Meanwhile , the suffragettes had to wage a half-century crusade to get the vote for women , and yet another Constitutional amendment was needed to extend the suffrage to persons aged 18 to 21 . Now the Carter Administration has come forward with a four-part package of reforms to . make voting still easier . The plan envisages abolition of the Electoral College and election of the President and Vice President by direct popular vote ; public financing of House and Senate elections ; easing the Hatch Act to enable most career Federal employees to take part in political campaigns ; and simplifying voter registration . The rationale , if not all the details of these proposals , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and political malaise , it is clearly desirable to encourage the wider involvement of ordinary citizens in the affairs of government and to make such participation as easy as possible . Voter registration procedures that require citizens to enroll weeks or months in advance of polling day are hangovers from an era when local political machines and widespread illiteracy made ballot-box frauds a common occurrence . Similarly , the restrictions of the Hatch Act reflected a fear in the 1930 's that the career civil service might fail to protect employees in the newer agencies of the Federal Government against improper political pressures . But nearly 40 years of experience with big government indicates that such fear is unfounded . Rank-and-file Federal employees can engage in the same political activity as other citizens without politicizing the Federal service or exposing themselves to partisan retribution . Public financing of Congressional campaigns is the most important of these reforms . If adopted , it would lower the barriers of money that often seem to wall off citizens from their elected representatives . Powerful interests that can readily contribute $5,000 or $10,000 to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a claim on him . By contrast , the proposed abolition of the Electoral College , despite its superficial appeal , is the proposal with the least intrinsic merit . It would guard against a danger that almost never arises  --  the electoral victory of a popular-vote loser . But it would create other , perhaps worse dangers , including a threat to the stability of the two-party system . The present arrangement discourages votes for a third-party candidate ( George Wallace ? ) because citizens realize that such votes are likely to amount to nothing in the Electoral College . Would not the proposed system encourage capricious protest votes ? especially when voters know there may be a runoff vote later on ? Would not dissidents in either party ( Ronald Reagan ? ) be encouraged to go it alone , instead of uniting behind the party 's nominee ? Remove the need for an Electoral College majority and national politics would then be played according to a new set of rules and with unforeseeable consequences . Until yesterday 's message . President Carter had indicated that he favored eliminating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still seems to us the wiser and safer reform .                     