@@733953

txt Letters LEONARD BRUCKMANEDWARD FREEMANDAVID GOLDMANAGNES LIN BURGER(Ambassador)GERARD Letters Westway Issue : Connecticut 's Stake To the Editor . As downwind neighbors of New York , who breathe the city 's smogsaturated air , Connecticut residents take a keen interest in our neighbor 's transportation-related air pollution problems . For that reason , many of us in Connecticut noted with great interest the Dec. 14 article " Delays on Westway Assailed by Adams in Call ' for Action " by Stephen R. Weisman . For residents of Connecticut , a project the size of Westway is especially important for two reasons : the increases in automotive air pollution it will likely cause and the huge opportunity cost , measured in a billion taxpayer dollars , of not investing in lesspolluting , more energy-efficient forms of transportation . Since 1974 , my agency has consistently maintained that Connecticut can To the Editor : The attitude of Dr. James H. Sammons , executive vice president of the American Medical Association , in his letter regarding advertising by physicians ( Dec. 29 ) clearly indicates that something is wrong with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular . Dr. Sammons discusses " unscrupulous practioners who perform dangerous operations with marginal skills . " Why were such people permitted to practice medicine in the first place ? And if the A.M.A. is aware of such quacks , why has it not moved to strip them of their right to practice ? When it became obvious that automobile manufacturers were turning out cars with built-in , dangerous defects and did nothing about them , the Government stepped in on behalf of the driving public to force correction . There are far more people treated by physicians than drive automobiles . It is time for the Government to step in with an active recertification program for physicians and to establish an agency with authority to accept patients ' complaints or complaints by medical professionals such as nurses The Most Violent People on Earth ' To the Editor : The number of people who killed President Kennedy is irrelevant . The conditions that led up to the assassination in Dallas had been hatching long before the President took his leisurely drive downtown . Only months before , Adlai Stevenson was surrounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the city had been flooded with hate pamphlets and posters , many advocating assassination . And even before all the above , Dallas had already become one of the largest privately owned gun arsenals of the world . This is not to suggest the investigations are not necessary . Future generations have a right to know not only who killed the President but what the killer or killers hoped to gain . This last point may be crucial , for even if it is proven that a well-organized and highly disciplined group assassinated the President , will their motives prove to be essentially different from those that impelled Squeaky Fromme 13 years later ? We must not let the investigations obscure a disturbing truth about ourselves : We have evolved into the most brutally violent people on the face of the earth . One murder , whether the victim be the President of the United States or a passenger on a city subway , is but another manifestation of our inability to deal with frustration without resorting to violence . Until we launch a full-scale investigation into this phenomenon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself . DAVID GOLDMAN New York , Jan. 3 , 1979 meet the air quality goals mandated by Congress only if the New York Regional Office of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency stands firm on air quality issues in the metropolitan area . Therefore , we are greatly encouraged that , in the face of tremendous political pressure , Regional Administrator Eckardt C. Beck is fulfilling his responsibilities under the Clean Air Act and other laws . Mr. Beck is honestly doing his job as required by law ? a refreshing , even if not popular , performance by a government official . Ironically , a similar situation involving Westway arose in 1975 when Joseph N. Gill , former Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection , found the transportation plan containing Westway to be inconsistent with environ Leavenworth Jackson and yank the licenses of incompetent doctors . By purging the medical community of the unfit , the ailing public would have two benefits : Lives would not be taken needlessly , and with the subsequent reduction in malpractice suits , perhaps fees would be reduced . EDWARD FREEMAN Norwalk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Editor : A letter by Deborah S. Davison , published Jan. 1 , was devoted to expounding upon " undemocratic " election practices in-Taiwan . One wonders how she views the People 's Republic of China , as she conveniently fails to observe that the People 's Republic of China has only the Communist Party and holds no general elections for political offices . Her criticism of Taiwan would appear to spring from her love of democracy , yet she embraces wholeheartedly the recognition of a totalitarian state . To quote an old Chinese proverb : " A horse 's mouth does not fit on a cow 's head ! " AGNES LIN BURGER New York , Jan. 1 , 1979 To the Editor : The Keogh and I.R.A . self-pension plans , introduced a few years ago , have been called " the finest tax shelters in existence . " These plans allow any self-employed worker and almost any employee whose employer does not have a pension plan to put aside tax-deferred dollars until he or she retires and is in a lower tax bracket . There is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their employers have no pension plan , are arbitrarily ? and in my opinion unconstitutionally ? denied the privilege of putting aside tax-deferred dollars until they retire . This group , representing perhaps one in 5,000 or even less of all taxpayers , is " employees over 701/2 years of age . " There is no mental planning . His decision , also very unpopular , was based almost entirely on the apparent harm to air quality in the region which Westway and projects like it would cause . He ultimately relented in his opposition to the plan because otherwise no transportation projects in the tristate region would have been funded . At the time , Commissioner Gill was assured that Westway would stand or fall on its own merits and that the serious air pollution issues raised would be addressed before the roadway was built . Now it appears that Mr. Beck is the only official who is attempting to address these issues , and he is being roundly criticized for doing so . The proponents of Westway are still trying to convince us that construction of a major highway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and increased dependence on the automobile in a region already choking on the fumes of too many cars . In this era of region-wide automotive air pollution problems and shrinking gasoline supplies , it seems truly incredible that the Federal Government and the State and City of New York would commit themselves to a massive project which can only deepen the region 's commitment to travel by the automobile and exacerbate its already severe air pollution problem . Clearly , the condition of the present road is a serious concern for all New Yorkers , but this problem should not obscure the fact that during Westway 's projected usable life the people of the region may not have enough fuel and breathable air to be able to enjoy the billion-dollar investment . LEONARD BRUCKMAN Director , Air Compliance Unit Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Hartford , Dec. 28 , 1978 SALT 's Positive Result To the Editor : The headline to Richard Burt 's piece in the Dec. 24 Times Week In Review reads " Treaties that Slow the Arms Race Usually Speed It Up . " The article refers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but no such treaty was ever reached . Instead , a short-term freeze was covered by an executive agreement , not a treaty . Since its limits affected only Soviet programs ? and not American ? it should come as no surprise that it has not been a major accomplishment . The SALT treaty of 1972 covered defensive systems . It is still in effect . It has worked so far . A costly , aimless competition in ABM 's has been avoided . It is a curious phenomenon that most journalists have come to overlook entirely this SALT treaty , which works to our interest . Any analysis of SALT surely should refer to its main product and only treaty ? the ABM treaty . If this article had done so , its conclusion might have been somewhat less negative . ( Ambassador ) GERARD SMITH Washington , Dec. 26 , 1978 The writer headed the U.S. delegation to the Helsinki SALT talks . age limit for the self-employed . To this little group of employees , the Government says , in effect : " Because you are old i.e. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whatsoever , you are not allowed to participate in a tax-deferred plan , and as a result you must pay a substantial extra tax that a very slightly younger person in your exact situation would not have to pay . " In my own case this year , I have to pay about $600 in extra tax simply because I am five weeks too old . It adds salt to the wound to note that there is no similar age limit for selfemployed persons who put aside taxdeferred dollars for their retirement . The age limit is applied only to employees . S. VERITY Chatham , N.J. , Jan. 3 , 1979 To Purge the Medical Community of the Unfit Of Pension Plans and Age Discrimination New York City 's Cop-Out ' on Mental Health Aid To the Editor : We know the Mayor has a good head . But does he have a heart ? Adding and subtracting to cope with our fiscal stress is a priority he is deeply and sincerely concerned with . But where is the Mayor who is concerned with the welfare and health of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dump " the mental health aid package of $36 million city tax levy dollars upon the state is motivated by two aspirations : ( 1 ) to save money in the city budget , a worthy purpose and ( 2 ) to " make New York City normal " like other cities , which do not carry mental health responsibilities for their citizens . To begin with , New York City is not a normal city ? as our Mayor has proudly pointed out . It is different ? it is great . It is the art and dance center of the world ; it is a culture mecca ; it is the financial capital of the world ; it is densely populated , ethnically mixed ; a haven for the poor and the seekers of opportunity for growth , and so on . Mayor Koch flaunts that , and properly so . But these assets carry intense liabilities . Life in New York City , more than in any other city , is competitive and difficult . Its density stimulates tension and anxiety . The quality of life is strained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emotional strength and their ability to cope . The sheer acts of straining to get to work in packed subways , shopping in markets filled with goods beyond their economic reach , attending education facilities tense with aggression and over . crowded classes take their toll in our collective diminished mental health . The city owes its citizens that $36 million to keep them afloat , to combat adolescent and aged suicides , . eto help families maintain themselves and their children , to offer them professional help with the recurrent breakdowns our city life generates in its intense struggle for survival . Moreover , that $36 million generates over $250 million from the state and Federal governments to support mental health services in our community clinics , in the Health and Hospitals Corporation , in hospitals in general and through our local Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation Services . The Mayor 's dilemma is real . But so are the problems and sicknesses of his population . And we are not like any other city . Private philanthropy contributes magnanimously and more than in most cities to help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is neither economically nor psychologically sound and contains an insensitivity to the sick , emotionally unstable , whose wounds arc less visible but just as hurtful and damaging as those of broken victims of a crippling physical illness . JEROME . M. GOLDSMITH Exec . Vice President , Jewish Board of Family and Children 's Services New York , Jan. 2 , 1979                     