@@733392

txt More than 2,000 Rumanian troops have been patrolling the remote Jiu Valley , where mass demonstrations and starikes by tens of thousands of mine workers broke out three months ago and where economic and political tensions continue . The strikes and demonstrations  --  word of which only recently began to reach the outside world  --  represent the most sweeping workers ' protests in postwar Communist Rumania . Twice in the last three months , most recently two weeks ago , President Nicola Ceausescu traveled to the coal-mining towns of Petrosani , Vulcan and Lupeni to urge calm and to talk with the workers . At the start of their protest the workers had seized at least one senior Government official as a hostage , blocked mine entrances and paraded through the streets shouting denunciations of a regime that prides itself on its tough police controls . Spread of Protests Feared Rumanian officials have privately expressed concern that the demonstrations could spread through contacts among workers across the country . In September , protests reportedly erupted in textile mills at Brasov and in a huge machinery plant in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers , presented in a 17-point petition to President Ceausescu on Aug , 3 , reflected the deficiencies of the economic and political system here  --  lack of adequate food and consumer goods , cramped and Rumania Shaken by Mass Protest of Mine Workers // shoddy housing , inadequate pension provisions and severe penalties for failure to fulfill production requirements . " Nothing is changed , nothing has been resolved , " said one of several miners who agreed to talk of the demonstrations but who pleaded repeatedly , " You must say we talked only about sports , camping , skiing perhaps , or we will all be taken away in chains . " Therefore the miners ' names are not being used . " Things are quiet now because people are . afraid , " the miner continued . " It is difficult to organize because now there are spies everywhere . But we are waiting , and ' next year ... " He left the sentence unfinished but clenched his fist . According to these miners and to other reports reaching Bucharest and Belgrade , Yugoslavia , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community of 30,000 people that is nearly indistinguishable from coal-mining towns elsewhere . The single main street is lined ' with one-story brick shacks opening on. ? tiny coal-black dirt squares where sootyfaced children play . The shacks , dating back to before World War II , are relieved only occasionally . by towers of newer apartments , many of them thrown up hastily ? after workers ' demands five and 10 years ago . Now they too are cracked and blackening . Demonstrators Well Organized On Aug. 1 the workers began to assemble in front of the main mine entrance , spilling over quickly into the town square . They were well organized . Although only about 580 miners regularly go into the pit at Lupeni and 5,000 work above ground , by the end of the strike 's first day , more than 35,000 workers from dozens of surrounding mines and towns had poured into the village , spilling across the ? town square , down the side streets and up toward the hills . A photograph said to have been taken at great risk by one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blockading the mine entrance , climbing utility poles and packed into the narrow streets . By the second day , word of the disturbances had reached Bucharest , and President-Ceausescu sent to Lupeni three senior officials  --  Deputy Prime Minister Ilie Verdet , Labor Minister Gheorghe Pana and ' Minister of Mines Constantin Babalau . At least one minister  --  the miners said Mr. Babalau , other accounts said Mr. Pa na  --  was taken hostage by the miners , who demanded the presence of President Ceausescu himself . While they waited , the miners berated the minister . They showed the:officials some of the substandard food they received regularly . " We threw it in theft- faces , " a miner said today , " and we told them , ' Here , you eat it . ' " Mr. Ceausescu cut short a vacation at a Black Sea resort and on Aug. 3 flew to Petrosani , a larger town nearby , then drove to Lupeni , where the crowd was still gathered . The President made a number of promses  --  revisions of the retirement system , better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , particularly clothing , and new housing . The miners agreed to return to work . " For two weeks , things did improve , " one . miner said . " There was more and better food , clothing . A new pension law was published quickly even though it was never formally approved . But within two weeks , that was all over . Then the troops came . " By Sept. 1 , at least 2,000 Rumanian soldiers had moved into the Jiu Valley area . Some were supposed to go into the mines to work , but a miner said the soldiers refused , saying , " It 's not our job , we 're to defend the country . " The miners said that large numbers of plainclothes security police had moved into the mines as workers , preventing a resumption of the workers ' organization . that planned the strike and demonstration . There were reports that shortly after the arrival of the security police and soldiers thousands of miners were dismissed , many of them removed forcibly from the valley with their families . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there had been any mass dismissals . Some clearly have been removed , however . Miners and outside reports agree that the leader of the Lupeni demonstration who presented the demands to Presi-dent Ceausescu , a miner identified only as Dobrei , a college graduate , was seized by the security police in the middle of the night and taken with his wife and children to the provincial town of Craiova about 200 miles away . Three of the five deputy ministers of mines  --  Dan Radulescu , Ivan Mineu and Gheorghe Pacoste  --  were summarily dismissed . Some diplomats believe there will be other purges as a result of the miners ' actions and the failure by Government agencies to deal with the grievances before they got out of hand . Miners said there had also been financial retaliation against them ; up to 40 percent of their pay for August was withheld for underfulfillment of quotas . And the Government , though it offered wage increases of up to 30 percent to the miners , was continuing to dock them 5 to 25 percent each month for underfulfillment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " We want the miners ' work to be made easier , general working conditions to be improved and a higher productivity to be insured , " he told thousands who watched as he was named an honorary miner . Miner Expresses Skepticism " It 's all for himself , " a miner sneered today . " None of that 's for us . " " The Government has identified what they believe are the most serious problems and may perhaps move to correct them , " said a Western diplomat who has followed these events closely . " But they have simply not recognized the basic transformation as a result of the sudden , enforced industrialization of what was one generation ago a docile , agrarian population into a real urban proletariat . " Though miners in Rumania have somewhat of a reputation as agitators , they are expressing a feeling that is gaining widespread currency among workers in heavy industry . Already rumblings of discontent have been heard in the " August 23 Heavy Machine Factory " in Bucharest . Many urban workers , shifted during the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mines , have sacrificed heavily . Yet they have little to show for it . Living standards are higher than ever but still lower th-n in much of Eastern Europe . By all indications , the Government is gearing up for at least five more years of the same . President Ceausescu , according to some close to him , will continue to plow the nation 's productivity back into development rather than into clothes and food . The Government has refused all public comment on the events in the Jiu Valley . A photograph reportedly taken by a miner on second day of the strike in Rumania 's Jiu Valley .                     