@@728315

txt The turn of the decade underscores something relatively new in modern history  --  small countries flourishing and moving ahead in wealth and the well-being of their people faster than are the big countries . If present rates of progress continue through the 1970 's , the richest people in the world 10 years from now will not be Americans , but Japanese and West Germans . The British might be up with them , with French and Italians not far behind . The phenomenon of the revival of smaller countries is not limited to the Western world . In all of the communities of nations , smaller countries are moving ahead faster than the giants . Among . Communist countries , living standards are higher in East Germany , Poland , Czechoslovakia , Romania , Hungary , or Yugoslavia than in the Soviet Union itself . The wealthiest on a per capita basis is East Germany . Living standards are nearly as high in Hungary : Poland is probably on the verge of an economic revival . But the Soviet people today live in a country which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Communist China , the biggest , is not the most advanced . It has been far outdistanced by Japan . Living standards are high in small countries , such as Singapore and Taiwan . Among Muslim countries Egypt , one of the biggest , offers its people a less good life than does Lebanon , one of the smallest . But the most striking feature of the power world today is the relative inability of the three biggest countries to solve their problems . China has been through a decade of internal conflict reaching the level at times of actual civil war . The present condition is ? one of near-exhaustion and almost no growth . Russia is vigorous enough in diplomacy , but economically standing still . Pblitically , as so often before in RuSsian history , the government and the people distrust each other . Dissent is stifled by an ever-present secret police . Some , experts . eventhink this is another prerevolutionary phase in the Russian experience-which could lead to another revolution within the neict decade . Precise gauge lacking . The United States is still the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but finds itself at this turn of the decade with unchecked inflation and perhaps on the  --  brink of a serious recession . Having for 30 years devoted its primary energies to foreign wars , its household-is in serious disrepair , and large segments of its population are living in conditions which would be considered intolerable in any of the advanced European countries , East or West . Nearly 30 million Americans are worse off than the poorest of Western or Communist Europe . No one died of starvation in Europe . Some still do in the United States : The world 's richest country ranks a surprisingly high 18th in the infant-mortality rate . There is ? no absolute or precise measurement of standards of living . Quality of public transportation and ' wealth of museums are part of it , , just as much as wage ' levels . The United States still has the highest wage . levels . But public health is far ahead . in all the European countries ? again , East or West . Taking everything into account , the standard of living of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Switzerland , and the Netherlands  --  even - though the individual wage level is lower than in the United States . These countries all have eliminated poverty and . unnecessary misery . There simply are no slums comparable with those which disgrace many of America 's great cities and some of its more backward rural areas . And the difference is not between capitalist and Communist countries . The difference is between the big countries and the lesser ones . Generally speaking , the advanced capitalist countries are more industrially and economically advanced than the Communist coml. tries : But the significant difference is between the biggest and the smaller . Some capitalist countries in Latin America and Africa are among the most backward in the world . Communist East Germany now ranks among the more advanced . Arms burden adds , up Of course one reason for the relative backwardness of the big countries is the armaments burden they carry . The United States , Russia , and China all spend somewhere near half their national budgets on past , present , and future wars . The most advanced small countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most rapidly advancing of the middle-size countries , carry relatively low arms burdens . Both depend for their security largely on the United States . If Russia , China , and the United States could agree among themselves on disarmament and could shed the staggering burdens they carry , it is conceivable that they could regain the economic momentum of the smaller and less burdened countries . The evidence does not yet permit the conclusion that in this phase of history smallness is an advantage and bigness a disadvantage . The comparison at the present moment can be misleading . And of course there is no prospect that the three giants will agree on mutual disarmament . ' All three undoubtedly will carry enormous military establishments for a long time ahead . This will continue to give smaller and less burdened countries a competitive advantage . But there is a very real question whether bignets will be the advantage in the century ahead which it was over the century behind . It is entirely ' conceivable that 10 years from now people will literally be moving ( when free to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones , in search of a better life . The day of the political mastodons may be nearly over .                     