@@732495

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 25 Letters to the Editor Voting : Our Overestimated Independents A $5,000 M.T.A. ' Frill ' To the Editor : After reading your recent news story about a Metropolitan Transportation Authority program to install Bicentennial logos on new subway cars as well as on cars of the Long Island Rail Road , the Staten Island Rapid Transit To the Editor : There has been a good deal of talk about declining political party loyalty and the mushrooming of political independents , by James Reston column April 25 as well as others . There is no question that this is true . Ticketsplitting alone substantiates the thesis . For example , in 1964 in Rhode Island , while Democrat Lyndon Johnson was beating Barry Goldwater approximately 2 to 1 for the Presidency and Democrat John Pastore was beating his Republican opponent about 2 to 1 for U.S. Senator , Republican John Chafee beat his Democratic opponent for Governor by nearly 2 to 1 ? considerable independence . It is also true that Republican Party membership has declined over the last twenty years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independents outnumber Republicans . Mr. Reston has extended the myth still further . He said , " . . . the independent voters now outnumber even the registered Democrats . . . . " This is not true . Our most recent national opinion survey of voting-age adults shows that 47 percent of adult Americans consider themselves Democrats ; 23 percentage consider themselves independents ; 21 percent consider themselves Republicans ; with the balance either refusing to respond or considering themselves members of some other party . This would seem to suggest that independents outnumber Republicans , though not Democrats . However , there Thoughts on Palestine To the Editor : The April 24 Op-Ed piece by Hatem Hussaini , " Yearning for Palestine , " cries for response . Given the sincerity of his feelings , his capacity for self-deception ( or hypocrisy ) is incredible . While he explains to his little daughter , " We Palestinians are good ; we want peace , brotherhood , happiness , ' his brethren commit insane fratricide in Lebanon . While he asks , " Why ca n't I return and live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avowed policy of the Palestinians and the Arab nations remains the total elimination of Israel . He asks why we Americans make a hero of Solzhenitsyn , are concerned about human rights in Chile and yet do n't , in effect , take him seriously . Let him ask his own Arab governments  --  totalitarian , factional , irrational . The tragedy is that in rejecting the real solutions possible with peace and acceptance of Israel , his own people have made him the victim of their vengeful and ultimately self-destructive course . BERNARD MORCHELES West Orange , N. J. , April 28 , 1976 ? To the Editor : Malcolm Monroe 's statement ( letter April 19 ) in which he expresses seeming unhappiness about the Israelis getting closer to the nuclear brink is reminiscent of former Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir 's refusal to " forgive " the Palestinians for " forcing " Israeli men to kill . Well , there is a way to wash off such crocodile tears over Israeli killing ? and Israeli nuclear readiness . Let all To the Editor : In response to your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as the attorney who represented the natural mother , to respond now that the case has been resolved . The allegations that these four children were removed from their mother for reasons of neglect and abuse are completely false . The four children were never removed from their mother . No charge of neglect or abuse was ever brought against her . The children were placed in voluntary , temporary foster care by their mother as a result of illness . You decry the court 's alleged restrictions on the love a foster parent should give a foster child . In this case , the " love " of the foster parents drove them to attempt to destroy the natural bond of affection that in fact existed between parent and her children . The record clearly establishes that the foster parents exerted a negative controlling influence over the children and at every opportunity condemned the natural mother . Evidently , the purported love of the foster parents did not extend to a willingness to adopt these children . The foster parents never in any court proceedings stated any desire or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children . The foster parents fought and delayed the disposition of this matter , not because are two things wrong with such a conclusion . One is that the foregoing figures are based on all adults , including those who are not registered to vote . Secondly , the figures are based on what people " consider themselves , " not how they are recorded on vote rolls . The same survey shows that only 70 percent are registered . Moreover , most of them are registered with one of the two major parties . When the two factors of whether registered and how registered are taken into account , the lineup is as follows : Registered Democrats , 36 percent ; not registered at all , 30 percent ; registered Republicans , 17 percent ; registered independents , 13 percent ; registered with other or unidentified party , 4 percent . If there is error in the above figures , it is undoubtedly in the direction of overstating the percentage of registered voters , for this is the kind of thing that some survey respondents will exaggerate . But if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only effect would be to increase the non-voting independents . Only if the non-registered , ' who in fact have no vote at all , are lumpea with registered independents can one make the statement that independents now outnumber registered Democrats  --  or even the statement that independents outnumber registered Republicans . BURNS W. ROPER Pres. , The Roper Organization Inc . New York , April 30 , 1976 those who are truly concerned work hand in hand to persuade the Israelis to give up the privileges they have acquired at the expense of the rights of the Palestinian people ; let the Palestinians return to their homes and property : and then let Palestinians and Israelis live as equal citizens in Palestine . With the absence of obstructive privileges and the restoration of natural rights , Israeli men will no longer kill , Israeli nuclear arsenal will be laid to rest , and the nuclear nonproliferation treaty will finally be signed . This alternative  --  integrating the two peoples ? is no dream . It is a living and productive reality in many societies , including ours . Its rejection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in catastrophe for Palestinians and Israelis ? and perhaps far beyond . HANNAH SELWYN Kokomo , Ind. , April 24 , 1976 ? Misdirected Intelligence To the Editor : The revelations in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities give rise to another speculation : Would our deplorable track record in curbing the drug traffic in this country have been better , if such a high priority had not been given , and so many man-hours devoted , to concentrating instead on hounding the legitimate activities of the N.A.A.C.P. , the Socialist Workers Party , the John Birch Society , and women 's liberation movements ? Wherein lies the greater threat to our American society ? HELEN M. FRANC New York , May 1 , 1976 they desired to provide a permanent home for these children , but because they wished to continue these children in temporary foster care , all this while they were receiving approximately $10,000 per year for their care . Your editorial decries the court 's alleged view of foster care as a " shortterm storage tank . " In fact , foster parents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The overwhelming majority of foster parents accept the responsibility of both deeply loving and caring for children entrusted to them while at the same time encouraging both parent and child toward a re-uniting of the family . Unfortunately , in this case , the foster parents became the single force acting to destroy this family ? directly in violation of their trust and responsibility . You are totally incorrect in stating that the court ordered the foster parents " never to see the youngsters again . " No such order or direction was ever made . One could easily , however , understand the reluctance of the natural mother to permit visitation by foster parents who have subjected her to implacable hatred and hostility . Your editorial attempts to lump together the problems of foster care with the problems of neglect and abuse . This case has absolutely nothing to do with neglect and abuse . SETH P. STEIN Mineola , L. I. , April 30 , 1976 Line and the Westchester commuter lines , I telephoned the M.T.A. to find out how much the program was going to cost . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plan is $5,000 . Not a grand sum , even if the actual cost will be double'or treble that figure , as is likely . But must $5,000 be spent on a oneyear frill when service is deteriorating , subway maps are a jumble and the cars themselves are filthy and graffitiemblazened ? Of course , $5,000 would not wipe out these problems , but in a year of such dire financial problems for the city and the state must even $5,000 be wasted ? A Bicentennial commemoration marked by clean trains that arrive with some regularity would be much more welcome . EVAN COOPER Brooklyn , April 29 , 1976 ? Crossover Voters To the Editor : Is it not possible that some of the " crossover " Democrats voting for Reagart in the primaries are supporting the Republican they think will be easier to defeat in November ? JOHN TANTON New York , May 5 , 1976 ? To Guard Our Forests To the Editor : The April 13 editorial entitled " Retreat on the Forest ? " presents a biased view of the relative merits of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the national forests . The Randolph-Brown bill would perpetuate cutting restrictions enacted in 1897 . At that time there were but three professional foresters in the whole United States , no schools of forestry , no forest research , no Forest Service , no periodic forest surveys to monitor nationwide timber growth and harvest , and but rudimentary knowledge of plant and animal ecology . Today with 20,000 professional foresters and with the most comprehensive forest research program of any nation we should not approach forest management on a prescriptive basis . Today we know that nationwide , timber growth exceeds timber harvest by ' some 32 percent ; that the trend in national timber growth is strongly upward for all categories of ownerships . Timber demand by the year 2000 is projected to increase by 80 percent over current levels . Following cutting prescriptions of the Randolph-Brown bill would virtually eliminate the superb white pine from eastern woodlands ; its seedlings are unable to compete successfully with hardwoods . It would also lead to depletion of low-growing browse and forage for surface feeding wildlife . Diversity and abundance of birdlife @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forest and wildlife society executives to record their strong opposition to the Randolph-Brown bill . In contrast to the prescriptive provisions of the above bill , the HumphreyJohnson bill sets forth principles that the Secretary of Agriculture must follow in administering the timber-cutting practices on the national forests , but leaves details to be established for the several regions and forests subject to Congressional and citizen HARDY L. SHIRLEY review . Syracuse , April 29 , 1 976 The writer is dean emeritus . State University of New York College of Environmental Science and Forestry . ? The Needless Arsenals To the Editor : Why do n't we admit the obvious ? Both Russia and China can have the highest standard of living the world has ever seen  --  once they permit their citizens to produce and distribute goods and services on a private enterprise basis . Their only restraints now are bureaucratic . These two major countries have access to almost unlimited raw materials , They obtain the benefits of Western technology for fifty cents per U.S. patent and have available all the inventions developed over the last 300 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens have proven as fully capable of intelligent and constructive thinking as those of any other nation . Would n't it be better to base our relations on trade and respect for each other 's abilities than to argue that " my guns are better than your guns ? " Until there is a recognition in these two great segments of this world , of the need to restrain the political purveyors of war and conflict , we in the West will have to preserve our military defenses at full strength ; however , it seems to me that the world is now too small for organized conflict to do anyone any good except for the political bureaucrats . WADSWORTH W. MOUNT Warren , N. J. , May 1 , 1976 Of Foster Care and Natural Parents                     