@@733313

txt The logjam of noncommunication separating the races in South Africa has been cracked and a tentative dialogue is beginning . In the first real sign of hope for many a day , two iMportant men are to meet here Oct. 6 . One man , Gerrit Viljoen , is an Afrikaner of the first order as he is head of the influential secret organization of the ruling Afrikaners called the Broederbond ? in addition to being rector of Rand Afrikaans University here . The other man is Ntatho Motlana , who told this reporter of the coming meeting . Dr. Motlana , a physician , is head of the Committee of Ten in the black township of Soweto where hundreds of people died last year during protests against the government 's system of apartheid or racial segregation . These two men are representative of the two great nationalisms-of South Africa . The Afrikaner nationalists have now held power for 28 years . But with the Soweto protests which began June 16 , 1976 , the other // From page 1 Racial dialogue opening a bit in South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million blacks , spearheaded by urban blacks , began gathering momentum . Since tnat date the races , already kept apart by the country 's laws , have polarized dramatically in the urban areas of the country . Another sign thatthe Afrikaners have recognized the need for change is the announcement that M.C. Botha , Afrikaner head of the Bantu ( black ) Administration and Education Department , will not be running for a parliamentary seat in the general elections next month . Earlier this year blacks in Soweto formed the Committee of Ten as a vehicle for talking to the government , but the government has refused to talk to the committee , insisting rather that blacks must work through government set up bodies which the blacks have rejected . Meanwhile , the protest of Soweto 's school students against an inferior system of black education has deepened with the resignation of more than half of the township 's high-school teachers . Soweto , with an estimated population of upward of 1.5 million , is moving toward anarchy . The move by Dr. Viljoen to talk to Dr. Motlana , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ split within the Afrikaner community , a rift that has intensified especially during the last four or five months . Dr. Motlana said H.J. Groskoff , a prominent editor on the Afrikaner paper Beeld , had confirmed to him this split among Afrikaners . It is not likely that Afrikanerdom itself will ever effectively come apart , given the atmosphere of fear binding Afrikaners together , but it now is clear that some see the danger to their country and are moving to try to bridge the enormous communications gap between white and black . One remarkable sign of the times is a conference of Dutch Reformed Church ministers ( the Afrikaner national church ) to be held Oct. 14-15 in Potchefstroom to discuss " Calvanism and majority rule . " According to Dutch Reformed minister Joop Lensink , who belongs to the biggest of the three Dutch Reformed Church branches , this meeting , led by the smallest of the branches , will analyze majority rule , according to the Scriptures . The Rev. Mr. Lensink says the Potchefstroom-based church has made the government uneasy because the smallest church argues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Bible . Many of the government 's Cabinet ministers , like Mr. Len-sink , belong to the biggest Dutch Reformed Church . Mr. Lensink said that a headmaster of an Afrikaans primary school in Johannesburg told him that children are saying things which show they are starting to feel guilty about whites ' privileges and blacks ' deprivations . " And that includes children of Afrikaner nationalist politicians , " Mr. Lensink added .                     