@@734477

txt The United States has told its embassies in about 10 Moslem countries to evacuate " voluntarily " dependents , nonessential diplomats and private businessmen to minimize risks in the aftermath of events in Iran , Pakistan and Saudi Arabia , the State Department said today . The disclosure came in the wake of the takeover by Iranian students of the American Embassy in Teheran on Nov. 4 and the storming and destruction of the embassy in Islamabad , Pakistan , last week after rumors spread through the Middle East that the United States was involved in the seizure of the Grand Mosque in Mecca . Continue Full Range of Relations " I want to stress that any reduction is a precautionary , prudent and temporary measure to reduce any potential threat to security , " a State Department spokesman said . " We intend to conduct a full range of diplomatic relations at all the posts affected . " The department said it would not disclose which countries were involved until the departures had actually been carried out , but several were believed to be in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the places selected for the voluntary reductions . The Associated Press reported that other officials said privately that Lebanon , Iraq and Syria were involved but Turkey , Jordan and Egypt were not . The departures will be by regular commercial flights . Meanwhile , the United States stuck to its uncompromising position over the crisis with Iran , asserting that it would reject any arrangement that did not begin with the unconditional release of all the remaining 49 American hostages held in Teheran . And it sharply rebuked Representative George Hansen for undermining the American stand by seeming to offer concessions to Iranian authorities ? a proposal for the holding of hearings in the House of Representatives on the deposed Shah in return for the release of hostages ? during his personal trip to Teheran , which was not sanctioned by the Administration . The protracted impasse over the hostages in Teheran , and the seeming powerlessness of the United States toward resolving it , has bred frustration and anger throughout the country , according to Congressmen who returned today from their Thanksgiving recess . Page AS . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Islamic countries came after a high-level review that began after the storming of the embassy in Pakistan . The series of events , the State Department spokesman said , has " underlined the dangers . " Details of Evacuation Decision " We want to help the governments to carry out their responsibility for the safety of personnel , " he said . " The State Department has now advised its missions in certain countries that voluntary departures of personnel and dependents will be facilitated in those posts where the current circumstances increase the risk to United States personnel . " The department also declined to say how many people it intended to withdraw from the overall area . Last week , it insisted that it would not retrench in its involvement in the region because of the events in Islamabad , but 400 Americans were evacuated from Pakistan after the attack on the embassy there . The department told the embassies also to urge American businessmen to facilitate the departure of their American employees from the countries involved . On the Iranian situation , Hodding Carter 3d , the department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be " predicated on the matter of the release of the hostages . " He and other officials said that the current session of the United Nations Security Council would not produce anything more than another demand for the freeing of the hostages and a call on Iran and the United States to resolve their differences . Mr. Carter said , in reference to Representative Hansen , that " it is not useful for anyone to give the impression that the United States public is anything except totally united behind the proposition that no matter under what circumstances the hostages may be held , it is unacceptable that they be held . " " And no matter what pretext may be Oven for their being held , it is unacceptable for them to be held , " he continued . " And no matter what grievances may exist on which the Iranian revolutionary leadership may feel that it has some score to settle , it is unacceptable for the hostages to be held . " Danger of ' Misunderstanding ' Seen Jody Powell , the White House spokesman , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead to misunderstandings by the authorities in Iran about the determination and resolve of the American people and the American Government " Secretary of Agriculture Bob Bergland said today that Iran would have " an increasingly difficult time " buying grain on world markets because of statements from Teheran that the Government would not pay its foreign debts . A virtual embargo on the sale of American grain has taken place because longshoremen refuse to load cargoes for Iran , even though the United States Government has not applied an official ban on trade . Mr. Bergland said at a news conference that it would be difficult for Iran to procure grain in Canada and Australia because the two countries were already operating at full capacity supplying their regular customers . With the American hostages in their 23d day of captivity in the embassy in Teheran , officials here went out of their way to quell any ideas that some sort of breakthrough or solution was imminent . " There is no evidence of an impending breakthrough or startling new develop . ment that would cause us to be encouraged , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reReproduced with permission of the co marks made by Iran 's Foreign Minister , Abolhassan Bani-Sadr , suggesting that if the United States made some gesture , such as condemning the deposed Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi , the crisis could be eased . " Why not throw the Iranians a bone ? " Mr. Carter was asked . He replied by expressing the Administration 's exasperation over the stalemate and the difficulty of telling whether anyone could speak for Iran except Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini , the religious leader , who up to now has appeared inflexible in refusing to free the hostages unless the Shah is returned to Iran to stand trial . " I wish it were possible for me in any way to establish the validity of any number of statements that are uttered out of Teheran , " Mr. Carter said . " All I can tell you is that , while statements come and go , the condition of the hostages , by the sheer fact of their being held prisoner , continues to deteriorate . " ' Threats Continue Unabated ' " The threats against them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government continue unabated , " he said . " The mob in the streets which goes by chanting every day continues to carry with it an implicit threat . " And , in the face of all these facts , to ask me to respond affirmatively to stray remarks by people about whom we have no certainty that they speak for that Government or for the authorities that control that country is to ask me to do more than any representative of this Government can or should do . " Mr. Carter said he hoped that if Mr. Bani-Sadr came to New York for the Council meeting , he would familiarize himself with American public opinion because , he said , this country is more united than at any time since 1995 . " There is no question about it , " he declared . " Without regard to ideology , without regard to class or race or religion , if there is one matter upon which the people of/this country have been this united since the conclusion of World War IL I do n't know what it is . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people who govern Iran , then I think there is a very serious gulf of understanding between us , " Mr. Carter said . The Senate Foreign Relations Committee was briefed behind closed doors by Warren M. Christopher , the Deputy Secretary of State , and later , several Senators urged calm . Senator Frank Church , chairman of the committee , said that because of the current religious holidays in Iran , " this is a particularly explosive week . " // Assutiled - rcaa Militant Moslems chanting outside the U.S. Embassy yesterday in Teheran " We must be very careful , " the Idaho ; Democrat said , " in what we say and what actions we take so as not to place the hostages in any future jeopardy . " Vance Confers With Kissinger Some officials have said that when the religious holidays end at the end of this week and a referendum has been held on Dec. 2 on the new Iranian constitution , the hostages might be released by Ayatollah Khomeini . But Hodding Carter said that this was only speculation . Meanwhile , officials said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. Kissinger to the State Department to express his concern over reports that Mr. Kissinger had urged the Shah not to leave the country until formally asked to do so by the Administration . The Administration wants the Shah to go when his medical treatment is finished . Officials said that Mr. Kissinger was reported to have given advice to the Shah when he visited him at his hospital in New York , but an aide to Mr. Kissinger denied that he had provided any advice . Mr. Kissinger denied another report that he had threatened the Administration with open criticism if it declined to permit entry of the Shah into this country last month . He said that while he had advocated admitting the Shah earlier in the year , he had not discussed the matter with the Administration since July . He said he had favored the decision to allow the Shah 's entry because " it was the right decision , it was a courageous decision . " " But it was not the result of my urging , " he said . State Department officials said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shah were well known , it was correct that he had had no high-level talks with the Administration on the question since July . State Department officials repeated that the Shah had been allowed into the country strictly for medical treatment and that he was expected to leave when the treatment was over .                     