@@729554

txt The Navy and the Marine Corps announced today an amnestyl program for drug abusers who volunteer for rehabilitation , but they said two-time viola-1 tors could face disciplinary action . While falling in line with De-I fense Department directives to set up the program , the services shied away from the word " amnesty . " They called it an " exemption program . " The Department of Defense recommended last October an amnesty program to all the armed services , but the program did not become mandatory until Deputy Secretary of Defense David Packard circulated a letter to the heads of all services on July 7 . Semantic Difference A spokesman for the Marines , who had avoided the amnesty in any form as long as it was optional , observed that the corps preferred the word " exemption " because " amnesty " had a " weak ring to it , connotating total forgiving of all . " The Army has had an amnesty program in individual units since 1969 and a general program since late last year . The Air Force has had what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect since March 7 this year . But the Navy and the Marives until now have limited themselves to educational programs warning men not to use drugs and enforcement of regulations that expose drug abusers to disciplinary action and possible dishonorable discharge . According to a statement by the Assistant Defense Secretary for Manpower , Roger Kelley , about 6,700 men applied for amnesty worldwide during the first five months of this year . This meant that they would not be disciplined for their use of drugs as long as they cooperated in a rehabilitation program . The directive published today by Secretary of the Navy John H. Chafee appears to be as far reaching as those previously issued by the Army but differs in details . The Navy specifies that " a member may be granted exemption only once . " If he backslides he will be subject to disciplinary action . A New Category While the Army says volunteers for amnesty can turn themselves in to their medical officers , chaplains or commanding officers , the Navy establishes a new category of " exemption representatives " who may or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , methcal officers or anyone dealing with investigation or discipline . Taking account of the new urinalysis testing program , the Navy also provides that men who have been " involuntarily identified " by the tests will still get a chance at exemption . United Press International John H. Chafee , Secretary of the Navy , issued directive on drug program . It emphasizes that no man will be asked to reveal the names of others who have been using drugs but that if he does give names the individuals designated will also qualify for exemption . For those cases where a man has revealed the names of other ' drug abusers , the Navy requires that he be advised that " he may be required to testify about such activities before an official board of investigation , court-martial or other such body after being granted exemption . " A man who turns himself in for treatment will not be punished for drug abuse but the Navy may change his assignment , deprive him of security clearance or remove him from flight status . Finally , while he is protected from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Entry on Record In each case in which a man volunteers for exemption , an entry will be made on his Navy service record and his involvement with drugs will be reported to the chief of naval personnel or the Marine Corps commandant . The report will include type of drugs , frequency of use , period of use and place where used . In contrast to the concept evolved by the Air . Force , the Navy states that disclosures made by a person who receives exemption are " not ' privileged ' in any sense . " " Disclosures may be used for any and all ? purposes , including investigation of criminal activity , " it says . This feature of the Navy 's program may explain its use of " exemption representatives " rather than chaplains and medical officers , whose , professional ethics require confidentiality .                     