@@732527

txt The New York State Emergency Financial Control Board successfully imposed a less costly contract on transit workers yesterday and , in response to Federal warnings of a cutoff in emergency loan aid , issued specific limitations for the coming round of negotiations between New York City and its municipal-employee unions . The Control Board thus moved deeply into setting the Text of board 's resolution is printed on page 81. city 's labor policy , dropping its earlier reluctance in the face of warnings from Treasury officials that the city would not receive $1 billion in emergency loan aid needed in July unless the question of future labor costs was clarified . The transit agreement , which the Transport Workers Union leadership accepted with a statement , of reluctance , is different from the earlier pact rejected by the Control Board in - that it mandates that any costof-living wage increase must come from increased worker productivity . It also defers part of this benefit . Reaction Uncertain In similar fashion , the Control Board 's issuance of collective-bargaining guidelines for the other major unions is based on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money , and forcing workers to realize cost-of-living raises by either increasing productivity or surrendering some fringe or pension benefits of comparable value . It was not immediately clear whether the Control Board 's labor actions might satisfy Treasury officials . One high Treasury official , speaking privately , expressed skepticism that productivity could work effectively enough to finance cost-of-living raises . But officially the Ford Administration said it would study the Control Board 's actions . When Matthew Guinan , president of the 34,000-member transit union , accepted the Control Board 's terms and said there would be no need for the risky step of submitting it to a union vote , city officials expressed great relief . Not only had the thraat passed of a crippling transit strike in July , just prior to the Democratic National Convention , but city officials also felt that the transit contract would set a peaceful pattern for the other municipal unions , whose contracts expire next month . " We view this as solving one of the most chaotic variables missing column agency so that the work of 50 people would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credits . However , if attrition cut 20 jobs instead of 10 , the extra 10-job savings could be translated into a productivity gain and a consequent cost-of-living increase , providing the rate of inflation warranted it . Mr. Berger , the Control Board executive most directly involved in verifying productivity plans , said in response to repeated questioning that the Control Board would demand solid proof of productivity . " No cosmetics , " he said . Politically , the pressure applied from Washington  --  both in the Treasury warning and , last Sunday , in a Senate warning that the city must not waver on keeping wages frozen ? eased the Control Board 's task of taking a harder line toward labor . When the seven  --  member board was created last fall , the Governor insisted that it would not he part of the collective bargaining process . Municipal labor leaders were among the first to insist that this was a fiction . Mr. Guinan accepted the Control Board 's terms by emphasizing that they did not cancel out the earlier settlement negotiated with the Transit Authority in March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The new agreement provides that for the first year of the two-year contract , transit workers would get an increase only to compensate for the first 6 percent rise in the cost of living . The question of any greater inflation rise would be deferred to the second year . The originally negotiated improvement in the cost-of-living formula also would be deferred for a year . Instead of getting 3.3 cents more an hour for each one-point rise in the Consumer Price index , workers would get 2.5 cents  --  the old rate  --  providing the money for this was found in productivity . Control I Board , Stephen B                     