@@729755

txt Premier Golda Meir accused Secretary of State William P. Rogers today of having abandoned previously expressed support for Israel 's negotiating position and of having embraced instead Egypt 's principles for an interim agreement to reopen the Suez Canal . In Washington , the State Department said that the United States would have no comment today about Mrs. Mei r 's remarks . In her first public statement of the charges and warnings that she has been making in private for the last month , Mrs. Meir served notice that even the promise of more Phantom jet fighterbombers , which has been withheld , would not extract new political concessions from Israel . " There is no basis whatsoever for the assumption that political concessions may be // obtained from us by withholding the supply of the means vitally required for our security , " Mrs. Meir told the Knesset , or parliament , in a major policy speech . " Israel will not be prepared to agree to political conditions which undermine her security and future , even in return for a promise of the equipment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mrs. Meir , ( declared , Responding to a United States proposal last week for new intensive negotiations for an interim agreement with Egypt , Mrs. Meir reiterated Israel 's readiness to negotiate ? but not on the terms laid down by Mr. Rogers in his speech to the United Nations General Assembly on Oct. 4 . Her tough line threatened to thwart the American diplomatic initiative unless there was an unexpected sign of new flexibility from Cairo . Mentioning by name Mr. Rogers and Joseph J. Sisco , the Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs , Mrs. Meir said that United States diplomatic effort of the last seven months had failed to induce Egypt to make any concessions , so Israel was being asked to concede more . " Mr. Sisco visited Israel in August , " Mrs. Meir said . " He made it clear that even if Israel should agree to any particular point in his ideas , he is still not sure that he will be able to achieve Egyptian approval for it . " If we had accepted these , ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? of our most crucial positions , without even being assured of Egyptian agreement . " While Egypt 's position remains rigid , and the Americans are unable to give us any authoritative information about a change in that position , we find ourselves having a discussion with the Americans about their recommendations for concessions on our part on some of the points we regard as most vital , " Mrs. Meir said . On three specific issues , Mrs. Meir traced what she called " disturbing changes in the approach of the United States " from last March to now . From the start of discussions to reopen the Suez Canal , blocked since the June , 1967 , war , Mrs. Meir said her Government had acknowledged the need for a withdrawal of Israeli forces from the eastern bank of the canal " on condition of an Egyptian agreement to an unlimited cease-fire . " The concession of withdrawal was'accepted , but now American representatives speak " in favor of a cease-fire for a specific period , " Mrs. , Meir said . ' " The obvious meaning of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be able to open fire again ? after Israel had withdrawn from the canal line of fortifications . Secondly , Mrs. Meir stated , United States representatives held , at the beginning of the discussion , that no regular or irregular military forces of any kind shall be introduced into the area from which Israeli forces will pull back . " Recently , the Secretary of State stated that the parties are divided on this subject and added that we believe that it is possible to reach a compromise . " I am unable to understand how it is possible to reach a compromise between the Egyptian demand for the crossing of armed forces and the Israeli opposition to any crossing by armed forces , " Mrs. Meir said . " This American approach , even if it does not involve agreement to the crossing of military forces of the strength demanded by the Egyptians , involves acquiescence in the Egyptian principle of the crossing of the canal by military forces . " Finally , Mrs. Meir described how the American position had shifted on the relation of an interim agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations Security Council resolution of Nov. 22 , 1967 , involving large-scale Israeli withdrawal from territories occupied in 1967 , " During the Secretary of State 's visit to Israel in May , the United States position was that the agreement on the opening of the Suez Canal is an agreement not entailing other commitments , but a separate agreement standing on its own feet , " she said . " Now we have heard from Secretary of State Rogers , in his speech to the United Nations on Oct. 4 that the Suez Canal accord would be merely a step towards the full implementation of Resolution 242 within a reasonable period , and is not a goal in itself . "                     