@@732784

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 20 Letters to the Editor Blueprint for Petroleum Conservation To the Editor . The American people do not realize just how much power and wealth we are allowing the Arab nations to accumulate at our expense , or how serious this drain upon our national resources is . Moreover , we are politically vulnerable because our economy could be crippled by another oil embargo . Are we then inescapably at the mercy of the Arabs ? Unlike many of the nations of the West , we have virtually endless supplies of coal . Moreover , we are currently wasting energy at a great rate , in inefficient automobiles and space heating as well as in electric-power generation . Conserving our petroleum does not require another huge bureaucracy , but only a system of added taxes on gasoline and other petroleum products , and also on the sale of large new automobiles . In order not to constitute an additional net burden on consumers , these taxes should be compensated for by equivalent reductions in other Federal taxes . The power companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and coal would again be used for space heating wherever this can be done consistent with environmental objectives . Also , it might be necessary to consider some relaxation of air-pollution standards in connection with the above . Environmental To the Editor : With respect to the controversy thighlighted in your Oct. 7 news article ) over the safety aspects of liquefied-natural-gas ( LNG ) tankers , the issue can be resolved readily if the LNG is simply frozen solid for shipment . An energy expenditure of only 65.2 B.T.U./lb to drop its temperature from ? 260F to about ? 300F will turn LNG into a safe inert solid . Not only is the mass of solid LNG made inert by freezing , but it is given many of the properties of an iceberg , and the buoyancy of the ice mass will float the tanker even if its bottom is torn away in a grounding or collision . For cryosolid transportation , LNG would be pumped as a liquid into the ship in the usual manner and then frozen solid by an onboard refrigeration system . Once the cargo is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as is usual in LNG tankers , the insulation ( typically four feet in thickness ) of the cargo tanks would be relied upon to keep the cargo frozen . Again , as is the practice on LNG tankers , vapor that " boils " off the cargo because of heat penetration would be used to fuel the ship 's engines . In this regard , there is an ancillary benefit in cryosolidifaction in that the lower enthalpy state would increase storability because there would be about 13.5 percent less cargo boil-off . As anyone who has had to defrost a refrigerator knows , water ice is a good thermal insulator . In the event , therefore , that the insulation of the tanker is pierced because of an accident , a thermally insulating shell that will limit the danger and cargo loss will be Of Music and Freedom To the Editor : Elena Obraztsova 's recent appearance at the Met , and at Avery Fisher Hall on Nov. 8 , are significant for a number of reasons . First , such performances help strengthen cultural ties between the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they remind us of the many Soviet Jewish musicians who have been denied the right to emigrate and to live and work in the land of their choice . One such person Is Stella Goldberg , a 44-year-old Moscow pianist who has been asking for permission for herself and her seven-year-old son to join her husband in Israel . Her husband , Viktor Yoran , is a renowned cellist who left the Soviet Union in 1969 . Ms. Goldberg and her son have been applying since then to join him but have been repeatedly refused since the Soviets consider her husband " a traitor to the Soviet Union . " Ms. Goldberg recently wrote , " My husband did not and does not commit any actions hostile to the Soviet Union , and yet we , his family , have nevertheless been denied the right to emigrate . I alone am responsible for the well-being of a young child and for my husband 's mother , who is old and in poor health . " Leonard Bernstein , Vladimir Ashkenazy , Zino Francescatti and Pierre Fournier are among the many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's freedom . Those who attended Ms. Obraztsova 's objectives are important , but there may have to be some trade-offs . Obtaining sufficient coal would require major readjustments . For example , newly developed coal reserves in Oklahoma could be exploited and the coal moved by barge on our navigable Arkansas , Mississippi , Ohio and perhaps Monongahela Rivers to produce large amounts of electric power , which would be dispatched over the mountains by long-distance transmission line to the East . Impracticable ? Not physically . A little over 300 miles of transmission is all that would be involved . However , it would be necessary to convince the mining , power and transportation investors that the Government , after encouraging such a program , would not turn and walk away from it in a few years ' time , leaving investors holding the bag . Some kind of assurance would have to be given or the Government might have to undertake certain parts of the scheme . This is a difficult problem because some new type of Federal initiative is required . Governor Carter has asserted that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is a great opportunity to demonstrate it . WILLIAM WHIPPLE Jr . Princeton , N. J. , Nov. 4 , 1976 S. Hermon formed by in-rushing seawater that contacts the frozen cargo . Aside from the safety considerations and the concomitant reduction in insurance costs resulting from the lessened hazard , the cryosolid shipment of LNG has significant economic advantages , such as the increase of 20 percent in the tanker 's carrying capacity , brought about because the freezing process increases the density , of the LNG . Shipping LNG as a solid not only is safer but it is also cheaper . Cryosolid transportation should be considered for any dangerous fluid . For example , chlorine freezes at ? 256F , hydrochloric acid at ? 274F , ammonia at ? 172F , and even a 93.19 percent pure solution of sulfuric acid becomes a solid at a mere - 29F . It is significant that all of the forty liquids listed as dangerous cargo by the Coast Guard can be solidified readily by commonly used liquid nitrogen refrigeration systems . WILLIAM STRUMBOS Northport , L. I. , Nov. 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewish artists who may not perform in freedom , in the land of their choice . These denials of freedom are especially disheartening in light of the widely heralded Helsinki accords signed a little over a year ago . DAVID BAR-ILLAN New York , Nov. 5 , 1976 ? India 's Priority To the Editor : India is not America . The First Amendment should not be used as the standard for measuring developments in that country . The greatest problem in India is food production and social development . In this situation , press freedom is but a luxury for the thirty-million upper class . Seventy percent of its 600 million people are illiterate . Fifty percent of the population are under fifteen years of age . India 's highly intellectualized hypercritical press never recognized the country 's real problems . Let it therefore rest awhile and return with its agitation when everybody has enough to eat and can afford its intellectualism . What India needs is a strong government to discipline its unpatriotic millionaires and their student children , so that decent employment can be created for the poor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope for leadership in their fight for survival . Let us back her up . MAURITZ SUNDT MORTENSEN Madison , Wis. , Nov. 4 , 1976 Wayne Hays ' Presidency To the Editor : The shockingly improper conduct admitted to by Wayne Hays was an insult not only to his constituents in Ohio at the time , but also to the good people of the United States at large . It is well that he was dropped from the committees on which he so sorely wished to remain . Prestige dies hard . It is well that he chose to resign from a position he failed to honor . However , Wayne Hays retains a prestigious position from which he should resign immediately . He is president of the North Atlantic Assembly ( N.A.A. ) . This is a semi-official body composed of groups or delegations of legislators from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) countries . This North Atlantic Assembly is empowered to pass resolutions to be forwarded to the top official NATO Council . The annual meeting of the North Atlantic Assembly will be held this Year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wayne Hays , as president of the N.A.A. , will preside , although he is no longer a Parliamentarian , the title given to the members of the North Atlantic Assembly .. In the name of decency , Wayne Hays should step down at once from this lofty position as president of the North Atlantic Assembly ? he no longer represents two hundred fifteen million Americans in this international organ ' ization . He has broken faith with his countrymen . He should refrain from appearing at the meeting of the N.A.A. , and should submit his resignation without delay . LILLIAN C. WILLIAMS Ridgewood , N. J. , Oct 25 , 1976 ? Ford 's ' Missed Opportunity ' To the Editor : By running for election to the Presidency of the United States , Gerald Ford missed an opportunity to be judged by history as a great leader . If he had chosen to run the country as a nonpartisan President , a caretaker , history would have remembered him as a man able to rise and bind the wounds of an America injured by Watergate and Richard Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he knew best . Thus he will be remembered only as an asterisk bet*een a , disgraced President and the first Southern President of the 20th century . Perhaps we can not blame Gerald Ford , but rather the office of the President . It has clearly become toa grand  --  too imperial . It may be too much to ask any man not to seek election after two years ' service . However , when a President can have his desk and bed brought to . San Francisco for an overnight campaign stop , it is clear that the office has become too grand . One hopes Jimmy Carter will remember that another Southern President , Thomas Jefferson , once walked to a local Washington boarding house for his meals . ALAN M. MECKLER Westport , Conn. , Nov. 4 , 1976 ? Voters and ' Idiots ' To the Editor : It was disheartening to learn that the voter turnout this year was smaller than that at the last general election . In that connection it may be pertinent to recall that the Greeks have given us a word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but in common usage denoted one who neglected or evaded his public responsibilities . That word is " idiot . " HARRY Louis SELDEN Vice Chairman Fair Campaign Practices Committee Washington , Nov. 5 , 1976 ? The ' Apologist ' To the Editor : Astonishing indeed is that the public information officer of the New York State Public Service Commission serves as an apologist for the New York Telephone Company , by claiming the latter has saved its customers some $25 million in the past year through credits in conjunction with the passing of " free " directory assistance . Has P.S.C. officer Rivett been informed that the parent A.T . &T.; recently reported all-time-record ninemonth earnings of over $1 billion ? Has it occurred to him that such earnings , might in part have been garnered through the elimination of such customer services as free directory information , with the consequent elimination of many hundreds of operators ' , jobs ? Mr. Rivett , while speaking of the , credits redounding to those who do . not call the information operator , conveniently overlooks the increased charges to those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those with poor vision , those lacking the pertinent directory , etc . Basically , though , there is something not quite right in the P.S.C. going out of its way to go to bat in behalf of . New York Telephone , Con Edison or any other utility well positioned through being a monopoly , and one that is granted rate increases at almost automatic intervals . HERMAN T. BARON Bronx , Nov. 1 , 1976                     