@@730294

txt Senator Hubert H. Humphrey . of Minnesota released all of his black delegates today to allow them to cast symbolic first-ballot votes at the Democratic National Convention here for Representative Shirley Chisholm of Brooklyn . Mr. Humphrey has 93 black delegates and 97 black alternates , but it could not be learned tonight how many of his black delegates planned to vote for Mrs. Chisholm on the first ballot . Black supporters of Senator George of South Dakota , the front-runner for the Democratic Presidential nomination , immediately charged that the effort was the latest " stop " maneuver and described it as a conspiracy and as racism . A Symbolic Gesture The move was fed by Mayor Charles Evers of Fayette , Miss. , a former supporter of Mayor Lindsay of New York . Mr. Evers said that he and other blacks had asked the other candidates to release their black delegates to Mrs. Chisholm as a symbolic gesture , but added that he had had no response from the other candidates . supporters said the idea of the plan was to deprive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blacks to vote for Mrs. Chisholm out of racial pride . If Mr. refused to release his black delegates , he would ' be accused of insulting blacks , they said . The move did not appear to have loosened any of Senator 's black support . SevContinued eral of his delegates said in interviews that they would still support the Dakotan Senator . However , the move did affect some delegates Mr. had hoped to capture . For example , Russell Sugarman , a Memphis lawyer , said all six black delegates from that city and two or three others from Tennessee planned to vote for Mrs. Chisholm on the first ballot and for Mr. on the second . Some black leaders denounced the move , as well as Mrs. Chisholm and Senator Humphrey . The Rev. Jesse L. Jackson , an aide to the late Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr . and director of the newly formed People United to Save Humanity , accused Mr. Humphrey of engaging in " slick racism . " The Rev. Walter E. Fauntroy , nonvoting member of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the move " scurrilous " and said that the " stop " movement " has come down to an effort to divide uncommitted black delegates , " Addressing a caucus meeting this morning . Imamu Amiri Baraka , the Newark playwright end civil rights activist former . ly known as LeRoi Jones , contended that the move to Mrs. Chisholm was led by blacks who had refused to support her in the past . " It 's a lot of jive and we 're all being took off , " he said . " If Humphrey is going to give up his black delegates , tell the cracker to give up all his delegates and go home and let 's make her the Presidential nomi-nee , " Mr. Humphrey 's announce . ment earlier in the day that he was releasing his delegates to Mrs. Chisholm threw the caucus into an uproar . The debate among the 200 persons at the caucus meeting spilled ' over into a corridor of the Deauville Hotel here . Mr , Baraka was involved in several arguments with supporters of Senator Humphrey and Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adding to her total and brought back several delegates who were thinking about following the lead of Representative Ronald V. Dellums of California , who switched yesterday from Mrs. Chisholm to Senator . Further , the move caused disillusionment and confusion among other blacks . Geraldine Travis of Wyoming , who is attending her first national convention , said she was still for Mrs. Chisholm , but added , " I am very concerned about what is going on . " At an afternoon meeting attended by fewer delegates than the morning meeting , the caucus voted to support the position on the California challenge . The credentials issue had been on the agenda for two days . The 100 delegates at the afternoon meeting also voted to support challenges in Illinois , Alabama , South Carolina and Texas , all involving allegations of disproportionate representation of blacks , women or young people . Mervyn M. Dymally , a California State Senator and supporter.of Mr. Humphrey , denied that Mr. Humphrey 's release of his black delegates was a " stop " tactic . He said the gesture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's highest office . " " Senator Humphrey does not have enough strength to win on the first ballot , " Mr. Dymally said at a news conference . " Therefore , we felt some of his voting strength could be put to a most worthy objective without harming the showing of my good friend , Hubert , on subsequent ballots . "                     