@@729174

txt Local governments thruout the state will lose at least $148 million in the next fiscal year thru last November 's vote repealing the personal property tax on individuals , John W. McCarter Jr. , state budget director . renorted yesterday . At least $63 million of the loss will be in Cook County , he said . Maurice W. Scott , executive vice president of the Taxpayers Federation of Illinois , said compensation for the loss will have to come thru higher real estate taxes , new taxes such as a wheel tax on automobiles , increased state aid to local government , or all three . Calls for Tax Boost Mayor Daley has already called for a 17.7 per cent increase in Chicago real estate taxes , just to meet anticipated budget needs . County Board President George W. Dunne , announcing the county 's record proposed ? budget of $230.6 million on Monday , predicted an increase of 5 cents for each $100 assessed valuation in the county 's corporate fund tax rate . This would bring the total tax rate to the ceiling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old state Constitution . 75 Cent Ceiling Removed The new state Constitution , adopted by the voters Dec. 15 , removes this ceiling as of June 30 , permitting county govern . ment to raise real estate taxes at will . Dunne said yesterday he will resist any further increase in the county real estate tax rate , despite removal of the ceiling . He admitted he is in a quandary as to how to compensate for the lack of personal property tax revenue . Expects State Aid The personal property tax on individuals was repealed thru ' a Constitutional amendment adopted by the voters in the Nov. 3 general election . The repeal became effective Jan. 1 . House ? Speaker W. Robert Blair R. , Park Forest said he expects the legislature to come to the aid of local governments . " Altho repeal of the tax was clearly the wish of the people , the legislature voted for it by voting to hold the referendum , " he said . " The legislature has a clear responsibility in this . " Blair said the legislature can not assume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of drains on the state treasury from increased welfare rolls , demands for more state aid to education , and other needs . Cites Alternatives Scott said a wheel tax on autos , trucks and boat trailers within 1 o c al governmental jurisdictions . would be one alternative revenue source , as would a ' special tax on real estate sales or a municipal " use tax " on occupations not covered by present sales taxes . Another source would be a larger local share of the state income tax , but this could require an increase in that tax , he said . Sen. Robert Coulson R. , Waukegan , acting Senate minority leader , is chairman of a special legislative committee studying the revenue loss from the repeal of the personal property tax . The committee is expected to make an interim report next week , he said .                     