@@732862

txt Presidentelect Jimmy Carter will nominate Representative And ' w Young , a 44-year-old black leader from Georgia , as the chief delegate of the United States to the United Nations , according to authoritative sources . After months of insisting that he would remain in Congress , Mr. Young has reportedly told friends that the United Nations post was a challenge he could not decline , given his record of wanting to associate the United States with the aspirations of the poor nations that have been criticizing-this country . The sources said that Mr. Carter would announce Mr. Young 's appointment tomorrow . Although Mr. Carter said today that during his two-year election process he had made no commitment to anyone about Cabinet appointments , Mr. Young , a Georgia Democrat , is the one ' man to whom he has acknowledged having apolitical debt . Mrs. Pfeiffer Withdraws Mr. Young met today in New York with Cyrus R. Vance , the Secretary of State-designate , but no information on their meeting was available . Meanwhile , two appointments that Mr. Carter had been expected to announce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commerce  --  give some insight into the selection techniques being employed by the President-elect and into Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . the behind-the-scenes infighting . According to a number of reliable sources , he was ready as of yesterday to name Jane Cahill Pfeiffer , a former vicepresident of the International Business Machines Corporation , as Secretary of Commerce . But Mr. Carter told reporters after his news conference today that he telephoned Mrs. Pfeiffer in London yesterday about the job . His aides said that she considered the offer overnight and called him back today to withdraw . Tonight , Mrs. Pfeiffer issued a statement through I.B.M. , saying : " I asked Governor Carter to withdraw my name for consideration eor two reasons . One , my marriage is my first priority and I did not feel I could take on the responsibility of an assignment in Washington without my husband with me and that just was n't possible . Two , that while my doctor has told me I 'm fine , I had a thyroid cancer operation less than a year ago and I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level that such an assignment would require . " Mrs. Pfeiffer resigned from I.B.M . early this year after her marriage to Ralph A. Pfeiffer Jr. , a senior vice president of an I.B.M . affiliate . He is the father of 10 children by a previous marriage that ended in divorce . Also , according to a number of informed sources , Mr. Carter had been ready to name Harold Brown , president of the California Institute of Technology and a high Pentagon official in the Johnsen Administration , to head the Department of Defense . But , according to these and other sources , Mr. Carter ran into a mounting wall of opposition to Dr. Brown on behalf of the candidacy of former Defense Secretary James R. Schlesinger . Attacks on Brown Reported Carter staff members said that Mr. Schlesinger 's supporters in Congress , labor circles and groups like the recently formed Committee on the Present Danger from the Soviet Union , had been telephoning and writing to attack Dr. Brown as being too much of an arms control advocate and too narrow and technical in his background @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Lane Kirkland , secretary-treasurer of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations , showed a strong preference for Mr. Schlesinger for the Pentagon post over Dr. Brown , whom he considered too much of a " technologist " without a broad political-strategic outlook . A member of the Carter transition staff said that the President-elect hadbeen receiving reports that Dr. Brown did not have a strong record as a manager , a criticism also leveled at Mr. Schlesinger . Another source said that an additional ccmplir.ation may be that Dr. Brown went on record last summer in a letter to Senator William Prcxmire , Democrat of Wisconsin . as favoring the production of the new B-1 strategic bomber . A decision on whether to rroceed with this bomber will be nne of the most important fccing Mr. Carter . Called Pragmatist and Moderate Supporters of Dr. Brown , among Carter staff members and influential outsiders maintain that he is a pragmatist and a nonideological moderate and , if anything , is more on the conservative side of defense issues than the liberal one . According to these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and if he does not pick either Dr Brown or Mr. Schlesinger , he may select Charles L. Schultze , now of the Brookings Institution and a budget director in the Johnson Administration . Authoritative sources said yesterday that Mr. Schultze would be named by Mr. Carter to be chairman of his Council of Economic Advisers . But Mr. Carter has not announced this appointment and may be waiting until the Pentagon issue is resolved . According to the sources , this matter is also tied to decisions on who will be Director of Central Intelligence and director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency . Mr. Schlesinger is said to be a leading candidate for the C.I.A . post along with Theodore C. Sorensen , a New York lawyer who was an aide to President Kennedy . Paul C. Warnke , the liberals ' candidate for Defense Secretary , is said to be a leading choice to head the arms control agency . He is a Washington lawyer who was a Pentagon official in the Johnson Administration . In the sweepstakes for Attorney General , sources who have spoken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representative Barbara Jordan of Texas and Patricia Roberts Harris , a Washington lawyer , from consideration . These same sources maintainad that two of the remaining choices for Attorney General were Federal District Judge A. Leon Higginbotham Jr . and Joseph A. Califano Jr. , a Washington lawyer and former aide to President Johnson . Mr. Califano is also said to remain under consideration for Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare .                     