@@733120

txt Governor Carey said yesterday that rents in rent-controlled or stabilized apartments should be related to the tenants ' ability to pay " so that those who need rent control will have it , and those who do n't need it-And can afford higher rents will pay them . " The proposal could mean higher costs for thousands of tenants in New York City and other parts of the state . He announced that he was forming a " task force " to develop a " needs-based rent-control system " as part of efforts to change the present rent laws . Any such system would have to be approved by the Legislature before it could be adopted . The Governor 's statements , made during and after a meeting of corporate executives and members of the Regional Plan Association , immediately drew fire from a major tenants ' group , but were applauded in varying degrees by real-estate spokesmen . 1.5 Million Affected Current rent regulations  --  which affect nearly 1.5 million tenants in the state , most of them in New York City  --  are not related @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor said , at least as it affects New York City , " satisfies no one , and is partially responsible for the erosion of the tax base in New York City and abandonment of structures , and it is n't working . " Mr. Carey gave no details of how a system based on need might function , except to say that he was- " not talking about ending rent control for those who need it . " Housing and real-estate specialists favoririg an approach based on need have sometimes suggested it be related to a proportion of income that poor and middle-income tenants might be expected to pay for rent . Protection for Some Tenants That is , these specialists suggest , tenants already paying , say , 25 percent of their income for rent should be protected from any additional increases needed by owners , while those paying less than 25 percent might not be protected or might be given only , limited protection . Jane Benedict , chairman of the tenantoriented Metropolitan Council on Housing , said : " It 's a means test for tenants ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make . " " We do n't just mean cash flow , " she said , speaking of landlords ' returns . " We also mean depreciation , tax refunds , how well they 're doing in the conditions of buying and selling buildings . " By contrast , Ruben Klein , head of the New York Realty Owners Association and the Bronx Realty Advisory Board , was reported by a spokesman to ' ' endorse the idea of a means test . " Tenants who " ca n't afford an economic rent should get some sort of subsidy , " but it should be in a government subsidy and not a limit on landlords ' rent , the spokesman said . William A. Moses , chairman of the Community Housing Improvement Program , another owners ' group , said that his group welcomed " Governor Carey 's realization that many tenants are making enough money to be exempt from rent control , " but that " it will be a good two years , if then , " before any changes might be enacted in the rent laws under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solve our city 's housing crisis is right now , " Mr. Moses declared . Composition of Task Force The task force the Governor announced will be made up of members of his administration . It will present its proposals to an 11-member commission established under a law that was recently passed by the Legislature and was given final approval by the Governor two days ago . The 11-member commission  --  some of whose members will be named by the Governor and others by the legislative leaders  --  is supposed to study the entire renr-law system in the state and report back to the Legislature by Nov. 15 , 1978 . This would be just after the election for Governor and the Legislature was held next year , so that any recommendations made by the commission for changing the rent laws would not be an election issue . The law setting up the commission also extended , for four years , parts of the current rent regulations that were due to expire at the end of this month . However , the four-year extension could be terminated by the Legislature , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could legally be made sooner . Judah Gribetz , the Governor 's counsel , will head the rent-law task force that the Governor described yesterday at the corporate executives ' meeting in the offices of Citibank , Park Avenue and 53d Street . Mr. Gribetz , , a former Deputy Mayor of New York City , was for many years a Federal and local housing and buildings official . New York 's current rent-regulation system , enacted piecemeal over 30 years , is a tangle of control and stabilization programs . Rent control covers about 525,000 apartments in New York City and 70,000 in Westchester and Nassau Counties and the Buffalo and Albany areas . In the five boroughs of New York City the controls permit rent rises of up to 7.5 percent a year in many affected apartments . Other rules apply in the suburban and upstate system . Rent stabilization covers 750,000 apartments in New York City and 65,000 in about 25 localities in Nassau , Westchester and Rockland Counties , Rent rise limits in stabilized units vary with geography and circumstances . For example , there now is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a threeyear renewal lease under which electricity is not included in the rent . Governor Carey said his task force would have to determine how many families might be dropped from rent-law protection under a system based on need . One source of information available to the task force is a 1975 study by the United States Census Bureau that indicated that , overall , about half the city 's two million rental households were paying more than 25 percent of income for rent , including more than 400,000 families paying more than 35 percent of income . But the study also indicated that a quarter-million households in the city were paying less than 15 percent of their income for rent . While a general rule of thumb is that most nonwealthy families should pay no more than 25 percent of income for rent , some housing experts believe this is too high . And others say that paying more than 25 percent is not necessarily a hardship in many cases . Where real-estate people and some hnuqing specialists hold that the New York rent laws have prevented owners meeting sharply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and contributing to the city 's fiscal crisis , tenant advocates argue that the current laws are not strict enough to protect poor and middle-class tenants beset by inflation . Housing deterioration , they maintain , stems largely from such things as owners ' squeezing buildings for maximum profits .                     