@@730007

txt French customs agents in Marseilles found almost half a ton of pure heroin aboard a shrimp boat early today . What French officials called the biggest drug seizure ever made came after a day-long search of the 60-ton vessel , whose home port is Pointe-aPitre in the French Caribbean island of Guadeloupe . Waterproof bags containing 935 pounds of heroin were found embedded in concrete in the hold . The United States Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs estimated that at the national average street price of $195,000 per pound the heroin seized Would ultimately have brought more than $180-million . The . bureau calculated that 935 pounds be broken down info 42 ; 5 million doses of 100 milligrams at 10 per cent strength , That amount , it said , could supply the entire addict population of the country for three weeks to a month , The captain , identified as Marcel Boucan , a 57-year-old Frenchman , was reported to have tried to commit suicide by diving overboard after leaving a note declaring that his family and the six-man crew , // all natives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up half-drowned and revived in a hospital . Captain Boucan was known to the customs service as a long-time smuggler of cigarettes . He was said to have bought the shrimp boat , the Caprice des Temps , about three years ago and since then to have made three crossings between the Mediterranean and the West Indies , The Caprice des Temps was spotted in Villefranche-sur-Mer , near Nice , on Tuesday . When she left the port that night two patrol boats followed . They hailed her but she refused to stop and two warning shots were fired . The boat was then taken to Marseilles . Marseilles and the ' Riviera have long been known as a major transit center for drugs being transferred from Turkey and other Middle East areas . to the United States . Generally the drugs arrive as morphine base to be processed into heroin in clandestine laboratories around Marseilles . One such laboratory was discovered little more than a month ago Associated Press Marcel Boucan , the captain of the seized vessel . after more than two years of searching . Today 's success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in telegrams to Marseilles said the , seizure was a sign " of , the desire of the customs services to fight  --  in conformity with . the ' directives that were recently reconfirmed ? with maximum effectiveness against drug traffickers who will be hurt by the blow that has just been delivered , " Both the Marseilles police and customs have . been under heavy pressure from the United States , which has narcotics agents in the Mediterranean city working with them . The importance of the haul became apparent when it was recalled that since February , 1971 , 2,750 pounds of morphine base have been seized in the area . The biggest previous haul was in February of last year when a fisherman brought up 787 pounds in several bags in his net off Port-St. - LoUis near Marseilles . Congratulations From U.S. Police Commissioner ' Patrick V. Murphy has sent a personal letter , in . French , to President Pompidou expressing his delight at the drug seizure . wish to extend ' my congratulations and that of the New York City Police Department on the seizure in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French customs agents , " Mr. Murphy wrote . " The devotion and incorruptibility of these Frenchmen have won the admiration and also the gratitude of all of us here . " The largest seizure of herion made by the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs came in two installments on Jan. 5 ( 238 pounds ) and Jan 10 ( 147 pounds ) for a total of 385 pounds . The largest ' . ever made by the Bureau ' of Customs was at San " Juan in June , 1971 : 247.5 pounds .                     