@@732455

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 158 Letters to the Editor Southern Africa : Of Races , Values and Aspirations To the Editor : As an American , I have spent seventeen years based in South Africa . I have traveled and worked in all of Africa , and know it , particularly south of the Sahara , extremely well . I believe that I qualify as an expert and that I can draw valid comparisons between black and white Africa , and between either of these and the United States , and I resent the sanctimonious statements of our current crop of " instant " African experts such as Senators Tunney and Clark . How we , in this racist , crime-ridden , fiscally irresponsible , politically corrupt country can point the finger at Rhodesia and South Africa amazes me . We ca n't provide employment , medical care , a secure old age , safe schools , safe subways , safe streets or a drug-free society for our citizenry . We ca n't balance a budget  --  Federal , state or local . We are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our franchised citizens bother to vote . Any white man who knows the streets of Harlem , Johannesburg and Salisbury will agree that the look of blank hostility on the black face you meet is unique to Harlem . One must have lived in Africa to understand it . In terms of black/white racism , four African states  --  Mozamhique , Malawi , Rio Muni and Uganda ? are worse than white southern Africa . Eighteen , from Angola to Zaire , practice a terrible form of interracial genocide , Black vs. black , tribe vs. tribe , predominate vs. subordinate language groups , Christian vs. witch doctor . A Busuto is safer in Johannesburg than is a black Jehovah 's Witness in Malawi . Heaven help an Asian in Uganda . South Africa and Rhodesia , Ruling on Homosexuals : What It Does Not Mean To the Editor : The protests against the Supreme Court decision concerning homosexual rights reported in the March 30 Times are missing the heart of the matter . The Supreme Court consists of jurists , who are ( one hopes ) not functioning as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States . The more they do their jobs properly , the less current trends and popular opinion mean to them . They work in a very narrow area . Their decisions do not mean approval . They mean simply that ( in this case ) the Constitution was not affronted . This particular decision is going to mean that there will be violations of the Constitution . The Supreme Court is going to have to deal with this matter again . A future finding on behalf of homosexual plaintiffs might lead some to declare that the Court has " reversed " itself . That would be a superficial interpretation of the reality situation , and an erroneous one . ROBERT D. KENIPNER , Hastings-on-Hudson , N. Y. March 31 , 1976 in a material sense , have done more than any black state for the black man , in income , education , housing , employment , health care , etc . South Africa 's borders are closed to illegal immigrants , yet thousands of black Africans battle to get in ? not as militants , but to work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does n't have the vote , but it is coming in an orderly , reasonable way . In the meantime , the law and order , the honest ( if single-minded ) politics , the full employment , the strike-free societies , the excellent schools , the medicine and the national unity of while , southern Africa , are material things and values we can well envy . G. J. FRASER East Orange , N. J. , April 7 , 1976 ? To the Editor : The April 1 " Letter from Rhodesia " by Patricia . lefferys can not go unchallenged . First , the white people in Rhodesia do not know the African . Therefore , the claim that her correTo the Editor : There is even more at fault with the Government 's recent decision to re strict steel imports than you revealed in your basically sound editorial on March 21 ( " The Steel Steal " ) . The only industry-wide remedy . to which the Government chose to turn ? or ever chooses to turn in ImportInjury findings affecting a whole industry  --  was import restriction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy addressing the real problems and real needs of the steel industry , providing a framework for whatever trade restriction the Government considers necessary and a tool for phasing out such controls as quickly as possible . Trade restriction should be the least accessible and most transitory instrument of Government assistance to an industry persuasive in its quest for Government help . U.S. trade legislation and overall trade policy do not yet include such reforms , but neither do they prevent innovative steps in this direction . Thus , even at this late hour , the President should launch a coherent , comprehensive , carefully monitored spondent makes is false . In order to know a people , you have to live with them , know their language and customs . Second , it is not true to say , " The real fight here is not black against white . It is against Communism . " I am an African from Zimbabwe . I was born and brought up in that country and have lived there for over half a century . I have never seen a Communist , let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighting white racists who want to cling to a privileged position . We want democracy in Zimbabwe , that is ? majority rule . This is what Bishop Muzorewa and all the other nationalists are fighting for . You know and I know that the Africans are denied land , education and above all self-determination . When we demand the things the whites are enjoying we are labeled Communists . When the Russians or the Chinese come to our help , then we have become Communists . But when you and all of your kind go to China and Russia , you come out clean . You want to make friends with the Communist countries and you still want to deny us the freedom to make friends with whomever we choose . This is what we are fighting against . We want self-determination at all costs . Patricia Jefferys ' correspondent does not know European history when he tries to equate Charlemagne with Rhodesia because there is no parallel . We are not barbarians . We want our country . We know that freedom is not negotiable . Hence , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) MATTHEW A. WAKATAMA Medgar Evers College Brooklyn , April 2 , 1976 adjustment strategy as the context for whatever steel import controls he deems necessary to alleviate a problem which the Government ( rightly or wrongly ) sees as an emergency calling for Government help . Any industry getting Government help should get the best help Government can provide in the total public interest . The cost , merit and use of such assistance should be constantly reviewed . The international steel agreement now envisaged should be no more acceptable to " liberal trade " supporters than unilateral import quotas . The fact that such international arrangements are negotiated tends to give them a respectability they do not deserve . Nor can they be welcomed as " cooperation , not confrontation . " They happen to be cooperation through confrontation , and the kind of cooperation which supporters of genuinely freer trade should shun like the plague . An import quota by any other name still smells . DAVID J. STEINBERG President , U.S. Council for an Open World Economy Washington , March 23 , 1976 Steel : ' A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strategy To the Editor : Senator Hubert Humphrey 's campaign strategy of avoiding all Presidential primaries may ultimately be successful . But whether successful or unsuccessful , it is an ignoble strategy that is inherently anti-democratic . For in deliberately avoiding the primaries , Senator Humphrey endorses a strategy in which a candidate consciously tries to deny the vast majority of the electorate any input into the nominating process . The primary election process was instituted as a means for allowing the electorate to have some influence on the choice of Presidential candidates . Senator Humphrey 's strategy , which has the effect of negating that influence , displays a contempt for such democratic procedures , It will he quite depressing if the Democratic ? convention nominates a man who neither won nor even entered a single Presidential primary . EMMErT BARCALOW Caldwell , N. J. , April 4 , 1976 ? To Kill a Person ... To the Editor : Solicitor General Robert H. Bork is quoted ( news story April 1 ) as arguing before the Supreme Court that capital punishment should he reinstituted on the grounds that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other way . " If the point is that you can deter these criminals by killing other criminals , the claim is dubious . Criminals think no more rationally about their Inns-run interest than do persons living over the San Andreas fault or in the vicinity of Soviet nuclear targets . And for the few who do , there is likely an equal number of unstable persons seeking notoriety or self-punishment for whom capital punishment is an incentive to crime . lf , on the other hand , the point is ? as Mr. Bork seems to have intended ? that it is the criminal himself who is deterred by his own death , then this is a confusion . To be deterred is not simply to he prevented from doing something , it is to he prevented by considerations which lead one to choose not to do that thing . And this , of course , presupposes a continuing life . To kill a person is thus not only not to deter him , it is to remove the very possibility of his being deterred ( not to mention rehabilitated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 , 1976 ? Postal Panacea To the Editor : The budgetary problems of the United States Postal Service , described in your April 3 editorial , might simply he resolved if they just . eliminated mail collections and increased charges for non-delivery . JEFFREY Er.t.ts AaosoN New York , April 5 , 1976 The Times welcomes letters from renders . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters . The Egyptian Pendulum To the Editor : When Secretary of State John Foster Dulles refused to underwrite the Aswan High Dam in 1956 , Abdel Kamal " did a Nasser " on the U.S. and turned to the Soviet Union , which for obvious reasons was happy to accommodate him . The $300 million dam proved a costly venture . It was only the tip . The iceberg itself came later in the form of $12 billion in military supplies and credits  --  all down the drain . When , after twenty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs , the Russians finally said " enough , " Anwar " did a Sadat " on the Soviet Union and turned to the U.S. , which for obvious reasons was happy to take him back . When will the pendulum swing back again ? When will ' saw " follow " see " ? When will Anwar " dn a Sadat " on the U.S. ? Presumably when the American cow has been milked dry and the Russians have recovered from their losses . And what should he the lesson of all this ? As far as the U.S. is concerned : Tread carefully , pay-as-yougo . As far as Israel is concerned : Not to he distracted from long-range politico-military strategy by short-range tactical maneuvers as executed by the other side . Carry the big stick for all In see . BERTHOLD WYLER Geneva , March 31 , 1976 ? Before Detente To the Editor : Before we gn overboard with antidetente campaign rhetoric , it might be useful to recall what life was like in the early fifties after Churchill made his Fulton ( Mo. ) " iron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bomb shelters soon sprang up across the nation spawning a brand-new industry , . Housewives frantically stocked up on canned goods on the advice of ubiquitous Civil Defense officials , whose useless air-raid warning centers still dot the land . A television news program graphically described the mood of Westerners standing armed guard over their new bomb shelters and threatening to shoot anyone who attempted to share their " survival kits . " Do we really want a return to that kind of hysteria ? Granted that detente has not brnught friendship with tho . Soviet Union . Whn aver said it wet supposed to ? Detente , after all is not entente . S. DRUCKER Bath , N. Y ? April 4. 197Q                     