@@730164

txt President Nixon 's decision to mine North Vietnamese ports and to step up the bombing of supply routes poses myriad questions , ranging from the future of U.S.-Soviet-Chinese relations and the prospects for confrontation to the outcome of the battle for Hue . The broader questions are : ? How immune is the U.S. Seventh Fleet to counterattack ? ? How great are the risks of a local So- viet , Chinese , and U.S. military confrontation ? ? How great are the risks of more general U.S.-Soviet confrontations in areas such as the Middle East and Central Europe ? As at the time of the Cuban quarantine , the U.S. Navy had almost complete local superiority in the South China Sea . Apart from a possible Soviet submarine threat there is very little the Russians , the Chinese , or the North Vietnamese can do in the short run to prevent ' active use of U.S. military power . If the U.S. decided to use the Seventh Fleet and land-based tactical air power against all military and quasi-military targets in North Vietnam , the effect could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its allies would have to come from elsewhere . // *Scholar-strategist assesses how Moscow , Peking may answer Nixon The North Vietnamese can , of course , counter the U.S. escalation by pushing forward in the south . The Chinese and the Russians are in a more difficult position . Soviet , Chinese options The Chinese could presumably put troops into South Vietnam , though this can hardly be in Soviet or North Vietnamese interests . The Soviet Union could heat up the conflict in the Middle East , or even put pressure on West Berlin . But the indications are that there is little they could do in the Middle East except to become directly involved themselves , since Israel and the United States have local superiority . In Europe , a move against Berlin would immediately torpedo the prospect for d ? - tente with West Germany and throw to the wind Moscow 's carefully prepared European policy . The Soviet Union wants a SALT agreement , a European security settlement , and a greater trade with the West . The Soviet Union 's security nightmare is increasing instability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It can be speculated that the Soviet Union would stand to gain in terms of its broad interests by eventually accommodating U.S. wishes on Vietnam ? especially since the President 's terms for settlement are generous . Moscow stands to lose Although the Soviet Union may decide to postpone the summit meeting , it stands to lose a great deal if it pursues an intransigent attitude and attempts to capitalize on Mr. Nixoh 's humiliation over the performance of the South Vietnamese Army . On the ground in South Vietnam , it would seem that the success of the North Vietnamese Army can be explained by two major factors : 1 . Their ability ? to sustain the use of heavy artillery and armor against the South Vietnamese Army . 2 . Their superior discipline and general infantry tactics have cast serious doubts on the ability of the South Vietnamese Army to fight . Consequently it is important to know how many artillery shells the North Vietnamese have stockpiled in Cambodia and in and around the DMZ . Similarly , if they intend to use heavy armor in the push against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil , lubricants ) are a crucial factor . Stockpile questioned If local stockpiles are extensive , then it is quite feasible for the North Vietnamese Army to proceed to make further dramatic gains in the south , although it should be noted that the longer their lines of communication , the more vulnerable they will be to intervention . If , however , the stockpiles of ammunition and POL are low , resupply from the north is essential and vulnerability to the latest U.S. actions is increased . It is much more difficult to keep a squadron of tanks replenished than a battalion of infantry soldiers . If supplies for armor and artillery are vulnerable to greater interdiction , the North Vietnamese may decide either to dig in and consolidate their present positions in the south , or else to make a final push for Hue and other targets before U.S. escalation takes its toll . If they exercise either of these options it will be extremely difficult to remove them . Only the South Vietnamese Army can do that , and the record of the past few weeks suggests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stakes involved It can be argued that North Vietnamese Vo Nguyen Giap is as much a poker player as is President Nixon , and that he , too , is gambling with very high stakes . The North Vietnamese have prepared for the current offensive for many years , suggesting that stockpiles are fairly high , especially for ammunition . It can be speculated that the primary purpose of the offensive was to test the will of the South Vietnamese Army to fight and thereby cast doubt on the present policy of Vietnamization . However , the very success of the North Vietnamese left Mr. Nixon with no realistic military option except escalation . Thus , irrespective of the situation in the south , the escalation has changed the whole nature of the war .                     