@@733790

txt Scientists at Princeton University who are working toward harnessing nuclear fusion to make electric power have indeed had a noteworthy laboratory success . But it is not the " breakthrough " or " major milestone " that was reported over the weekend . Public affairs officers for the U.S. Department of Energy , ? which supports that research , say the DOE is both puzzled and embarrassed at what it considers an unauthorized and overblown announcement of the Princeton work . At this writing , DOE was preparing a press conference to set the Princeton achievement in perspective . Meanwhile , Jim Bishop , director of DOE 's office of public affairs , explained that the Princeton work should be recognized as significant without going overboard and calling it a " breakthrough " in which fusion has been demonstrated in the laboratory , as misguided early reports suggested . The scientific feasibility of igniting a self-sustaining fusion reaction in the laboratory has- not yet been demonstrated , Mr. Bishop said . However , the Princeton achievement has greatly strengthened the judgment of fusion researchers that this can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done is to confirm that the theoretical basis of one particular approach to fusion is on the right track . This approach uses magnetic forces to confine the hot reacting gas ( called a plasma ) . The version of magnetic confinement being followed at Princeton and in many other laboratories around the world is embodied in a machine called a tokamak. // Model of Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor Hardware for next step In fusion researcn From page . 1 DOE : Fusion power decades oft To ignite a self-sustaining fusion reaction in a tokamak requires heating a hydrogen plasma of adequate density to something near 60 million degrees C. and holding it together long enough to produce more energy than has to be supplied to get the fusion reaction going . A tokamak called Alcator at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has come close to the right combination of density and confinement time . But the temperature was too low . Now , in their tokamak , Princeton researchers have brought the plasma to 60 million degrees C. But their density-confinement combination is too low . Combining the MIT and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a scaling law that enables them to predict how the hydrogen plasma should behave as tokamaks are improved . Design target exceeded Another aspect of the Princeton achievement is the fact that , in reaching the 60 million degree plasma condition , their tokamak ( called the Princeton Large Torus , or PLT ) exceeded its design specifications . This strengthens expectation that a new tokamak being built at Princeton should come close to igniting a self-sustaining fusion reaction , if not acutally doing so . Mr. Bishop points out that it is hard to forecast whether or not there will actually be more energy produced than has to be put in to keep the fusion reaction running . This new machine ? the Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor ( TFTR ) ? is designed to enable scientists to test out plasma conditions , construction materials , and other factors that must be known to begin development work toward a practical power-producing fusion reactor . Years of work ahead Such a reactor is still many years away . And any commercial fusion power plant is decades away . Mr. Bishop emphasized that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it probably wo n't shorten the time scale or the cost of fusion power development . Indeed , scientists are still many years away from knpwing what the best route to practical fusion power may be . That is why they are following a number of approaches . Besides Tokamaks , there are other versions of Magnetic confinement devices . Also , in a quite different approach called inertial confinement , fusion is induced in pellets of hydrogen fuel by compressing them with high-intensity laser beams . A recent review of the U.S. fusion program by an ad hoc committee warned that the program now puts too much emphasis on tokamaks , which account for 60 percent of the magnetic fusion budget . It notes that a practical fusion reactor may never evolve from a tokamak , which is a complex and cumbersome machine . The review urged more diversity of effort in the program . Thus , important though it is , the Princeton achievement has to be seen as just one scientific advance in one aspect of a multi-pronged research program . And , at this stage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ultimately will succeed .                     