@@731790

txt Key Senate Democrats have agreed on a plan aimed at allowing a vote on a bill that would stop President Ford from imposing increased import fees on oil . The arrangement , designed to thwart a possible filibuster , has been worked out between Senator Russell B. Long , chairman of the Senate Finance Committee , a Louisiana Democrat who tends to favor the Administration 's oil program , and a group of liberal Democrats , led by Edward M. Kennedy of Massachu-1 setts , who want to block the President . Under the agreement , if it works out as intended , the Senate would be assured of a chance to vote on a bill that would revoke the $1-a-barrel import fee imposed by President Ford and keep him from making any other change in oil import fees for 90 days . President 's Goal Mr. Ford wants the increase so that the price of petroleum products will rise and consumption of these products will be discouraged . Democrats who oppose the fee want time to work out their own program to reduce the nation 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the President's-power to change oil-import fees has already passed the House . News of the arrangements worked out between Senator Long and the Kennedy group came as the Finance Committee took testimony on the matter today from the Secretary of the Treasury , William E. Simon , and the energy administrator , Frank G. Zarb . Reimbursing Farmers Among the relatively few new points to emerge from the hearing was a disclosure that Mr. Ford has told the energy agency to figure out a way to reimburse farmers for the increased costs of fuel that they would bear because of the President 's energy program . The reimbursement would extend only to farmers ' off-theroad use of fuel , Mr. Zarb said . They would have to bear the increased costs of gasoline for their cars like everyone else . Neither Mr. Zarb nor Mr. Simon gave any concrete answers to suggestions from several Senators about Itow or whether the Government intended to try to offset higher energy costs for hospitals , universities and other nontaxable // institutions . Taxable individuals and business would have some or all of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Senators Long and Kennedy involves bringing the 90-day suspension bill to the Senate floor ahead of the mandatory legislation increasing the statutory debt ceiling . In exchange for his promise ' to bring up the oil-import fee bill first , Senator Long drew from the Kennedy group a commitment that it would not try to attach tax-reduction or taxreform measures to the debt ceiling bill . That has been a favorite strategy of Senate taxreformers in the past . During his testimony , Mr. Simon got into extended debates with several Senators about the impact of the President 's energy program on the price level . The Administration has insisted that the price increase would not exceed 2 per cent . A number of private economists and economic research organizations including Data Resources , Inc. , of Lexington , Mass. , have put the figure much higher . Mr. Simon said that Data Resources had withdrawn its forecast that the price rise would be 4 per cent . " They cranked in the wrong numbers , " he said . " They now agree with us that the price effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eric Herr , an economist with Data Resources , said in a telephone interview that Mr. Simon 's statement " is false . " He said that Data Resources had done a separate exercise for a different purpose , using a model of the economy ' that was not designed to disclose all the secondary effects of the energy program . This , he said , had yielded a price-incerase figure of 2 per cent . But the organization is standing by its original 4 per cent figure as the right figure when all the ramifying effects are counted in , he said . Senator Walter F. Mondale of Minnesota and several other Democrats , including Senator Long , asked Mr. Simon and Mr. Zarb whether it was really wise for the Administration to try to force a cutback in oil consumption of one million barrels a dav by the end of this year . ' Senator Mondale said this would be " very dangerous economically " and challenged Mr. Simon to name a single economist outside the Administration who supported the Ford energy program . After a couple of long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Simon replied , the third time the Senator repeated the question , " Alan Greenspan . " " He 's no longer with the Government ? " Senator Mondale asked , amid laughter . Mr. Greenspan is chairman of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers . ? Filibuster in Doubt WASHINGTON , Feb. 10 ( AP ) ? Republican who support President Ford 's energy program apparently have discarded plans to wage an all-out filibuster against a bill blocking the $3-a-barrel special tax on imported oil for 90 days . Senator Clifford P. Hansen . Republican of Wyoming , said the better strategy probably would be for backers of the President 's plan to let the bill pass , with every expectation that Mr. Ford will veto it . The big battle then would come as Democrats in both houses sought to gather the required two-thirds to override the veto .                     