@@728402

txt The jury of 10 women and 2 men in the conspiracy trial will meet again today at 9:30 a. m. in an effort to reach a verdict , after deliberating for 10 hours yesterday . They are decinding the fate of seven men charged with conspiracy during the 1968 Democratic national convention . The jury , which has watched over the often hectic activities of the 100-day trial , was given the responsibility of reaching a verdict by Judge Julius J. Hoffman at 12:20 p. m. yesterday , after the judge read them instructions for more than two hours . Return to Hotel After deliberating in the Federal building until late last night , the jurors were excused to return to their rooms in the Palmer House . When the jurors received their instructions from Judge Hoffman , they were taken to the jury room , unaware of the contempt findings being delivered by the judge in the courtroom they had just left . They were told only that their duty was to deliberate on the charges that the defendants conspired to incite riots in Au gust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is charged with two counts under a 1968 law . They face penalties of $10,000 fines and five years in prison on each count . The instructions , the last regular order of business in the trial , which began on Sept. 24 , were read in a locked and tightly guarded court . Deputy f eder al marshals searched every spectator , in // Marathon Riot 7 Trial Goes to Jury for Verdict 10 WOMEN , 2 MEN WEIGHING 100-DAY CASE Doors Locked at Final Session // eluding reporters who had covered the trial since it began . Small Crowd Gathers More than 100 persons gathered outside the Federal building , some arriving as early as 5 a. m. , but only a few were a 11 o w e d in the courtroom . Crowds were barred from the lobby of the building and the plaza outside . ? Smaller groups of sympathizers continued to mill about the Federal building thruout the day , but there were no disturbances . By last night , only a few persons remained for the " vigil . " William Kunstler , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instructions that members of the defendants ' , families had been harred from the courtroom . At first , the judge said he had no jurisdiction over the administration of security in the courtroom , and said , " There is nothing that permits members of a defendant 's family to disrupt the trial . " Peace Is Promised Later , however , after Kunstler assured him there would be no disruptions , the judge allowed the family members to enter the room . While the judge read his list of instructions , the doors to the courtroom were closed and no one was allowed to enter or leave . There were no disruptions during his presentation . In his charge to the jury , Judge Hoffman outlined the law under " which the defendants were being tried and explained that there were several verdicts they might reach . Alternate Verdicts Outlined He said the jury could find all of the defendants guilty or innocent of one or both counts under the indictment . Also , hej said , each defendant could be found guilty or innocent separately , of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must consider in deciding if there had been a conspiracy by the defendants to cause the convention disorders . " The government need not prove that the conspiracy was accomplished , or that the substantive , crimes were committed , " , he said . He said that to prove that a conspiracy did exist , the government did not have to show that a defendant knew all of the other members of that conspiracy . Another Aspect Noted Also , he said , the government does not have the obli , gation to show that all of the defendants had knowledge of all the acts cited as parts of the conspiracy . " The government must show only that each defendant was aware of the common purposes of the conspiracy and accepted those purposes , " he said . " The government must show each defendant willfully entered the conspiracy and accepted its goals . " If you find that a conspiracy existed and that one of the overt acts alleged was performed by any of the defendants , then proof of the conspiracy is complete . " However , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the acts and statements of the other alleged conspirators unless a conspiracy was established by the government . The judge told the jurors to consider the constitutional rights of individuals , but told them , " The Constitution does not protect that which is reasonably calculated to incite violation of the law . " In an apparent reference to the frequent disorders during the trial , the judge said , " Federal judges are not referees of Iprize fights . " He Enters a Caution " You must not be influenced by any antagonism you may have to the defendants , their dress , their demeanor . " The judge told the jurors it was their obligation to consider the guilt or innocence of the defendants under the law , and should not act as judges of the law itself . " You have no right to question the wisdom of any rules of law , " he said . Before giving his instructions to the jurors , he thanked them for their lengthy service . " Most Attentive , Alert " He commended them for being " most attentive , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excused the two alter nate jurors who had watched the trial activities but could not take part in reaching the verdict . Excused were Mrs. Wafer M. Fisher , 5336 Calumet ay. , and MO ... Helen W. Leland of 2948 Nelson st . The first act of the jurors in their deliberations was to chose a foreman to preside over the discussions of the verdict . Altho a foreman generally is a man , the judge has indicated that because there are only two men on the jury , a woman foreman may be chosen for the job . The judge indicated that , if necessary , he would allow the jurors to deliberate until 10 p. m . If necessary , he said , he would allow them to deliberate today , even tho it is a Sunday . The jurors have been sequestered since Oct. 1 and they will remain locked up while they deliberate .                     