@@731505

txt President Ford 's promise to review the question of amnesty will bring renewed hope to a small group of Americans in Sweden who have felt " forgotten " for the past few years . These are the 285 American deserters who came to Sweden during the Vietnam war and have been living here ever since . Humphrey J. , who was wounded in a Viet Cong-rigged explosion of an American claymore mine in Vietnam , says he " would give his right arm to go home . " " What has Ford got to lose ? " said Jim K. , American college graduate and conscientious objector now permanently resident in Gothenburg . " Letting 300 sorry GI 's come back ca n't affect America 's war machine . Anyway , saying ' no ' to warmaking is the big idea in the world these days , so were we so wrong ? " This attitude of wry semi-contrition combined with a longing to be able to start a new life back home is general among the ex-servicemen interviewed in Sweden since Gerald R. Ford became President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , dropouts , petty criminals , and just plain scared kids . They began arriving in Swedenin 1966 . The influx reached its height in 1968 . No new deserters are known to have entered Sweden since early 1973 . Actual survivors of hostilities in the Far East are very few . Humphrey J. was being treated in an American service hospital in Germany when he decided to make the break . He made his way to Denmark by hitchhiking . Other deserters from American bases in Germany have come by train , commercial plane , or in their own cars . From Denmark it is a short ferry crossing to Sweden . Expenses on the way were in some cases defrayed by an ( unpublicized ) German leftist organization . Once in the southern Swedish city of Malmo the men found no trouble in striking up conversation with sympathizers who as often as not advisee them to seek out student and activist-protest groups in the nearby university city of Lund . A number of the deserters still live in Lund , but the majority have drifted to Stockholm . Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cope with a foreign way of life . Many others have learned the Swedish language and found permanent jobs . But some , unable or unwilling to adapt and conform , have drifted into petty crime ? or more serious offenses . During 1968-69 there were 12 // *Deserters eye new climate // ? American deserters in prison in Malmo on narcotics charges . Three are doing time in Swedish or Danish prisons for involvement in the 1969 murder of a Finnish drug peddler in Copenhagen . Jim K. of Gothenburg lives in a comfortable apartment and has a good job . His parents came from the United States to visit him and , after some initial reluctance , came to agree that he had made the right move . " In the same situation , he says , he would do it again . In the beginning the official Swedish Government attitude was one of complete acceptance . The deserters were provided with food , lodging , money , and jobs . The Swedish man in the street was always more critical , suspecting the motives of those who reject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has been " more than accepted by the Swedish people . " Now that the Vietnam war is over for the United States the official attitude has changed . Ted N. , formerly employed by the Swedish " televerket " ( telephone , telegraph , state radio ) , presently out of work , says the official stance is now one of " indifference . " From having welcomed the deserters with open arms at a time of strained Swedish-U.S. relations and vigorous Swedish criticism of American involvement in Southeast Asia , Sweden has come to regard its uninvited guests with less sympathy . But to date no American deserter has been deported . A majority of American deserters in Sweden have no formal higher education and , in a country where even educated nationals have difficulty in finding work ( holders of university doctor 's degrees take high-school substitute teaching jobs ) , many deserters have remained unemployed .                     