@@733089

txt How can the arms race between the two superpowers be checked when military weapons are the Soviet Union 's almost exclusive means of projecting power abroad ? Fifteen Atlantic allies , including President Carter , will wrestle with this question , among others , at their semiannual ministerial meeting here May 10 and 11 . Can the Soviet Union ? they will be exploring ? be coaxed away from its almost total reliance on military means of projecting its power ? This reliance is seen as one of the main destabilizing elements in a world struggling to achieve a better balance between poverty and wealth , resources and consumption . The leaders of the seven-nation weekend summit and of the NATO summit following it are conscious of the urgency of the question . They want , on the one hand , to bring Moscow into a more participative relationship with themselves on matters of global concern . But as a warning they issued on Berlin shows , they are fully aware of the need to forestall any Soviet challenge in the military field . They are therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and defiance . It could backfire at any time . But they see no realistic alternative if they are to break out of a superpower and global relationship too long entrapped in sus , picion and fear . The NATO summit began May 9 with the traditional four-power meeting on Berlin . Mr. Carter met with President Giscard d'Estaing of France , Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of West Germany , and Prime Minister James Callaghan of Britain fora 21/2-hour discussion that ranged widely over East-West issues . Not much time was spent on Berlin itself , conference sources indicated , because the situation has been generally stable since Britain , France , and the United States signed the so-called Quadripartite Agreement on Berlin with the Soviet Union in 1972 . Nevertheless , the Quadripartite Declaration on Berlin which followed the Downing Street summit May 9 noted solemnly that " d ? tente would be seriously threatened " if the Soviet Union did not respect Berlin 's special status , reaffirmed in the 1972 agreement . This warning contrasts with the more cordial tone of the seven-nation economic summit President Carter attended over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plus Canada , // From page 1 . West 's Soviet strategy ? invitation , defiance Italy , and Japan , invited the Comecon countries ? that is , the East Europeans including the Soviet Union ? to join with them in increased aid to the developing countries . The contrast shows two sides of the same coin in dealings with the Soviet Union . On the one hand , d ? tente implies increasing cooperation in managing the affairs of the world . Dialogue with the developing countries , aid flows thereto , and the devising of a more equitable international economic order are important aspects of global management . But the adversary relationship with the Soviet Union continues , and NATO will have to look to its defenses so long as the Allies feel threatened by Moscow 's seemingly inexorable military buildup . West Germany and Berlin need periodic reassurances on this score . Underlining France 's ambivalent position within NATO , President Giscard left London immediately after the four-power Berlin talks without staying on for the 15-nation summit May 10 . France is a full-fledged member politically of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military structure . For Mr. Carter , the Atlantic summit will complete his first trip . abroad since entering the White House . It rounds out a busy five-day tour that brought him to London for a seven-nation summit of the Western industrialized democracies , to Geneva for a talk on Middle East issues with President Hafez al-Assad of Syria , and to Newcastle in northeast England for a sentimental journey to the home of George Washington 's British forebears .                     