@@729293

txt Imagine it . The perfect car . It is small and lightweight , easy to maneuver and park . It 's practically silent , yet has all the pep and power of any of today 's big cars . And it costs a mere fraction of what current cars cost to operate . What 's more , no pollution of any kind comes out of its tailpipe . Indeed , it does n't even have a tailpipe . What powers this new miracle car ? Electric batteries ? A steam engine ? An exotic chemical fuel cell ? Wrong on all counts , friends . It 's a wind-up car . That 's right . A small group of scientists is currently conducting studies that they 're convinced will lead to hordes of adult-sized windup cars humming around cities and suburbs in future years without the slightest trace of fumes . And despite the complete rejection of their idea by an amused auto establishment here , they 've already won a $190,000 government contract to help them prove it can be done . Though they have n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's no question they are serious . " Every day this concept looks better and better , which usually does n't happen in this kind of research , " enthuses David W. Rabenkiorst , supervisor of special projects for Johns Hopkins University 's applied physics laboratory in Silver Spring , Md . " We 've proved the principle already and are anxious to get on with the hardware engineering , " he says . No Big Brass Rey Being a scholarly sort , Mr. Rabenhorst discourages the comparison of his pollution-free car concept with a child 's toy . For example , he insists there 'll be no big brass keys sticking out of the backs of his wind-up cars . And , in fact , in describing the system he studiously avoids the phrase " wind-up car " in favor of the more impressive sounding term " flywheel energy storage . " But a description of Mr. Rabenhorst 's system makes one thing clear : It is a wind-up car . The principle is identical to the one behind the dime-store model car that is wound up by some brisk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to zoom about the room . It 's just that Mr. Rabenhorst 's version is a bit more sophisticated and a lot more efficient . The grown-up wind-up would contain a large free-spinning disc , or flywheel , to store the energy needed to drive the car . When not in use , such as during the night , the car would be connected to an electrical outlet and a small electric motor would gradually spin the heavy flywheel up to very high speeds , or wind it up . Then to drive the car , the owner would merely unplug it and throw a switch that would allow the spinning motion of the flywheel to be gradually converted back into electricity that would in turn drive the car 's wheels . The flywheel would slow down , or unwind , after up to 110 miles of driving or so and would stop generating enough electricity to run the car . It would then have to be spun back up again during a 20-minute rewind . Simplicity Itself It is so simple that as far as Mr. Rabenhorst and his Johns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unbeatable . For ont thing , the car would n't carry any kind of fuel on board , so there 'd be no burning , no exhaust and thus no pollution . On top of that , it would be amazingly cheap to run , Mr. Rabenhorst says , costing about one-tenth of a cent per mile , compared with about two cents a mile in gasoline costs for current cars . It would be reliable , he claims , since the wind-up power system would have relatively few moving parts and needs no transmission , clutch , drive shaft , starting system , fuel system or ignition system . The elimination of all these parts , in turn , would save weight , which means a small two or three-passenger wind-up car could be built that would - still have enough pickup to stay even with a large-engined Detroit behemoth belching away from traffic lights . Top speed would be in the vicinity of 70 miles per hour , enough for freeway cruising . In fact , there seems to be only one over-riding problem : the automobile makers think the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Ford Motot Co. ? has even visited Mr. Rabenhorst 's labs . Engineers at General Motors Corp . say one look at the flywheel power concept on paper was enough to cause them to rule it out as an alternative to today 's auto ertgines . " It just wo n't work , " . anorts one top GM engineer . " Anyone pursuing that course is unfortunately misplacing his energies . " Mr. Rabenhorst , of course , challenges that view . " It 's already been done , " he counters . And it 's true that flyWheel power has been used for Some . 5,000 *years in such varied jobs as driving , machinery , starting aircraft engines and prottelling military torpedoes . In the 19508 , he says , a Swiss company built a wind-up , or flywheel-driven , locomotive and a fleet of 35-seat urban bilges powered by flywheels . Though less sophisticated than Mr. Rebenhorst 's " - proposed eat ! , , the Wiles ran regular routes-in some SWiss and African cities daily for more thaira decade , be says , clearly proving The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with these buses was inefficiency . They required a quick 30-second " rewind " at bus stops every half mile or so . ) Unsafe and Dirty ? But auto makers contend the flywheel concept is a patently unsafe idea . To develop the required power , the 222-pound flywheel in Mr. Rabenhorst 's car would be whirling so fast its outer edge would be moving at more than 2,000 miles an hour , or three times the speed of sound . Detroit engineers say they get the willies thinking about a flywheel traveling at that speed breaking loose from its moorings , as they contend could happen in a traffic collision . Mr. Rabenhorst scoffs at such fears . He points to engineering papers that indicate flywheel failures in the Swiss buses were rare , even in traffic accidents , and when they occurred they were noisy but generally harmless . He says in laboratory tests his new super-flywheel disintegrates in bits and pieces without danger , rather than in a violent explosion . We have high hopes of making the system completely failsafe , " he adds . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a car would help solve pollution problems . Wind-up cars would n't eliminate air pollution , they charge , but simply move it from the city street to the powerhouse smokestack . Some suggest that a switch to wind-up cars would even increase air pollution . They note the energy to spin the cars ' flywheels up in the first place is electricity , and the creation of vast amounts of additional electric power for this job could mean a sharp increase in pollution from electric generating stations . Mr. Rabenhorst disputes that . He contends there is more hope of controlling power station fumes concentrated in one spot than of controlling countless individual cars . And , he says , electric generating stations can be intentionally located in low-pollution areas , while cars spew out exhaust everywhere they go . He sees this aspect in particular a boon to urban areas now choked by automobile emissions . A Few Obstacles Of course , Mr. Rabenhorst concedes some problems . Since no one has even started to build a prototype of his wind-up car , its success depends on some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " super-flywheel " itself , composed of a new generation of high-strength materials , and another is a hermetically sealed vacuum chamber inside which the flywheel will whirl , transmitting its motion to the outside through an as-yet-untested magnetic coupling . All these problems must be solved with readily available , nonexotic materials and simple manufacturing methods , he admits , or else costs of a wind-up car would soar , making all other arguments academic . But he 's still undaunted . " This is the ideal urban car , " he says . " That is where the greatest pollution problems are . Right now we do n't expect i. to replace the big gasoline-burning car that the family takes from here to California . " But since some 20% of the country 's cars are concentrated in a dozen or so major cities , filling urban streets with wind.up cars is no small goal . Though Detroit engineers currently poohpooh the idea of wind-up cars , there 's some cause for optimism from other quarters . For example , Mr. Rabenhorst says the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and San Francisco might try them on some electric buses . In both cases they would supplement rather than replace electric motors , but could provide experience useful in the future , Mr. Rabenhorst believes . Some non-Detroit automotive pollution experts have at least been keeping an eye on Mr. Rabenhorst 's progress , too . One is Ernest S. Starkman , noted former engineering professor and a past adviser to both California and federal auto pollution regulators . Rating alternate automotive power systems recently as to promise on a declining scale from 10 , he gave flywheels a " 4 " ? behind steam engines , electrics and turbines , but not completely out of contention . Mr. Markman has since been named vice president for environmental affairs for GM . It is n't known if that appointment will have any bearing on the future of Mr. Rabenhorst 's wind-up car .                     