@@731404

txt Divided , confused and frustrated , the Democratic State Committee finally designated Mario M. Cuomo of Queens , as the party 's official candidate for Lieutenant Governor yesterday . But at the same time , it insured a three-way fight for the notPination in the Sept .. 10 primary after three ballots spread dyer . seven often tumultuous hours . Assemblyman Antonio G. Olivieii of Manhattan and State Senator Mary Anne Krupsak of Canajoharie , were automatically assured of places on the primary ballot as they received at least the i25 per cent , minimum vote on at least ( the ballot . Senator Krupsak will be the first woman to run for a major party nomination for a statewide office . In a stunning surprise , Rockland County District Attorney ' Robert Meehan was designated for the Attorney General nomination , defeating the early fa . vorite , Bronx Borough President Robert Abrams . However , Mr. Abrams qualified for the September primary with 44.3 per cent of the committee vote . Mr. ' Meehan got 55.7 per cent . The committee , turning har ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' the powerful Brooklyn Democratic leader , that even his momentary absence from the floor was able to upset the state , Democratic designating convention here ? leading to the collapse of a deal to give an upstate Assemblyman the party 's designation for Lieutenant Governor . It was the latest demonstration of Mr. Esposito 's political power , so patent that it can prevail even when people Merely suspect that he is exercising it . Before the convention formally got under way , Mr , Esposito had puzzled people who watch politics by acting to fashion a quiet coalition behind Howard J. Samuels for the party 's nomination for Governor rather than fox his fellow Brooklyn resident , Representative Hugh L. Carey . Why , people wondered , had Mr. Esposito made that move ? It is a persistent political question . Many politicians cloak what they are going to do in mystery but Mr. Esposito 's maneuverings are so intricate that , after he does something , people still wonder why . And so today , when the made no move at all , people instantly suspected that his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was 12:29 P.M. and , to sporadic groans and angry interjections , vote by vote , in a clear female voice of " deal . . . deal , " the regular Democrats of Queens had de . livered some of the agreednoon votes for AsspnThlvman Cuomo Named for Lieutenant Governor man John J. LaFalce of Kenmore for the post , . and the Brooklyn Democratic leader , Meade H. Esposito , supported Mr. Cuomo , the Queens lawyer who fashioned the Forest Hills and Corona housing compromises . The dissension could also come back to haunt Mr. Samuels and the party during the summer as three Democrats , one of them a woman , vied for the Lieutenant Governor nomination . While Mr. Samuels said that his hands off attitude showed democracy in action , some , other Democrats said that it showed a lack of leadership . During at least part of the seven-hour tumult , Mr. Samuels lay on a bed in a luxurious motor home that served as a Samuels hospitality center and headquarters in another part of the huge convention hall . He had slept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispute over a Lieutenant Governor designee , and he was also suffering from a lower-back infection for which he had been treated twice at a local hospital in the last two days . Mr. Samuels ' preference had been Westchester County Excutive Alfred B. Del Bello , but Mr. Del Bello refused to run because he had just been elected to his county post last November. , Caught in the competing pressures of Mr. Crangle , Mr. Esposito , Matthew J. Troy Jr. , the Queens leader , and the New Democratic Coalition , which was urging Mr. Samuels not to take a stand , Mr. Samuels decided to stay neutral . The coalition had endorsed Mr. Olivieri , but many of its mem bers were also backing Senator Krupsak.                     