@@732800

txt Government reorganization , which Jimmy Carter has rated a " top priority . " may provide the new President his first real test . More than two months before his inauguration the political wheels are being - greased for the task of streamlining the federal bureaucracy . The President-Elect his bipartisan commitment from some key lawmakers with whom he must work , some detailed plans of his own , and a statutory deadline which ensures at least partial action in the incoming administration 's first year . But entrenched opposition in Congress and the bureaucracy itself as well as the checkered history of reorganization plans guarantee that there will be resistance . Half a dozen such master plans have foundered in this century ? most recently President Richard Nixon 's proposals in 1971 to consolidate the Cabinet departments and in 1973 to shuffle energy agencies . Early action for the Carter administration is required , however , in one area : energy . The two-year-old Federal Energy Administration ( FEA ) expires late next year , forcing the White House and Congress to collaborate // From page-1 *Reorganization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation 's energy problems . Outgoing President Ford must submit a reorganization proposal to Con-. congress by the end of this year . Even before the new President takes office or the new Congress convenes there is an unusually high level of agreement on the urgency of energy reorganization and the shape it may take . Specific blueprints have been drafted by both Mr. Carter and the leaders of the Senate committee that will process the legislation  --  and they contain striking similarities . The President-Elect , Government Operations Committee chairman Abraham A. Ribicoff ( D ) of Connecticut , and ranking Republican Charles H. Percy of Illinois all propose merging scattered energy functions into a new Cabinet-level department . Groundwork laid They even describe the need for energy reorganization in similar terms . Mr. Carter calls Washington 's handling of energy problems " a crime against the American people . " Senator Percy says : " We will be failing the country and future generations if we do n't streamline and rationalize the decisionmaking structure in the executive branch for energy and natural resource issues . " The incoming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of reorganizing much of the rest of the federal bureaucracy . Committees in both houses have been exhaustively studying reform of the regulatory agencies for the past year . A House of Representatives commerce subcommittee , chaired by Rep. John E. Moss ( D ) of California , issued a preliminary ( and highly critical ) report last month . The Senate Government Operations and Commerce Committees will release their report by year 's end . An important reorganization tool ? " sunset " legislation forcing many federal spending programs to automatically expire unless periodically reauthorized ? is expected to be enacted by the new Congress after being lost in the closing crush of the last Congress . The President-Elect pledged during his campaign to reduce Washington 's " horrible bureaucratic mess " by some 1,900 agencies to no more than 200 . As governor of Georgia , he cut state agencies from nearly 300 to 22.                     