@@734428

txt THE PRESENT SYSTEM of managing Cook County Hospital does n't work and probably will have to be changed , Gov . Thompson said Friday in a press conference in the Palmer House . Questioned by reporters about the hospital 's financial crisis , following a speech before the annual meeting of the Civic Federation , the governor said , " Maybe the hospital will have to be put back under the control of the County Board , or affiliated with a university , or 1 NJ operated by a private management corporation . " I do n't know which would be best , but I do know that the longterm solution to the hospital 's problems lies in changing the present management system . " 111 He said that as the hospital now operates , " no one O accountable to anyone , and they do n't even show their financial books to anyone . " The hospital has struggled to meet its last two payrolls . Thompson was angered by the actions of some staff members who wheeled patients out of the hospital emergency MOM Wednesday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Hospital . -I FIND THESE actions repreheml. ble , " he said . " Some of the medical staff of late has been engaging more in demagoguery and rhetoric than in the practice of medicine . " If they think they are going to move me or George Dunne County Board president ) or the General Assembly by such tactics , they are sadly mistaken . " Dunne earlier had told a reporter he found the actions of the staff members participating in the Wednesday demonstration to be " disgusting . " " It is time for a change . They have lost control and it is now a runaway operation , " he said . Thompson said the state O up-to-date in its Medicaid payments to the hospital , that Medicaid fee rules can not be liberalized for one hospital alone , and that " any more money , it it is to be forthcoming , must come from the legislature . " ? Earlier in - the deo. , John Hadley , vMairman of the Cook Courtly Health and Hospitals Governing Commission , charged that the crisis at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to force the return of the facility to the County Board 's control . HE SAID THE COUNTY has turned over only a42 million of the $53 million in tax twirls due the hospital in the fiscal year ending Nov. 30 and that the commission will declare a state of emergency to enable the county to spend beyond its present budget Ittnit to help the hospital . The commission was created by the General Assembly In 1969 , and through further legislation in 1970 , was given complete control over hospital operations following allegations by some hospital staff members that the County Board was mismanaging the hospital . Hadley said the commission also will sue to abolish the limit on its property tax levy , which restricts the amount of tax money the governing commission can collect . fie said that because of the county 's home rule rights , no such tax levy limitation is necessary . IN ANOTHER development , Mayor Byrne criticized Downstate legislators who have threatened to block Chicago legislation , such as aid to Cook County Hospital , in retaliation for her opposition to an override @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state sales tax on food and nonprescription drugs . The legislature failed to override the veto this week . " If somebody would hurt County Hospital and the sick , I would judge them and their character and their motives and their integrity and their morality along those lines , " she said . " If that 's the way they do business , by hurting the sick , then perhaps we 're much better off without their elements , " she said . " Maybe I would n't want their support . " , 1                     