@@734408

txt If there is a single word that sums up the economic woes troubling Americans as individuals and the nation as a whole , it is inflation . Fresh evidence of the seriousness of the problem in the United States is news that wholesale prices , a harbinger of what happens to consumer prices down the line , rose a stunning 1.4 percent last month , the third month in a row this index has climbed more than 1 percent . Gasoline , heating oil , industrial products derived from petroleum , and a variety of foods led the soaring price rise , the worst monthly increase in wholesale prices since November , 1974 . Families struggling to keep themselves afloat , alarmed by the steady erosion of their buying power , find prices rising most sharply in categories of essentials ? food , energy to run homes and cars , and the costs of maintaining a home . The September figures also mount a drurhfire of pressure on the Federal Reserve Board ( the Fed ) , guardian of the nation 's // From page 1 Inflation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest rates high in an effort to limit the amount of money competing for goods and services . So far this year inflation , lumping together the performance of wholesale and consumer prices , has risen at higher than a 13 percent annual pace , one of the highest rates among major industrial powers . Politically , President Carter 's critics gain fuel for their charges that White House policies have failed to halt the backward slide of what families have left to spend , after inflation and taxes . Apart from raising the cost of almost everything families buy , inflation has these other effects : ? As people spend more on gasoline , heating oil , and food , they have less to spend on other goods , thus dragging down the economy . ? Inflation impels normally prudent people to go deeply into debt to buy property and goods , on the twin theories that these things will cost more tomorrow and that they will preserve their value better than paper dollars . ? A variant of this is the current rush of cash-rich investors ? including a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? to buy gold , thus reducing their holdings of paper money at a time of worldwide economic uncertainty . Gold , many experts agree , is a poor investment for average persons , since it pays no interest , costs money to store , and can lose value as quickly as it gains , if major buyers unload for profit . Of more meaning to most Americans , inflation drives up the prices of other metals and commodities ? the raw materials from which consumer goods are made . ? Inflation shrivels the international value of the dollar , thus boosting the cost of foreign goods coming to the United States . ? Finally , the Fed , in its effort to control inflation , pushes up interest rates to record highs , making money too expensive for many businessmen and families to borrow . An essential ingredient of the fight against inflation , says Fed chairman Paul A. Volcker , is to reduce the rapid growth of the nation 's money supply by restricting credit through high interest rates . Yet , paradoxically , foreign central banks and money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inflation . Interest , they argue , must go higher , before inflation in the United States can be crimped . Loss of confidence in the Carter administration 's ability to curb inflation prods a continued flight from the dollar , the currency which ? despite its troubles ? is still the centerpiece of the world 's monetary system . The US dollar , reports the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) , constitutes almost three-fourths of the official foreign exchange reserves of member governments , down from four-fifths in 1976 . Despite the lure of the Japanese yen , West German mark , and Swiss franc , governments hold more dollars than any other currency , and much of world trade , including that in oil , remains denominated in US dollars . So American households and foreign governments agree on one thing : The dollar must be stabilized . But how ? In the short run , finance ministers and central bankers of the IMF 's 138 members ? now meeting in Belgrade ? want the US to " rev up " its fight against inflation , including maintenance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fiscal policy ( meager increases in government spending ) . Such advice ? shared , as a matter of fact , by top US Government leaders ? will become harder to follow if the recession deepens and unemployment rises during the 198b election year , Over the longer pull , world leaders see part of the solution in reducing the dollar 's reserve role ? that is , the need of governments to maintain the bulk of their foreign exchange reserves in dollars . Then , the theory goes , pressure on the dollar might ease , and the US currency would find and hold its prop &; value in relation to other currencies of the world .                     