@@728742

txt Barrels of diplomatic oil are being tipped on troubled waters of the United States-Japan alliance . Both Tokyo and Washington are making deliberate efforts to heal the breach that opened up when key textile talks broke down late last month . Both governments feel the textile dispute ? centering on American demands that Japan restrict , voluntarily , future exports of noncotton goods ? should be prevented from affecting other , wider issues , such as the planned 1972 reversion of strategic Okinawa to Japan . At the same time , the oil can not hide the fact that serious differences do remain . No concrete signs have appeared to show that textile differences are about to be solved soon . Both governments realize the serious implications of a wider breach ? passage by Congress , for instance , of protectionist legislation covering textiles , shoes , and a range of other goods . This would invite retaliation against the United States and Japan by Western Europe . Prospects for passage now seem good . Separate context It can also be said that both governments , during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rogers July 7-10 , did what they could to emphasize agreement . Observers say so far so good . Now it must be seen how deep the oil penetrates , and how quickly it brings further results . Mr. Rogers spread his own brand of good-humored , genial oil by making his presentations to Prime Minister Eisaku Sato , Foreign Minister Kiichi Aichi , and Finance Minister Takeo Fukuda , in a low-key , general . ized manner . He emphasized to all three ministers that the textile dispute ( Japan refused all U.S. demands , and continues to do so ) was an issue on its own , not to be solved in the context of others . He made expected references to more Japanese aid for Cambodia , Laos , and South Vietnam ( Japanese exports to South Vietnam are said to outnumber American exports three to one ) . // Further reproduction prohibited without permission . *Oil poured on U.S.-Japan waters // Mr. Rogers was careful , however , to use phrases that avoided a direct plea for help . He stressed he would not suggest the ways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He gave glowing reports of the situations in Cambodia and South Vietnam ? reports greeted with politeness and a degree of private skepticism . The Secretary of State asked what Japan was doing to hurry along the decontrol of imports and direct foreign investments . Behind the question is immense dissatisfaction among American businessmen and officials at the slow pace of Japanese liberalization . The fact is that the Japanese had nothing concrete to reply to Mr. Rogers , except to say that the third round of capital decontrol would be carried out around September , in a " substantial and positive " way . American sources said later they felt " there would be successful results . " This does not fit all the facts as American businessmen and newsmen see them , but the sources were clearly trying to put the best face possible on the situation , and to accept Japanese statements as ones of undoubted goodwill . The attitude of Mr. Rogers reflects general State Department disappointment at the breakdown of the textile talks , it is said . The talks were handled by the Commerce Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which wanted to meet American terms , was forced to reject them by pressure from the Japanese textile industry , and strong feeling in the lower house of the Diet . The Japanese side was thus more than willing to emphasize smooth relations . It took in stride postponement until early next year of the annual Cabinet-level economic talks with the U.S. which were to have been held this summer . Washington has off-year elections in November . Japanese newspapers have carried reports of accelerated trade and investment liberalization , but a strong rearguard action is being fought by such businesses as automobile and computer companies wanting liberalization to be as little and as late as possible .                     