@@733885

txt A dull roar sends curfew-bound insomniacs , of which there are quite a few in Tehran nowadays , racing for the windows . " Tanks ? " asks one . " Jet , " answers another . Shortly afterward , a rat-a-tat . " Shooting , " says one . Again a mad rush for the window to listen for more . " A curfew-breaker , I guess , " is the verdict as the silence of martial law again envelops the city . Tehran , the city of anarchy , is now a city of jitters . Behind the outwardly growing atmosphere of calm are many troubled persons , all afraid of the great unknown ? wondering what comes next . No one has any ready answers . The military clampdown on Nov. 6 appears temporarily to have blown the wind out of the opposition 's sails . One is even beginning in ordinary conversations to hear comments that would have been unthinkable a few days'ago . " A jolly good job , too , " one office worker told me . " I think shooting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mad . " This does not mean there is a discernible trend among the people toward a more moderate outlook , although this is what the Shah and his military government must be banking on . But few have any illusions that Shah Muhammad Reza Pahlavi 's fanatical opponents have had their day . The key question is , what will be their next move and when is it coming ? After the tanks and troops had frightened everyone off the streets , it was clear that the strike weapon would come to the fore once again . The word has been spread , with a heavy amount of official connivance , that Sunday , Nov. 12 , will be the big " back to normal " day . The military government has already announced that Iran Air jets would all be back in the air then , and schools would reopen . Journalists are talking about Nov. 12 as the day they start writing again ? provided the government promises not to censor them . The bazaar is due to reopen then , after a religious holiday on Nov. 11 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " according to one diplomat . Meanwhile , not everyone shares the government 's apparent confidence it can break the weeks-long wave of public-sector strikes so soon // From page 1 Tehran calm but tense ; work move watched According to some striking workers , Army officers already have threatened to arrest them if they do not return to work , and the sparse , officially controlled news sources still operating have been proudly proclaiming an end to the telecommunications and Iran air ' strikes . - But telephones and , telexes still are in a chaotic state , and so far only a few Iran airplanes have left Tehran airport . There are strong suspicions that even they had military pilots . The opposition National Front , which has thrown its lot in with the exiled religious leader , Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini , in calling for the end of the monarchy in Iran , has declared the strike will continue . Even if workers are forced back to their jobs , observers fear they still will employ the " monkey wrench in the works " philosophy . " How @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' instead of ' that ' ? " asked one . " All an oil technician has to do is hit the wellhead with a wrench and ' boom , ' it 's KO 'd . " Thus , although the opposition has declared that demonstrations have been abandoned for the time being , it appears the new military government will not be able to achieve much more than calm and a semblance of normality in the short term . So what of the long term ? Has the Shah bought himself enough time to turn the tables on the opposition ? It is becoming clear that , on the surface at least , the new government does not represent the iron fist coming down on the country . It is ever showing a great deal of willingness to compromise and to come to grips with the underlying factors that helped to ferment the current unrest in the first place . But the United Press International bureau manager in Tehran , Sajid Rizvi , was arrested and ordered deported Nov. 9 according to UPI . No immediate reason for the action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He has been bureau manager in Tehran for the past 18 months . Despite the arrest of some writers , there has been no widespread witch hunt of opposition figures . The National Front office in Tehran is still operating , and front leader Karim Sanjabi apparently feels confident enough to schedule his return to Tehran from Paris for Nov. 10 . The military , however , has arrested many of the figures from the " golden days " of boom and autocracy so hated by the opposition ? such as the Savak secret police chief , Gen. Nematollah Nassiri , and former Prime Minister Emir Abbas Iloveyda.                     