@@728628

txt Dr. William J. Grove , executive dean of the University of Illinois medical school , said yesterday the school would be " happy " to consider proposals to take over and operate County hospital . The university 's interest and action t a k en by the Illinois State Medical society were two last-ditch efforts to save the huge hospital from closing . The society 's board of trustees , at the group 's annual meeting in the Sherman House , called on Gov . Ogilvie and Mayor Daley to immediately appoint a five-man committee I to work out solutions that would prevent closing the hospital . Contract Is Proposed Dr. Grove said the university would be " very willing to consider an arrangement " whereby it would operate the hospital on a contractual basis with the county board . Any such agreement would have to be approved by the university 's board of trustees . he said . Dr. Grove 's proposal was immediately backed by Dr. Philip G. Thomsen , a member of the Cook County Hospitals Governing commission , and Dr. Morris Fishbein , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor of transferring control of County hospital to the University of Illinois medical school , " Dr. Thomsen said . Calls Transfer Desirable Dr. Fishbein said it would be " highly desirable " for the university to run County . " What they I County hospital need is the kind of leadership one med. ical school could give them . " Ile said the conditions at County " are a little bit odd . " Ile said the county board must necessarily deal in politics , while on the other band the governing commtsslon is " not well enough informed to rut. the hospital , " Dr. Grove said that the medical school could not take over the hospital without being given the same kind of control proposed in a bill that the state Senate public welfare committee shelved Monday . Board Controls Budget The bill would have given the governing commission contra/ of the hospital 's ' budget , personnel , and research . The budget and personnel are now controled by the county board and research is controled by Hektoen Institute , a private agency . " We would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , making up the budget , retention of all income generated from the hospital , and assurances that any deficiencies would be made up by the county or the state , " Dr. Grove said . " This is something the county board would have to understand , " he said . " We could not live with an arrangement where we had to ask the board for permission to spend every nickel . " Would Control Budget The county board could still retain over-all control because it would have the power to approve or disapprove the budget , Dr. Grove explained . This is the same kind of an arrangement the medical school has with the state legislature , he said . The legislature can either approve or disapprove a budget , but when it approves it , it is up to the medical school to use the funds to operate the facility . The proposal to have the University of Illinois medical school run County falls along lines of recommendations made earlier this year by Lester Gorsline Associates , planning consultants hired by the university to survey the needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommended that the university should arrange to take over control of 60 per cent of County 's patient load . It also recommended that County be phased out as a charity hospital , and a new hospital of 1,000 to 1,500 beds be built to replace County .                     