@@733621

txt A majority of the members of a key House committee supported a resolution today opposing the sale of military jet fighters ' as a " package " to Saudi Arabia , Egypt and Israel . In a move that buoyed Israel 's supporters on Capitol Hill , 22 et the 37 members of the House International Relations Committee signed a " resolution of disapproval " on the package deal . The action by the House members marked the opening salvo on Capitol Hill in what is expected to be a clash between the Administration and Israel 's supporters , who strongly oppose President Carter 's proposal to sell advanced fighters to Saudi Arabia and Egypt as an inseparable part of a $4.8 billion package that , includes ' planes . for Israel .. Votes to Defeat Proposal Predicted The " resolution of disapproval " is a procedural move , introduced as a first step in the House to reject the arms package . Although the arms package faces several key Congressional tests in the next few weeks , the sizable support for the measure today made it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight . " What this demonstrates is that unless Some kind of accommodation is reached , the Administration will not have the votes to carry this package , " said Dante B. Fascell , Democrat of Florida , a cosponsor of theresolution with Edward Derwinski , illepublicanof Illinois . ... Another foe of the Carter Administralion 's package proposal , Stephen J. Solarz , Democrat of Brooklyn , said : ? . , ? " This conclusively.ihows that there are Votes to defeat the Administration 's proposed arms package in the Middle East in the absence of any effort on the part of the Administration to reach a comprotnise . " The Administration insisted however , that it had enough votes for approval . The House and Senate have until May 28 to reject the package , or 30 days from last Friday , when Congress received offidal notification of the Administration 's ri  --  proposal . The move by the House members is ' the first step in efforts by Israel 's supporters on Capitol Hill to kill the package unless President Carter alters his plans to link the sale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sale to Saudi Arabia of 60 ** and to Egypt of 50 F-5E 's . Opposition in Congress to the President 's plan has been directed chiefly at the supply of the 60 high-performance F-15 's to Saudi Arabia . Israel feels the planes would be a threat to its security . After a debate in the House committee next week , the panel is expected to vote formally in favor of abandoning the package . A debate and vote are also scheduled by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . If both committees reject the arms package , a debate and vote to disapprove the arms sale will take place in the House and Senate in the next few weeks . To be killed , an arms sale proposed by the executive branch must be disapproved by both houses within the 30 days specified . No Congressional action is needed for approval . President Carter . meanwhile , rejected a request by Senator Jacob K. Javits , Republican of New York , and other members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , that Congress be given additional time to study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a delay of up to 90 days , instead of the 30-day period in which the sales can be vetoed by a mot'on of disapproval , would raise questions about American commitments to Saudi Arabia and Egypt . ? The Saudi and Israeli deals are based in part on commitments made by the Ford Administration . The Israelis were promised advanced aircraft as part of the 1975 agreement to withdraw from strategic passes in the Sinai Peninsula in a disengagement accord with Egypt . The Carter Administration has said that President Ford promised Saudi Arabia its choice of fighter aircraft ; the Saudis selected the F-15 , possibly the most advanced combat plane in the world . Mr. Ford , however , had said that the United States would have been able to veto the choice if it thought it was militarily wrong . Administration officials predicted that if the Senate Foreign Relations Committee rejected the plan , the votes on the floor of the Senate , and the House , would be extremely close . Opposition to the arms proposal centers largely on Representatives and Senators who are strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plan because it would introduce newer weapons into the Middle East . Others are reluctant to support the arms sale because of the " package " concept linking the three sales . Congress Can not Separate Deals Despite sizable support for Israel in Congress , neither the House nor the Senate can drop the package and approve only the sale of planes to Israel . Arms sales need Presidential approval . Last Friday , in submitting the arms sale proposals to Congress , President Carter agreed to drop his public insistence that the plan be considered a " package . " This was not considered a substantive change , however , and members of Congress still expected President Carter to withdraw the proposed sale of planes to Israel if the sales to Saudi Arabia and Egypt were blocked . Members of Congress had apparently resented President Carter 's calling the plan a package because it was viewed as an intrusion in Congressional prerogatives . The law provides that each proposed arms sale must be considered separately by Congress . The signers of the resolution of disapproval were the following Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mass . Stephen J. Solarz , N.Y . Cardiss Collins , Ill . Robert N. C. Nix , Pa . Don Booker , Wash . Donald M. Fraser , Minn . Andrew P. Ireland , Fla . Jonathan B. Bingham , N.Y . John J. Cavanaugh , Neb . Beniamin S. Rosenthal , N.Y . W. Wyche Fowler , Ga . Lester L. Wolff , N.Y . Anthony C. Beilenson , Callf . Gus Yatron , Pa . The Republican signers were : Edward J. Derwinskl , Ill . Benjamin A. Gilman , N.Y . .1 . Herbert Burke , Fla . Tennyson Guyer , Ohio . Charles . Whalen Jr. , Ohio . Robert J. Lagomarslno , Calif . Larry Winn Jr. , Kan.                     