@@733144

txt Spaniards are voting tomorrow in freedom and secrecy for a new parliament that is considered to mark the formal end of of four decades of dictatorship . After a lively 21-day campaign , marred only slightly by acts of violence , Prime Minister Adolfo Suarez 's Union of the Democratic Center and the Spanish So ; cialist Workers Party of Felipe Gonzalez are strongly leading other contenders . A Gallup poll published today showed the Socialists edging ahead of Mr. Suarez 's center-right coalition in the competition for 350 lower house seats and 207 elected positions in the Senate . It gave the Socialists 28.9 percent of the popular vote to the Democratic Center 's 25.6 percent , reversing earlier soundings that had put the Prime Minister 's party in first place . But political experts here are extremely wary of polls because there has been no election for so long . Only Spaniards who today are at least 64 years old were eligible to vote on Feb. 16 , 1936 in the nation 's last free elections , which produced a resounding triumph for the heavily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Franco led a military coup against the Second Republic , igniting a bitter civil war that brought him to full power in 1939 . Some 23 million Spaniards are eligible to vote tomorrow and all polls suggest that the turnout will be huge . The Gallup poll published today reported that 91.8 percent intended to vote . In the industrialized regions of Catalonia and the Basque provinces , parties favoring a return of autonomy statutes abrogated by Franco during the civil war are expected to do fairly well . The electoral law promulgated by Mr. Suarez 's Government will have the effect of giving the two largest parties considerably more seats than their votes would merit in a fully proportional system . With 35 percent of the vote in all 50 provinces , for example , Mr. Suarez would win 171 of the 350 lower house seats , or nearly a majority . The voting for the lower house is based on a modified proportional system that magnifies the strength of conservative rural provinces . Voters will choose a party ticket , not individual candidates , in each province . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ initiate legislation . will further overrepresent rural areas , with each province electing four senators . King Has Right to Appoint 41 Each voter may select up to three Senate candidates , and in each province the four candidates with the largest number of votes will be elected . Under the political reform law approved overwhelmingly on Dec. 15 in a national referendum , Ring Juan Carlos has the right to appoint up to 41 additional senators , and this he is expected to do tomorrow . Enormous confusion surrounds the senatorial candidates , a welter of partybacked obscurities and sometimes wellknown local independents . One poll found that upward of 75 percent of Ur ; voters did not know whom they would choose for the Senate . The Government-run television and the political parties have conducted extensive efforts to . explain the mechanics of the voting , which permit citizens to bring their ballot papers to the polling stations . Parties are expected to have poll watchers in most of the 42,000 electoral places across the nation . Under the code name " battering ram , " police and military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ installations from ' acts of terrorism , which in the last few days have hit buildings and raiiways and , in the Basque provinces , taken one life . By Spanish standards , though , t ; . e campaign has been fairly peaceful . Tonight , Lieut . Gen. Manuel Gutierrez Mellado , who is First Deputy Prime Minister , went an national television t3 declare that terrorists would not be able to disrupt tomorrow 's voting . The general , the highest ranking man in the Spanis ? , military , urged all Spaniard to vote " our of patriotism . "                     