@@728370

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Demands on M.T.A. To the Editor : The Long Island Rail Road union 's ridiculous fear of violence is spurred either by a greedy desire to create additional featherbedding railroad police jobs or by a collective guilty conscience . Because of union demands and arrogance on both the L.I.R.R. and the transit system since the Metropolitan Transportation Authority takeover , service has deteriorated severely and fares have far outpaced the general cost of living . The main problem is that the liberal state government owning these transit lines finds it can not deal with the trade unions at arm 's length . Hard bargaining and employe discipline are impossible , because political allies can not ever have an employer-worker relationship . Fantastic labor demands are met because any other course is untenable . The granting of retirement at half-pay after twenty years for Transit Authority employes is one example . On the matter of employe discipline  --  can anyone imagine a businessman with a 24-houra-day public service business allowing 35 per cent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's a sunny weekend ? Somebody would be fired . But not on the Long Island Rail Road . Slowdowns , walkouts , L.I.R.R. trackmen doing four hours ' work for eight hours ' pay ; more trainmen than are needed on L.I.R.R. trains , particularly now with the no-punch tickets  --  all these abuses are tolerated because a politician can not stand up as an equal to a trade union . We should not have to pay for this . But pay we do . The L.I.R.R. now pays out more than 95 per cent of its total revenue in employe compensation  --  up spectacularly since the M.T.A. took over . WILLIAM J. BROOKS Garden City , L. I. , Feb. 3 , 1970 ? Powers of the P.S.C. To the Editor : As chairman-designate of the Public Service " Commission , I read with interest The Times editorial of January 30 . I should like to take this opportunity to correct a misapprehension as to the powers of the commission . In the editorial , legislation is urged " to authorize refunds to consumers if higher rates went into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the P.S.C. " You further state that the present law restricts refunds to cases where increases become effective prior to hearing . While , as far as I can ascertain , the P.S.C. has never exercised its power to order refunds in cases where the rates went into effect after the ten-month stay , present Public Service Law ( Section 113 ) authorizes it to do so , and legislation such as you have recommended is unnecessary . In an appropriate case such refund authority should , of course , be exercised . I call this matter to your attention so that you will understand the omission of this matter from the proposed amendments to the Public Service Law which , I understand , will soon be recommended by Governor Rockefeller . JOSEPH C. SWIDLER Washington , Jan. 30 , 1970 Mr. Swidler was sworn in as P.S.C. chairman on Feb. 2 . ? Retreat ' in Mideast To the Editor : Following the third ArabIsraeli war in two decades , the United States rejected the urge to restore prewar conditions once . We desired an end to The old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we were allowed to rescue their clients in calamity . This time Arabs and Jews were to turn a new leaf by bargaining freely over territory and other outstanding matters . The coming of a new Administration meant that Presidential constituencies favoring this innovation were replaced by others urging restoration . The reappearance of Richard Nixon , William Scranton , William Rogers and other Dulles teammates left open only the question as to how and how soon restoration would be articulated . We now know that a timely war scare and Big Power talks to save mankind from doom provided the appropriate rationalization for the predictable outcome . Left over from abortive innovation after only one year are just rhetorical shreds , serving mainly to distract and to camouflage retreat . The only surprising aspect now is how far back restoration is envisaged . If it returns to 1967 in geography , it goes as far as la47 in demography . Since the idea of squeezing the Jewish state within indefensible borders and filling It with masses of hostile refugees has long been indicated by Arabs as equivalent to Israel 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she sees in Secretary Rogers 's plans an overture to disaster . Arab Position The Arabs are understandably anxious to sharpen his plans further and to assure enforcement at all costs . Their pattern is to voice threats they are inherently unable to carry out , while hinting that they would accept from us what they can not get otherwise , anyway . The other side , possessing ominous military capabilities the Arabs can only talk about , meanwhile works its way into perilous trauma . This is hardly the ideal climate for negotiation and compromise , but Secretary Rogers 's minutely detailed blueprint really desires essentially technical implementation of something he has already negotiated with himself . To facilitate enforcement , he will eventually move further still to win Arab acquiescence , i.e. , promise to return the Golan . At that point the Jewish state could finally be portrayed as the last obstacle to the salvation of all of us here on earth to justify attempts at intimidation and coercion . GIL CARL ALRoy Princeton , N. J. , Feb. 5 , 1970 For Higher Estate Tax , To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Proposal for the Budget " includes a proposal to extend the surcharge at 5 per cent . This would burden taxpayers with riled - crate incomes and would increase the distorting effect of the income tax on taxpayers ' business decisions . Estate and gift taxes would be a better source for at least part of any needed increase in Federal revenues . The Treasury . has estimated that these taxes are paid almost exclusively by families with incomes of over $20,000 a year . And their effect on business decision-making is much less than that of the income tax . Before World War II , 7 per cent of Federal revenues came from estate and gift taxes , and it is less than 2 per cent today ? only $3.5 billion in , fiscal 1969 . Higher rates and a - reduced exemption could double this yield with a minimum of hardship if additional exemptions were provided for moderate amounts passing to a wife , husband or minor child . DAVID WESTFALL Professor of Law , Harvard U. Cambridge , Mass. , Jan. 30 , 1970 ? Courteous Cab Drivers To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complaints about cab drivers , I have been a frequent . user of taxicabs since an accident two and a half years ago . The drivers have always been courteous , most helpful and responsive . At the end of my trip , it is very rewarding to exchange nice word and smile with smileone who is not an automaton , but a human being . GERTRUDE HIRStH New York , Jan. 29 , 1970                     