@@731903

txt The White House confirmed Wednesday that President Nixon privately assured South Viet Nam President Thieu that the United States would not tolerate major violations of the peace accords , but President Ford insisted there was no " secret " agreement involved . Shortly a f ter Presidential Press Secretary Ron Nessen confirmed private Nixon letters to Thieu , insisting that they went no further than public utterances at the time , Ford told congressional leaders that he had reviewed confidential cables and is convinced there was no secret agreement . Rep. John B. Anderson ER. , 111.1 , one of the leaders who met with the President , said Ford emphasized that everything of substance is a matter of public record . " There are no hidden chapters yet to be revealed , " Anderson said . THE CONTROVERSY was touched off by charges from S e n . Henry Jackson ED. , Wash. that there was a secret agreement that had committed the United States to come to Saigon 's aid if there were major violations of the Paris accords . After Nessen 's and Ford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only " a partial disclosure . " He said Congress should " obtain all relevant papers " concerning the Viet Nam peace agreement . Existence of the Nixon letters to Thieu was initially reported in Wednesday 's Tribune . THE DISPUTE ever whether Nixon 's letters to Thieu privately assuring him of American commitments that were being announced publicly constituted a " secret agreement " was being fought as Ford was about to call for a new era of bipartisanship in foreign affairs . He spent all Wednesday working on his foreign policy address , to be delivered to a joint session of Congress at 8 p. m. , Chicago time , Thursday . Ford told the lawmakers Wednesday that he would prefer not to give them the details of his speech , promising that it will cover not only proposals on what should be done in Viet Nam , but will also assess other trouble spots around the world . Anderson said Ford made a strong plea Wednesday , which he is expected to repeat in his public address , that there be " no recrimination of any kind " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House briefing Wednesday if there was a secret agreement between the U.S. and Saigon at the time of the peace agreement , Nessen read from a long statement . " The publicly stated policy and intention of the United States government to continue to provide adequate economic and military assistance and to react vigorously to major violations of the Paris agreement reflected confidential exchanges between the Nixon administration and President Thieu at the time , " Nessen said . " In substance , the private exchanges do not differ from what was stated publicly . " Seeming to suggest that any failure to live up to the written assurances is the fault of Congress , Nessen said , " The law of 1973 banning introduc tion of American military force into or over Indochina . . . ruled out the possibility of American military reaction to violations of the agreement . " PRESSED ON the point , Nessen said Ford had neither the inclination nor the authority to introduce force into the area . After revealing the private exchanges between Nixon and Thieu , Nessen also provided reporters with a page @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he contended were " in substance " no different than what was in the private exchanges .                     