@@733938

txt The loss of American diplomatic and defensive ties with Taiwan may . paradoxically , revitalize the old " China lobby . " One of the best-connected and most potent lobbies in Washington in the 1950s. this circle of defenders of Chiang Kaishek 's Republic of China has lost most of its influence ? and now , seemingly , much of its reason for existence . But the China lobby has long been known for its aggressiveness and lavish spending . These weapons are not being mothballed , but redirected at a new objective : shoring up economic ties between , the United States and Taiwan . In their new hearts-and-minds battle , veteran promoters of Taiwan may find some surprising new allies . They may be the beneficiaries of a backlash in the US Senate against President Carter 's failure to consult it on his decision to normalize relations with mainland China . // From page 1 China lobby ' sets new goal The concern in the Senate extends to importantly positioned lawmakers previously not notably sympathetic toward Taiwan . such as Foreign Relations Committee members John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Richard B Stone ( D ) of Florida . The China lobby 's new campaign got going on the night ( Dec. 15 ) of the President 's nationally televised announcement of normalization . A Taiwan Government official telephoned Hugh C. Newton , a Washington publicist who had worked for the Chinese Nationalists for seven years until a recent lapse , to tell him he was rehired . His initial mass-mailing of pro-Taiwan information already is being sent to newsmen across the country . The thrust of Mr. Newton 's new public-relations pitch mirrors the new Taiwanese emphasis : what he calls the " economic gray areas " of the changed US China policy , ranging from protecting American investment on Taiwan to fulfilling more than 50 trade treaties between the two countries . But Mr. Newton is just one cog in the large and well-heeled Taiwanese lobbying appartus . The Taiwanese Government-owned Chinese Information Service has hiked its spending here by more than 50 percent since the UN ousted Taiwan in 1972 , rising to $783,002 last year . Outlays this year are headed even higher , with $428,944 already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to reports filed with the US Department of Justice as required by law , goes for everything from lobbying lawmakers to producing motion pictures to giving speeches before civic groups . The Taiwanese hired the public-relations firm Deaver &; Hannaford , Inc. , of Los Angeles and Washington a year ago at $30,000 a year to generate " favorable public opinion . " The firm . among other things , has given " background briefings " to 86 newspaper and magazige editors around the US and chaperoned a visit to Taiwan by a group of American reporters . Another contractor , television consultant Alan Pngge , w as paid $15.418 in the last six months of 1977 to enhance the image of Taiwan on American television . He has succeeded in placing Chinese Nationalist visitors on more than 20 local television news and interview programs in the past year Taiwan also is a popular destination for traveling congressmen . No fewer than 66 of them have visited there in the past three years ? 18 ( plus 51 aides in 1976 alone ) with expenses paid by the Pacific Cultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department of State and officials of congressional ethics committees of being a front for the Tail. % an Go - ernment to sidestep the US constitutional ban on foreign gifts to persons in the federal government . Some Taiwan lobbyists appear convinced that , despite the President 's decision , American public opinion remains on their side The latest Louis Barris poll ( in September ) . they note , showed that 66 percent of ? mericans favor diplomatic recognition of mainland China , but the same percentage also favor , continued diplomatic recognition of Taiwan The China lobby today , however . is a pale shadow of the network of leading lawmakers and mass-membership groups that rallied American public opinion behind the Chinese nationalists in the years after Communist forces overran the mainland . Its decline began with the defeat in 1962 of its unofficial leader . Rep. Walter H. Judd ( R ) of Minnesota and was completed by President Nixon 's 1972 visit to Peking .                     