@@729148

txt Four city correction officers were suspended yesterday after another guard reversed his story and accused them of beata prisoner , who was later found hanged . Correction Commissioner George F. said he had suspended the men after William J. vanden Heuvel , chairman of the Board of Correction , had told him that the guard had changed his testimony . Mr. vanden Heuvel said later that the guard asked to talk to him last Thursday after being shaken by still another suicide at the same institution ? the Manhattan House of Detention , also known as the Tombs . Still another apparent suicide of a prisoner was reported yesterday , involving a 26-year-old Army veteran found hanging in a cell at 4:40 AM , at the new 68th Precinct station house , 4302 Fourth Avenue , in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn . The man , Jose Lopez , had been arrested two hours earlier on a drunken-driving charge . The suspension of the four correction officers grew out of the case of Raymond Lavon Moore , known also as Raymond Lavon , who had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of assaulting a policeman but who was never brought to trial . He was found dead by-hanging Nov. 3 and pronounced a ' suicide by the Medical Examiner 's office . Commissioner said that the four suspended guards and Mr , Blake had all originally reported an incident occurring Nov. 1 . In these reports , he said , they asserted that " Mr. Moore had first struck one of the officers with a shoe , and that no unnecessary force was used in the altercation that followed . " Commissioner con-tinued : " Mr. Blake , according to Mr. vanden Heuvel , now states that the first blow was not struck through the bars but after the cell door was opened , and that two of the officers had blackjacks or similar weapons , the mere possession of which is a violation of departmental rules . " The Commissioner said he had suspended the four men " on grounds of alleged use of excessive force , possession of a blackjack or other similar weapon in two cases and falsifying reports , pending further investigation , " Prosecutor Entering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roland Jones , who had been on duty when told of their suspensions , and John Shanck and Samuel Benjamin , He said Mr. Blake was to give his account of the incident to District Attorney Frank S. Hogan today . One of the four , Mr. Shanck , when told by a reporter of the new account by Mr. Blake , said : " Officer Blake is mistaken , " and " 1 was not there ; I was in the men 's room . " The three others could not be reached for comment last night , and the Correction Department said they had not yet been interviewed since Mr. Blake 's new statement . Mr. vanden Heuvel said that Mr. Blake , " after agonizing reflection and in the finest tradition of public service , has come forward with important testimony which challenged the official reports . " " This testimony confirms prisoner statements about the use of blackjacks and raises other substantial questions , " the Correction Board chairman said . " The City of New York can not and will not allow the corruption of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ integrity of that authority . " Mr. vanden Heuvel and his board made public a report on the Moore case on Dec. 3 , in which they called for a criminal investigation of " an alleged assault " upon Mr. Moore , The report declared that " we do not accept " the findings of the prison investigators . Last night Mr. vanden Heuvel said he went to the Tombs last Thursday after a 21-year-old robbery suspect and narcotics addict , George James , was reported to have hanged himself in his cell that day . He said he had received a telephone call from The New York Daily News saying that Mr. Blake was in that newspaper 's office and wanted to give a statement , but only with Mr. vanden Heuvel present . At The News office , Mr. vanden Heuvel said , Mr. Blake , 28 years old , related that he had been on the fourth floor of the Tombs on Nov. 1 , assigned to operate a panel box that controls cell gates . Blackjacking Charged Mr. vanden Heuvel described Mr. Blake 's story in substance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medication for asthma and epilepsy . Mr. Blake summoned another guard . The other guard and Mr. Moore got into a shouting exchange , and the guard assertedly ordered Mr , Blake to open the cell , which he did . Mr. Moore apparently emerged , and someone struck a blow . Some other guard on the floor shouted an alarm of trouble . Four more guards rushed into Mr. Moore 's cell , two allegedly carrying blackjacks . The first guard was said by Mr. Blake to have held Mr. Moore , while other guards hit the prisoner until he crumpled to the floor . The prisoner crawled out of the cell , his face and head bloody . Blood was said to have been splashed on the floor and walls of the cell . The prisoner was handcuffed , and then walked to a so-called ' ' slop sink " to wash up , and after a half hour he was taken to a receiving area , Mr. vanden Heuvel said this was the last time Mr. Blake saw Mr. Moore , but the Correction Board chairman said he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I saw this man with a bloody shirt in the receiving area , " Mr. vanden Heuvel said . " Lavon Mr. Moore told me fife had been given the wrong medication . He said be had hail asked for proper medication , and an officer came to the cell and he was beaten . " I asked him who hit the first blow . He said , ' I hit him first . He was coming to beat me . ' " Mr. vanden Heuvel said Mr. Blake had asserted that the guards involved had . decided to say in their reports that Mr. Moore had first struck a guard in the face through the bars of the cell with some object . The Board of Correction re ; port said that this object had been described as a shoe , but it added that Mr. vanden Heuvel had taken one of Mr. Moore 's shoes to the cell and had found it would be impossible to deliver such a blow . One Guard Has Quit Of five guards described by Mr. Blake as involved in the ' Nov. 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had left the Department of Correction " for reasons of health " and so was not included in the suspensions . Mr. vanden Heuvel said he had gone over Mr. Blake 's story in detail and had spent five hours with the officer last Saturday . He said that he had informed Deputy Mayor Richard R. Aurelio and District Attorney Hogan and that Mr. Hogan had arranged for Mr. Blake to go to the prosecutor 's office today . The District Attorney 's office had been going over the case for presentation to the grand jury before the latest turn . Mr. vanden Heuvel said the Board of Correction would hold a special session on Wednesday . Commissioner said the four officers were suspended without pay under Civil Service laws requiring that they be given a departmental trial in 30 days or restored to the payroll  --  not necessarily to duty . If found not guilty , they would be reinstated and paid retroactively to the date of suspension . Mr. vanden Heuvel said Mr. Moore had never been examined by a physician after the Nov. 1 incident , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Medical Exam ; iner 's Office and a pathologist retained by Mr. Moore 's family . agreed on a finding of suicide , but the city autopsy report held that a skull fracture had occurred when the hanged body was cut down and fell to the floor  --  while the family autopsy report held it had occurred before death . Board a Watchdog Group The nine-member Board of , Correction , as a citizens : watchdog agency , was reacti : vated by Mayor Lindsay last . October , first with the appointment of Mr. vanden Heuvel as , chairman and then by the neming of five other new members. : Since then , Mr. vanden vel has led vigorous inquiries into the operation of the city 's crowded prisons . Before the re- : port on Mr. Moore 's death , the board , on Nov. 17 issued a report to Mayor Lindsay describing another reported Tombs suicide  --  that of Julio Roldan , a member of the Young Lords in the Puerto Rican community ? as the end result of an inhuman system of criminal justice that " succeeded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at state and city level and in the courts ? also spurred b3t recent prisoner rioting , commissioner reported that the number of prisoners awaiting trial in city detention houses had dropped from 8,000 last summer to fewer than 6,200 last month . Eight suicides were reported in city jails last year , with Mr. James 's death last Thursday the first this year . Mr. Lopez , the prisoner reported found hanging from a crossbar in the Bay Ridge policecell yesterday , lived at 325 55th Street , Brooklyn . The police reported that a chemical test after his arrest had shown ' a .16 per cent oxygen-alcohol reading , or .01 over the intoxication level . An employe in the shipping department of an electric ap- ? pliance factory , he had migrated here from Puerto Rico three years ago . He is survived by his widow , Brunilda , 24 , and a one-year-old daughter , Clarabelle.                     