@@728321

txt If men are to maintain earth as a healthy place to live , they have to face up to an urgent spiritual challenge . They have to replace their ancient carelessness with genuine , love for the seas and the land . They have to transcend preoccupation with their own times and assume responsibility for the environment they bequeath to future generations . Only through such a revolution in attitude will they be willing to pay the costs and do the work needed to effectively tackle the awesome problems of managing our planet , says Robert E. Boote of Britain 's Nature Conservancy . He hopes Europe will take a major stride toward what he calls this spiritual , ethical goal in 1970 , which is European Conservation Year . As a prime mover in prodding the Council of Europe to organize the ECY , he says quite frankly that his aim is to propagandize that goal . To this end , 25 countries will mount a variety of programs throughout the year  --  movies , lectures , and countryside tours . And , to kick off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will meet in Strasbourg . Feb. 9-12 to take a hard look at Europe 's environmental problems . No quickie answers expected No one eXpects them " to , , come up with quickie solutions to prOblems with which men must wrestle for decades . At the , same time , Mr. Boote hopes the meet ? ing will be more than just another platform for raising environmental alarms . He says he 's fed up with prophecies of gloom and doom . Men must be awakened to the dangers of pollution , mindless development , , and a glut of people . But the approach has to be positive if we are to make headway at all . To survive on this planet , the only home men will have for an indefinitely long time , we have to solve the environmental problems . For men to be pessimistic about licking pollution or the population explosion is to lose faith in the future of their species . " It 's fatal , " Mr. Boote explains , " to say , ' in 300 years men may be ' able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come into balance with it : " If you take the point of view we 're going to fail , all else will be of no avail  --  solving racial tensions , eliminating war , and so forth . Destroy our environment and you wo n't survive . " The simple message of the- ECY is , we have to succeed because failure is not an enteitainable proposition . " . To inject this positive note into the ECY message , participating countries will stress simple things that individuals can do . These range from picking up one 's own litter in the countryside to joining local bodies that are trying to clean up local environments . However , Mr. ' Boote admits that industry holds the key . Industry has the resources , know-how , and imagination to focus technology on major environmental problems . Governments have a role to play . But they can only move about one step ahead of public opinion . Industry can move several steps in advance , and that 's what 's needed in the environmental field now . But even industry needs a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will . be in its long-term interest to move strongly against such menaces as pollution . In other words , it needs to see that , if it does n't move , the public will in a decade ' be demanding to know why it did n't do so . And , ' equally important , it needs assurance that the public will support the costs that will be involved . This is where the ethical challenge to all men comes in . If individual men and women , individual families think only in terms of their week-by-week budgets , they may well resist such things . If they recognize the hidden costs they now pay hi terms of a steadily deteriorating environment , especially if they accept responsibility to maintain earth as a livable home for an indefinitely long posterity , then they will shoulder the cost .                     