@@730981

txt Attorneys for Vice-President Spiro T. Agnew are taking the offensive in their efforts to find out who is responsible for leaking charges against the Vice-President , and to plug future leaks . Congressional sources expect that as one result they may , in the words of one ! " receive a batch of cases in a few days " from news reporters required by subpoena to reveal ' ' their news sources , or face jail . If this happens , congressional sources say , it will revive now-dormant proposals in both houses of Congress to establish a newsmen 's immunity law which under most or all circumstances would protect a newsman 's right not to reveal his news sources . The result could be congressional passage of a newsmen 's privilege law sometime next year . Third right at stake ' It is all part of the repeated tug-of-war between the rights of defendants and woula-be defendants to a fair trial , and the rights of the press to obtain information and to protect their news sources . Newsmen and some members of Congress add that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right of the citizenry to be informed , by way of reports in the news media . Federal Judge Walter E. Hoffman in Baltimore noted these conflicting rights as he issued the power of subpoena to Agnew attorneys : " We are rapidly approaching the day , " he said , " when the perpetual conflict between the news media , operating as they do under freedom of speech and freedom of the press , and the judicial system , charged with protecting the rights of persons under investigation for criminal acts , must be resolved . " Subpoena right given The Hoffman order authorized Vice-President Agnew 's attorneys to subpoena sworn testimony from anyone they believe has information // // about the leaks to the press of allegations in the Agnew investigation . According to a letter the Vice-President received in August from U.S. Attorney George Beall , who is conducting the investigation , Mr. Agnew is being investigated for possible bribery , extortion , tax fraud , and conspiracy as part of a wide-ranging probe of Maryland political figures and possible corruption . Judge Hoffman ruled that this sworn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are expected to be officials in the Justice Department , in Mr. Beall 's office , and perhaps in the White House . Mr. Agnew or his associates have been publicly or privately suspicious that these were the sources of the leaks . Assumption made Several congressional sources who have worked on the newsmen 's privilege proposals assume that newsmen who have reported leaked information also will be subpoenaed to tell who leaked it to them . If past experience is any guide , some reporters would prefer to face jail for contempt of court , rather than reveal their sources . In any case , congressional sources say , efforts by Agnew attorneys to get reporters to reveal sources would pull the newsmen 's privilege proposal from back to front burner in the congressional priority list . Last spring the issue was hotly controversial . A number of reporters around the United States went to jail rather than reveal news sources , in the wake of a Supreme Court ruling that the First Amendment which guarantees freedom of the press does not give reporters the right not to disclose their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the issue of whether to pass a law which would give reporters that right . Issue bogged down Those who wanted some such law passed did , and still do , outnumber those who oppose it . But the issue has bogged down in the two subcommittees which hold it , mostly because supporters of the idea can not agree on important details of the law . Most important disagreement is whether reporters should be permitted to keep sources confidential under all circumstances .                     