@@731225

txt AN IMMEDIATE , tho strictly short-term end to the gasoline crisis for Chicago was promised yesterday by state energy officials who , said that new allocations of gasoline for the city will be available at service stations today . State energy chief James W. Cook said yesterday that some supplies began to move by tank truck yesterday and that more gasoline would be on its way to service stations today . He said 20 million gallons of the 25.1 million allotted to Illinois will be shipped to Chicago area gas stations , with the remainder going to downstate areas . A small number of service stations , were reported open yesterday in Chicago , selling all the gasoline in their tanks in anticipation of new deliveries . A spokesman for the emergency gas hot line , operated by the Illinois Gasoline Dealers Association , said the exact number of stations open yesterday was not available , but the number appeared to be higher than on any Sunday during the past few months . OIL COMPANY executives , meanwhile , are predicting that the 240 million gallons allocated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the peak-demand summer months . And yesterday the Rev. Jesse Jackson warned that inner city gas station owners in Chicago and other cities will shut down completely in two weeks unless their demands for more gasoline at lower prices are met by federal energy officials . The Rev. Mr. Jackson said the dealers have formed the Inner City Gas Dealers Association , made up of about 75 black and white'station owners . HE SAID IIE and representatives of the groups will meet today in Washington with federal energy chief William Simon to present their demands for a wholesale price rollback on gasoline and higher allocations for the inner city . The Rev. Mr. Jackson charged that gasoline is in shorter supply in the inner city than elsewhere in the Chicago area . He also said the dealers will demand that the Federal Energy Office force all gas station owners to serve all customers equally and not discriminate in favor of regular customers .                     