@@732109

txt New York City appeared today to hold a decisive edge over Los Angeles in a long and close competition for the Democratic party 's 1976 convention . On the eve of a decision by ' Robert S. Strauss , the Democratic party chairman , and a 20-member site selection committee , New York was authoritatively reported by party , sources to have met Los Angeles nearly enough on the tangible details of the competition to have won it on the intangibles of politics . For weeks Mr. Strauss has been saying that " all things being equal , we 'll go to New York . " And today , with Governor Carey and a delegation of New York City labor officials prepared to give final  --  assurances of a safe and solvent convention , New York 's bid for its first major party convention in half a century was thought , at last , to be equal . Mr. Strauss , who acknowledges that he can control the site selection committee if he chooses , would not hint at his preference today . Among his closest associates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman in South Carolina , to Mr. Strauss 's personal staff , there remained little doubt about the choice of New York .. On the other hand , Mary Lou Burg , who represents Wisconsin on the Democratic National Committee and works full time at party headquarters here , was said to lean toward a vote for Los Angeles . And Mayor Tom Bradley of Los Angeles was prepared to make an aggressive final argument // ment tomorrow that his city 's new convention center would serve the Democats better than Madison Square Garden in Manhattan . A two-thirds majority of the cite selection committee is required to resolve the question . Anything less than a 2-to-1 preference tomorrow will send the matter to the executive committee of the Democratic National Committee for a final decision . New ' ork officials long ago recognized a problem in converting a sports facility , with a relatively small oval floor , into a convention hall for some 3,000 delegates . Television network officials are reportedly still unhappy that in Madison Square Garden their cameras will stand no closer than 110 feet from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sharp focus on the face of the Presidential candidate the Democrats choose next July . But New York officials have also committed the city to leasing the Garden for free use by the Democrats ? and to spending $1-million or more on lights , phones , carpets and other amenities that will bring it up to convention specifica ? tions . Money and Labor Woes New York 's more serious handicap in the last few months has been the danger of municipal insolvency and turbulence among the city 's organized workers . During the New York garbage strike this summer , Mr. Strauss disavowed his personal " tilt " toward New York . It now appears that he was also giving city union leaders a timely warning that they would have to join Mayor Beame in pledging their full support of the convention . Leaders of the police and sanitation unions have already given those assurances by letter . And Governor Carey will be joined , in his closing presen-I tation tomorrow , by Michael J. Maye , president of the Uniformed Firefighters , Associa- , don . and Douglas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead the i New York City delegation to lithe meeting , which will begin tomorrow morning at the Demiocratic National Committee 's headquarters here . New York 's delegation to air Ilsite selection committee will also include Deputy Mayo , Stanley L. Freedman , Michael 11J . Codd , the police commissionler , and Neil J. Walsh , deputyi Ircommissioner in the Depart ' ment of Civic Affairs . Mayor Bradley 's supporting cast will include Burt Pines , 1 the Los Angeles city attorney , and Dan Graveline , assistant manager of the Los Angeles convention bureau . " Both cities , " according to a high Democratic party official , " are saying : ' Write your ' own ticket ; we 'll give you what you want . " ' " But if they both meet every standard , there 's still ' an obvious tilt on that committee , " the party leader said , indicating a margin in favor of New York . The margin is an amalgam of geography , sentiment , financial ties with New York contributors , and , most important perhaps , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor of New York , the Mayor of the city , and Patrick J. Cunningham , New York 's state party chairman , who is also chairman of the site selection committee . In contrast Charles Manatt , the Democratic chairman in California , ran against Mr. Strauss for the national party leadership in 1972 . And Gov . Edmund G. Brown Jr . of California rebuffed Mr. Strauss 's invitation to appear on the Democrats ' fund-raising telethon in Los Angeles last month . At the same time Mr. Brown seemed to go out of his way to iar the site selection committee . The Democrats should worry less about hotel rooms and more about inflation , Mr. Brown said ; convention delegates could sleep in " church basements , " he suggested . In New York , Mr. Strauss has been / telling friends , he would feel at home , among " professionals . "                     