@@729934

txt Henry A. Kissinger , President Nixon 's specialist in super-secret diplomacy , divulged some clues today about his modus operandi in going to Paris to meet with North Vietnamese officials there . His unpublicized trips featured a sleek " cover " each time he slipped out of Washington ? switches of planes to throw off curious fliers , cooperation from the French , landings at out-of-the-way airports , stays with unknown " safe-house " keepers , and negotiations at hidden rendezvous points . Mr. Kissinger , known to some Government insiders as " Henry the K , " got a chuckle from newsmen when he said : " I do n't want to go into all of the details of how it was done , because we may want to do it again . " But the Presidential adviser , obviously relishing his role as a confidential agent , revealed enough to put together a pattern of operation . The six secret meetings in 1971 revolved around weekends , one being on a Saturday and five on Mondays . Mr. Kissinger said that " it was usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two days , " suggesting that he usually left // Washington on Sunday and returned Monday evening or Tuesday morning . The first trip was over the long Memorial Day weekend in May , when the President was at his Camp David hide-away and the White House press corps was enjoying some time off . Mr. Kissinger 's meeting with the North Vietnamese was on Monday , May 31 . For his second meeting , on Saturday , June 26 , Mr. Kissinger flew to London for a discussion with the British Cabinet secretary , Sir Burke Trend , on the operation of the National Security Council and the comparable machinery in Britain . Then he slipped off to Paris to meet with the North Vietnamese . Third Meeting The third meeting , on Monday , July 12 , came just after Mr. Kissinger had his famous " bellyache " in Pakistan to cover his flight to Peking on July 9 . He said to newsmen today , " The hardest part was not to get to Peking unobserved . " The hardest part , he said , referring to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get to see the North Vietnamese unobserved since a few hundred of you were chasing me around Paris rather intensely . " Mr. Kissinger covered that meeting by appearing in public at dinner with Margaret Os- , mer , a television producer for the Columbia Broadcasting Sys-1 tem . That dinner , he said to-1 day , " took place after I had already seen the North Vietnamese for four hours . " Apollo Provided Cover There was little difficulty in concealing Mr. Kissinger 's fourth contact , on Monday , July 26 , because public and press attention was focused on an Apollo space mission . President Nixon helped by going to Camp David for the weekend , watching the liftoff on that Monday morning , and returning to Washington in the afternoon . President Nixon 's unexpected announcement of his new economic policy on Sunday evening , Aug. 15 , drew public and press attention to that issue on Monday , Aug. 16 , when Mr. Kissinger held his fifth rendezvous with the North Vietnamese . Similarly , the White House press corps was busy inquiring into President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economic program on Sept. 16 , while Mr. ' Kissinger was in Paris for his sixth discussion with the North Vietnamese . Presumably , the other six meetings Mr. Kissinger had in Paris , during 1969 and 1970 , were accomplished in much the same manner . Mr. Kissinger packed several clues into one sentence in his briefing today , saying : " We generally flew to American military bases and then transferred once or twice until we wound up , through the cooperation of President Pompidou , at some little-used airfields near Palls and then we generally stayed in the outskirts with the people we used as contacts . " Used Military Planes Whether his pronoun was an editorial " we " or indicated that he was accompanied by others could not be determined . But on his secret flight to Peking , he and several aides with him . Mr. Kissinger undoubtedly did not use the easily identifiable blue-and-white aircraft in the White House fleet but regular military aircraft . The United States has air bases in England , Germany , Spain , and elsewhere in Europe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States no longer has air bases in France , the French appeared to have furnished air transport into the little-used airports near Paris and the ground transport from there to where Mr. Kissinger stayed outside of Paris . The " contacts " he mentioned appeared to have been keepers of " safe houses , " or hide-aways disguised as ordinary residences , run perhaps by the Central Intelligence Agency or by the French Stlret ? or other intelligence service . Mr. Kissinger also said today that " we generally met in a meeting place furnished by the other side , " meaning a rendezvous set by the North Vietnamese . Whether Mr. Kissinger ever came close to being discovered ' could not be determined , although he did say " there has never been a leak . "                     