@@732027

txt A refrigerator packed with explosives blew up in front of a toy store on Jerusalem 's busiest street Friday , killing 13 persons and wounding 72 in the worst terrorist strike in the Holy City in recent memory , police said . A Palestinian guerrilla unit M Lebanon claimed responsibtity for the blast that struck as crowds shopped for the Jewish Sabbath . The state radio said two ehildren were among the dead . One report said two Americans were injured . Mark Katz and Deborah Levine , both 17-year-old students from Richmond , Va. , were visiting Jerusalem as part of a United Synagogue Youth group when they were injured in front of their hotel . Katz said he suffered a slight concussion and a sprained wrist and Miss Levine a cut leg and slight head bruises . THE WORST previous terrorist ineldent in Jerusalem occurred in July , 1996 , when guerrillas fighting for Israeli independence bombed the King David Hotel , killing 95 persons . Shattered glass cut dozens of passersby in the blast and dazed scores more . A huge crowd gathered and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back while they evacuated victims and searched for more bombs . Two postal workers fixing a phone line were killed instantly , leaving hundreds of phones dead . Windows broke 70 yards away . The blast blew out the fronts of several shops and shattered windows on all sides of Zion Square , which is the shopping and business center of the western or Israeli half of Jerusalem . THE SQUARE is lined with banks and stores and sooty , five-story stone buildings dating back to the British mandate days . There were some fights between groups of Jewish and Arab youths , but police broke them up . Police Minister Schlomo Hillel said police turned back angry Israelis trying to surge into the Arab section of Jerusalem for revenge . Some Israelis tried to beat up Arab passers-by had stone cars , but police intervened and appealed to the public to keep lloacclabirn. locics went up quickly and about 300 Arabs were detained for questioning . Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Defense Minister Shimon Peres inspected the site and drove away refusing commenAIALYOR TEDDY Kollek said , " Our answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unification of Jerusalem . " Israel captured the Arab sector in 1967 and annexed it . In Beirut , the Palestinian guerrilla command said , " the Palestinian revolution is responsible for the heroic opera- tion by a unit of the martyr Farid Bobali Squad in the heart of Jerusalem . " It did not identify Bobali , ' but presumbly he was a guerrilla killed in a previous " Thisattack. heroic operation in the heart of Jerusalem bomb kills 13 , 72 hurt // phase in the moral bankruptcy of the United Nations . " The bomb exploded on Jerusalem 's main commercial street , Jaffa Road opposite Zion Square , at about 10 a.m .. Israeli police sources said abotit 33 pounds of explosives were packed inside the old refrigerator and placed beside two mortar shells . It was wheeled up to the sidewalk in front of a building supply store on Zion Square shortly before the blast , they said . One minute before the explosion , a woman called police to report the presence of the refrigerator on the sidewalk . With bombings occurring at a rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspicious objects routinely . " I saw a naked woman running down the street  --  the fire burned her clothes off , " one witness said . Police denied earlier reports that shortly after the explosion , a car sped thru a nearby street , its occupants firing at the crowd . A spokesman confirmed a car with the blue license plates of the occupied Jordanian west bank raced by , and surmised that a guard may have fired at it .                     