@@730937

txt HUNDREDS of teachers in Niles Township High School District 219 and the Highland , Ind. , School System refused to report to workshops- yesterday in the first Chicago-area teacher strike this Niles Township 's three high schools will not be open to their 7,600 students today , Mrs. Shirley Garland , Niles Board president announced . Last night she disclosed that negotiations with the teachers would be resumed at 1:30 p. m. today . The last negotiating session was held Sunday . Mrs. Garland said a re awed attempt would be made to hold teacher workshops today . She urged parents and students to watch for developments . IN IIIGHLANTI , an attempt was made last night to hold a negotiating session on a new teachers ' contract . It ended quickly when- school board negotiators said they objected to representatives of the Indiana State Teachers Association and an attorney sitting in with teacher negotiators . They said their policy is to negotiate only with employes . Only about 7 per cent of the 475 teachers at Niles crossed picket lines yesterday , according to estimates of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spokesmen released a statement criticizing both teachers and administration for not putting student interests first . The strike could have been avoided if there had been " student input during negotiations " said Robert Feder , 17 , student body president . : NIANY POINTS OF controversy involve students , he said . Both sides say they are sorry for students , " but if they were sincere they would have thought about students before , " he said . The school districts serve students from Skokie , Morton Grove , Lincolnwood , Niles , and parts of Glenview in the three high schools  --  Niles East , West , and North . ISSUES INCLUDE salary , extra duties , and teacher dism i s s a I procedures . Union spokesmen said teachers want a 10 per cent salary hike this year and cost of living increases for the next two years . The board has offered an 8 per cent hike , increasing the present starting pay from $8,677 to $9,067 . Grigsby said half of the 280 teachers reported for workshops in Highland . This was disputed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said 80 per cent of the teachers stayed away . Strike on in Detroit TEACHERS in Detroit and 33 other Michigan school systems went on strkie yesterday , and as many as a dozen more strikes were expected before the week is over . The school systems hit by the s t r i k es enroll nearly 650,000 p up i 1 s , but classes were not generally . affected by yesterday 's walkout because the day was scheduled as a teacher preparation day in most school systems . Pupils in many districts are scheduled to report to classes today , but most of the school systems affected said they will not open for school . Detroit school officials said they will hold a half-day of school as scheduled today .                     