@@728417

txt The " Chicago seven " conspiracy trial ? perhaps one of the most important courtroom battles of the past decade ? ended in at least a partial victory for the federal government . At the same time , it left unanswered a host of major constitutional questions . The verdict also raised the possibility of a renewed exacerbation of the deep divisions existing within the nation over the Vietnam war and campus protests . The jury ? after quietly watching 41/2 months of high courtroom drama , and after four days of deliberations ? found five of the seven defendants guilty of crossing state lines individually with the intent of inciting a riot during the 1968 Democratic convention . Two of the defendants were acquitted . Ironically for the prosecution , none of the defendants in this case ? long dubbed the " Chicago seven conspiracy trial " ? was found guilty of conspiracy itself . Mitchell decision noted The case must be considered at least a partial victory for the federal government , and particularly for Attorney General John N. Mitchell . It was Mr. Mitchell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In part , the verdict will also be interpreted by many as an indicator that the American legal system can withstand severe assault  --  as the court here has  --  from ? the unusual , and often aggressive conduct of the defendants in this case . " The verdict proves that the judicial system works , " an obviously pleased prosecutor , Thomas Foran , told a press conference shortly after the verdict was announced . But at the same time , some troubled observers saw a victory of sorts for the defendants as well , despite the conviction of five of them and despite the total of 19 years and 13 days of contempt sentences garnered by all seven defendants plus two defense lawyers . Many observers felt here the defendants had deliberately and systematically introduced the same tactics of " confrontation politics " to a federal courtroom that they had earlier introduced to the streets of Chicago during the Democratic National Convention . In the process , according to this view , they had brought into question the impartiality , the staffing , and even the dignity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attorneys have privately called into question Judge Julius J. Hoffman 's impartiality . They cite what they call his obvious desire for verbal combat with the defendants and their attorneys . They suggest that the verdict would have had more prospect of surviving appeal had another judge been presiding . The verdict was in many ways an irresolute verdict . Still uncertain , at this point at least , are a number of important legal questions . ? Is the antiriot section of the 1968 Civil Rights Act constitutional ? ? In a decade when the radical or leftist vocabulary tends to take on a coloration of " revolution , " is there an adequate legal test to differentiate between utterances purposely delivered to incite violence , and utterances delivered merely to forcefully advocate a position ? ? Does the federal government have the right to engage in wiretaps or other forms ? of electronic surveillance without court control , or are such monitorings proscribed by Fourth Amendment assurances against " unreasonable searches and seizures " ? ? Is the federal antiriot section of the Civil Rights Act too loosely written @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ? ? What limitations , if any , exist on a judge 's right to convict an unruly defendant  --  or lawyer  --  for acts of contempt ? ( Defense lawyer William M. Kunstler , for instance , was slapped with 4 years and 13 days on contempt charges while his colleague , Leonard I. Weinglass , got 20 months and 5 days on the same count . ) Political overtones At this point , the political overtones to the " Chicago seven " trial are still unclear . The case was pushed by a Republican Attorney General after his predecessor , a Democratic Attorney General , had left office without using the antiriot law against war protestors . Those tried , moreover , were not just individual dissenters but a virtual cross section of the antiwar left in the United States , including several of the key leaders of that movement . Two of the defendants had been organizers of the Students for a Democratic Society . One was a longtime pacifist who had served a jail sentence during World War II for his outspoken views . One was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were university instructors with admittedly radical views . Two were advocates of a new type of " turned-on " or " Yippie " life style . Many civil libertarians wonder if the decision by the government to prosecute the Chicago eight  --  and then seven  --  portends a swing toward " political repression " during the next few years . Continued police surveillance and raids against the Panthers , they say , substantiates this view . Many small convictions Will the government 's success in securing a verdict in the " Chicago seven " case prompt further intervention by the Justice Department in other major  --  or even local ? riot situations ? An aspect of the " Chicago seven " trial likely to receive close attention in the future is the matter of contempt . One view among some jurists is that any contempt citation of more than six months constitutes " serious contempt . " In a case of serious contempt , the defendant usually has the right to a jury trial . In the " Chicago seven " trial , however , Judge Hoffman issued a string of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one citation ran over six months . At the end of the Chicago " conspiracy trial " one question stands out : What will happen in any appellate action ? More importantly : Could the case even reach the Supreme Court of the United States ? Reactions to the verdict : Page 15                     