@@732607

txt Uganda and Israel exchanged blistering accusations Friday in the UN Security Council over the Israeli raid into Uganda to rescue more than 100 hostages held by pro-Palestinian hiiackers . Uganda charged Israel with " barbaric , unprovoked , and naked aggression . " Israel declared that " before us stands accused this rotten , corrupt , brutal , cynical , bloodthirsty monster of international terrorism . " After four hours of debate , the council adjourned the session until Monday . IN THE RAID early last Sunday , Israeli commandos in three C130 turboprop planes landed at Entebbe and dashed into the terminal building where the hostages were being held . Killed in addition to 20 Ugandan soliers were four hijackers and three of their accomplices , three hostages , and one Israeli officer . When the Israelis left about an hour later , they took with them 102 hostages , most of whom were Israelis or Jews of other nationalities . Key figures in the head-on clash at the UN were Ugandan Foreign Minister Juma Oris and Israeli Ambassador Chaim Herzog . Herzog opened with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consistently labeled a " Zionist racist entity , " by the Arab-Communist-Third World majority . FORMALLY , he said , Israel stood at the council as the accused . Then he declared : " On the contrary , I stand here as an accuser on behalf of free and decent people in this world . I stand here as an accuser of this world organization , the United Nations , which has been unable because of the machinations of the Arab delegates and their supporters to coordinate effective measures in order to combat the evil of world terrorism . " " For once , " Herzog told the Council , " have the courage of your convictions and speak out , or be damned by your own silence . " Uganda 's Oris denied that the government of President Idi Amin collaborated with Palestinians who hijacked an Air France jetliner and flew it to Entebbe Airport . He demanded that the council " condemn in the strongest possible terms- Israel 's unprovoked and unwarranted aggression against Uganda . " The Ugandan foreign minister was supported by Ambassador Moulaye el Hessen of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . KENYA HAS - BEEN CHARGED by Uganda with complicity in last Sunday 's Israeli raid on Entebbe Airport . " There is no evidence whatsoever to indicate my country 's collaboration with Israel in the Entebbe episode , " F. M. Kasina , acting head of the Kenyan delegation , said in a letter to Secretary General Kurt Waldheim . Kasina said Kenya gave permission for Israeli aircraft to land at Nairobi after the raid on Uganda on humanitarian grounds , in accordance with international law , to care for injured persons . Herzog challenged Uganda to produce Dora Bloch , the missing hijack hostage who remained behind when Israeli troops swooped down on Entebbe Airport . " Here you have the unbelievable , macabre spectacle of a state waging a war against a 75-year-old ailing lady ..... " Herzog said : " If the government of Uganda was not implicated , let it now and forthwith produce Mrs. Bloch . " THE MISSING HOSTAGE , who holds dual British and Israeli nationality , was reported to be in a Uganda hospital at the time of the Israeli commando raid . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her whereabouts are unknown . Herzog also asked why the ' seized plane had not been released . " I ask my colleagues , African and others here , who are joined to condemn Israel for exercising its inherent right of self-defense , do you or do you not condone the horrifying behavior which is reflected in this act of ' chivalry ' on the part of President Amin against Mrs. Dora Bloch , aged 75 ? " President Ford , asked Friday at a Washington news conference if America was disturbed by Israel 's violation of Ugandan sovereignty , said the U.S. position in a good one on firm legal grounds . " FORD SAID the U.S. attitude on such matters was illustrated by his order for the military to retrieve the merchant ship Mayaguez after it was seized by the Cambodian Navy in 1975 . The United States and West European states planned to use the debate to produce a strong statement against hijack ing and international terrorism in general . West European nations that are not on the council said they ' would ask to make statements condemning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would make its first appearance ever before the Security Council . The Palestine , Liberation Organization and other Arab delegations were reported torn over how to handle the debate . The PLO has been working hard " to deodorize itself of its terrorist image at the UN , " a source said , and had condemned the hijacking from the outset . In Nairobi , Kenya , the Daily Natinn newspaper said in Saturday 's editions that nearly 245 Kenyans have been killed in Uganda in anti-Kenya military reprisals since the Israeli commando raid at Entebbe airport last weekend .                     