@@732761

txt The United States and the Soviet Union have gone 90 percent of the way toward a strategicarms-limitation agreement , according to an administration official . ? But , the official indicated , the chances of obtaining such an agreement before the U.S. presidential election are slim . An arms deal before the election might look like an election gimmick . And there are still " serious differences " within the U.S. Government about what should be done with the U.S. cruise missile and Soviet Backfire bomber . " The President could have had an agreement if he 'd gone full speed and rammed it down everybody 's throat , " the administration official said at a breakfast meeting with reporters . " But I think it should be carefully done and have a wide consensus behind it .. . two or three months do n't make that much difference . " The official did not disagree with the assessment of W. Averell Harriman that the Rus* Please turn to . Page 26 ' From  --  a e 1 *Arms agreement before election unlikely sins are eager for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Moscow and wartime special envoy to Winston Churchill and Stalin , met recently with Soviet Secretary-General Leonid Brezhnev in the course of a vist to Moscow . In answer to questions on other foreign-policy issues , the administration official : ? Disputed reports tht the new and sophisticated arms now being given to Israel would decisively affect the balance of forces in the Middle East . The new arms , he said , amounted to only a " marginal addition " to the Israelis ' existing capabilities . Proposals to supply the new arms had been on President Ford 's desk for weeks and would have been approved in the course of the year anyway . ? Stated that negotiations toward a settlement in Rhodesia have a 70.30 chance of succeeding . . The guerrilla forces are not highly organized and do not appear ready to accept the heavy losses which they would incur in an all-out war . But , he said , the Soviet Union is certainly encouraging the " radicals " to escalate their demands . ? Said that the administration had little information on recent events @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese " radicals " but guessed that a rapprochement between China and the Soviet Union was actually more likely under the so-called moderates who now appear to be in , control than it would be under the " radicals . " ? Slated that until now at least the Chinese were much more concerned with seeing the United States act as a counterweight to the Soviet ' Union than they were in extracting ' concessions on the Taiwan question . There were few occasions when the Chinese actually took the initiative to bring up Taiwan .                     