@@734015

txt aura:mum a Lu. then a class . action suit Wednesday against 10 federal agencies , charging that federal government actions have created:an un ; . , balanced &Dian; Work force that makes ; it difficult for Sears and other ' employ-. ers to comply ' with federal affirmative : action hiring pregrams. - The lawsuit is believed to be the first major challenge to the Equal EmPloymeat Opportunity Commission EE0C3 end other federal agencies that have been trying to promote the hiring of women , blacks , and other minority groups . However , Sears denied that the suit was an attempt to either delay or modify its own affirmative action program . THE SUIT , FILED in United States District Court in Washington , D. C. , asserts that federal agencies are trying to hold private employers liable for the work force the " government itself created through - the GI Bill of Rights , veteran 's preference laws , the Selective Service . System , and restrictions on the number of women and blacks in the armed forces . Such policies have led to a work force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sears asked the court to declare that no federal agency or department be allowed to seek an award of back pay or other damages until " such time as the federal government 's . Polleies have-created a national work force subject to its presently existing national priorities . . . Sears also , asked the court to strike . ' // Sears suit challenges S. hiring standards // down 1978 legislation that raised the Mandatory retiiement age to 70 , contending the law violates its constitutional right . The law holds.dowri the number of new job openings and an employer 's opportunity to hire more women and minority group members , Sears said . The suit also seeks an injunction that would prevent the federal government from cancelling government contracts awarded to Sears or other retailers in the class action in an attempt to force payment of damages to workers or job applicants who believe they have been discriminated against in light of existing federal regulations . THE EEOC nearly two years ago charged that Sewn , the nation 's largest retailer , was in violation of the Civil Rights Act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spanishspeaking Americans with respect to recruitment , hiring , employment , job assignment , promotion , and a variety of other conditions of employment . That Charge is pending before the full commission . . ' . Charles Morgan , a noted civil rights attorney hired by Sears to handle its case , denied that the lawsuit was aimed at the EEOC investigation . " Sears not only accepts its responsibility under the law , but it endorses it the law , " he said . Named as defendants in the suit are the attorney general , secretary of Labor , chairman of the EEOC , secretary of Commerce , secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , secretary of Hous ing and Urban Development , the office of Federal Contract Compliance Pro ? grams , the Office of Federal Statistical Policy and Standards , Bureau .. of the Census , and Federal Agency Council on the 1980 Census . SEARS FILED the snit on behalf ' of itself and all other general merchandise retailers with more than 15 employes . Among other allegations in the suit are that federal agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including : education and housing provisions intended to provide industry with a qualified workforce . ? Violated antidiscrimination provisions themselves . ? Created conflicting compliance requirements that result in discriminations against all employes . ? Have used inadequate statistical data in determining discrimination . EDWARD R. TELLING , Sears chairman , in announcing the lawsuit at a press conference at the Sears Tower , said , " We have long believed that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is sound social and business policy . "                     