@@729369

txt The Director of Central Intelligence , Richard Helms , vigorously defended his agency today as necessary to the survival of a democratic society and asked the nation to " take it on faith that we too are honorable men devoted to her service . " Mr , Helms asserted , in his first public address since becoming head of the Central Intelligence Agency in 1966 , that " we propose to adapt intelligence work to American society , not vice versa . " He spoke with the specific approval of President Nixon before a luncheon meeting of the American Society of Newspaper Editors . In a footnote to history , Mr. Helms revealed that American intelligence in the 1962 Cuban missile crisis was aided by " a number of well-placed and courageous Russians . " He told reporters later that he was alluding not only to Col. Oleg V. Penkovsky , who was identified previously , but also to others who provided information on Soviet missile systems . When asked for their names , Mr. Helms laughed . Colonel Penkovsky was a Soviet intelligence officer secretly working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detected in October , 1962 , and executed in May , 1963 . The publication of his alleged memoirs in the West in 1965 - aroused considerable controversy over their authenticity . Mr. Helms asserted today that United States intelligence would have " a major and vital role in any international agreement to limit strategic arms . " Noting that the Soviet Union had rejected proposals for inspections within its territory , Mr. Helms said the United States could undertake an agreement to limit such arms " only if it has adequate intelligence to assure itself that the Soviets are living up to their part . " China Held Police State At a time when the visit of an American table tennis team to mainland China has generated official hopes for better relations with Peking , Mr. Helms told his audience that " some of our most important intelligence targets lie in totalitarian countries where collection is impeded by the security defenses of a police state  --  for example , Communist China . " Mr. Helms 's rare public appearance today was initiated by Newbold Noyes Jr. , editor of The Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Helms said he could speak only with the approval of the White House , Mr. Noyes wrote to Herbert G. Klein , the President 's director of communications . Mr. Klein said today that President Nixon had readily approved Mr. Helms 's appearance . He said the Administration thought it a good time for the American public to have Mr. Helms explain the role of the C.I.A. , since the agency was not under the kind of fire that had been directed toward it in the past . Mr. Helms noted in his address that in Britain and other European democracies , " it would be unheard of for the head of intelligence services to talk to a nongovernmental group as I am talking to you today , " Dulles Talks Recalled A spokesman for the C.I.A. , in response to an inquiry , said later that Allen Dulles , the Director of Central Intelligence from 1953 to 1961 , spoke publicly about twice a year . But he could not recall an instance in which Mr. Dulles 's successors , John A. McCone and Adm . William R. Reborn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reputation as a skilled administrator , said , " There is a persistent and growing body of criticism which questions the need and the propriety for a democratic society to have Central Intelligence Agency . " " It is difficult for me to agree with this view , " he said , " but I respect it . It is quite another matter when some of our critics , taking advantage of the traditional silence of those engaged in intelligence , say things that are either vicious or just plain silly . " Mr. Helms emphasized that the agency had no domestic security functions and had never sought any . " In short , " he said , " we do not target on American citizens . " The agency was discovered in 1967 to have financed several international activities of the National Student Associa lion and to have given subsidies to unions , foundations and publications . Mr. Helms asserted that the agency had no stake in policy debates . " We can not and must not take sides , " he said . " When there is debate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which he is an adviser , " I do not and must not line up with either side . " If he recommended one solution to a problem , those recommending another would suspect " that the intelligence presentation has been stacked to support my position , and the credi bilitv of C.I.A . goes out the window , " he said . Mr. Helms , after asking that the nation believe that the agency 's operations were compatible with democratic principles , said . " I can assure you that what have asked you to take on faith , the elected officials of the United states Government watch over extensively , intensively , and continuously . " He said the National Security Council , the President 's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board , the Office of Management and Budget and four committees of Congress regularly reviewed the agency 's operations , plans and organization .                     