@@733098

txt accountable to the President and Congress : - But it said that strict legislative charters would be needed to insure against a repetition of the " widespread abuses of the past . " iyage A17.1 The importance attached to the eavesdropping bill by the Administration was underscored by a ceremony in the Rose Garden this morning at which its principal provisions were briefly discussed and eulogized by President Carter , Attorney General Griffin B. Beil and members of both houses of Congress from both parties . Mr. Carter said that he believed the legislation would " successfully resolve " // The New York Times/Teresa Zabala Attorney General Griffin B. Bell , left , chats with Senator Edward M. Kennedy over the shoulder of Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr . during ceremony in Rose Garden . Senator Alan Cranston , background , listens in . WASHINGTON . May 1 S  --  Legislation was introduced in the Senate today to require a judicial warrant for electronic eavesdropping on American citizens or resident aliens in foreign intelligence and national security investigations . The bill , which is supported by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Democrat of Massachusetts . The sponsorship , embracing a wide range of political views , would seem to indicate that the hill 's chances of Senate approval are good . The Senate 's Select Committee on Intelligence , meanwhile , sent to the Senate a report saying it believed the nation 's intelligence agencies were now fully , EAVESDROPPING CURB PROPOSED IN SENATE // the " inherent conflict " between the legitimate intelligence needs of the nation and the individual 's " human rights " guaranteed by the Constitution . The preservation of this difficult balance , Mr. Carter said , is " one of the most difficult tasks in a free society " and a " very delicate question , on which almost complete unanimity has been derived . " This could have been a reference to the long behind-the-scenes battle between those who did not welcome restrictions and those who felt that a similar bill ? introduced last year was not strong enough . The new bill provides that electronic surveillance must be authorized by a warrant and that applications for such warrants are to be approved by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the appropriate official that the desired information is " foreign intelligence information . " This information must be certified to be vital to national security or the conduct of foreign affairs or to the ability of the nation to protect against foreign attack , sabotage or terrorist activities by a foreign power . Different for Official Units These safeguards apply to warrants issued for electronic surveillance of " United States persons , " defined as individuals who are either citizens or permanent resident aliens . A slightly different type of warrant would be required for electronic surveillance of " official " foreign establishments ; somewhat less-justifying information would have to be given to the judge . A warrant against an individual would be good for 90 days ; against an official or acknowledged foreign establishment , for one year . In each case , the warrant would have to be renewed at the end of that period . Senator Kennedy , at this morning 's ' ceremony , twice mentioned the " great support and leadership " of the Carter AdIninistration in " breathing new life into the Fourth Amendment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " against unreasonable searches " and the issuance of search warrants without " probable cause . " Others who spoke praised Vice President Mondale for his success in resolving areas of dispute over provisions of the bill . The co-sponsors are Senators James 0 . Eastland , Mississippi Democrat ; John L. . McClellan , Arkansas Democrat ; Strom Thurmond , South Carolina Republican ; Gaylord Nelson , Wisconsin Democrat ; Charles McC . Mathias Jr. , Maryland Republican , and Birch Bayh , Indiana Democrat . Chances for passage of its companion measure in the House are less clear . One of the bill 's most important features , and one of the three major ways in which it is stronger than the similar bill introduced last year by the Ford Administration , is that it does not recognize any " inherent power " of the President to authorize electronic surveillance . The previous bill also exempted from the warrant requirement the National Security Agency 's " watch list " of American citizens  --  persons that the agency believes to be foreign agents or to be assisting foreign governments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reservations The third significant change permits the judge receiving an application for a ' warrant to review the certification that the information to be sought is foreign-intelligence information . Seven . Federal district judges would be designated by the Chief Justice to handle the warrants ; the Chief Justice would also appoint a threejudge panel to hear Government appeals from warrant denials . The warrant requirement is already law in cases involving other than foreign intelligence matters . Senator Kennedy , in introducing the bill , indicated that he was not completely satisfied with it . He objected to the " noncriminal standard " used , meaning that the bill does not require that the person on whom the surveillance is placed be shown to have committed a crime . " It seems to me , " he said , " that the activities described could effectively fall within the ambit of our espionage and conspiracy laws . " ? Mr. Kennedy also said that he saw as " another major question mark " the bill 's failure to establish the same standards of protection for illegal aliens and foreign visitors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may use the information obtained by the surveillance for whatever purpose it believes necessary . The Fourth Amendment , he noted , " speaks in terms of protecting all ' persons ' ? not just American citizens and lawful resident aliens . " He also criticized the bill 's lack of specificity with regard to Congressional oversight of its implementation .                     