@@731503

txt PRESIDENT FORD proposed leniency yesterday for the 50 , - 000 American milit a r y " deserters and draft-dodgers , " provided they agree to some form of alternative service . " I want them to come home , if they want to work their way back , " he told the 75th annual convention of the Veterans of Foreign Wars in the Conrad Hilton Hotel . His appeal apparently stunned the veterans ' group , which sat silently after having given him an extremely warm welcome and a V. F. W. award . Ford 's proposal amounts to a complete reversal on the amnesty issue from that of former President Nixon . IN IIIS first trip outside Washington since he took office 11 days earlier , Ford also said : ? He would veto the pending Veterans Education Bill if it exceeds what he considers a noninflationary funding level , but he is open to compromise . ? He was naming Richard L. Roudebush , former five-term Republican congressman from Noblesville , Ind. , and one-time V. F. W. national commander , to be director @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to become more humane in its treatment of veterans , and he will work to reduce the high unemployment rate of Viet Nam veterans . ? The nation must remain militarily strong , tho it should not " be the policemen of the Ford appoints former Rep. Richard Roudehush as Veterans Administration administrator . Page 6 . The anger of Greeks protest . ing , U. S. policies on Cyprus drowns out cheers of welcome for President Ford . Rick Soli reports , on page 6. world . " To reduce its strength would be to invite confrontation from " potential adversaries , " he said . " I will offer them no temptations . " The President brought t h e convention delegates to their feet with whistles , cheers , and loud applause when he dedeparted from his text to say he opposes " unconditional blanket amnesty for an yon e who illegally evaded or fled military service . " BUT THE mood of the crowd dampened as he announced that he has ordered a study of how to bring the deserters home . It was a subdued convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power higher than the people , who commands n o t only righteousness but love ; not only justice , but mercy . . . . I Hi a v el directed the attorney g e n e r al and secretary of defense to report to me before Sept. 1 on the status of some 50,000 of our countrymen convicted , charged , under investigation , or still sought for violations of the Selective Service Act or the Uniform Code of Military Justice . " Senators , congressmen , and White House aides , including former Gen. Alexander Haig , heard Ford tell a hushed audience that the American system of justice and the system of military justice could deal with ? the cases involved . But he plainly indicated that the penalty should fit the crime . There a r e many kinds of cases involved , he said , noting that those who have been unable to come home for fear of punishment are " in a sense , casualties . " FOR the veterans ' group , he touched a chord when he spoke of " fallen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But , he noted , deserters and draftresisters " who committed the supreme folly of shirking their duty at the expense of others , were also very young . " Ford , who served as a Naval enlisted man for almost four years in World War II and who is a member of the V. F. W. and two other veterans ' groups , said , " These young people should have a second chance to contribute their fair share to the rebuilding of pea ce among ourselves . " In the " spirit that guided Abraham Lincoln and Harry Truman , " he said , " I reject amnesty and I reject revenge . " So I am throwing the weight of my Presidency into the scales of justice on the side of leniency . I forsee their reentry into a new atmosphere of hope , hard work , and mutual trust . " FORD MADE one remark later interpreted as a slap at former President Nixon . He said , in reference to improving services for veterans , " I do n't like red tape . " Then he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a matter of fact , I do n't like any kind of tapes . " The new President came here to fulfill a commitment he made to the V. F. W. when it invited him more than five months ago to receive its Citizenship Gold Medal . The award was presented by Ray R. Soden of Bensenville , V. F. W. commander , who earlier issued a press release opposing the proposed S5.1 billion cut in the defense budget under study in Congress . Ford stuck close to the themes he has used in his previous speeches as President : openness , a conciliatory approach to people and problems , an eye on how to control expenditures , a strong military posture , a friendly handshake for other nations , but no dropping of the nation 's guard . Most of all , yesterday 's 2aminute speech reflected a concern for the problems of people . Cutting thru the tangle of burocracy to help veterans , seeing that they have the " best hospitals that medical skill and dedication can create , " and making sure veterans are treated as people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which more often than not goofs up " were his concerns , he said , along with the plight of the deserters and draft evaders . HE BROUGHT a gasp to the audience when he told them that United States Ambassador Rodger Davies had been killed on Cyprus . " He , too , gave his life in foreign wars , " he said . The President , accompanied by his wife , Betty , drew an enthusiastic welcome as he drove in from O'Hare International Ai rpor t . Ten thousand pro-Greek protesters assembled across from the hotel were apparently more angry with Secretary of State Kissinger than Ford . Mrs. Ford , unlike Mrs. Nixon , who often shook hands along side her husband , stayed in the background . Her decision to accompany the President came at the last minute . The reason , she quipped , was " to help take care of him . " After receiving a bouquet of red roses from Diane Kummer , Chicago Lake Front Festival // Richard I. Roudebush Queen , Mrs. Ford sat in the Presidential limousine while her husband @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the car when the motorcade stopped on Michigan Avenue and Ford shook Nandi with people on the sidewalk . During the hour the couple spent in the Imperial Suite in the hotel , Mrs. Ford was " resting " in one of the bedrooms , e spokesman said . Wearing a red dress with a red , white , and blue scarf around her neck , she stood on the opposite side of the speakers ' platform from the President , smiling often and applauding politely . WHEN FORD told the convention that she had been born in Chicago and had lived in Rogers Park until she was 3 ears old1 , she leaned forward in her chair and gave a hearty laugh . And when she was introduced to the crowd ? " behind every great man , there is a great lady " ? she gave a big wave and a salute which seemed to encompass tile entire room .                     