@@728360

txt The newest justice-designate to the United States Supreme court enjoys bridge , likes to watch football games , and used to teach a church school class in his Episcopalian church . Judge G. Harrold Carswell , 50 , today named by President Nixon for a spot on the nation 's highest court , was born and reared in Georgia , but moved to Florida as k young man to establish a new practice . No Problems Anticipated In Tallahassee , Judge Carswell told a news conference " I do n't really think there will be problems but I 'll just roll with the punches " when the Senate takes up his nomination . Carswell said he owns no stocks or bonds . He said his possessions include his home and a few pieces of real estate inherited from his father and grandfather . " Are you rich ? " a newsman asked . " No , " Carswell replied firmly . Carswell said be had not discussed his nomination with President Nixon until two hours before it was announced . " He simply said , ' I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' That was that , " Carswell said . On his judicial philosophy , he said , " A judge is neither pro nor con . I want to approach the law fairly . " He had just lost a primary race for the Democratic nomination to the state house of representatives , when Carswell and his young family moved to Tallahassee . His first job there was with the firm of Ansley , Collins &; Truett . After a few years with the firm , he resigned and set up his own law firm of Carswell , Cotton &; Shivers . Because of his coming from a well-known Democratic Georgia family , some associates were a little surprised when Carswell became active for Dwight D. Eisenhower in the 1952 campaign , when he headed the Democrats for Eisenhower cm -- mittee in Tallahassee . Named U.S. Attorney His hard work was rewarded when he was named United States attorney for the northern district of Florida , the first rung on the ladder which led to his nomination today . He was appointed as a Democrat and changed his registration about a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man on the Supreme court . Associate Justice Byron White ; who was named to the bench by President John F. Kennedy , is now 52 . Carswell is the son of George Henry Carswell of Irwinton , Ga. , who served 30 years in the Georgia legislature , and when secretary of state , lost the governorship in a , runoff to Sen. Richard B. Russell D. , Ga . . Like Nixon , Carswell attended Duke university , where he studied English and creative writing . Ile was , for a brief period , a newspaper reporter , Before entering the navy in World War II , he edited a weekly newspaper in his home town of Irwinton , Ga . After the war ended , Carswell abandoned ambitions for a journalistic career and entered Mercer Ga. school of law .                     