@@732964

txt NEW YORK  --  Three reputed members of a Bronx youth gang have been sentenced to jail for the severe beating of a 20-year-old woman who rebuffed the sexual advances of one of them . The conviction was credited to the initiative of Robert Werner , a detective who became angry last fall at the prospect of seeing the case involving the three men , whom he had helped arrest , thrown out of court after the terrified victim had fled to her native Puerto Rico . For his work , Detective Werner received a special certificate of appreciation from Bronx District Attorney Mario Merola . THIS INCLUDED , between the assault and the conviction , a trip to Puerto Rico at his own expense by the 29-year-old detective , who is a member of the Bronx Youth Gang Task Force . The woman who was assaulted was beaten ' ' almost beyond recognition " by three members of a so-called " Gestapo squad " of the Savage Skulls in the hallway of a building where she had been visiting friends , according to Merola 's office . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the word went out on the street that the woman would be killed if she testified against them , and the authorities said she had fled in terror . DETECTIVE WERNER , who had just returned from a vacation in Puerto Rico , got permission to return to the island , found her with the help of the local police , and persuaded her to return to New York with the promise of 24-hour police protection . Her testimony resulted in the conviction of her three assailants . Monserrat Irrizary , 21 , of the Bronx was sentenced to three to six years by Justice Alvin Schlessinger in State Supreme Court . Melvin Nunez , also 21 , and Jorge Pierna , 19 , were sentenced to two to six years , All must serve the minimum before being declared eligible for parole , under the judge 's instruction . Merola , at ceremonies for Werner , said the case would help persuade other frightened victims and witnesses to testify against assailants . " PEOPLE ARE afraid to become involved with the Police Department and it 's an endless problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . " This guy showed a deep faith in the human race , " he said in praise of the detective . About $50 has been forwarded in letters to Detective Werner , hailing him for his action . The detective said the money will go to the widows and orphans fund of the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association . First Deputy Police Commissioner James M. Taylor said the department will reimburse his travel expenses , and is planning its own honors for Detective Werner sometime next week .                     