@@732759

txt As the election campaign enters its final two weeks , President Ford simultaneously is exonerated on wrongdoing on one campaign issue , but beset by an accusation from Nixon-nemesis John Dean . No one is yet certain what the ultimate political effect will be on the election campaign . Exoneration came from Watergate special prosecutor Charles Ruff , who said Thursday that Mr. Ford had done nothing wrong in a campaign finance case in his home county while a congressman . Some political observers thought the conclusion of prosecutor Charles Ruff would be a big advantage to the President in the final days of a close election , with millions of voters undecided . The White House seized the opportunity of calling the first regularly scheduled White House press conference in eight months for Thursday evening , with the apparent intention of getting all the subsidiary benefits from the situation that it could . On the other hand , the President remained potentially endangered , politically , by the charge newly leveled against him by former White House counsel John Dean . At this writing no corroborative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inasmuch as it was Mr. Dean who " blew the whistle " on the Nixon presidency , political obserVers here immediately wondered whether the charge itself will harm the Ford campaign . // From  --  a e 1 *Prosecutor clears Ford .. . However , there was also the prospect that Mr. Ruff 's exoneration on the campaign financial issue would mute the impact of the Watergate charge . Mr. Dean , on NBC-TV 's " Today " show , said that Mr. Ford , when he was House minority leader , was contacted by a Nixon intermediary who asked him to act in President Nixon 's behalf to help block a House committee from conducting'a Watergate-related probe . Mr. Dean charged that Richard Cook , former White House liaison to the House of Representatives , was " the man who did the legwork " and had conversations with Mr. Ford , and others , about blocking this investigation . Mr. Cook denies the Dean charge and calls it " cheap huckstering . " He says , " despite John Dean 's repeated and frantic requests , I never spoke with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Patman 's request for subpoena power . " The President sticks with the position he expressed at the congressional hearings that fo -- cused on him just before he took the vice-presidency : that anything he did relating to the Patman committee he did entirely on his own . Now several Democratic congressmen are asking Mr. Ruff to look into the Dean charge . The problem for Mr. Ford is clear : The Dean accusation is just one more charge thatlies over his head ? one that probably can not be resolved before Nov. 2 and may be damaging to him in the election . The probe by Mr. Ruff into campaign contributions Mr. Ford received as a congressman apparently is resolved now . The allegation was that Mr. Ford diverted , some of those contributions to his own personal use . Mr. Ford denied this flatly . On Thursday , Prosecutor Ruff said in a two-page statement , " The matter has now been closed . " The statement said the special prosecutor went into the case at the request of Attorney General Edward H. Levi . Mr. Ford made no immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated that that issue as well as others would probably be discussed in his televised news conference Thursday night . Further , the Washington Post reports that Jesse N. Calhoon , president of the Marine Engineers Beneficial Association , testified recently before a federal grand jury and that . Calhoon 's testimony supplied nothing to support any allegation that Ford diverted maritime union funds to personal or improper political use . , The accusations on this subject , leading to the special prosecutor 's probe , are said to have I come from sources within this union .                     