@@728326

txt An agreement to put 4,000 Negroes to work in Chicago construction jobs was accepted yesterday by the black organizations that had rejected the same basic offer two months ago . The Building Construction Employers association and the Chicago Building Trades council will find 1,000 jobs immediately for qualified Negro journeymen . Another 3,000 will be placed in on-the-job or apprentice training immediately . The builders also agreed to give Negroes and other minority groups a share of jobs in the industry equal to their percentage of the population . The acceptance of the plan , originally offered on Nov. 6 after meetings in the office of Mayor Daley , but rejected shortly after by black leaders , came after an all-day meeting in the office of Charles Swibel , head of the Chicago housing authority . Swibel , it was learned , had played an active role in the negotiations since Aug. 14 . A formal announcement of the accord is to be made Monday in the office of Mayor Daley Committee to Supervise Plan The agreement provides that a committee of seven will see that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Daley or his representative , two from the employers association , and two picked by the Coalition for United Community Action , which has spoken for most of the Negro groups in the dispute . Approval by five or more members will be needed for the committee to act , the agreement said . The agreement was signed yesterday by 11 representatives of various black organizations after the all-day meeting with Swibel . Signers Are Named They were the Rev. C. T. Vivian , coalition coordinator ; David C. Reed , a spokesman for the Valley Community organization ; Rob e r t Lucas , Black Liberation alliance ; Larry Patterson , Conservative Vice Lords ; Mike Shane , Black Disciples ; the Rev. Curtis Burrell , Kenwood-Oakland Community conference ; Robert E. William , Lawndale Peoples Planning and Action conference ; Bob Tay lo r , National Welfare Rights organization ; Alfred P. Small , the Black P Stone Nation ; Paul King , West Side Builders ; and Sally Johnson , Allies for a Better Community . Construction officials had signed the Nov. 6 agreement after a 5-month dispute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Murray , president of the Chicago Building Trades council , and Arthur F. O'Neil , chairman of the Building Construction Employers association , indicated they will sign yesterday 's plan , which is basically the same deal . Building officials have said that altho the agreement is not binding on the 19 member unions , it is expected that they will go along . 5-Year Period Specified Proportionate hiring of Negroes and other minority group limbers is to be made effeclye " over a period of not more , han five years . " The administrative commit . tee , according to the agreement , will seek private and David Reed government funds to finance training . The 4,000 workers chosen for immediate employment o r training must have lived in Chicago for at least a year , it is specified . The coalition met with Swibel on Thursday , Yesterday 40 persons showed up at his office to agree upon the plan . Swibel insisted that all 11 members of the coalition steering committee sign the agreement . In another development yesterday , five Chicago contracting firms that had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they hired more Negroes and other minority group members agreed to allot 20 per cent of their work forces to them by the end of this year . John L. Wilks , director of the office of federal contract compliance , said the government would review the hiring practices of the five firms within 60 days to " assure good faith efforts " on their parts . The companies are the Advance Heating &; Air Conditioning corporation , 117 N. Desplaines st. ; Thomas H. Litvin Plumbing company , 1355 Washington blvd. ; Shannon Plumbing company , Inc. , 8550 Genoa ay. ; S. N. Nielsen Construction company , 3059 Augusta blvd. ; and Waner Heating ' and Air Conditioning corporation , 5414 . Archer ay .                     