@@731071

txt THREE CHICAGO policemen accused of police brutality were indicted yesterday by the county grand jury on charges ranging from attempted murder to perjury and filing false arrest reports . The three policemen are : 0 Patrolman Maurice Beacham , 37 , member of the police special operations division for mass transit , charged with one count of attempted murder , two counts of aggravated battery , three counts of perjury , and one count of obstruction of justice . e Patrolman Antonio Francis , 90 , Englewood District , charged with two counts of aggr a v a t e d battery and one count of perjury. 0 Patrolman James Ciechna , 29 , Marquette District , charged with three counts of aggravated b atter y , two counts of battery , one count of aggravated assault , and four counts of official misconduct . THE INDICTMENTS followed a five-month investigation of police brutality by The Tribune which documented acts of brutality and showed an absence of psychological ' testing of police recruits far more than two years . Acting Police Supt. James Rochferd said he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chicago Police Board to fire Beacham . Rochford said he will decide whether he will suspend the other two policemen when he receives official notification of the indictments . Beacham was charged in connection with a shooting incident in an apartment building he owns at 7533 S. Essex Av . Leroy Watts , 30 , a former tenant in Beacham 's building , was critically wounded . Watts said Beacham , while not on duty , trapped him in his ' former apartment last April 29 and drew a gun on him . He said Beacham drew the gun because he was angered over some bags of trash the Watts family had left in the apartment when they moved . THE POLICEMAN shot him in , the chest , Watts said , and ordered him to get on his knees and beg for his life . Beacham then shot him in the stomach , arm , and right hand , Watts said . After the shooting , Beacham said Watts had knocked him down and slashed him with a knife , and he filed charges of aggravated battery and assault @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the shooting ; one count of perjury for lying to the grand jury about the location of the shooting ; two counts of perjury for filing false arrest complaints against Watts ; and one count of obstructing justice for lying about being wounded by a knife and for dropping a knife at the scene of the crime . Beacham was an unsuccessful Republican candidate for state representative in the 26th District several years ago , and several days ago appeared before the Cook County Republican Central Committee slatemaking committee and asked to run again . FRANCIS IS accused of beating Joshie Johnson , 32 , of 330 W. Normal Pkwy. , after he issued Johnson a parking citation Oct. 20 , 1971 , in an alley behind 612 W. 69th St. Johnson said Francis called a second squad car to seal off the end of the alley before handing the parking citation to him . He said Francis pulled on a pair of fingerless , black leather gloves and beat him until he was unconscious . Johnson lost 40 days from his job in an auto assembly plant recovering from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assault , resisting arrest ; and disorderly conduct , and making statements to police . A brutality complaint he filed with the Police Department 's Internal Affairs Division was upheld , eventually , and Francis was suspended from the force for two days . The grand jury indictment charges Francis with two counts of aggravated battery in the beating and one count of perjury for lying to the grand jury when he denied I kicking Johnson . ? CIECHNA IS accused of beating William and Michael Kincy , of 2625 W. 23d St. , and Robert Nealy , 2222 W. 23d St. , andpointing a loaded revolver at the head of Henry Gonzales , 2118 S. Halsted St. , during an incident last March 22 . According to Assist ant State 's Atty . Jon M. Cutrone , Ciechna had been drinking in a tavern at 2158 W. 23d St. when he accused Nealy of having robbed another patron in the tavern : Nealy said ' Ciechna pistolwhipped him in the tavern , handcuffed him , and forced him to lead Ciechna to William and Michael Kincy 's apartment . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' apartment and found both brothers and Gonzales inside : They said he struck both brothers with his revolver and flashlight , then cocked the revolver and put it to Gonzales ' head , threatening to kill him . AFTER THE incident , the men filed brutality complaints against Ciechna with the IAD , which later substantiated the charges . Ciechna was suspended from the department for 30 days , returning to his duties Oct. 16 . The grand jury recommended $10,000 bond for the three policemen , who are scheduled to be arraigned Dec. 3.                     