@@733747

txt A House committee dealt President Carter and his anti-inflation fight a major defeat today by dismantling the Administration 's proposal to place a limit on rapidly rising hospital costs . By a one-vote margin , the Commerce Committee amended the Administration bill to rempve all threat of mandatory controls on hospital costs , which increasd 16 percent last year . The remaining legislation would merely encourage hospitals to reduce the rate of increase in costs voluntarily by two percentage points a year . Joseph A. Cali fano Jr. , the Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , denounced the committee vote as " a defeat for the public interest and a victory for the special hospital interests . " Medical Profession Is Pleased The organized medical profession was distinctly pleased with the committee 's endorsement of its voluntary cost control effort , which began earlier this year . A typical comment came from Dr. Robert B. Hunter , chairman of the board of the American Medical Association , who called voluntary efforts " the only responsible approach " to cost containment that would preserve " continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote had important implications beyond the health field , however , because the President has consistently named the cost containment bill as one of the Administration 's major efforts against inflation . Secretary Califano reiterated today that the bill " remains the No. 1 unfulfilled priority now before the Congress in the fight against inflation . " But , when asked whether the Administration would continue to battle for the bill , Mr. Cali-. fano replied , " I do n't know . " Outlook Termed Gloomy He said Administration and Congressional officials would evaluate the situation before making a decision , but most Capitol Hill analysts believed that the outlook for the legislation was gloomy . The Commerce Committee was considered more sympathetic to the bill than the Ways and Means Committee , which also has jurisdiction over the issue , and there was believed to be little chance that the Ways and Means Committee would now report a bill containing mandatory controls . Cost containment has also encountered trouble in the Senate , where Senator Herman E. Talmadge , chairman of the Health Subcommittee of the Human Resources Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The committee action today partly reflects the power of the hospital lobby , one of the strongest and most sophisticated on Capitol Hill . Many hospitals around the country have local notables on their boards of directors who can generate considerable influence on members of Congress . According to Congressional analysts , the action also reflects a failure by the Administration to generate much support and enthusiasm ' for its proposals . As Mr. CaBrand noted today , there is little incentive for hospitals to cut costs because third parties , such as insurance companies and . the Government ; rather than consumer , pay most of the bills . To . some ? analysts , the vote also sig-. paled another . step in. public disillusionment ' ' wtth ' Federal bureaucracy and regulation . Significantly ; the , committee Passed ' an , amendment providing ' funds for states ? that enact their own cost containment plans . The original Administration plan could have placed a limit on hospital costs amounting to a rise Of about 9 percent in the first ' year : Such a limit , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and would help to ' check rising costs until comprehensive national health insurance could be enacted . Compromise on Voluntary Plan After battling the bill for a year , the inedical. &immunity; announced-its plans for the voluntary program to reduce the rate of Increase . in costs by two percentage points a ? year . Several Congressmen liked , the idea , and a compromise . was worked : out providing for a two-year Voluntary experiment . But mandatory controls would have been put into effeect if Hie hospitals did not meet their own goals . . The amendment approved today , sponsored by . Representative James T. Broyhill , Republican of North Carolina , elimi , nated the provision for imposing those mandatory controls . " Hospital officials said their voluntary ? effort reduced the ? rate of increase by more than three percentage points over the first four months of this year , but Mr. Califano remained  --  unimpressed . He said the voluntary plan had ? " yet to demonstrate ' Significance in any way , " and ' added . that- it was only instituted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    