@@728959

txt A government request to kidnapers of James R. Cross , the British diplomat , for proof in his writing that he is still alive was answered swiftly tonight , together with a warning that he will not be seen alive unless ransom conditions are met by 5 p. m . Chicago time tomorrow . Within hours after a request had been broadcast to the Front for the Liberation of Quebec W. L. Q .. 1 for Cross to write a specified sentence of greeting to his wife in Montreal , a brown paper envelope was delivered to a French language radio station there . Contained Sentence It contained , the code sentence : " It is now five days since I left and I want you to know , darling , that I miss you every minute .. " Please give my love to my wife and daughter , " the message added in what appeared to be Cross ' handwriting . " I miss them very much . " With the letter was a statement to authorities from the F. L. Q the " final " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after F. L. Q. terrorist prisoners are released from Quebec jails and flown safely to Cuba or Algeria , and police call off their search for the kidnapers . Proposals for Exchange The message said that the exchange of prisoners for Cross could be arranged thru three men , Robert Lemieux , a Montreal lawyer for the F. L. Q. , and two Montreal French radio station personalities . Lemieux said tonight lie thought release of F. L. Q. prisoners and their safe departure to Cuba or Algeria in exchange for Cross ' freedom is the only nonnegotiable issue in the ransom demands . Lemieux said he had talked with all the prisoners and they were not surprised at the demands for their release . " All of them have been hoping for it , " he said . " Every . body sort of anticipated it . " Lemieux said Cuba or Alger i a would " absolutely " agree to take the F. L. Q. prisoners if the Canadian government requested either of their governments to do so . Meanwhile , in San Francisco , authorities received from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the abduction of Cross . The bulletin said three men traveling in a van may have crossed the United StatesCanadian border at Blaine , Wash. , en route to Mexico . Police said the alert was informative only and no warrants or holds for the truck had been issued . The kidnapers have demanded that 20 F. L. Q. prisoners in jail and three others on bail be freed and all flown to Cuba or Algeria . They also have called for police activity to be stopped in the case , and for the F. L. Q. propaganda manifesto be broadcast on government radio and television networks . Another demand for $500,000 ransom has been soft pedaled.                     