@@732385

txt The Government drafted rebellious municipal policemen and firemen into the army here today in an effort to stem rising unrest and street agitation that has accompanied the first official visit by King Juan Car- , los I and Queen Sofia to Catalonia . The crackdown came after riot policemen stormed the city hall late last night and drove out hundreds of striking municipal employees with tear gas . Spain 's second largest city and the capital of one of its most dissident regions took on a besieged look as combatready Government police patrolled the streets to stamp out the agitation flaring up almost constantly from such disparate groups as municipal employees , construction workers and teachers and students . The royal visit , on its third day ; appeared compromised by the disturbances and by the refusal of the Catalans to show deference to the King by temporarily laying aside their grievances . In an effort to redress the situation , thousands of leaflets were thrown into the streets today calling on the populace to rally tomorrow night in memory of Franco and in support of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace , defend it , " the leaflets said . " We shall be in the Plaza San Jaime , Thursday at 8 P.M. in memory of our leader and in a tribute of loyalty of the King of Spain . " Visit to Monserrat The plaza faces city hall and until this morning it was the rallying point for thousands of ' City employees demonstrating for higher wages . They were there Monday night only a few yards from where the King and Queen were being greeted by dignitaries on their arrival from Madrid . The employees showed little interest in the royal presence and only a small crowd was on hand to see the King and Queen .. Yesterday the Ring and . Queen went to the 1l-centuryold Benedictine monastery o ! Monserrat , some 40 miles from Barcelona . But even in this isolated spot they could not es-1 cape Catalonia 's dissident at-i m osphere . The Rev. Cassia Just , the abbot of this independentminded religious community , brought up the Civil War in his sermon by declaring : " Some of us have relatives , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OF . struggle between brothers that divided our people and are awaiting freedom and reconciliation . " He told the King and Queen seated in front of him : " We are all carrying in our hearts desires for reconciliation , amnesty , peace and full recognition of the rights of our people . " Government Moves In Demands for political amnesty and for home rule are common to all opposition groups here . But the Government has given only a limited response . Mixed with the political issues are economic ones presented by the striking municipal employees and by construction workers . The result has been continual street agitation . After four days of demonstrations and occupation of City Hall , Government officials , including Interior Minister Manuel Fraga Iribarne , here with the King , lost patience last night . The assault on City Hall caused panic and several persons were injured . The barricaded city employees were driven out by tear gas and the angered firemen boarded their trucks and careened through the city , their sirens screaming in protest . Then came the orders placing them and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city employees unaffected by the draft tried to reassemble in City Hall . " You have two minutes to evacuate , " announced a Government police officer . With the air still acrid from last night 's tear-gas attack , the occupants moved out quickly . Return to the Job Firemen and city policemen obeyed their army orders and this afternoon , the police , whose principal duty is to direct traf-1 fie , appeared on the streets ' wearing badges marked " M " for " militarized . " Trouble also came from thousands of striking building workers who tried to concentrate around headquarters of the Government-run Syndicate organization to demand wage negotiations and to protest the high unemployment rate . They were barred by the police and while hundreds assembled in the nearby cathedral to vow to continue their strike , others engaged in running battles with the police .                     