@@732114

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 22 Letters to the Editor Social-Support System : The ' Double Theft ' To the Editor : We should by now be accustomed ? if not resigned  --  to the self-serving distortions with which Vice President Rockefeller attempts to justify his failures , his indifference and his sins of omission and commission in connection with the nursing-home scandals , the Attica massacre and other aspects of his tenure in Albany . But in his testimony before the Moreland Commission , Mr. Rockefeller went beyond self-justification to a vicious attack on decent social policy . Asked about the social responsibility to provide good medical care to nursing-home patients , he said it would be impossible for government to provide what everyone would consider good medical care , and he baldly told the commission that " no government can afford to give the kind of treatment and care you 're talking about . " Nonsense ! The Governments of Canada , Great Britain , Scandinavia  --  indeed , most of the Western industrial world , with the sorry exception of the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financed systems . Of course this nation can afford to do the same , with national health insurance and a rational organization of Toll Question To the Editor : And so now the Federal Environmental Protection Administration , in order to protect the city 's environment , has mandated that New York impose tolls on its East and Harlem River bridge crossings by the middle of 1977 . Assuming that the order withstands legal challenges and tolls are imposed , will the Federal Government pay for the construction of the toll plazas and the toll booths , will it pay for maintenance and will it pay the salaries of the toll collectors ? E.P.A. , after all , says that the toll is not intended to be a revenue-raising measure . Or will the city be expected to pick up the tab for yet another federally mandated measure ? JAY A. HERSHBERG Brooklyn , Sept. 6 , 1975 ? Budgeting as Usual ' To the Editor : The Times has rightly supported the reduction of unnecessary municipal expenditures by the City of New York with particular emphasis on the reduction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aides have attemped to reduce budget deficits in the same manner as they have traditionally created the budget . Cuts have been made on a line-item basis and announced as a " body count " of lower-level employes . While it does in fact reduce services , this process has little impact on the proliferation of low-priority programs . Had the Mayor departed from this narrow framework of item reductions , there would have been a systematic cancellation of entire programs with marginal utility . Savings would result from a staff reduction at all levels of personnel , the cancellation of office leases and contracts and the reallocation of equipment , supplies and personnel . A substantial reduction in the city 's To the Editor : In an Aug. 26 editorial , The Times questioned open political primaries and opposed Wisconsin 's suit to test the Democratic party 's ban of open primaries . The Presidential preference primary ? open to all of the state 's voters ? has been a Wisconsin institution for more than seventy years . Complying with the party 's new rule may not be difficult for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it runs headlong into an established tradition of political independence and undisguised discomfort with formal declarations of party affiliations as a condition for voting . The State Legislature  --  even with Democrats a majority in both houses  --  reflects that sentiment . It is very reluctant to consider a change in the law until the new rule stands unquestioned . The case against the open primary is by no means as uncontroverted as The Times editorial implied . There are legitimate questions  --  legal as well as political  --  about the right of voters to participate in every phase of the political process , a right denied many voters by the closed primaries . The number of independents in this country is at least as great as the number of Democrats and much greater than the number of Republicans . What becomes of their rights when participation in an election first demands a formal and public declaration of party health services oriented toward consumer needs rather than private profit . What we can not afford is a continuation of the current provider-dominated fee-for-service Medicaid/Medicare system , under which government funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are funneled into a private sector whose major operating principles are the maximization of profit and resistance to any farm of social accountability . Mr. Rockefeller went on , in a statement typical of his new neo-George Wallace social policy , to add some gratuitous comments about " welfare chiselers . " This does not merely neglect the victim ; it blames him . What the nursing-home scandals should make clear to all of us is that the major thefts from our social-support systems are perpetrated not by their clients but by the health-care entrepreneurs , the corporate providers of service and some of the professionals . And this is a double theft . It robs the public treasury ( and the public trust ) ; what is worse , it robs the ill , the poor and the helpless . Editorial Aug. 30 . H. JACK GEIGER , M.D. Professor of Community Medicine State University of N.Y . at Stony Brook Stony Brook , L.I. , Sept. 3 , 1975 commitment to luxury programs is what is essential if a new management outlook is to develop from the fiscal crisis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budgeting as usual " with the inherent protection of misplaced priorities . HARVEY KASDAN Brooklyn , Aug. 26 , 1975 ? Toward Illegal Contracts To the Editor : It is a well-established principle that contracts obtained by illegal means are not legally binding or enforceable . In New York it is illegal for municipal employes to strike . It follows that no legal contract can obtain by means of such an illegal strike . LorHea J. OPPENHEIMER New York , Sept. 4 , 1975 ? Fares and the Elderly . To the Editor : The half-price fare on the New York transportation system is a great boon to the elderly , but it has one flaw : While on the bus the oldsters can buy a single ride for half price , on the subway they must pay for two rides at a time whether they need both or not . If they can not complete the second ride the same day , they have forfeited their privilege . It seems it would be no loss to the M.T.A. if it would extend the validity of the return tickets on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giving the over-65 's a better deal . ALEXANDER HAMMID New York , Sept. 6 , 1975 ? To the Editor : As I deposited my 50-cent token into the turnstile slot on Sept , 1 , I wondered whether , if David Yunich were still the president of Macy 's , he would have favored a 43 per cent increase in subway fare . JEANNE SCHONBERG New York , Sept. 2 , 1975 affiliation ? For many people , unaffiliated politically and unwilling to make a hollow assertion of affiliation , the new rule can not help but discourage primary voting  --  chilling their right to freedom of association in the process . Perhaps the integrity and effectiveness of political parties are overriding considerations . But without a definitive court decision , no one can be certain . The Times editorial correctly notes the danger in arguing the case on open primaries in terms of individual elections . Nevertheless , it concludes that Republicans and independents raided the 1972 Democratic primary in Wisconsin to deny Senator Hubert Humphrey a plurality . There may have been an effort to stop Humphrey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primary reflected Wisconsin 's strong anti-war sentiment . One thing is certain though : Without an open primary , the hundreds of thousands of non-Democrats would not have had the opportunity to express that sentiment in a primary election . The dispute between the party and the state of Wisconsin is complex . Perhaps the outcome of the court suit will make it less so . In any event , the state will continue to make every effort to find a solution that satisfies both the party and the strong feelings of Wisconsin 's electorate . PATRICK J. LUCEY Governor of Wisconsin Madison , Wis. , Aug. 28 , 1975 Of Second-Hand Dealing In Instruments of War To the Editor : Almost unreported , Spain recently sold four submarines to Libya for $80-million . They originally were U.S. Navy submarines , sold or given to our Iberian " ally " for its defense establishment , or as an in-kind payment for our bases on Spanish soil . Now the vessels bolster an Arab fleet in the Mediterranean , escalating the ante in the Middle East " balance of power , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . This transaction is not unique ; it is neither the largest nor the smallest of its kind . The " after-market " in devices of death is a significant lever in our realpolitik in foreign policy and in Pentagon bargaining for bases and benefits . It is also a significant source of profit to munitions manufacturers and middlemen . When we transfer war materiel to Spain , apparently there are no prohibitions against transshipment . Hence , there really is no control we can ( or care to ? ) exercise over the ultimate destination and use of armaments exported by the U.S. Eventually , to meet the pressure of foreign competition , to ameliorate a balance-of-payment problem or to buy petroleum from shiek or shah , what would prohibit one of our " client states " from buying " obsolete " nuclear devices , guided missiles , chemical or bacteriological weapons ? Inevitably , these items would then become prize trading plums to middlemen in or out of government abroad . Is such laissez-faire trading in death the wish of the American people ' or the Congress ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Surely not . If not , it is against our interests and wishes . Can we rely on the decency of Pentagon brass and corporation executives to eschew profit or other advantage in such trade even though mischief of cosmic proportions could result ? Surely not . We have laws against export of " strategic material . " At present they cover raw commodities and ores . It would seem sensible to extend the prohibition to all manufactured articles , new or used , which are instruments of war . FREDERICK GOLDMAN Philadelphia , Sept. 3 , 1975 ? The Vulnerable Palace To the Editor : I have read with considerable interest Paul Goldberger 's Sept. 2'news story about the Pacific Design Center now nearing completion in West Los Angeles , built all of glass , a modern Crystal Palace . And when the earthquake arrives ? Avis M. DEVoro Cambridge , Mass. , Sept. 2 , 1975 ? How to Stimulate Business To the Editor : Again we hear the time-worn fallacy : To create more business investment we must increase the tax incentives . Any businessman who can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no coaxing to expand his capacity to meet the demand . Conversely , tax incentives should not induce a business with excess capacity to add to already idle facilities . It should be quite clear that more customers are the most effective . if not the only , stimulus to more business investment . ALFRED SOMAN Remsenburg , L. I. , Sept. 2 , 1975 ? Bicentennial Gesture To the Editor : The Sept. 1 letter by Dr. Ronald Lee Gaudreau , executive vice president of the New York City Bicentennial Corporation , appealing to the Board of Estimate to maintain a $500,000 allocation for Bicentennial planning requires rebuttal . As we approach the 200th anniversary of the nation 's independence , the city was never more dependent , and after already dissipating $850,000 and producing no programing of genuine or lasting significance , would n't it be a more fitting , laudatory and beneficial Bicentennial gesture to relinquish the half-million dollars in favor of more essential city services ? Dr. Gaudreau correctly points out that Boston and Philadelphia are spending far more on Bicentennial activities , but he fails to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history dictates that the 1975-1976 period more appropriately commemorates events in Boston and Philadelphia , and more importantly , that both Boston 's 200 Corporation and Philadelphia 's ' 76 Corporation have developed concepts and projects which in large measure have warranted the financial support of the private sector , whereas New York has failed to do so . ALFRED STERN New York , Sept. 1 , 1975                     