@@729328

txt A swift and heavy increase in Soviet weapons deliveries to the United Arab Republic , under way for the last three weeks , appears to be aimed at neutralizing future offensive action by the Israeli Air Force , according to assessments by Western experts . The build-up appears to be focused on erecting an air-defense shield along the full length of the Nile Valley , with a particular concentration in the upper reaches around , the Aswan High Darn . The dam is considered invulnerable to anything short of nuclear bombs , but its large electric powerhouse would be a tempting target for the Israeli Air Force in retaliation for any resumption of warfare along the Suez Canal . Other targets in the Nile Valley , including factories , bridges and thermal power plants , have been relatively vulnerable to attack by fighter-bombers coming in from the Gulf of Suez or the Red Sea to avoid what the Israelis describe as a " solid wall " of antiaircraft missiles along the length of the Suez Canal front . Evidently as part of security arrangements for the defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from today until May 15 . The build-up began about a week after President Anwar elSadat returned from two days of talks in Moscow at the beginning of March . Apparently on the basis of decisions agreed upon in Moscow , Mr. Sadat refused to extend the sevenmonth cease-fire at the Suez Canal beyond March 7 and ordered nationwide preparations for the possibility of war . The urgent character of the Moscow decisions was suggested by the expensive , largescale airlift of equipment to Egypt by four-engine Soviet transports . According to some well-informed sources , the planes were delivering electronic and radar equipment related to air defense . The inclusion of some huge Antonov 22 transports in the airlift has stirred speculation that jet interceptor aircraft were among the rush deliveries . The Antonov 22 is said to be capable of transporting two disassembled fighters . There are unconfirmed reports in Cairo that Sukhoi 11 jet interceptors have been included in the shipments . The performance of the jet is considered to be equal or superior to that of the F-4 Phantom fighter-bombers delivered to Israel by the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet ships started to arrive at Alexandria with large numbers of antiaircraft missiles , radar - unit vehicles , some unidentified equipment ? possibly helicopters ? in crates and advisory end operational personnel . Truckloads of Soviet soldiers have been observed traveling from Alexandria through Cairo to unknown destinations . Ships Anchor Off Harbor The deliveries are reported to be still under way , with ships anchored off Alexandria waiting to get into the congested harbor . The volume of deliveries is said to be similar to that of about a year ago , when , after an appeal from then President Gamel Abdel Nasser , the Soviet Union agreed to send SAM-3 antiaircraft missiles and operating crews to defend Egypt against low-flying Israeli fighter-bombers . The Soviet commitment to Egypt 's defense last year represented a turning point in the Egyptian-Israeli conflict , abrupt . ly halting Israeli deep penetration raids against targets around Cairo and in the Nile Delta . The Israeli Air Force was compelled to concentrate its activity in the Suez Canal zone , but its free-wheeling raids there also were curtailed when antiaircraft missiles were moved into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least five Phantom fighter-bombers before the cease-fire took effect on the night of Aug. 7-8 . The objective now Is to put virtually all important targets in Egypt out of bounds to the Israeli Air Force , which is too small to bear up long under a heavy rate of losses . A question troubling diplomats in Cairo , however , is , What is the next move if this Is accomplished ? Some analysts believe the military build-up is intended to bolster lagging efforts for an early political solution of the conflict by an ultimatum to Israel : withdraw voluntarily from the Sinai Peninsula or accept the consequences of war . Stressing the lessons of history , Mohammed Hassanein Heykal , the well-informed chief editor of the newspaper Al Abram , recalled a week ago the decisive role played by an ultimatum in halting the attack against Egypt by Britain , France and Israel in 1956 . Warning by Soviet A cease-fire and subsequent withdrawal quickly followed a warning by Marshal Nikolai V. Bulganin , then the Soviet Premier , that the Soviet Union was " filled with determination to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to strategy for a present-day variation , Mr. Heykal emphasized that the Soviet ultimatum had not been issued until all the conditions were right . " The Soviet Union , as a superpower , accurately computed the right moment for its move , basing it on Egypt 's resistance The Novo York limos Aorll 30971 and Egypt 's sound legal basis , which gave it the support of world public opinion and that of the nations of the world , " Mr. Heykal wrote . He suggested that Egyptian political strategy since the defeat in the war of 1967 had been based on providing internationally recognized " legal and moral " conditions so that the Soviet Union " might step up its stand gradually toward a decisive moment . " The editor strongly reiterated an argument ho has advanced in recent weeks , that first the United States must bo " neutralized " in the Arab-Israeli conflict , presumably before the " decisive moment , " to avoid a Soviet-United States confrontation . " It is noteworthy that the opposition of the United States to the aggression of 1956 anticipated the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some analysts interpreted this remark as reflecting hope in Cairo that the United States , once again , might tighten pressure on Israel to withdraw to avoid the risks of a big-power confrontation .                     