@@730245

txt The House Interior Committee today approved the creation of a 26,000-acre Gateway National Urban Recreation area at the entrance to New York Harbor after voting to let New York State build housing on part of Floyd Bennett Field in Brooklyn . The committee 's action , which came on a voice vote , means that the Gateway proposal will reach the House floor , probably sometime this summer . The vote represents a major advance for the project , which would be , in effect , the first national park in a heavily congested urban area . Area Is Outlined A differing version of Gateway bill was approved unanimously by the Senate last year . Today 's action increased the prospect that some form of a Gateway bill would get through Congress and be signed into law before the end of this year . As approved by the House Committee , the Gateway project would consist of Jamaica Bay and most of Breezy Point in Queens ; most of Floyd Bennett Field in Brooklyn ; Great // Kills Park , Miller Field and Fort Wadsworth on Staten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kills and Fort Wadsworth ; Hoffman and Swinburne Islands , two tiny city-owned islands off Staten Island , and Sandy Hook , N. J. Most of the land already is owned by the Federal , state or city governments . In a last-minute victory for Governor Rockefeller and state housing officials , the committee voted , 18 to 14 , to sell 350 of the 1,286 acres of Floyd Bennett Field to New York State for the construction of about 17,500 units of moderate- , middleand low-income housing on part of the former Naval Air Station adjacent to Flatbush Avenue . The rest of the field would be used for recreational purposes as part of the Gateway project . Before Floyd Bennett Field was included in the proposed recreation area some months ago , New York State wanted to build , over the strenuous objections of the Lindsay administration , some 45,000 housing units on the field . The state scaled down its housing proposal to 17,500 units on only 350 acres of the field , and Representative John Terry , Republican of Syracuse , won committee approval of that proposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Manhattan and the original sponsor of the Gateway Project . However , the committee specified that if the state did not begin work on the housing project within five years , the 350 acres would become part of the federally administered Gateway recreation area . " We think we can live with that , " said Charles J. tirstadt , State Commissioner of Housing and Community Renewal , who watched as the committee voted . He said he could not estimate how much the state would have to pay the Federal Government for the 350 acres . " We 'll just have to work it out with the Feds , " he said . Mr. Ryan , who had pressed the committee to approve the bill before his primary election fight next Tuesday with Representative Bella S. Abzug , hailed today 's action as " a tremendous victory . " It means , he said , that " we are creating a national urban recreation area that will be available to millions of people who have been prevented by distance and economic reasons from using national parks . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Point cooperative , an enclave of private homes on the Rockaway peninsula , build singlefamily houses on undeveloped lots within the cooperative , provided that the Secretary of the Interior approved the construction . The committee also rejected , 8 to 7 , an Administration request to set aside 55 acres of Floyd Bennett Field for a Federal animal quarantine shelter . The committee authorized $11,450,000 for land acquisition costs for the project to let the Federal Government buy a few parcels of privately owned property in the Gateway area , such as the beach in front ? of the Breezy Point cooperative . The total development cost to prepare all the sites for recreational purposes was set at $92-million.                     