@@731030

txt THE SECOND Middle East cease-fire in 24 hours broke down for two hours yesterday . Peace was restored by nightfall but Egypt said it would demand that U. S. and Soviet troops fly to the Middle East immediately to police the truce . The White House said the cease-fire " appears to be taking hold , " and Israel lifted the nationwide blackout it had imposed when war broke out on Oct. 6 . In Washington , the White House said the United States has no intention of sending troops to the Middle East and hopes that no other outside power will send troops . It was disclosed that President Nixon had discussed the Middle East with Soviet Communist Party general secretary Leonid Brezhnev . The White House said the United States expressed willingness to cut down on the massive arms lift to Israel if Russia does the same for the Arabs . EGYPT , WHICH accused Israel of breaking the truce yesterday with an assault on Suez called for another urgent meeting of the United Nations security Council , the , second in mo days , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machinery for seeing that the cease-fire is permanent . Cairo Radio said President einwar Sadat asked Foreign Minister Mohammed El-Zayyat n New York to request the Semrity Council meeting and to request U. S. and Soviet troops . IN TEL AVIV , Israeli Foreign Minister Abba Eban told a sews conference that Israel md at last obtained the promse of direct negotiations with he Arab world for which it had fought four wars , and that this came to pass , " this month of bloodshed and grief will become a turning point in le history of the region . " He said that release of war prisoners is a necessary foundation of any cease-fire agreement and added Israel was concerned by a report on Cairo Radio that no Israeli prisoners would be returned until Israel withdraws from all Arab territory occupied during the 1967 six- day war . EGYPTIAN TANKS and warplanes dashed with Israeli invasion forces at the southern end of the Suez front yesterday . The Syrian front was reported calm . But the Tel Aviv command said Egyptian forces opened up in an apparent effort to rescue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut off in the Sinai Desert by an Israeli pincer maneuver . The Israeli military command reported later that fighting tapered off as the afternoon wore on , but Cario spokesmen said Israeli tank and artillery attacks were continuing . DOGFIGHTS RAGED over the battleground only hours after the Tuesday night ceasefire had gone into effect at 7 a. m. and U. N. observers had pulled out of Cairo and Tel Aviv to take up their monitoring posts , spokesmen reported . Newsmen reported from the Syrian front that U. N. observers took up their posts along the Golan Heights . Isolated explosions were heard in t h e background . Syria announced its acceptance of the new cease-fire on Great artier Lake Tribune Man Israel claims Egyptians broke cease-fire with massive tank and air assault to relieve encircled Third Army . condition Israel withdraw from all Arab lands occupied in 1967 and thereafter . THE ISRAELI command claimed 15 Egyptian warplanes were knocked out of the sky over the Sinai as tank forces clashed in the reported Egyptian attempt to extricate the Egyptian Army from the Sinai . By Israeli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eastern bank of , the Suez by Israeli tanks that punched onto the western side of the waterway and then veered south behind Egyptian lines all the way down to Rms Abadiya about 10 miles below the canal opening . The Israeli command claimed it has surrounded Suez City at the southern end of the waterway and cut off the main rail and road supply route between Cairo and Suez , pinching off what the Israeli state radio said were about 20,000 Egyptian soldiers and more than 200 tanks in the Sinai . BUT CAIRO spokesmen said the new battle erupted because Israeli tanks and warplanes " in large numbers " blasted the Egyptian positions east of the canal and a column of Israeli armor tried to storm Suez City to consolidate Israeli positions on the western bank . The Egyptians denied their 3d Army had been trapped as claimed by the Israeli state radio and said supplies to the entire Egyptian force east of the canal " were never interrupted . " " There is absolutely no enemy presence in any major town along the canal , including Suez , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added . MOROCCO , which has troops fighting under Syrian command , yesterday rejected the latest United Nations ceasefire resolution and called for more fighting until the Arabs liberate occupied territories , the Iraqi news agency reported . Mirage jets belonging to a foreign country other than Israel attacked Egyptian positions along the east bank ' of the Suez Canal yesterday an Egyptian military communique said .                     