@@728823

txt The United States and the Soviet Union concluded the Vienna phase of the strategic arms limitation talks on a hopeful but inconclusive note today and agreed to resume negotiations in Helsinki on Nov. 2 . A joint communiqu ? made it . clear that the four months of intensive negotiation here  --  following an opening phase in Helsinki at the end of 1969 ? had brought no firm agreement on any aspect of the problem of limiting the nuclear arms race . The communiqu ? indicated that the two sides had come to understand each other better on some but not all of the issues involved . The talks , which Secretary of State William P. Rogers once called " possibly the most ? important negotiation " the United States had ever engaged , in , have been conducted in utter secrecy . The communiqu ? was issued by the two chief negotiators , Gerard C. Smith and Vladimir S. Semyonov , in the Belvedere , the great baroque palace of the Austrian emperors . It said that // the talks had been " useful to both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mutual understanding on some aspects of the matters discussed . " Mr. Smith , in his closing statement , underlined the continuing nature of the negotiations . He said that " important progress had been made which should prove a sound basis " for what lay ahead . Semyonov praised the " businesslike , calm and frank atmosphere " that had prevailed , but warned against underestimating the complexity of the problems involved . Like Mr. Smith he expressed his Government 's deep commitment to the search for an agreement in what are widely known as the SALT talks , for strategic arms limitation talks . Negotiators Appear at Ease The two men , who have often appeared stiff , seemed more relaxed , smiling frequently during the ceremony and shaking hands vigorously at beginning and end . Dr. Rudolf Kirchschl  --  ger , the Austrian Foreign Minister , presided at the ceremony in the richly decorated Marble Hall overlooking vast formal gardens and downtown Vienna . The last three weeks of the session have been ' devoted to a discussion of an outline for an agreement on a numerical limitation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Mr. Smith . The Russians have not yet reacted to the initiative but have been seeking clarification of a number of details during the biweekly formal sessions and in almost daily meetings of experts . The Americans , who had hoped to get some response in Vienna , are known to feel that the questions foreshadow a positive reaction . The American outline , it is said , calls for an over-all limitation on land-based and seabased intercontinental ballistic missiles and strategic bombers ? with each side free to choose its balance between the three categories . The proposed ceiling is understood to be about 2,000 in all , which is somewhat less than the present American force and more than the Soviet force . TEXT OF COMMUNIQUE VIENNA , Aug. 14 ( AP ) ? Following is the text of the communiqu ? signed today by representatives of the United States and the Soviet Union : In accordance with the agreement between the Governments of the United States of America and the Soviet Union , negotiations took place in Vienna from April 16 to Aug. 14 , 1970 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegation was headed by the directo  --  of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency , Gerard Smith . Members of the delegation included J. Graham Parsons , Paul Nitze , Llewellyn Thompson , Harold Brown and Royal Allison . The Soviet delegation was headed by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the U. S. S. R. , V. S. Semyonov . Members or the delegation included N. V. Ogarkov , P. S. Pleshakov , A. N. Shchukin and N. N. Alekseyev . The delegations were accompanied by advisers and experts . Wide Range of Questions ' In the course of the negotiations a wide range of questions dealing with the problem of limiting strategic offensive and defensive armaments was thoroughly considered . The exchange was useful for both sides and made it possible to increase the degree of mutual understanding on a number of aspects of matters discussed . Both delegations expressed their determination to pursue the negotiations with the aim of limiting strategic armaments . Agreement was reached that negotiations between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. delegations will be resumed on Nov. 2 , 1970 , in Helsinki @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government of Austria for creating favorable conditions for holding the negotiations . They are grateful for the traditional Austrian hospitality which was extended to them .                     