@@729484

txt American acceptance of a June 17 date for signing the agreement on Okinawa reversion is welcome to Prime Minister Eisaku Sato . The joint signing in Tokyo and Washington will be a gala occasion telecast by satellite in a diplomatic first . Accord on the date was settled in private talks between United States Secretary of State William P. Rogers and Japanese Foreign Minister Kiichi Aichi at the Paris meetingof ministers of the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development . Mr. Sato handily won the last general election , in January , 1970 , on the strength of American return of Okinawa . He hopes to repeat this show of support in the upper-house election June 27 . He is expected to play the issue hard in the last 10 days of the campaign . Opposition critical The opposition parties are attacking what they understand to be the terms of the Okinawa agreement . They claim that Tokyo has yielded too much to Washington in allowing continued Voice of America broadcasting on Okinawa after reversion , with no definite cutoff date . They charge the Sato government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. Navy submarine spotters will be removed from the Naha civilian airport by reversion date . ? Not insisting on an explicit ban on American nuclear weapons in Okinawa . ? Not obtaining an explicit ban on overflights over other countries by U.S. strategic reconnaissance SR-71 's presently based on Okinawa . ? And , it is believed , with dropping Okinawan demands for compensation from the Americans . The opposition , however , can not attack the popular reversion itself . Now the agreement must run the gauntlet of the U.S. Senate , where Southern senators and other conservatives may well delay a ratification vote until next year , tying reversion to a Japanese voluntary cutback of textile exports . Plea e turn to Page 10 *Okinawa feather ? // On other bilateral issues discussed in Paris the outlook is less rosy . In Tokyo 's view the United States is in a phase of being tough with Japan ? on textiles , yen revaluation , and trade in general . Economic pressure felt On economic issues , the U.S. is seen as exerting unprecedented pressures on Japan . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not being discussed at Paris . That is in the hands of David M. Kennedy , now in Hong Kong trying to repeat his accomplishment in Taiwan of getting negotiated textile quotas from other countries with which he can confront Japan . Washington 's rejection of voluntary Japanese textile quotas and its insistence on government quotas is a very live issue here , however . The American threat of tying Okinawan reversion to a textile agreement has been front-page news in Tokyo this past week , with Washington talks between nationalsecurity adviser Henry A. Kissinger and Prime Minister Sato 's administrative director general , Sadanori Yamanaka . On the whole issue of trade and capital liberalization , the American position finds little sympathy here . The U.S. contends that Japan has continued high import barriers unfairly , long after it has built the third-largest economy in the world , with regular , huge export surpluses .                     