@@728513

txt Regular " mail deliveries were ) resumed yesterday as more than 90 per cent of the city 's postmen returned to work after an eight-day strike . But the postal situation was far from normal . More than 11,000 National Guard men were being kept on active duty in case the mailmen walked out again . They were part of a mixed force of nearly 30,000 regulars , reservists and guardsmen called , up Monday by President Nixon , to get the mails moving again . ' The President , before leaving Washington for an Easter weekend at Key Biscayne , Fla. , held a 45-minute meeting with the Postmaster General , Winton M. Blount , assuring Mr. Blount that he would do everything he could to obtain Congressional approval of any agreement ? made in continuing negotiations between the Administration and the postal unions. , Some 15,000 civilian reservists were relieved from active duty here and sent home . Earlier , 3,000 regulars were returned to their Army , Air Force , Navy and Marine Corps stations . The Post Office Department promised that the guardsmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restored . Late yesterday , 2,100 New York Air National Guardmen were told they were being relieved of active duty at midnight . But the Army National Guardsmen , bored and restless , remained in their armories throughout the day . No units were summoned to the post offices . The post offices were cleared of troops Wednesday as the striking mailmen began returning to their jobs . Guardsmen feared that the ' Post Office Department would keep them on call pending the outcome of crucial negotiations now under way in Washington between the postal unions and the Federal Government . The president of the National Association of Letter Carriers , James H. Rademacher Jr. , warned again yesterday that he was mandated by the rank and file to authorize a nationwide strike unless the Washington talks produced progress by Monday . Gustave J. Johnson , president of Branch 36 , the letter carriers ' local that began the strike here , remained optimistic . He said he was hopeful that Congress , before starting its Easter recess , would act on an acceptable pay-rise bill for the postal workers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why the troops ca n't go home for Christmas , " Mr. Johnson said . The prospect of Easter in the armories appalled the guardsmen . They were assured by Maj. Gen. Martin H. Foery , commander of the 42d Division , that most troops would be al ! lowed to spend Sunday at home , land that only a skeleton force would be kept on duty . Not one post office felt the need for troops yesterday so the guardsmen spent their time in the armories cleaning their weapons , drilling or attending classes on communications . " I do n't think I can stand an Easter weekend here , " said one guardsman , adding sardonically : " It 's mentally too stimulating . " Another said : " Nobody wants to stay here this weekend . Absolutely nobody . That 's a conservative estimate . " Meanwhile , the men in blue were back on the streets , delivering mail to residences for the first time since March 17 . Postmaster John R. Strachan said that there were eight million pieces of mail on hand in Manhattan post @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of it would be delivered daring the day . But he was expecting an enormous flood of mail , and refused to predict when service would return to normal . Mr. Strachan toured the cavernous sorting rooms , shaking hands and welcoming his returning workers . The workers said they were happy to be back . An avalanche of mail smothered Brooklyn 's General Post Office , causing Martin Shapiro , director of operations , to cancel regular days off for the workers . He also asked them to work overtime . Mr. Shapiro said yesterday 's early delivery produced one million pieces of mail , cornpared to the normal 180,000 pieces . It would take all , weekend to process the backlog , he said , so only those workers who wanted to observe Good Friday and Easter would be excused . The Brooklyn Post Office refused to accept any outgoing parcel post and 140 workers normally assigned to that section were put to work processing first class mail .                     