@@729600

txt ? Formidable obstacles confront the United States in its efforts to halt the flow of heroin to its troops in Vietnam and to prevent Southeast Asian heroin from moving into the American market to fill the gap that may be left if the traffic from the Middle East is contained . American officials , aware of the high priority President Nixon attaches to the program , display determined hopefulness that the flow can be significantly reduced , at least while American troops remain in South Vietnam . Asian officials , on the other hand , are openly doubtful of the chances of even limited success over a short term . They express growing concern that a problem that they had considered primarily American may also be on the rise among their own people . They see the search for a solution  --  if indeed one can be found  --  as a process that will take years . The Asians agree with American officials that with increased United States assistance they can intercept a greater share of the traffic in opium and its derivatives from the contiguous growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and northwestern Laos . But they believe that both supply and demand are so great and the profits so temptingly high that the supply and the demand will remain more or less in balance until one or the other can be controlled . In a month of inquiry in Thailand and Laos it was possible to get a reasonably full picture of how the sap of the seeded pod of Papaver somnifcrum , the opium poppy , moves from the mountain tribesmen who cultivate and harvest it , is converted into heroin and // reaches the consumer . Much vagueness was encountered , based both on secretiveness and on a lack of knowledge. ? Among American officials , whose information : gathering capacity in Laos and Thailand is believed to surpass that of the national Governments by far , there was reluctance , to discuss pertinent information that contrasts with the declared view of officials in Washington that exposure of the problem is in the national interest , The principal factors behind Asian skepticism over the outlook for short-term success are these : The main growing area ? he Shan State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Rangoon , which exercises little control in the renote and inaccessible region . Cho growing areas In Thailand and Laos are contested by rebel and bandit groups that make Government action extremely difficult . ( ( The borders between the three countries run through densely jungled mountains and effective control is not exercised except at certain crossing points . lOpium is , in most cases the growers ' only cash crop and no substitutes with comparable return are available , IgThe trading networks are so firmly established and their links with Government and military officials who provide protection and tolerance so close that the Burmese Government is believed to be resigned to its inability to ' act and the Thai and Laotian Governments are at a loss on how to carry out their new-found desire to act . Habit of Unpopular Minorities The historical view of opium and its use among Southeast Asian officials has been that it provides profits for them from an admittedly bad habit that has been largely limited to unpopular minorities : the overseas Chinese , mainly coolies , and mountain tribesmen . Both groups sought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other medicines to make them forget pain and illness . About three-fourths of the production is consumed in Southeast Asia , in the growing regions and in cities of heavy . addiction such as Hong Kong and Bangkok . But now , by bringing an eager sector of the prosperous American market into Southeast Asia in the form of the American soldier in Vietnam , the trade picture is being distorted . " Over the last year , " a knowledgeable intelligence official in Washington said , " the production of heroin in Southeast Asia has risen out of sight , " White heroin , refined to a purity of about 96 per cent , is the most luxurious opium product and the only one with appeal to American consumers , at home and abroad . Asian opium or heroin users are content , at the most expensive , with cheaper purple heroin suitable only for smoking , not injection . More White Heroin Produced ' Only since the discovery of the American market in Vietnam have Asian traders and processors begun to produce significant quantities of white heroin . Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . of heroin between the grower of the required poppies and the user is put at more tha ? $200 , - 000 , people in the early stages in the complicated distribution network are increasingly finding their best interest in refining the ' opium to the most profitable state themselves . The result has been a growth of refineries close to where the poppies bloom . The Central Intelligence Agency has identified seven installations capable of producing white heroin in the Burmese-Laotian border region where none had been known a year ago . With the United States urging the cooperation of the opiumproducing countries to suppress the trade , Asian officials believe that increasingly more refining will he done in the inaccessible border region to reduce the hulk and detestability of the product to be taken to market . hi the green mountains on whose slopes and valleys the poppies grow , the Government 's writs , in so far as they run at all , run as far as do the roads ? of which there are scarcely any . Tribesmen Live Apart The growers  --  be they Meo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Karen or any of the other mountain peoples  --  live in small villages largely apart from the lowland civilizations of the countries to which they belong , They eat the rice and vegetables they grow , make most of their own cloth and depend on the poppies they raise for most of the other necessities or frills of life . Their principal contact with the world , apart from the occasional patrols of Government or anti-Government soldiers , are Chinese traders , who sell them arms , ammunition , patent medicines , tools and other utensils , Early in the year the traders come to buy the opium that has just been harvested . Many e the traders , according to the best available accounts ; are small operators , After this stage in the chain of distribution there is little room for anything but potent organizations . The most potent are two groups that have their origin in remnants of Chinese Nationalist armies that sought refuge just across China 's bor ? der with Burma after the Communist victory in 1949 . According to the C.I.A. , the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 80 per cent of the traffic from the Shan State as a result of their control of a strip roughly 75 miles long in the extreme north of ' Thailand along the Burmese border . The group that derives from the Chinese Nationalist Fifth Army , the larger of the two forces , is commanded by Tuan Shi-wen . He has about 1,800 men , informed Western sources say , only about a tenth of them trained soldiers and the rest hill tribesmen hired as smugglers . Links to Irregular Bands The sources reported that General Tuan , from his headquarters at Mae Salong , cornmands 11 operating units in the Shan State that , in turn , command a number of friendly Irregular bands In Burma with which the general has concluded alliances . The second group , from the former Third Army , is commanded by Li Wen-huan , who was reported to have about 1,400 men , also consisting largely of hired tribesmen . Their headquarters is at Tam Ply , Inc , An oriental poppy , whose green pods are tapped for a milky fluid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with seven operating units in Burma up to the Chinese border . A third Chinese group , known as the First Independent Unit , received financial support from Taiwan through the Chinese Nationalist Embassy here longer than the others and , according to informed sources , may still be doing so . The sources said that the unit also received arms and ammunition smuggled from ' Ban Houei Sai , Laos , to its camp near Fang , in Thailand . Commanded by Ma Ching-ko , the unit has a well-trained ; force of about 400 . The sources said the unit ran intelligence forays into Yunnan , at least until recently , and used those excursions to collect opium on the way back . Of the smaller groups active in opium running , the , rebel Shan States Army and the proGovernment Burmese self-defense force known as K , K.Y , are Considered the only serious competitors to the Chinese irregulars . ' All groups perform similar missions : picking up raw opium from growers and small-scale traders and collectors in the main growing region , the Shan State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese border , and convoying it in mule and pony caravans to stockpile areas along Burma 's border with Thailand and Laos . The Chinese groups , more powerful and better organized than the Burmese , are also reported ' to own refineries near their camps or outposts , greatly increasing their profits . Because the jungled mountain paths are well known ' to cornpetitors and the Burmese Army , there are heavy security forces . The average Chinese caravan is large , for security reasons , perhaps consisting of a hundred mules , as well as ponies to set the pace , Clashes between caravans , ambushes of caravans that fail to pay ' tolls or skirmishes with Burmese Army patrols occur frequently . The biggest battle took place in July , 1967 , and , as described by a well-informed American , illustrates the complex relationships between traders and government . A caravan run by an independent Shan operator , Chang Chi-foo , failed to pay a toll to the Chinese troops and was ambushed by an ** force in the area where the three ' countries meet . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the action . Into a General 's Sawmill Both groups crossed the Mekong River into Laos near the village of Ban Kwan , the Chang band taking shelter in a sawmill owned by Maj. Gen. Ouane Rathikone , then commander of the Laotian armed forces , The Chinese forces attacked with mortar and machine-gun barrages . Then both sides came under fire from the Burmese side of the river by a Burmese Army unit that had happened along . While the fighting was under way Laotian troops seized most of the opium from the unattended pack animals on behalf of General Ouane , who has never denied allegations that ' he is in charge of the opium traffic in Laos . In return , the Chinese forces threatened to lay siege to the Laotian headquarters town of Ban Houei Sai if they were not paid their tax on the opium . In response , General Ouane sent five T-28 bombers of the Royal Laotian Air Force against the opposing units , causing 200 casualties , mainly among the Yunnanese traders of Chang 's caravan . With the Chinese force still in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ escape or reinforcement . Thailand alerted her police units along the border . General Ouane sent reinforcements by ' plane from Vientiane . Meanwhile . Burmese troops were blocking their side of the border to prevent a Chinese retreat . Two weeks of negotiations followed , and , in return for $7,500 for " entry and transport , " 700 Chinese crossed back into Thailand , where they boarded buses and trucks to return to Mae Salong . General Ouane rewarded the soldiers who had helped secure the loose opium with enough money so that each man sent from Vientiane was able to build a simple house near his , base . By Trawler to Hong Kong In more ordinary transactions , the narcotics destined for shipment to other countries , once they are in Thailand , are easily transported on excellent highways to Bangkok or a number of places along the Gulf of Siam . Fishing trawlers that drop cargo at Hong Kong or Macao are said to transport sizable quantities . Opium arriving In Laos is processed for shipment or refined in the region north of Ban Houei Sal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scarcity and insecurity of roads , transshipment is done by air . In the view of Laotian ofcicials and United . States experts , most of the shipment from the border region to forwarding centers in ' Laos or Thailand , is done by the 16 transports and 16 helicopters of the Laotian Air Force . The American experts suspect that the Vientiane and Luang Prabang military air bases handle most of the traffic . While no sources who were questioned claimed specific knowledge of how heroin produced in the border area and in refineries believed to be in Laos and Thailand reached South Vietnam  --  presumably to avoid disclosing their lines of inquiry  --  the assumption is that it is carried by plane . Easy Thing to Smuggle Most direct flights to Vietnam from Thailand and Laos take off from either Bangkok or Vientiane and arrive at Tansonnhut Airport , Saigon . The daily flights are operated by Air Vietnam , Royal Air Lao , Lao Airlines , Thai International , Air France and China . Airlines , a Taiwan-based airline . Even with tightened customs procedures in Saigon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vientiane , the officials say that heroin is an easy substance to smuggle ? on , say , a military plane carrying a troupe of performers on a cultural mission Or supplies for an embassy . In the view of the American officials , no flights arriving at Tansonnhut nor any passenger debarking can he excluded as a carrier . Particular suspicion attaches to Thai soldiers stationed in Vietnam and to their supply flights , but no evidence was offered . Vietnamese military flights from Cambodia are also suspect . While the American officials are reluctant to provide details , they affirm that increasing amounts of heroin seized in the United States are traceable to Southeast Asia . Hong Kong was also cited often as a source of heroin  --  refined there from opium or morphine base produced in the Thai-Laotian-Burmese region  --  in both Vietnam and the United States . Most of the chemists working for high wages at refineries in Burma , Laos and perhaps Thailand are thought to have received their training in Hong Kong or Macao . Transit and Processing Centers Most experts agree that neither Laos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world market . Their importance is believed to be largely as transit and processing areas for Burmese opium . Current estimates are that about a thousand tons of raw opium a year are produced in the border region . Only about 30 tons originate in Laos , where most of the poppy growing regions have fallen to the Communists , and 200 tons in Thailand . Under heavy American pressure Thailand and Laos have begun considering programs to cut the flow of opium , although officials of both countries emphasize that they consider their efforts more as assistance to their strong ally than actions in their national interest . Because of the strong American hold in Laos , the comparative scarcity of transport and the country 's landlocked character , the United States is given a better chance there than in Thailand of restricting the flow . ? Military 's Role Said to End The Acting Defense Minister of Laos , Sisouk na Champassak , said in an interview that the recent retirement from active service of General Ouane had removed the military from the opium traffic . Mr. Sisouk said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was " the real boss " and he admitted it , According to the Minister , the commander in chief said : " It 's been going on for a long time , Why stop now ? if We stop , the foreigners will take it over . Why let the Chinese have it ? I am not stealing the state 's money , " . The ? mericah experts said they saw no sign that anything had changed , although ' they , miss no opportunity to remind the Laotian military to get the army out of the opium trade . . The American officials in Laos are pressing strongly for a law to forbid opium production and trafficking that was proposed to the National Assembly by the Premier , , Prince Souvanna Phouma , at American urging . The Asseme , lily has been slow in taking action . One of its members , recently appointed Ambassador to a European country , had to be recalled for " consultation " before he presented his credentials . On his arrival at his post his baggage was found to contain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Laotian officials are growing resentful at American pressure because , they allege , the United States has long known of the implication of the Laotian armed forces but , for , its own reasons , has tolerated the practice . Thailand , in the view of high officials in Washington , has been slow in taking effective action , In an interview , Maj. Gen , Nitya Bhaaumas , head of the Central Bureau of Narcotics of the police , stressed that to comply fully with American requests for greatly increased law enforcement , the United States would have to supply greater support to his forces . Asked about enforcement roe sults so far , he showed photographs of opium seizures several years back and , of the executions of four Chinese trafi , fickers , also some years old . One of the more original plans pursued by ' Thailand led a ranking police official recently to confer in Burma with leaders of the Chinese force there to inquire how much they would charge to refrain from the opium trade . The official , in an interview , said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States would put up the money . o th N ing , but Money on Him , The same Thai official said he recently searched General Titan and about 20 of his men in the border town of Maesai and found . nothing on him except a great quantity of mono , ey . He took the occasion , he related , to ask the general to , reduce opium production . In ree sponse , he said , General Tuan , pointed to the mountains on . the Burmese side and said there was a great deal of , opium there ? unfortunately not his own . The American officials in Bangkok said they were preparing for submission to Wash- , ington a long-range program of economic aid to Thailand to help her resettle . the Chinese in useful agricultural work as , well as to provide aid to opiumgrowing hill tribes on substitute crops , For the short term , the of-. ficials said , they are confident , that more seizures . and arrests ' will be made by Thailand to help reduce the flow of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . that in the comparatively short time that a large American force will remain in Vietnam it is unlikely that ' the flow of narcotics can be significantly ' reduced . Once ' the troops have ' left , they feel , pressure for long-term programs will be greatly reduced as American leverage in Thailand and Laos erodes.                     