@@730359

txt It 's a double first for pretty , blond Miss Anne Chopinet of Rue Lepic , Paris : Not only have the walls of male exclusivity crumbled for her , but she placed first among some 1,800 applicants for " X , " the superprestigious Ecole Polytechnique . " X " as the Polytechnique has been familiarly known by generations of French citizens , is a blend of West Point and MIT . Founded during the French Revolution in 1794 , it has turned out a distinguished stream of soldiers , engineers , servants of state , ' and captains of industry during the nearly two centuries of its existence . Napoleon placed it under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defense , where it has remained ever since : Every year , on Bastille Day , its cadets march down the Champs Elysees with comrades of other military schools , swords flashing and heads held high . And , of course , for all these years , X has been a male preserve . Until , that is , 1972 , when Defense Minister Michel Debre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annual entrance examination , where the cream of France 's lycee graduates compete for the 300 places available in the school 's freshman class . Eighty young women took up Mr. Debre 's challenge . Eight of them succeeded , including not only Miss Chopinet but a foreign student , Miss Ta Thu Thuy of North Vietnam . The male candidates can console themselves only with the thought that , whereas only one in every ten women succeeded , one male out of every six was accepted . Oh , what adjustments ! The entrance of women into the celibate precincts of X is causing all kinds of minor adjustments . First of all , what uniform shall they wear ? Not swords , apparently . Their day-by-day uniform will be a rather drab outfit already characterizing the Women 's Army Corps , but their dress uniform has not yet been designed . Should the successful women candidates serve in the Army , as the men are required to do ? An enthusiastic military public-relations officer exclaims , " Why not ? Why should n't Miss Chopinet become a naval engineer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cannons . The tradition is that the top person in the exams joins the Corps of Mines . " As for Miss Chopinet herself , she was photographed receiving Minister Debre 's congratulations , and then promptly disappearing for a well-earned holiday in Brittany . Her score in the examination was 2,246 points , 15 points more than the nearest male competitor 's . Not quite 19 years old yet , she is said to want to be considered a girl " just like the others . "                     