@@730580

txt The Illinois Racing Board yesterday voted unanimously to join Illinois Atty . Gen. William J. Scott in a suit to be filed in Cook County Circuit Court Monday asking that a judge decide whether the controversial 1973 thorobred and harness racing dates were allotted properly . All five members of the board present , Democrats Joseph A. Lamendella , acting chairman , Bernard Carey , and Walter Rhodes and Republicans Gerald Fitzgerald and Edward J. Long voted to place the fate of 1973 racing dates in the hands of one man , a judge to be designated . Ca n't Change Dates Scott told the board members it was his opinion they could not legally change the allotment of racing dates made at the Nov. 28 meeting and that if they did so , the state and the members of the board individually could be subjectted to suits for damages . Pivotal in the racing schedule , Scott said , is whether the thorobred and harness racing dates assigned to properties placed in trust by William S. Miller were legally allotted . Before the Nov. 28 meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former Gov . Otto Kerner in the racing stock scandal , was ineligible to be the beneficiary of racing dates because of a provision in Illinois racing laws barring persons of ill repute from receiving licenses . Attorneys tor Miller argued the two racing associations ? Balmoral Jockey Club and Balmoral Trot  --  were placed in trust to remove them from Miller 's control . The board , by a 4 to 3 vote , granted the licenses to the Miller properties and in doing so dislodged the Arlington Park and Washington Park racing associations from their traditional summer racing dates , . They were granted dates to open April 19 , a time when the weather is uncertain . The track was built for summer racing . " The attorney general 's opinion is not binding as to a question of law , " Scott said . " We have n't hesitated in the past to ask the courts to conduct an administrative review and give a declaratory judgment and we are doing so in this case . In addition to the board , I hope the heads of racing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those interested in charity racing dates . Urges Emergency Action " We are going to ask that the court expedite this case on an emergency basis so the owners of horses will know what racing dates will be upheld and where their horses are going to be racing . This is important to the people of the state in order that we can obtain the maximum in tax revenues from racing in Illinois and obtain what is best for racing . " Lamendella said he hopes the court will rule within two or three weeks , but certainly by mid-January , when owners of quality horses must decide where their horses are going to race when they leave Florida , Lamendella said among the options open to the judge hearing the case are : Order the Racing Board to reconvene and decide what changes , if any , should be made in the present racing schedule . Decide what racing dates should be assigned and order the board to approve them . Former Chairman Alexander , Fitzgerald , and Lamendella voted in the minority Nov. 28. resigned in protest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Rhodes , and Carey voted with Republican Bob Elson on Nov. 28 . Elson missed yesterday 's meeting , but even so , a call for a vote , if those present did not change their positions , would have been 3 to 2 in favor of keeping the present schedule . Scott commented on charity racing dates and the participation of newspapers in racing . Opposes Media in Racing " The question of the assign . ment of charity race meets has never been tested legally , " Scott paid . " I have a responsibility in this field because I am in charge of regulating charities in this state . While I think charities have benefited , by horse racing , nevertheless I think it is a mistake for newspapers and the media to be in ; the r a c i n g business . I do n't think it 's healthy . " Under the p resent racing schedule , The Sun-Times  --  Chicago Daily News and Chicago Tribune Charities were assigned 6 days each on the thorobrecl schedule . Chicago Today and the Sun Times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ racing schedule . Officials of Chicago Tribune Charities withdrew because of dissatisfaction with the manner in which the 1973 racing dales Sere assigned . Scariano Assails Action Anthony Scariano , Park Forest Democrat who is Gov. - elect Daniel Walker 's choice to become the next Illinois Racing Board chairman , was highly critical of yesterday 's action by the Racing Board . " In this move . they have taken away the new board 's effectiveness , " Scariano said . " This is a perverse way of taking away from the new board its jurisdiction in this matter . " Scarlano added that he does ; not believe the matter of racing dates is a judicial function and that the board has abdicated its role .                     