@@728782

txt Things are getting worse slower . In this paradoxical statement the Nixon administration finds hope ; Democratic opponents , grounds for attack . In economic terms it means the slump has perhaps touched bottom . In political terms it means that the big issue of the midterm election may shift . Statistically the situation begins to show light . The rise in the rate of inflation has halted ? but inflation goes on . Specifically , it was 4.8 percent for May seasonally adjusted and again 4.8 percent for June . This may seem insignificant to the average citizen , but to impartial economists it is a portent : The curve seems to be flattening . The administration is extracting every ounce of comfort it can from this and similar statistics . The forum for all sides is a low-ceilinged hideaway room in the Capitol where Sen. William Proxmire ( D ) of Wisconsin has called nationally known witnesses before a panel of the Joint Economic Committee . The problem is of national and international importance . Here 's the foreign aspect : Unemployed workers are joining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Nixon has gone along in favor of protection for the textile industry , in accordance with pledges in the 1968 campaign . Smoot-Hawley tariff recalled This has started a familiar syndrome : business slump ; demand for tariffs at home ; tariff retaliation abroad ; reduction in world trade ; possible currency wars  --  devaluations . The most spectacular instance was 1929 in the great depression when the United States passed the all-timehigh Smoot-Hawley tariff , precipitating violent reaction abroad . It accentuated a world slump and  --  ultimately  --  the rise of Hitler . Today the U.S. dollar is used as an international currency . Europeans hold more dollars than the U.S. could meet by gold if foreign countries decided to cash them in in retaliation for U.S. tariffs . Few countries are more vulnerable than the U.S. Mr. Nixon has announced that he would veto an omnibus tariff bill . Block that syndrome , is his motto . By Joan Forbes , staff artist *Nixon hails inflation figures // The domestic side means more to the American housewife . Paul W. McCracken , top Nixon economic adviser , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; so is real output ; the rate of increase of unemployment , which rose from 3.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 1969 to 4.1 percent and then to 4.8 percent this year , may be slowing . Irony noted Mr. McCracken ca n't help saying , " We planned it that way . " There is irony to some in finding comfort in sluggish business in order to control inflation but , as Mr. McCracken says , " This slowdown is good news for all of us . . . . " The stock market , temporarily at least , had responded to optimistic administration utternaces like Mr. Nixon 's at his July 20 press conference that " the inflation has cooled . " He said , " Leveling out of the rise in wholesale prices will be reflected as the year goes on in a downturn of the rate of increase in the consumer-price index . " Impartial outside economists agree with the administration that inflation seems to be slowing down , but they are less optimistic on other features . Unemployment , for example , will almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statistics may look better , wage earners may be more conscious of immediate examples : Here in Washington the fare has just risen from 32 cents a ride to 40 cents . Each housewife has her own story . Two-pronged argument Mr. Nixon is stressing two matters ? a charge that the Democratic Congress is spendthrift and that the business slump is due , in part , to a shift from a war to a " peace " economy . Here are representative comments by economic witnesses : Dr. Otto Eckstein , Harvard , thinks the nation is in for a mild but what he calls a " stretched " recession . Recovery may be less quick and dramatic than the administration hopes . He deplores the silence of the White House on the recent 12 percent Teamsters Union wage settlement . Dr. Robert M. Solow , Massachusetts Institute of Technology : " The unemployment rate is already at 5 percent and will probably go higher . . . . My conclusion is , put plainly , that we ought to accept somewhat more inflation , and for a longer period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Dr. Raymond J. Saulnier , Columbia : " We are experiencing a veritable explosion of labor costs . . . . A kind of wage explosion is occurring all over the industrialized world . . . . Employers must have the support of government in their resistance . " Dr. Walter W. Heller . University of Minnesota : " If the U.S. economy essentially marks time in 1970 , its unused potential  --  the gap between actual and potential outup  --  will reach $40 billion by the . end of the year . . . . The balance of risks in today 's economy has clearly shifted . The pressures of inflation are beginning to subside while the perils of idleness and slack continue to mount . "                     