@@728793

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 29 Letters to the Editor of The Times Vietnam as Issue To the Editor : James Reston 's column of Aug. 7 ' entitled " Fulbright , Rogers and Laird " is both hopeful and discouraging . It is hopeful because it points out , correctly in my mind , that ' the differences of opinion between Senator Fulbright on the one hand , and Secretary Rogers and possibly even Secretary Laird on the other , are not so very great . The question now is not whether we should get out of Vietnam but how fast we should do it ? hardly an important question compared to many others . The column is discouraging in that it reveals the extent to which Senator Fulbright , despite the lack of an important issue , still declares he believes , as Mr. Reston puts it , that " the State and Defense Departments are leading us to unimaginable disasters . " Perhaps it is always a good thing to have someone grumbling about this . But it hurts the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the grumbling , because it acts to perpetuate the divisions within the country . It is these divisions which are our major problem today , both because they are uncomfortable in themselves , and because they make it difficult for men of goodwill of a variety of persuasions to work together on our desperate domestic problems . Those whose recent reputation is based upon the acceptance of their passionately stated views about Vietnam might better stop flogging that dead horse and turn their attentions elsewhere . But I fear that we have among us too many people to whom that issue was too precious to be let go , especially if some part of the solution is accomplished by an Administration which is to the right of center and which is headed by a man whom so many seem instinctively to distrust . The list of dead-horse beaters is almost endless . For instance , in my home state a senatorial candidate , the Rev. Joseph Duffey , whose heart is plainly in the right place , has said recently that the issue of Vietnam , whatever it is , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ' moment that only remains so if people like Senator Fulbright and Father Duffey make ' it so by their continued pronouncements . Is n't it about time " to bind up the nation 's wounds " ? CHARLES B. MILLIKEN Hartford , Aug. 7 , 1970 ? Prison , System Scored To the Editor : Careful attention should be paid to the desperate ' protest made by the men incarcerated in the Tombs . The well-documented list of grievances can not be ignored , not only because they are sound and reasonable requests , but also because , as in most institutions , 99 per cent of the men incarcerated will be returning to the street some day . Editorial Aug. 13 ) If we , as a civilized society , seriously expect to cut the crime rate , how can we continue to pay taxes for institutions that nurture antisocial behavior ? The entire concept of penology in our nation is antiquated and a failure . The eyefor-an-eye theory must be abandoned for one simple reason . It has not worked . To cite two examples of how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let it be noted that one news source quoted an unnamed guard who said that the situation at the Tombs was a result of " kid-glove treat ? ment . " This is more than an erroneous statement , it is indicative that the role of that institution ( a detention center which houses men before trial ) had better be defined to its employes . Many inmates there would be on the street if they had $100 bail . It was also reported that the Mayor had called upon the Governor to accept the transfer of all sentenced prisoners on Rikers Island . As overcrowded as the- city 's prisons are , the Mayor should not lead the public to believe that the problems will be solved by distributing the - inmates to the repressive and inadequate state prisons . That merely spreads the problem around . Our prisons should be preparing men who have been convicted of antisocial acts to return to our society and function better than they did before . Today , most of our prison officials feel that their only responsibility is to maintain well-functioning prisons . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society to which the men are returning , we will begin to cut our recidivist rate and make a dent in the crime rate . Our prison officials will begin to assume their responsibility only when we start asking it of them . Until then , the disorder at the Tombs should not be considered anything more than an indicator . DAVID ROTHENBERG Executive Secretary The Fortune Society New York , Aug . II , 1970 ? Subway Signals To the Editor : A central question in the minds of many subway riders is why the block signal system fails to prevent collisions , regardless of human fault . A July 28 letter undertook to explain this failure in the Queens tragedy by the fact that two cars with deactivated brakes passed over the trip arm of a signal . The remedy suggested was locating an additional trip " 300 to 400 feet " back . This would not solve the problem . In fact , three trip arms were thus located in the Queens collision without preventive effect . Two factors are responsible for the absence of a fail-safe block @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stop arm which rests horizontally on the track wayside and rises perpendicularly when the signal is red . The erected arm is designed to engage a reciprocal trip cock located in the undercarriage of the car releasing air pressure that otherwise keeps the brakes off the wheels . There are two kinds of these devices : In the homing type , the stop arm remains erect until it is actually safe to proceed and is unaffected by either the approach of a train or whether a train passes over the arm . Ii the automatic type , either the slow approach or a train passing over the device causes it to retract . Thus , none of the three devices located in the station were able to trip any of the cars behind the first two ( with deactivated braking ) because each of their stop arms assumed horizontal positions after the first car passed over the device . The second factor is use of a pair of cars with deactivated braking systems at the head of a train . This means that even a stop-arm device of the homing type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feet of train has passed the prohibiting signal . The technology for remedy is currently available and has been recommended by the Grand Jury : Automatic light signals ( red , yellow , green ) installed in each ? cab of every car so that the motorman is directly - aware of the signal regardless of what car the train is being operated from . These devices can automatically decelerate and stop the train in accordance with the signal , so that motorman error can not affect safety . An intra-train electropneumatic device that will automatically engage the trip cock on the first car with an active braking system upon contact of the signal device stop arm with the trip cock of any car with deactivated brakes . THOMAS J. MACKELL District Attorney , Queens County Jamaica , N. Y. , Aug. 11 , 1970 ? Morality in Athens To the Editor : The Greek Government , as The Times reported , has kept its promise to the armed hijackers and freed those Arabs in prison for previous attacks . The dictators said that " the promise given .. . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greek morality . " The former officers who used their guns to hijack Greece remembered their word of military " honor " only when they were confronted by armed Arab hijackers . There is a saying in Greek to the effect that " Among crooks there is no cheating . " At the same time the Athens Government has taught us that it only respects other gunmen and that the solemn promise ( indeed , repeated promise ) to return the country to democracy ? has been forgotten for more than three years . Where is that code of morality ? Is n't there any way that the Pentagon can derive a lesson from that ? Or shall we wait until the Greeks themselves get guns ? SPYRIDON GRANITSAS New York , Aug. 13 , 1970 Nerve Gas Disposal To the Editor ; It has been reported that a huge shipment of toxic gases in leaky . cylinders encased inconcrete , and purportedly en . route to Georgia and Florida , - is easily hydrolyzable , and that the products of hydrolysis are innocuous . It has probably occurred to ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in sea water may not necessarily yield reaction products as innocuous as those obtained by . hydrolysis . in the laboratory , with specific hydrolyzing agents , under possibly vastly different reaction conditions . I suppose it has occurred to - a larger number of persons that the Government 's experts could ' easily prove this statement by " hydrolyzing at ambient condftons , the contents of at least , a single cylinder in a pool of ocean water containing some ? marine organisms , preferably ? fish , and determining the after- : effects . I bring this to your attention in the fond hope that it will . focus attention on a specific facet of this controversy , : which , unlike related complex issues , is susceptible of proof . ALFRED D. DEH . LOBO ' Cleveland , Aug. 7 , 1970 ? Deficient Diet To the Editor : The more basic and challeng. ing problem underlying the current dry cereal debate is not one dealing with false claims of the nutritional value of the cereals . Surveys have already shown that parents and children continue to eat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut off any source of . energy ( empty calories included ) that their offspring will ingest before embarking upon their active days . The same problem repeats itself in subsequent meals with the tunafish salad remaining on the plate while the potato chips quickly disappear . The basic problem seems to be one of starch addiction ? an affinity for the least nutritious foods , the large quantities of these consumed being inversely proportionate to the protein , vitamin , and mineral containing foods . In underdeveloped countries we claim it is poverty which causes this caliber of food consumption . What is our excuse in American suburbs ? ( I have observed children in upper middleclass nursery schools eating the raw macaroni they have been given to string for beads . ) This controversy should spark ; a much-needed research pro , gram aimed at finding out wh7 . American children eat so poorly . - Some of the " sacred cows " of the American diet should be subjected to scrutiny  --  milk in eluded . This is the right time for the metabolic branch of ourNational Institutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effects of certain foods ingested . . by American children . Some - surprising results may ensue dealing with many of the chronic conditions plaguing our malnourished children in this most affluent of societies . ELAINE GOTTSCHALL ' Nutley , N. J. , Aug. 6 , 1970                     