@@733404

txt Is a " windfall " of federal dollars heading to relatively affluent cities and suburbs in the Northeast and Midwest ? Yes , say a number of Southern leaders . They contend the recently passed Housing and Community Development Act of 1977 discriminates against their region ? especially against Southern cities with high concentrations of blacks.and Chicanos . But Northeastern and Midwestern political leaders counter that the new federal formulas to distribute federal money will merely clear up inequities that have existed over the past few years . The Southerners are focusing not on the larger , poorer cities but on some of the smaller , more affluent cities . One example from a list of 26 " windfall " recipients , drawn up by the Southern Growth Policies Board ( SPGB ) , is Newton , Massachusetts . Newton is a fairly affluent suburb of Boston where only 2.8 percent of the families live below the poverty line . Only 2.4 percent live in overcrowded housing , more than 99 rercent have full indoor plumbing . Under the present formula , Newton can receive $742,000 in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city would receive $2,430,000 according to estimates by the Department of Housing and Urban Development ( HUD ) . *please tura to Page 18 From page 1 Dixie leaders charge ' windfall ' in the North The other cities on the SGPB 's list , like Newton , have well below the national average of 10.7 percent poor families , but they stand to receive an additional $49 million in federal money by 1980 . Included are two Illinois cities , Berwyn and Cicerao , that have not even applied for federal Community Development funds in the past , according to SGPB researchers . Others are Evanston Illinois ; South Bend , Indiana ; Medford , Massachusetts ; Dearborn , Michigan ; Clifton , New Jersey ; New Rochelle , New York ; Cleveland Heights , Ohio ; Hazelton , Pennsylvania ; and La Cross , Wisconsin . Balancing seen Shelley Amdur , a research assistant at the Northeast-Midwest Research Institute , says the SGPB " found 26 anomalies . " But the real issue , she says , is how many cities the new formula helps . She argues that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program , which had been slanted in favor of fast-grow- ing Southern cities over the past few years . As one example , she notes that Fort Lauderdale , Florida , would have received an additional $714,000 by 1980 under the old grant formulas , even though the city is ' experiencing rapid population growth . The SGPB list has caused a storm of protest among Southern politicians . Georgia Gov . George Busbee says , " There 's nothing right or fair about a formula that . . . fails to consider overcrowded housing , inadequate plumbing , and concentration of the poor . " Miss Amdur , however , attacks this traditional measure of poverty as a standard for allocating federal funds because it does n't take into account the higher cost of living in over-industrialized sections of the country . Formulas changed At the heart of the controversy is a move by the Northeast-Midwest Economic Advancement Coalition ? a group of 204 legislators from 17 states ? to change the formulas used to distribute Community Development Block Grant money . The program is the primary channel through which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allocations on traditional indexes of need , the coalition has persuaded Congress to phase in a new index by 1980 . A key factor in the new formula will be the amount of pre-1939 housing in an area . The result will be more federal funds flowing to the Northeast and Midwest , because housing in these regions is generally older . But the list compiled by the SGPB supports the view that age of housing is a poor indicator of the need for federal help . SGPB executive director Blaine Liner says the result will be a " windfall " for many cities that have minimal need for federal aid . The debate is likely to continue , as Southern politicians make the most of the so-called " windfall cities list . " Meanwhile , Northeastern and Midwestern members of Congress are working on changes in the allocation formulas used to distribute other federal funds , including education and medicare money .                     