@@729214

txt South Vietnamese troops and tanks pressed westward across branches of the Ho Chi Minh trail in southern Laos today behind enemy forces retreating under the lash of United States air power . The main column in the second day of the operation had proceeded 12 miles inside Laos along Highway 9 . It was reported slowed by U. S. bomb craters in the road and bad weather that suddenly closed in . Troops also were halting to seize munitions caches . Helicopter-borne troops set up a fire base 15 miles west of the Vietnamese border . Ahead of the South Vietnamese , 25 miles deep into Laos , lay Sepone , heavily bombed and almost deserted . it is a main transshipment point on the trail and a North Vietnamese operating base . U. S. helicopter Cobras operating in front of the South Vietnamese attacked enemy supply depots 15 miles inside Laos . Frontier reports said the Cobras hit an oil dump and an prnr , rn'tirri storage area , causing large fires and some explosions . Field dispatches said the South Vietnamese had set up two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. cargo helicopters airlifted five 105mm howitzers and half a dozen mortars along with ammunition and other supplies for the new fire bases . Vets in Cambodia South Vietnamese officers said their intelligence reports indicated that the North Vietnamese troops is the operation area were mostly young and untrained . The officers said the reports showed that the main force veterans were deployed in Cambodia . The object of the South VietnP , , tese incursion is to cut the Ho Chi Minh trail , the last major supply route of the North Vietnamese to Cambodia and South Viet Nam , and to smash bases . Field reports indicated some South Vietnamese troops , probably reconnaissance units , may be in the Sepone area , but Saigon headquarters reported the base had not yet been taken . Sepone has a dirt airstrip and South Vietnamese engineers are expected to rebuild it . A South VieMamese field commander said he expected his troops to push on westward along Highway 9 during the next 10 days toward Savannakhet , on the western border of Laos . This would snip off all the branches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Red Resistance The North Vietnamese were putting up little resistance in front , but some units were striking at the South Vietnamese lifeline farther east in South Viet Nam . North Vietnamese launched a sharp attack against a . S . position northwest of Lang Vei and less than a mile from the Laotian border . About 9,000 U. S. troops are acting as a blocking force for the 20,000 South Vietnamese troops entering Laos . U. S. troops took some casualties but the number was not reported . The U. S. Command said American troops had uncovered four caches containing 434 tons of munitions around Khe Sanh , the forward support position for the South Vietnamese operation . against the Ho CM Minh trail and other targets in Laos . Military spokesman said this action had been stepped up 20 per cent since the South Vietnamese incursion . In addition to the tactical air effort , Strategic Air Command B-52 heavy bombers are supporting the South ViefrPmese . The eight-jet Stratofoctresses Dew 50 sorties in support of the South Vietnamese in the first two days of the push into Laos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sortie is one flight by one plane . Each B-52 bomber carries up to 30 tons of explosives . Rains Cut Operations The offensive schedule received a temporary setback today when unexpected rains swept into the northern end of South Viet Nara from the South China Sea . This cut severely into U.S. helicopter airlifts . Forecasters said the rains would end by tomorrow . About 300 miles south of the Laotian operation , a parallel westward drive into eastern Cambodia by another force of 20,000 South Vietnamese ran into fierce resistance . North Vietnamese forces deployed near the town of Snuol , 5 miles inside Cambodia , launched three attacks against the advancing South Vietnamese . Snuol is 90 miles north of Saigon . In the ensuing battles , 73 North Vietnamese were killed , Saigon headquarters reported . The South Vietnamese took losses of 10 killed and 42 wounded .                     