@@732781

txt Senator Robert J. Dole , the Republican Vice-Presidential candidate , withdrew today his contention that World War II and the Vietnam conflict were " Democrat wars , " but he contended that American weakness contributed to one and American indecision led to the other . In his nationally televised debate on Oct. 15 with his Democratic counterpart , Senator Walter F. Mondale , Mr. Dole suggested that the Democrats were responsible for the four wars in which the United States has been involved in this century . The remark not only drew anger from his opponents in this election , but also brought widespread criticism even among supporters of President Ford and his running mate . Still , Senator Dole continued until today to justify his use of the phrase on the ground that , if the Democrats kept bringing up the Watergate affair , it was fair to raise questions about wars that had occurred under their administrations . ' National Interest ' Cited But , after mentioning World War H and the Vietnam war in a speech before several hundred supporters at an outdoor rally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These were not partisan wars in the sense that a clear division of political philosophies separated the party in power from the other party when the fighting broke out . They were fought for what was perceived to be in the national interest . " Later , although he contended that " weakness " and " inadequate defenses " caused these wars , the Senator conceded : " No , r do n't believe World War II was a Democrat war . And I do n't believe that Vietnam was . But I do know that no country is likely to attack us ? if we are strong , and through strength , Gerald Ford has given us a world peace , a world in which no Americans are fighting or dying or coming home wounded or maimed . " While Mr. Dole did not mention World War I or the Korean War , he went on to tell the chilled crowd that he believed " American weakness contributed to World War II and American indecision gave us the nightmare that was Vietnam . " The Democratic ticket of Jimmy Carter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " weakness and indecision . " Aware of Criticism An aide to Mr. Dole said that the campaign organization had been aware of the criticism brought on by the Senator 's remarks about ' Democrat wars . " He said political advisers had discussed it with the candidate and with their counterparts at the President Ford Committee and the White House . He insisted that , as far as he knew , no one had ordered Mr. Dole , who frequently accuses Mr. Carter of constantly shifting his positions , to retreat on the issue . " I think he just decided to do it , " the aide said . " That 's what he meant all along , but he obviously had n't made it clear . " Earlier today , in Erie , Pa. , Mr. Dole sharply criticized Mr. Carter for having " tipped his hand to enemies " in a foreign policy statement . But even before he could deliver his prepared speech , Mr , Dole had all but echoed the Carter position he was attacking . While President Ford was campaigning in Pittsburgh , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fight for Pennsylva.nia 's 27 electoral votes . Using a speech patterned on the one ! the President delivered this morning , Mr. ; Dole continued to sound the theme that : his party hopes will win the election ? ; that the Republicans represent peace ; through strength , while the Democratic ! Presidential nominee " offers a defense based on weakness and a foreign policy based on inexperience and innocence . " As an example of what he called Mr ! Carter 's " innocence or ignorance , " Mr , Dole quoted to a downtown rally what he said was Mr. Carter 's position in the ' last debate with President Ford : " I would not go to war in Yugoslavia even if the Soviet Union sent in troops . " That , Mr. Dole said , proved that the Democratic candidate had " learned nothing from history , nothing from the mistakes of the past ; or else he does n't care . " " As a potential President , " Mr. Dole continued , " he has tipped his hand to enemies and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will or will not do if he becomes President . That is no way to conduct foreign policy . " The texts of the prepared speech had been handed to reporters traveling with Senator Dole before his arrival here . At a brief news conference at the airport immediately after he landed , the Senator was asked whether he would consider sending American troops to Yugoslavia in the event of a Soviet invasion . " The answer is no , " Mr. Dole declared , " but I would n't tell them in advance what I had in mind . " Apparently , it occurred to him before he delivered his speech at the courthouse here that he might have stumbled , because he made a point of telling the crowd that he had been asked the quer , - Jion at the airport . " I would never tip my hand to an adversary on foreign pollcy , " he insisted . The rally in Erie , under gray skies with a brisk wind whipping in off the lake . was not one of the triumphs of the Dole campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tried to smile despite their goose bumps , made up about twothirds of the crowd of approximately 400 , which had been augmented by political science students released from local schools . Then , mindful of Mr. Ford 's continued need to mend fences with Americans of Eastern European background because of his since-recanted remark that that part of the world was not tinder Soviet domination . Mr. Dole visited the Polish Falcons Club . There he was greeted by a polka hand , four costumed dancers , a large banner welcoming him to the club , and about 60 persons-20 of whom were political science students on a field trip , who were described by their professor as Democrats  --  and about 30 of whom were anti-abortion advocates . But the Senator , outwardly undismayed , danced a few steps of the polka with one of the costumed young women under a blown-up plastic Mickey Mouse that hung beneath a Ford-Dole banner . Mondale Campaigns in Albany ALBANY , Oct. ** Senator Dale revised his position on the subject today , Senator Mondale had demanded that President Ford 's campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee , on an 11th-hour swing to some of his party 's strongholds in key Eastern states , interrupted his attack on Mr. Ford 's economic policies to address himself to Mr. Dole 's remarks . Asked during a news conference at the airport here why he believed that Mr. Ford should take it upon himself to disavow Mr. Dole 's assertion , Mr. Mondale replied that the two were " responsible for ei:ch other , " and added , " Mr. Ford picked Mr. Dole , as I recall . " The Dole assertion about " Democrat wars " was interpreted by Mr. Mondale ' as a " desperate effort " by the Republicans to gain ground in the week than remains before next Tuesday 's Presidential election .                     