@@733696

txt In a major new effort to collect millions of dollars in delinquent child-support payments , the Department of Social Services is using a little-known provision of Federal law that allows the Internal Revenue Service to collect such payments from the parents of children receiving public-assistance grants . The department initially has referred to the I.R.S. the names of more than 5,000 parents , 4,000 of whom are from New York City , and it estimates that $23 million in arrears could be collected through this system . State officials said they had been told by the I.R.S. that this was the first time the child-support referral service had been used by any state . Under the law , the Revenue Service can be hired by those states that have exhausted other avenues in their attempts to assure that delinquent childsupport accounts will be paid . S1,090 Figure Adopted States can submit computer tapes of the Social Security numbers of any persons who are at least $75 behind in support payments , but New York has decided to pursue only those parents who have arrears of more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who receive welfare . For $2.85 a case , the I.R.S. will provide information ' regarding the assets of the parents , taken from tax returns . If after receiving the information , local socialservices departments decide to pursue a case , they can pay $122 additional and the I.R.S. will attempt to collect the delinquent child support payments . Federal law allows the Revenue Service to collect delinquent court-ordered child support payments through levies on wages and property . Payments of the arrearages to the wel- fare families will be made through local social-services units . If the payments are high enough , a family could conceivably be removed from the welfare rolls . The cost of the service is shared , with the Federal Department of Health , Education and Welfare paying 75 percent and the state and local governments each picking up 12.5 percent . Tax Reform Act Involved The system is an outgrowth of a littleknown provision of the Tax Reform Act of . 1976 . The law states that the Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare shall at the request of states " certify the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Secretary of the Treasury for collection ... " No amount may be certified for collection , the law says , " except the.amount of the delinquency under a court order for support and upon a showing by the state that such state has made diligent ' and reasonable efforts to collect such amounts utilizing its ' own collection mechanisms and upon an agreement that the state will reimburse the United States for any costs . involved in making the collections . " As it is made a standard procedure of the department , the system is expected to save millions in taxpayers ' dollars , offsetting expenditures for Aid to Families with Dependent Children . Department spokesmen said that large numbers of these welfare recipients were children of parents  --  most often fathers  --  who had ignored family court orders to pay child support . " We intend to make every effort , " said the State Social Services Commissioner , Barbara B , Blum , " including the use of I.R.S. to collect child support payments from parents who abandon their obligations to their families , because these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In submitting the 5,000 names , the department suggested that I.R.S. earnings data could also be used in seeking child support increases . It also asked the service to investigate the possibility of tax fraud by absent parents who declared tax exemptions for children that they , in fact , were not supporting . The department collected an amount estimated at $44 million last . year from parents of children who receive Aid to Families with Dependent Children . It attempts to collect all the arrearages through the state 's child support enforcement program , but parents who are ordered by Family Court to make payments often default and the-court is sometimes too backlogged to issue ? necessary warrants . Also , there sometimes is an insufficient number of police personnel to execute the warrants that have been issued . The Department estimates that 14,000 delinquent parents in New York City alone would qualify for the I.R.S. referral service .                     