@@730053

txt In tactical terms , King Hussein 's plan for a federated United Arab Kingdom straddling the East and West Banks of the Jordan has already achieved most of its short-range objectives . But it will make strategic sense only if it obtains American backing . The King 's plan , and especially its timing , was probably the product of many motivations . If his aim was to break up the depressing deadlock in which Arab policy on Palestine had become frozen , he was certainly succeeded . He has also succeeded in swinging the spotlight away from Egypt to Jordan and has thus reminded the world ? his Arab detractors in particular ? that if it is permissible for Egypt to deal separately with Israel on the Suez Canal , then Jordan should be allowed to do the same on the West Bank . Element of hope The really determining factor in any Palestinian plan will have to be the opinions of the Palestinians in their three present groupings : West Bank , East Bank , and other Arab countries . But because they are divided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is very difficult to ascertain their real feelings . On the East Bank , under Jordanian control , Palestinians seem sunk in a cowed , sullen silence . But those that talk are not so unfavorable to the Hussein plan as might have been expected . They see an element of hope in it . Though this hope might be based only on wishful thinking , they argue that the King would not have been so rash as to present his plan without consulting and obtaining some agreement from Israel . So the mere existence of the plan automatically means , for them , that some Israeli withdrawal will come ' about in the not-too-distant future . If the King was trying to appeal to the West Bankers by offering them propects of self-government , he would have done better to maintain his earlier pledge to let the Palestinians option full independence . Impotent threats But perhaps the West Bankers he has consulted fear that full independence would result in Israeli domination  --  and so prefer to be under the protective umbrella of an established Arab state . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the threatening sounds of the half-dozen " progressive " Arab governments . These governments have hit Jordan in every way they could : threats and plots , closing frontiers and cutting off subsidies . But they no longer have much leverage with Jordan because Jordan no longer has much to lose . Though Jordanians are neither isolationist nor defiant toward their Arab brethren , they know from experience that they can go ahead without them , so long as the Jordan Army stands firm and so long as Saudi Arabia and the United States pay their subsidies , which they seem willing to do . The plan stands So tactically , the plan stands ? despite Arab opposition and despite the Iraqi counterproposal of a union between Iraq , Egypt , and Syria which has left observers baffled or amused . Only Israeli cooperation can make the Hussein plan really a meaningful move toward a peaceful settlement . And that cooperation is likely only if the United States puts pressure on Israel to be less scornful and negative . Doubtless this is what the King plans to ask President Nixon during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an election year United States pressure on Israel is more dream than reality .                     