@@732998

txt When breakfast , lunch or dinner is served at 30,000 feet , the airline passenger has a choice : Take it or leave It . More often than not , veteran travelers say , that 's hardly a choice at all . But a select few  --  mostly epicures who sneer at even the best of airline meals ? have long enjoyed another alternative to rubbery chicken and gray filet . Now , their secret is out . It is brown-bagging , or dining aloft on your own privately prepared delicacies , and it is gaining appeal among ordinary flying food lovers everywhere . " We 're not what you would consider the caviar set , " says Dorothy Zinberg of Cambridge , Mass. , " but having suffered from plastic foods on airlines , it was wonderful . " She is referring to the Iranian Beluga caviar , Nova Scotia salmon and other goodies she and her husband , Norman , sampled from their brown bag during a recent flight to Ghana . The experience , Mrs. Zinberg reports , transformed an ordinarily tiring 14-hour journey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took up the practice after reading an article last fall by Craig Claiborne , The New York Times 's culinary expert , who recommended gourmet brownbagging in the sky as a " matter of provisioning ourselves against burnt peas , overcooked meat , and soggy macaroni . " " A Smart Idea " Still others have been inspired by example . " When the people on the plane saw us having caviar and salmon , their eyes lit up , " recalls Dr. Hal Stevelman , a Peekskill , N.Y. , cardiologist and avid brown-bagger . " Usually , they think it is a smart idea , and they 're dying to try it . " One measure of the number who do is the brisk business enjoyed these days by Zabar 's and Murray 's Sturgeon Shop , two Manhattan emporiums that cater to the gourmet-of-the-skies crowd . Artie Cutler , proprietor of Murray 's , says that the " hard core of addicts " who plunk down up to $45 for what he terms . an " airline survival package " has doubled lately to about 100 regular customers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 100 infrequent purchasers of that firm 's gourmet travel snacks represent " many more " than there were two years ago . Only the imagination limits what some airline food-weary passengers bring aboard . " We 've never cooked a lobster , but we 've done other things , " says Seymour Leslie , a record company executive . Among them : crabs from the San Francisco waterfront , Parisian pastries , English pork pies , and German knockwurst washed down with vintage German wine . " I 'll bring almost anything to avoid airline food , " Mr. Leslie explains . " I just want to make the flight a little more festive . " Chef Julia Child often brings along a roast lamb sandwich from home . And according to Zabar 's , actor Art Carney prefers the $14.50-a-pound sturgeon while Mrs. Jack Benny flies with corn beef and a $3.50 box of rugalettes , a butter pastry with a raisin filling . Perhaps out of sympathy for the plight of fellow passengers , some brown-baggers seek a low profile . " I try to do it as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Sherry-Lehmann Inc. , the wine importer . " I wait until everyone is served . " - Starting a Conversation Others , however , suggest that ostentatious display of their special fare has its advantages . " If you have any intention of starting a conversation with a pretty girl , what 's better than to break out your roast duck and bottle of Beaujolais ? " asks Peter Hellman , a magazine writer who says he has often done this when forced to fly to Des Moines . For the most part , airlines are ambiguous on the subject , glad to indulge the paying customer yet stung by the criticism a brown bag implies . Some frown on foods with an especially strong odor . And a Trans World Airlines executive suggests that the limit of tolerance was reached on a Nairobito-Rome flight , when a group of Kenyan passengers reportedly tried to start a cooking fire on board . Indeed , passengers " can do anything they want , short of setting up a hibachi in the aisle , " says a spokesman for Pan American World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to add , " we feel our meals are so superb that there 's no neetto bring your own. ? Many air travelers are unconvinced . " Most stewardesses will tell you they would rather serve a good ham sandwich , " says Dena Kaye , a travel writer and daughter of comedian Danny Kaye . " What 's the point of pretending it is a . gourihet restaurant up there . It 's not : " Surprising candor , to ; fact , conies from the flag carrier , for a nation " of gourmets , Air Finance At least as far as the quality of meals ? Nerved in economy dais is concerned , says spokesman Edward Tortellotte , " we 're like otherairlines , Sometimes it may be fabulous . Sometimes it may be less . "                     