@@732088

txt Indications that North and South Vietnam would ? welcome more communication and improved relations with the United States have reached Washington in recent days . They have taken two forms : ? A statement on the South Vietnamese radio that the new regime would favor a resumption of offshore exploratory drilling by American companies . ? A message from Hanoi , which reached Dr. Roger Shields , in charge of repatriation of prisoners of war at the Pentagon , that the North Vietnamese Government was prepared now to ship to the U.S. the remains of three more American men who had been missing in action ( MIAs ) . A subsequent message to Dr. Shields has indicated , however , there might be some delay . American officials believed that the reason for the delay was that the U.S. had voted in the United Nations Security Council against the admission of the two Vietnams to the UN . The South Vietnamese broadcast about resumption of oil exploration drew an answer Aug. 14 from a Mobil Oil spokesman in New York who told this newspaper that if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite interested " in bringing a drilling rig back into its former location 120 miles southeast of Saigon . The location had proved promising ; the spokesman said . Shell Oil had also been drilling . Exxon and several other oil companies , including some from Japan , held oil drilling rights from the former Saigon government of Nguyen Van Thieu , but had not begun drilling . The South Vietnamese radio broadcast indicates that the new government now is prepared to recognize the concessions granted by President Thieu . An aide to Sen. Edward M. Kennedy ( D ) of Massachusetts , who originally explored the possibility of action on the three MIAs , said Aug. 14 it was the Senator 's impression that Hanoi was moving to maintain contact with the U.S. Senator Kennedy has remained in contact with the North Vietnamese on the MIA issue through contacts in Paris and in Vientiane , Laos . The Pentagon 's Dr. Shields has the same feeling . " They seem eager to maintain the dialogue , " he said . So fai the State Department has discouraged Americans from resuming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made by Senator Kennedy at a meeting of the subcommittee on refugees of the Judiciary Committee on July 24 on behalf of those who were still suffering in Vietnam , Assistant Secretary Philip Habib said : " We do not favor public American assistance to South Vietnam or North Vietnam . " At present economic ties with both Vietnams are prohibited by the Trading with the Enemy Act . But a high-ranking State Department official said the department welcomed any conciliatory gestures from the Vietnamese , in the light of Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger 's June 18 speech before the Japan Society of New York . Dr. Kissinger said then that although the Communists had flouted accepted standards of conduct " we are prepared to look to the future . Our attitude toward them will be influenced by their conduct toward ' their neighbors and their attitude toward us . " The American Friends Relief Committee announced recently that . it had been refused permission by the Treasury to export some rehabilitation supplies to North and South Vietnam and that it proposed attempting to send the supplies in defiance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on MIAs , oil // Dr. Shields said he was convinced the North Vietnamese knew of the location of many other American MIAs whose identification cards or pictures reached American hands after their aircraft were shot down . So far the North Vietnamese have allowed repatriation of the bodies of 23 American military personnel . - The MIAs referred to by the North Vietnamese authorities are : Lt. Comdr . Jesse Taylor Jr. , U.S. Navy of California , who was shot down Nov. 17 , 1965 ; Capt . Ronald D. Perry , U.S. Air Force of Tennessee , who was shot down Dec. 21 , 1972 , and Maj. Crosley J. Fitton , Air Force of Connecticut , who was shot down Feb. 29 , 1968 . In addition , American authorities believe there are 10 American civilians being held by the Provisional Revolutionary Government ( PRG ) of South Vietnam . Seven of these are missionaries of the Christian Missionary Alliance , several of them women , and a six-year-old girl , while two others are an AID employee and an employee of the Ford Foundation . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thout and are believed held at Pleiku in the highlands of South Vietnam . Dr. Shields also heard a report a year ago of the existence of an American deserted in Cambodia . An American civilian accomp  --  nying an Australian journalist in Laos disappeared several years ago . They may be held still , it is believed , along with an American Air Force captain whose picture was taken after he crashed in Laos in 1965 . The AID official held at Pleiku is Paul A. Struharik of Barberton , Ohio . The man connected with the Ford Foundation is Jay Scarborough , who had a grant under which he was microfilming manuscripts in the hands of remnants of the Chan minority , Hindus whose ancestors lived on the Indo-Chinese peninsula before the Vietnamese arrived .                     