@@730705

txt The little guy is getting kicked by the bully . That 's the image Panama hopes to project during the I United Nations Security Council meeting which opens here tomorrow morning . It promises to be a super propaganda show and Gen. Omar Torrijos , the leader of this tiny country , has been stoking the fires of nationalism since he seized power in 1968 . Posters showing Torrijos in his uniform proclaim : " On our feet or dead , but never on our knees . " That 's the philosophy the general has been pushing in his efforts to renegotiate the 1903 treaty under which the United States was given sovereign rights in perpetuity over the Canal Zone . TORRIJOS ' speeches ring with condemnation of the Unit ' ed States . " Let the listening world know , " he said recently , " the extent of the viciousness of certain United . States mentalities which pay Panama rental for a 600-square mile strip of land  --  of $1.0 million annually , while the Empire State Building produces a net of $3 million annually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line . There have been no major anti-American riots here during his reign , altho he sometimes tells the people there may come a time when an entire generation of Panamanians will have to lay down their lives in a military attack to drive the United States from Panama . WHILE TORR1JOS talks tough , U. S. dollars flow into Panama at an ever increasing rate . . Grants and loans to Panama under the United States A. I. D. program will total $22.3 million for the year ending June 30 , whereas two years ago they totaled only $11.1 million . It remains to be seen whether the anti-American propa. ganda expected to be released by this meeting will have any effect on the level of United States foreign aid . Another topic one seldom hears mentioned here is that the United States has agreed to give up its sovereign rights over the Canal Zone and turn the canal over to the Panamanians . THE NEGOTIATION of a new treaty has been stalled because Panama wants to take over the canal immediately and the United States wants the turnover to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . The United States ambassador to the United Nations , John Scali , who is scheduled to arrive here tonight , promises he wo n't let the United States be kicked around . " I am prepared to talk in a low-key , responsible way about the Panama Canal issue , " he said In New  --  j York last week . " But if anyone chooses to make it a propaganda contest , I do not intend to lose . I do not intend to see the United States attacked unfairly or abused . " EARLIER TODAY , U. S. officials expressed irritation over two huge billboards Panama had erected within sight of the council meeting site . Both are nearly four stories high and strongly anti-U . S. in their message .                     