@@728863

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Timetable for Vietnam To the Editor : I fear that your well-meaning but ambivalent Aug. 31 editorial " Sound Motive , Dubious Method " helped doom the needed Hatfield-qzmcq#Govern amendment . You are correct in quickly dismissing the Vice President 's rharges that its sponsors are " pacifist , " " isolationist , " and " defeatist . " Yet you leave unanswered the more serious charge that passage of the amendment might have inadvertently prolonged the war by removing any incentive for Hanoi to negotiate . I also fail to see the value of a cease-fire in Southeast Asia , in view of the difficulties experienced in the Middle East . If anything , your editorial may be used by the Administration in this fall 's campaign in support of its continual cries that antiwar forces are responsible for the loss of American and civilian lives in Southeast Asia . Open-Ended Commitment But by what authority is the United States negotiating with Hanoi at the Paris peace talks ? Should the undeclared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editorial so rightly calls the " disastrous adventure in Vietnam " be ended by the same wide Presidential latitude with which it was fought ? Or is a new , specific Senatorial resolution needed that will finally check the open-ended Presidential commitment in Southeast Asia that has already resulted in more than 43,000 American deaths ? As for its argument about bargaining position in Paris , your editorial suffers from the same strange inconsistency as . does the Administration 's position . How can we possibly gain at Paris the concessions that We were unable to win on the battlefield ? If our primary goal in Paris is really to give Hanoi incentive to negotiate , then why did we begin our troop withdrawals anyway ? Is n't total victory the best bargaining position at a conference table ? It was our failure to win a war that could not be won that has undermined our bargaining position . If our troops , are coming home , who is to enforce any agreement Hanoi may make ? ? And what can possibly be lost by publishing a withdrawal timetable ? Peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that has repeatedly prolonged the Southeast Asian war . Despite its defeat , the Hatfieldqzmcq#Govern amendment is a good example of the sort of : effort the Congress must make if it is to regain its constitutional powers . STEVEN SHORE New York , Sept. 3 , 1970 ? Efficacy of Protest To the Editor : There is now reason to believe that the interest of Americans in Mylai , Kent State , Jackson State , and the whole wide range of horrors that defile and destroy life and hope , is serving the function for all too many of making otherwise empty lives intermittently interesting  --  the circuses for our growing empire . Some Americans have protested the growing use of wiretapping and other threats to our liberties , not to say the unaccountability and the reasons of those who account for their spread . Millions of Americans have protested the endless , savage war in Indochina , as they have protested the systematic and hardening racism and poverty of this idealistic and wealthy nation . The protests arise , there is a fuss , debate narrows down to details @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tire  --  and the horrors grow . In 1966 Professor Morgenthau wrote that he feared America 's future less if we were to lose than if we were to win the war ; for he feared most what would happen to us in the process of winning . Except in a sense perverse even for Orwell , we are not winning . But the war  --  and racism , and poverty , and blighted cities and schools and air and water ? has lasted so long that Morgenthau 's fears have become realities . The fears of worse to come have taken their place . Perhaps the majority of Americans are now afraid , on one or another count ; but only a tiny few ? mostly young , largely despised , and usually feared  --  have sought vigorously to change America . They have learned the old lesson that the bearer of bad news is blamed ( and often punished ) for the bad news he bears . We can not long go on in this way . A future that leaves our fundamental domestic and foreign crises unresolved for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for us all . " Justice is a power , " wrote an English philosopher at the century 's turn , " and if it can not create , it will destroy . " He was correct . DOUGLAS F. DOWD Ithaca , N. Y. , Sept. 4 , 1970 ? To End Blackmail To the Editor : If Western countries submit to the demands of the Palestinian guerrilla hijackers , such blackmail episodes will grow more frequent . The present problem is how to make this blackmail unprofitable for the guerrillas : how to make the hijacking seriously harm the guerrilla cause ; make the guerrillas widely unpopular among Arab peoples , and result in more purposeful antiguerrilla activity by Arab governments . I propose that Great Britain ( and Germany and Switzerland if not too late ) offer to supply Israel on liberal credit terms with one tank or equivalent for every civilian harmed by the hijackers . This would thus turn guerrilla hijackers into assisters of Israel and might thereby probably deter them . J. C. PETER RICHARDSON Washington , Sept. 8 , 1970 ? Nonracial Violence To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter Sept. 2 by saying that no , I do not " recommend the disposal of potential victims of crime as plausible means of eliminating criminals . " I wish there were some test that could detect potential criminality ; that would be a giant step forward in combating crime . I was talking of actual criminals . If a majority of citizens decide that throwing rocks at police officers is against the law , and so state in the statutes , it is a crime  --  just as much as police brutality is when its use is definitely uncalled for ( and that is probably in most cases ) . But I continue to maintain that the most sadistic police officer would be guilty of a felony if he hit anyone who did not throw rocks or commit any infraction of law . Mr. Moore narrows the issue down to blacks . Rock-throwing and police brutality are no less statutory violations whether they are committed by blacks , whites , yellow , red , or people of any mixture of color . JAMES A. BRUSSELS , M.D. New York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Editor : Prof. Harold Berman 's suggestion in his Aug. 26 letter that regular inspections of prisons in this country could help correct much abuse and backward conditions to which inmates are subjected merits acceptance . But he does no service to the case for efficacy of that idea by mentioning the Soviet experience as an example for American reform . Mr. Berman 's comment implies that Soviet " progress " is something to emulate . Any objective comparison of penal institutions in the two countries would hardly vindicate his impression that American prison conditions are reminiscent of Stalin 's labor camps . Repression and inhumane treatment were endemic to Stalinist rule ? they are far from being as broadly characteristic of . American administration . And we have heard too much recently from the Russian " underground " about suppression of dissent and Siberian internment to believe that Moscow 's justice is fit to admire . JOHN W. DUVALL Washington , Aug. 26 , 1970 ? Program for Prisons To the Editor : Now that some of the furor about conditions in the New York City prisons has begun to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I believe it important that there be greater public understanding of the issue involved and of the state 's responsibility for conditions in local prisons ? a responsibility which the Rockefeller administration has consistently avoided . The central problem in the administration of our prison system , both state and local , has not been the overcrowding . Horrible though that may be , temporary relief can be afforded , but there seems to be little disposition to face the real problems of correction and supervision which are the heart of the matter . The central philosophy of our entire penal system has been purely custodial in nature . We have not begun to deal with inmates in terms of the elementary proposition that the overwhelming majority will be back on the streets within a reasonably short period . The one question we refuse to confront is this : " What are we doing in our prison systems to see that the released prisoner does not return ? " Until we face this question we will continue to have periodic prison scandals , revolts by prisoners , slowdowns and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ media forgotten until a new scandal erupts . Existing State Power The power exists in the state to do something positive and constructive about the situation in local prisons . We have had on the statute books for six years the authority to clean up the mess . The State Commission of Correction appointed by the Governor , an agency separate and apart from the Department of Correction , is specially charged by law with responsibility for these conditions , a responsibility it has consistently neglected . Under Section 46 of the State Correction Law it is the duty of the Correction Commission to establish rules and regulations with minimum standards for every phase of correctional work . The Correction Commission has the duty to inspect the prisons to see whether such programs are being carried out and whether their standards are being met . If any institution fails to corn-. ply , the State Commission has vast powers to prosecute the administrators , to correct conditions and , if necessary , to close the institution . Strong action by the State Commission which is directly responsible to the Governor could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychiatric care , job training , etc. , so that our prisons stop becoming " schools for crime . " Well over 80 per cent of the major crimes against people and property are committed by ex-convicts who are living evidence of the failure of our prison system . The State Commission of Correction should either begin carrying out those functions required by law or its members should resign . BASIL A. PATERSON New York State Senator , 27th District , Manhattan Albany , Sept. 4 , 1970 ? Flooded City Streets To the Editor : There was a time when the city periodically cleaned out the street corner rain-catch basins . Then the city reduced its labor force and we were told of new machines on order that would not only replace men but do a better job in keeping the basins clean . Now after every rainfall the street corners are like ponds and water covers the curb . In order to cross the street detours as long as 100 feet are necessary . I have yet to see the new machines . PHILIP MANDEL New York , Aug. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              