@@732018

txt The frequently expressed fears of many officials and others dealing with the South Vietnamese refugee program  --  that thousands of those who fled as Saigon fell to the Communists would be illiterate people for whom resettlement would be difficult  --  appear , to have been unfounded . The first sociological studies by the President 's Interagency Task Force on Indochina Refugees showed that the Vietnamese group was mostly affluent , educated and from middle-class backgrounds . Large numbers of them also speak English . This pattern roughly corresponds to the first large influx of Cuban refugees who settled in Miami and made one of the most succesful adjustments toy American society in the history of immigration into this country . One computer study of the records of 52,951 refugees showed that almost 90 per cents of the 10,039 who classified themselves as heads of house-1 holds had a high school . college or post-graduate education In fact , 33 per cent reported they had done university or post-graduate work . Another , broader study bears out the Government 's longstanding contention that large numbers of women and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' job market . The Government had esti-1 mated that only about 30,000i positions would be needed to take care of the newcomers . So far , only about 40.000 of the refugees have found sponsors and left the military bases where they are being housed . The second study , involving 117,106 of the approximately 130,000 refugees , has found that 45 per cent were under 18 years old , about 16 per cent between the ages of 18 and 24 and about 27 per cent between 25 and 44 . It found 52.3 per cent were male and 47.7 per cent female . The smaller survey found that 31 per cent of the heads of households had professional . technical or managerial skills . Of the remainder , 13 per cent were in clerical or sales work ; 12.3,3 ) er cent in service industries ; 10.9 in , farming , fishing , - forestry and related industries ; .. 03 per cent in agricultural processing ; 1.2 per cent , ma-chine trades ; 1.5 , benchwork , assembly and repairs ; 1.9 per cent , structural and construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Five per cent did not indicate their occupation . ? For weeks , some persons involved with the resettlement of the refugees have been particularly worried about the problem of finding sponsors and jobs for the large numbers of untrained escapers they assumed made up a major portion of the last wave to flee by boat . However , these studies and others showed that the last to leave were not markedly different from those who left earlier by plane . Most , also , were middle-class , fairly well educated or well-trained , and many spoke some English . Aside from the statistical studies , officials here at Camp Pendleton have noticed little difference between the late arrivals and the earlier ones . No ' Rice Paddy ' Types " I do n't think there has been a tremendous difference , " Marine Lieut . Col. Arthur P. Brill , the Department of Defense spokesman here , said today . " There has been some . ? There have been more military people . But there was a lot of speculation that we 'd be winding up with a lot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " To the contrary , Colonel Brill said that studies here had shown that 50 per cent of the adult refugees speak some English . One spokesman here , who asked not to be named , added , " We 're certainly ? not getting the rice paddy type in . " Camp Pendleton is now housing 18,500 refugees , the most it can . In Washington , Elinor Green , chief spokesman for the task force , said in making available the results of the group 's studies : " We never agreed with the assumption on the part of those people who claimed they the last to leave were all fishermen and farmers because they were the only ones who had access to boats . " Contending that most of the last waves of refugees were middle-class and well educated , she added : " A lot of people who could n't make it on a plane had a fall-back position .. Somepeople sank - all their money- into a boat " She cited task force stuties conductednearly a month apart at the Asan Camp on Guam to support- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , shortly after the ' first refugees arrived , there , - 1,220 persons were . interviewed Of ' those , . 15 per cent were classified as protessionals , 50 per cent as skilled , 33 per cent as housewives or students , and 2 per cent as unskilled . In the later survey on June 1 , after most of those who fled by boat had arrived , 1,181 persons were interviewed . Of those , 23 per cent were classified as professionals , 66 per cent as skilled , 4 pen cent as housewives or students , and 7 per cent as unskilled . As examples of the types of persons who fled in the different waves of escape , she noted that there were 22 doctors or persons in related fields in the first group and 13 in the second . However , she said , there were only 12 nurses in the first group and 15 in the second . The first group had 25 engineers , the second , 17 . Twentyfive pilots were in the first , 22 in the second ; 22 technicians in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in some areas , there were greater discrepancies . For instance , 51 business managers were in the first group and only 4 in the second ; 34 secretaries in the first . three in the second . Presumably this was because many persons who worked for the United States Government ' or American companies were flown out early . The second group also had . many . more military men , police and- civil servants . who fled at the last minute . There were 148 senior military officers in that group compared with eight in the first ; 41 policemen compared with none . in the first ; and 68 civil servants compared with none in the first .                     