@@729207

txt Medicine Serum Hepatitis : A Threat To Use of Blood by Hospitals Por victims of leukemia and hemophilia , for patients undergoing major surgery , blood transfusions are a dire necessity . But of late this life-saving medical procedure has increasingly brought new trouble in its wake  --  a disease known as serum hepatitis . All efforts to completely screen out the hepatitistainted blood have failed . And in recent months , two court decisions holding hospitals legally responsible for transfusion - connected hepatitis cases have raised a serious threat to the blood program itself . Serum hepatitis attacks 50,000 to 60,000 Americans each year . Like the more common infectious hepatitis , it is a virus disease that attacks the liver . Both ailments often produce fever , loss of appetite , extreme fatigue and jaundice . The chief difference between the two is the period of incubation of the virus , a period that is short for infectious hepatitis but varies between two and six months for serum hepatitis . Physicians used to believe that serum hepatitis could be transmitted only through blood transfusions or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But last week the United States Disease Control Center reported that serum hepatitis can be spread by contact with infected blood . Thus , for example , a man with the disease might transmit it to his wife if he kissed her after brushing his teeth vigorously enough to cause minor bleeding of his gums . Some authorities believe a small percentage of doctors and nurses may , unknowingly , be hepatitis carriers . The two court decisions that have so worried hospital administrators were handed down last year in Illinois and Pennsylvania . Both held that if a patient receives a blood transfusion and contracts serum hepatitis as a result , the hospital or blood bank involved is at fault and must pay damages . In effect , the courts ruled that transfused blood is a product whose supplier conveys an implied warranty that it is of good quality , thus providing the basis for a legal action if it is defective and spreads serum hepatitis . The older existing legal doctrine in most states  --  including New Yorl ? ? is that blood transfusion is a service only , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administering it properly and making sure that the patient gets the blood that matches his type . Hospital officials predict that if the Illinois and Pennsylvania decisions were to be followed by courts across the country , a unit of blood could cost the patient $100 to $150 instead of the present $25-$50  --  the increase necessitated by higher insurance rates . If it proved impossible to get insurance  --  a specter raised by the increasing withdrawal of insurance companies from the medical malpractice insurance field  --  hospitals might be forced to sharply reduce the number of blood transfusions . It key difficulty is the inability to ascertain whether a given quantity of blood will transmit hepatitis . Progress in this area is being made , however . A test has recently been developed for Australia antigen , a factor that indicates the blood containing it will transmit hepatitis . In New York all blood for transfusions must now be tested for Australia antigen , but only about 25 per cent of all dangerous blood is thereby eliminated . In a book recently published in England , the British social scientist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where serum hepatitis from blood transfusions is a negligible problem , with that in the United States . The Differences Professor Titmuss attributes the difference to the fact that in Britain virtually all blood used for transfusions is donated by persons whose medical history ? especially their freedom front hepatitis ? can be checked . In the United States , he points out , a large and increasing percentage of blood for transfusions is bought by commercial blood banks . The suppliers for these blood banks are often derelicts or others in poor health and narcotics addicts , who often contract hepatitis because of their use of unsterilized needles . One of this nation 's leading hepatitis experts , Dr. Alfred M. Prince , agreed with Professor Titmuss last week . He estimated that an American patient receiving commercially bought blood runs 12 times as high a risk of contracting serum hepatitis as another patient who receives blood donated by a volunteer . The only solution for the problem , many observers believe , is a substantial increase in the number of persons willing to donate blood . But despite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each year . The great majority are deterred by lethargy , by an unjustified fear that blood donations are damaging in some way and by distaste for the slight unpleasantness involved . ? nAraw scirvv.euvrz                     