@@729315

txt The drama just enacted in the streets of Brussels by some 60,000 European farmers is seen here as marking a historic moment . Many Frenchmen regard it as a violent " first " in the growth and testing of the idea of Euroepan unity . It brought farmers from all six of the Common Market countries into the Belgian capital , which also is known as the capital of Common Market Europe . It cost a reported 160 casualties and one fatality . It occurred because ministers of Common Market countries were meeting in Brussels to deal with European farm prices . Farmers suspected that decisions contrary to their interests were about to be taken . First of its kind The Brussels demonstration strikes French opinion with special impact . It mirrors France 's own chronic farm crisis . The development of a European Common Market , rather than resolving the problem appears simply to have transmuted it into a part of a still larger crisis . Never before , French commentators say , has anything like the gathering of farmers at Brussels been seen . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great internationally organized gathering of farmers protesting international decisions . Very often in the past , French farmers and other national farm groups have physically protested against their own governments ' farm policies . Farmers have blocked roads or dumped produce in their respective nations ' streets . And sometimes they have registered their anger by more violent acts . A familiar word in the French language , " Jacquerie , " refers to usually unsuccessful farm protests in European and world history , even as far from France as Communist Chins . A Jacquerie is a collection of " Jacques Bonhommes , " the nickname given to farmers by French noblemen long ago . The Jacquerie at Brussels marks a crisis for farmers in the six nations of the Common Market . Each national group has its special problems . But all share two very big ones : 1 . The decline in the farmer 's standard of living relative to that of European industrial workers . 2 . The fact that Common Market authorities aim to speed up a movement of population away from the land and into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic processes . The first of these two general problems looms because farmers are squeezed between steep rises in prices Europeans must pay for industrial goods and " frozen " farm prices . These industrial goods include many absolute necessities for the farmer , automobiles , and many forms of farm machinery . Clothes , radios , televisions , plumbing , and household furnishings also are affected . // Further reproduction prohibited without permission . *Farm revolt in Brussels jolts EEC // While the cost of such things has been " soaring , " the prices of farm products have been frozen by Common Market authorities during the last three years . The authorities are anxious not to enlarge the already considerable surpluses of farm produce . The second general problem is that many farmers want to stay " on the land " and be their own employers . They resent intrusion into their lives by authorities of the Common Market . They see it organizing Common Market farm affairs in such a way as to add to the normal economic pressures which make farm life so hard . French farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they call governmental discrimination against them . This feeling is fed by memories of fierce suppressions which farmers ' revolts have met in France . In one Jacquerie , for example , the uprising was put down at the cost of thousands of lives . That was in 1358 , but it is still a vivid chapter in French farm history . Industrial units seen That is one reason why an ethgy of 5icco Mansholt , author of the Common Market farm plan , was " hanged " by the Brussels demonstrators , it is explained here . Mr. Mansholt is regarded here as a perfectly sincere servant of the Common Market and basic European interests . But as vice-president of the Common Market 's Executive Commission he has signed a report which foresees that out of every six European farmers at work on the land today , two will disappear within 15 years . The Mansholt plan aims at modernizing farming . It involves the disappearance of small , uneconomic farms in favor of large ones operated very much like corporate industries . Bearing on this " restructuring " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm products by the Common Market . It is expected that farm prices will be increased after the Brussels meeting but only moderately . Many Common Market experts insist that they should be granted only as part of a program which will increase efficiency in farming and reductions in the farm population . Results indicated Whatever the differences of opinion , these things seem likely as a result of Brussels decisions : ? Higher food prices for Europe ; ? New popular objections in cost-conscious Britain to that country 's joining the Common Market . ? Higher Common Market tariff barriers against United States farm exports . So a lot of people besides farmers ? French , Italian , German , Belgian , Dutch , or Luxembourgish  --  may feel tempted to engage in backstage versions of political Jacquerie against Common Market farm policy .                     