@@733934

txt Prime Minister Menachem Begin said today that he had called a special Cabinet meeting to discuss the stalemate in negotiations for a peace treaty with Egypt . Mr. Begin announced his decision to consult tomorrow with the full Cabinet after inconclusive talks that he and six Cabinet members had yesterday and today with Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance . As the Secretary of State was returning to Washington , by way of Cairo , any remaining hope that the treaty could be concluded by the Sunday target date appeared shattered . While the mood in Israel was generally bleak , there was hardly any criticism of Mr. Begin and his Cabinet associates for having rejected the latest Egyptian proposals , brought here yesterday morning by Mr. Vance . " There are certain differences of opinion between the Egyptian and the Israeli positions and we discussed them freely as friends , " the Prime Minister told report . ers . He added that in the Cabinet session tomorrow , " decisions will be taken and then we shall inform our friends " ? meaning the Americans . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably take the form of an endorsement by the entire Cabinet of his refusal to accept Egypt 's terms on two crucial treaty issues . President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt reportedly sent word with Mr. Vance that ' the proposed treaty must be linked to a timetable for Palestinian self-government on the West Bank of the Jordan and in the Gaza Strip . Mr. Sadat was said to have accepted an American suggestion that elections for self-governing councils be held next December . He was also said to have reiterated his demand for a statement that Egypt 's commitments toward other Arab countries must have precedence over the pbligations Egypt would assume regarding Israel . ' However , the Egyptian President was Understood to agree that such an interpretation be provided in an annex to the treaty rather than in the American-sponsored treaty itself . Israelis Inflexible on Issues Mr. Begin and his chief aides remained inflexible on both issues . Virtually the entire Israeli press ap ? proved Mr. Begin 's stand in the talks with Mr. Vance . Newspaper editorials and broadcasts chided the United States for allegedly siding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English-language Jerusalem Post said that the atmosphere in Israel had changed since Mr. Begin and Mr. Sadat ' agreed , at their summit meeting with President Carter at Camp David in September , to complete the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty within three months . The independent daily Maariv said that ' " even the most moderate of the ' doves ' in and out of the coalition would not be able to agree to such a low return for such a high price . " One of the " doves , " former Foreign Minister Abba Eban , came indirectly to : the aid of the Government even before Mr. Vance 's talks were broken off . In a broadcast , Mr. Eban took issue with a warning by Senator Robert C. Byrd , the West Virginia Democrat , that American financial aid to Israel might be curbed if new settlements were established in the occupied territories . Mr. Byrd recently : visited Israel and Arab countries . Mr. Eban said remarks such as Sena-tor Byrd 's were apt to prompt him , an opponent of settlement activity in the occupied areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Issues Conversations with several Israelis indicated a consensus supporting the Begin Government in the peace treaty controversy . When it was suggested to one resident that the Egyptian-Israeli differences were just quibbles over minor points , he retorted : " If they are so minor , why does n't Sadat give in ? Why are we expected to yield ? " The leader of the opposition , Shimon Peres , head of the Labor Party , told Mr. Vance he had an impression Egypt 's position had hardened . Israeli officials and private citizens appeared particularly disturbed by Mr. Sadat 's reported insistence on firm dates for setting up administrative councils for Palestinian autonomy in the occupied territories . " This is a most sensitive matter , " said a professor at Hebrew University who is n't affiliated with any party . " What : does Sadat want ? To lay the foundations , for a Palestinian state , a loaded gun : aimed at the heart of Israel that would annul what little security we have con.quered in the 1967 war and managed to ' defend in ' the terrible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talk about . Palestinian autonomy at Camp David at all . It has nothing to do with a peace ? treaty with Egypt , for which we already have to pay by returning the Sinai Peninsula . " Many other Israelis said similar things . And a European diplomat who has lived here for years remarked : " Did you notice any euphoria when the ; - signing of the peace treaty seemed just al matter of a few days ? I did n't . Now it becomes clear that a lot of people have had deep-seated misgivings about the Camp David accords , and the longer the negoti ' . ations and deadlocks drag on , the stronger the fears will become here that : the whole thing is n't worthwhile . "                     