@@734381

txt Tensions between Israeli and American officials over Israel 's recent bombing raids in southern Lebanon erupted into acrimonious debate between Defense Minister Ezer Weizman and the State Department 's top Middle East official the other night . For more than an hour at the home of the Israeli Ambassador , Ephraim Evron , Mr. Weizman and Harold H. Saunders , Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs , argued in English in full view of two dozen guests , including Israeli journalists . The journalists made the remarks public . " Bombing is not a policy , " Mr. Saunders asserted , chiding Mr. Weizman , who replied : " Do n't teach us what to do . You lose everywhere . You lost Angola . And Iran and Ethiopia . " The verbatim give-and-take was not recorded but Israeli journalists who were there re-created the remarks as best they could later for articles that appeared in the Israeli press yesterday . Yoel Marcus , Washington correspondent for Haaretz , provided the remarks to The New York Times today . Hodding Carter 3d , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the articles is relatively accurate . " Mr. Weizman , convivial and given to lively discussions , was engaged in debate with Mr. Saunders , a soft-spoken but intense career official . What was unusual was the sharpness of the exchanges and their arguing for so long in the presence of others . At one point , Mr. Evron tried to break it up , but Mr. Weizman snapped in Hebrew : " Sheket , Eppie " or " Quiet , Eppie I " The occasion was a party in Mr. Weizman 's honor . As Mr. Saunders was preparing to leave about 11 P.M. , an Israeli journalist came up to him and Mr. Weizman . He said that Mr. Saunders had questioned Egyptian and Israeli friendship for the United States when he noted that , despite the billions of dollars in aid sought from the United States , neither country had told the United States of its plans for peacekeeping in Sinai . An aide to Mr. Saunders said the State Department official remembered making the comment about " friendship " in jest to some Journalists but did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to several accounts , Mr. Weizman said to Mr. Saunders : " You talk about friendship . What about your attitude toward us in Lebanon . That is friendship ? " " You are making Israel the villain in the Middle East , " Mr. Weizman added . Weizman Drafted Policy The Israeli defense chief is the architect of Israel 's policy of pre-emptive attacks against Palestinian positions in southern Lebanon , a policy that has drawn sharp American criticism . At present , a cease-fire has been in effect for three weeks . Mr. Saunders said : " You are using too much force . " In one bombing raid , he remarked , 75 civilians were killed . " No , we killed 35 P.L.O . and 11 civilians , " Mr. Weizman replied . " We have other figures , " said Mr. Saunders . Mr. Weizman noted that the Palestine Liberation Organization was responsible for the death of Israeli women and children in terrorist raids . He went on : " Is n't it a fact that our bombing has brought quiet for three weeks already ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity should now be allowed for diplomatic action . New Attacks Threatened The Israeli Defense Minister warned that if a single rocket was fired at an Israeli settlement in northern Israel , the bombings would resume . Mr. Saunders said that bombing did not produce any policy worth pursuing , whereupon Mr. Weizman argued that the United States could not tell others what to do since it had " lost " Angola , Iran and Ethiopia . " Why raise Iran when we are talking about Lebanon ? " Mr. Saunders asked . " Because we live in that region and it is very important to us what happens there , " Mr. Weizman said . " You demonstrated weakness there , as in Cuba . " " At least we do n't bomb Cuba , " Mr. Saunders said . " We act totally different from you . I 'm very sorry you do n't understand American policy . " " You do n't have a policy at all , " Mr. Weizman retorted . " Well , we have and I 'm ready to explain it to you , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy of bombing . " Mr. Weizman said " You are demonstrating weakness . " And he warned again that if the Palestinians carried out new attacks , the Israelis would respond with force . He said that there were ways to respond besides bombing , pointing out that last year Israel occupied parts of southern Lebanon for several weeks . " You 're getting involved in Lebanon like we got involved in Vietnam , " Mr. Saunders declared . Ambassador Evron made at least three attempts to end the quarrel . Each time , Mr. Weizman was reported to have rudely rebuffed him in Hebrew . Finally , after Mr. Weizman said he was willing to listen to Mr. Saunders explain American policy , Mr. Saunders said something to the effect , " Yes , I 'd be happy to do that some other time . " And the party ended .                     