@@734322

txt Robert J. Lipshutz , a close friend and early supporter of President Carter , will resign as counsel to the President in a White House reorganization that had its roots in Mr. Carter 's reassessment of his Administration at Camp David last month , the White House announced today . Mr. Lipshutz , a 57-year-old lawyer , is the first Georgian among the President 's senior advisers to leave the White House staff , which has been criticized as being insular . Mr. Lipshutz will serve as co-trustee , with Charles H. Kirbo , of the President ' ? trust fund and as chairman of a commission to establish a Carter Presidential library . A White House spokesman said tonight that he did not know whether either job carried a salary . No Replacement Named " Bob has recognized the need for more diversity on the White House staff , and asked the President to allow him to play this other role , " said Hamilton Jordan , the President 's chief of staff . No replacement for Mr. Lipshutz was announced . Although 152 new Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one , Mr. Jordan said . " If he was interested in a judgeship , " Mr. Jordan said , " the President would be honored to consider him for one . " In other White House changes announced today , Timothy E. Kraft , a Presidential assistant for political affairs and personnel , will leave to become manager of the Carter-Mondale re-election committee ; Sarah Weddington was promoted to the senior staff and will assume Mr. Kraft 's political duties ; Esteban E. Torres will join the White House to work with Hispanic-Americans , and Alonzo L. Jr . will become White House staff director . . Rafshoon Leaving Soon In addition , Gerald R. Rafshoon , the President 's communications director , said he planned to leave the White House " as soon as possible . " The White House shake-up was preceded last month by a purge in which five Cabinet members departed , in an apparent Presidential effort to make a fresh start . Mr. Jordan said that the Camp David reassessment , and the evaluation forms that stemmed from that meeting , played a major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evaluate all White House aides and scores of other top Government officials , stressed the attributes of loyalty and competence . 1 " The evaluation forms revealed a number of weak areas in the operation of the White House , " Mr. Jordan said . " These forms are the basis for some changes that will be made . " Mr. Kraft , 35 , who won acclaim for his direction of the Carter campaign operation in Iowa , will handle political operations of the Carter-Mondale re-election committee , and Evan S. Dobelle will continue as national chairman , Mr. Jordan said . Mr. Kraft will be paid by the re-election committee . No Timetable on Candidacy Mr. Jordan , asked if Mr. Dobelle had expected Mr. Kraft to manage the campaign , said that Mr. Dobelle had been expected to run the re-election campaign for as long as he could , and had done so . " The campaign is in good shape , " Mr. Jordan said . " They 've done a good job raising funds . " No timetable has been set for Mr. Carter to announce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 50 , who will receive $56,000 a year , will " be doing things I hope will improve the operation of the White House , " Mr. Jordan said . " He will act and speak on my behalf . " Mr. was chosen as staff director principally because of his experience in corporate management at and Company and Westinghouse Electric Corporation . Mrs. Weddington , 34 , who replaced Margaret Costanza as the White House liaison representative to women 's groups , will continue as the President 's special adviser on women 's issues . While she will be assuming additional duties , she is expected to continue devoting most of her time to women 's issues . She , too , will be paid $56,000 a year . Mr. Kraft 's personnel duties have not yet been reassigned . In an apparent effort to broaden the base of the White House staff , Mr. Torres , 49 , an American of Hispanic descent , was named as a $51,000-a-year White House aide . Mr. Torres , the United States Ambassador to the United Nations Educational , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Automobile Workers . He will serve as liaison to the Hispanic community , replacing Joseph Aragon , who resigned a few months ago . Leslie C. Francis , who is on the Congressional liaison staff , also will move to Mr. Jordan 's staff . Mr. Rafshoon , the President 's communications director , is expected to return to his advertising agency and to handle the advertising for the Carter re-election campaign . Mr. Jordan said that Mr. Rafshoon would not be replaced . Despite these changes , the basic White House structure remained unchanged . Mr. Jordan indicated that he was very definitely in charge . Frank Moore , the Congressional liaison representative , who , like Mr. Lipshutz , was the subject of widespread criticism , will remain at his job . So will Stuart E. Eizenstat , the chief domestic adviser ; Jody Powell , the press secretary ; Anne Weider , the public liaison ; and Zbigniew Brzezinski , national security adviser . Mr. Jordan said that he had spent most of the last two to three weeks " looking at the White House organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the White House changes to President Carter , and that the President had agreed . In addition to the major changes , some shifts are also expected on secondary levels . On the domestic policy staff , Jo ? seph Onek , an associate director specializing in health issues , is expected to move to the Department of Health , Education and Welfare . Elizabeth Abramowitz is expected to leave the White House to work for an education organization , and JoAnne K. Hurley , a special assistant to Mr. Eizenstat , has already left . Other changes are expected on the speech writing and First Lady 's staff .                     