@@728305

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 29 Letters to the Editor of The Times Lower Interest Rates To the Editor : The Federal Government 's latest increase in interest rates on V.A . and F.H.A. home loans is unjust and shameful . It reveals a total lack of compassion for the needs of the American people . In less than one year the Government has authorized a rise in such interest rates from 6 per cent to 8.5 per cent , an increase of over 40 per cent . At the same time the Government has done nothing to curb the employment of " discounts " or " points " by lending institutions . The " discount " is a charge made by the lending institution at the inception of the loan and presently ranges between 9 per cent and 11 per cent of the amount of the loan , thus substantially increasing the effective interest rate . The entire interest increase should be repealed forthwith ; but at the very least the charging of " discounts " should be outlawed . This was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when the interest rate on conventional mortgages was raised to only 7.5 per cent . The Federal Government , having permitted an 8.5 per cent rate , should do no less . DONALD S. COBURN Newark , Dec. 31 , 1969 ? Rogers 's Plan Backed To the Editor : Men and women of goodwill should feel somewhat heartened by the declaration of policy in the Middle East lately made by American Secretary of State Rogers . Editorial Dec. 23 . This is not because he has rendered full justice to the Arabs of Palestine , but because he has made a move in the direction of impartiality without which no peace could be achieved . Secretary of State Rogers is right in assuming that America has friends in the Arab world . America also hag her cultural , commercial and oil connections in the area . For America 's own interest as well as for world peace she should not act in a partial or biased way in the Middle East . As a great power with a great humanitarian tradition , the United States is expected to defend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights for all mankind , including the Palestine Arabs . The Israelis should clearly and unequivocally understand that there can be no peace in the Middle East until Jews , Christians and Moslems learn to live together on an , equal footing in Palestine , which is equally holy and equally loved by all its legitimate inhabitants . No party has the right to uproot and exclude another and still clamor for peace . Genuine peace can not be achieved by war , occupation , destruction or repression . Let us hope that an American policy of impartiality in the Middle East will contribute to the realization of a lasting peace in this vital area . MOHAMMED FADHEL JAMALI Former Prime Minister of Iraq Tunis , Jan. 1 , 1970 Mideast Equation To the Editor : Secretary of State William Rogers 's desire to achieve equality of concession as between Israel and the Arab countries is commendable , but his equation is faulty . He asks the Arab states to " accept a permanent peace " with Israel in exchange for her withdrawal from the occupied territories . A proper equation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to destroy Israel 's Government in exchange for ' a pledge from Israel not to attempt to overthrow any of the Arab governments . Put this way , one sees that the Arabs are being asked to give what should not need to be asked and the Israelis what has not been withheld . So where is the equality ? Secretary Rogers 's ' fault lies in assuming that for a nation to live in peace is a gift from its neighbors rather than a right . So he feels free to bargain with Israel 's right to exist . No wonder the Israelis are disappointed and appalled . Perhaps it is not stressed very often in the State Department these days , but it is a central principle of international morality that to refrain from war in a civilized world community is not a concession , but an obligation . Imagine the Mexican Government arguing : we 'll refrain from attacking across the border if the U.S. will cede Texas back to us . Or , more dramatically , imagine a burglar saying to his intended victim : I cede @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do for me in exchange ? If Secretary Rogers were to call upon the Arabs to exert themselves in a somewhat more constructive way than their present ways , e.g. , in behalf of the refugees , both Arab and Jewish , who are the byproducts of their twenty years of belligerency , he could make a more genuine claim to " impartiality . " HARRY RUJA Professor of Philosophy San Diego State College San Diego , Calif. , Dec. 25 , 1969 School Desegregation To the Editor : It is bitterly disappointing to learn that the Nixon Administration has chosen to open the ' 70 's by returning once again to the Supreme Court to argue for yet another postponement in school desegregation . After the Supreme Court 's Oct. 29 decision rejecting the Administration 's effort to delay school desegregation in Mississippi , the President announced that he would enforce the Court 's order for immediate desegregation . Rather than enforce the Court 's order , however , the Justice Department has continued to ask lower Federal courts for further delays and has refused to ask for prompt integration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children . The latest move Is an extraordinary one . Apparently the Justice Department is offering the Court a deal . If the Court permits delay until September . for remaining Southern school districts , then the Department , will commit itself to a major effort to uphold the law . The department is correct when it asserts that designing and implementing desegrega. tion plans in mid-year will sera : ously strain and inconvenience local white officials . It over- ' looks , however , the fact that black children in the DDeep ; , South have been subjected to more than inconvenience  --  they ' have been robbed of their basic ' constitutional right to a desegregated education for almost . sixteen years . Rationalized Delay Each step of this delay was , rationalized by white officials : - as a necessary accommodation , to white sensitivities . Children of students denied access to white high schools in the mid50 's are now populating the , grade schools of the Deep : South . Now , finally , the Supreme ' Court has made absolutely , . clear its opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refuses to recognize its responsibilty to aid ' ' , the Court . It strains credibility to suggest that Justice officials really believe that a transition that could not be easily managed this winter would go more smoothly in the midst or the accusations and bitterness of next fall 's campaigns . It is time for the Attorney General to recognize that he must enforce the laws and constitutional rulings he does n't like and not only those he hopes will appeal to the . " emerging Republican majority . " Editorial Dec. 3 . GARY ORFIELD , Princeton , N. J. , Jan. 1 , 1970 '                     