@@733639

txt Seiji Ozawa , the Japanese conductor of the Boston Symphony Orchestra , has been invited to Peking by the Government of the People 's Republic of China ? without his orchestra . Mr. Ozawa , who is expected to arrive on June 11 for eight days , has been asked to spend his time with the Central Philharmonic Orchestra of Peking , living with the musicians in their dormitory , working with them and teaching them something about performance traditions of Western music . Mr. Ozawa also is scheduled to conduct several public concerts with the orchestra . He is bringing with him the Symphony No. 2 by Brahms , and he may supplement that with other Western scores in the library of the orchestra . He also will conduct several contemporary Chinese scores , among them a work for string orchestra named " Two Fountains Reflecting the Moon " and a concerto for Chinese lute named " Sisters in the Plain . " It was only a few years ago that such famous composers as Schubert and Beethoven were attacked by Peking ideologist as " running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Chairman Mao Tse-tung and the fall from favor of his widow , Chiang Ching , who was in charge of cultural affairs of China , there have been indications of a relaxation in the strict ideology that had resulted from the Cultural Revolution . Cultural Rapprochement Seen Thus the invitation tendered to Mr. Ozawa can be taken as an indication that the Chinese leaders are beginning to probe some kind of cultural rapprochement with the West . Apparently there has been a quiet reassessment in political circles . Mr. Ozawa , who was born in Manchuria 42 years ago and still speaks some Chinese ( his father was stationed in Manchuria as a dentist in the Japanese army ) , made an unpublicized visit to China more than a year ago . He went there in December 1976 for several weeks as a guest of the Government . He was accompanied by several members of his family . At that time , according to sources in the Boston Symphony , Mr , Ozawa was surprised by the fact that a certain amount of Western music was once again being played @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not much more than six ideologically-approved works , and those were repeated over and over . These were all of Chinese origin , many of them written by committee . One such work was the " Yellow River Concerto , " which received some performances in the United States . Another was the ballet , " The Red Detachment of Women . " Visit by Ormandy in 1973 There was a brief relaxation of the strict Marxist approach to music when the Philadelphia Orchestra , conducted by Eugene Ormandy , made a 10-day trip to Peking and Shanghai in September 1973 . Mr. Ormandy brought with him works by Mozart , Brahms , Roy Harris and others . His big encore piece was Sousa 's " Stars and Stripes Forever . " Mr. Ormandy also conducted several Chinese pieces , including the " Yellow River Concerto " with a talented Chinese pianist , Yin Chen-chung , as soloist . There was considerable interchange between the American and Chinese musicians at that time . The Central Philharmonic , conducted by Li Teh-lun , gave a party for the Philadelphians , at which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave a brief concert for their guests . One piece played at that time was the " Two Fountains Reflecting the Moon , " which Mr. Ozawa will conduct next month . It is a simple , vaguely impressionistic work colored by Chinese nationalism . Mr. Li , like most Chinese musicians , was trained in tho Soviet Union during the period when Russia and China enjoyed good relations . The concentration of Russian-trained Chinese musicians resulted in a school of music strongly indebted to such SocialistRealistic composers as Aram Khachaturian . Western musicians who heard the few approved works after the Cultural Revolution dismissed them as inferior copies of inferior Soviet music . Dictum of enanman Mao . The cultural ideologists of the period headed by Chiang Ching , followed the precepts laid down by Mao in his talk at the Yenan Forum in 1942 . Mao adhered to the Marxist-Leninist line . The arts , he said , should serve the state . Culture should " fit well into the revolutionary machine as a component part . " Art should mirror the high ideals of the soldiers , workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extol " the revolutionary struggle of the masses . " But Mao did supply a form of escape . It was not necessary , he said , to divorce art from the best of the past , and from the best that foreign countries have to offer . Presumably the Philadelphia Orchestra was invited in 1973 as an example of the best that foreign countries have to offer . During his visit , Mr. Ormandy conducted the Central Philharmonic in the slow movement of Beethoven 's Fifth Symphony . He did so on Mr. Li 's specific request . The orchestra is not a large one  --  about 60 in number  --  and most of its players are young . None had been exposed to Mr. Ormandy 's kind of conducting , but they followed him accurately . He and they were immensely pleased . Exploring Own Heritage If Chinese musicians have a minimal exposure to Western music , they , are at least beginning to explore their own musical heritage . The Philadelphia Orchestra was given demonstrations of authentic native instruments , such as the pi-pa ( a mandolin-like instrument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as many varieties of percussion . In Peking , a group of young musicians was doing considerable research on old instruments and old Chinese music . There was talk that several of these specialists would be sent on a trip to the United States . Chinese cultural officers discussed repel and types of presentation with tht:1 . mericans . But nothing came of it . However , several Chinese musicians may 6e studying at . Tanglewood this summer . When Mr. Ozawa left China in January 1977 , he invited several conductors and instrumentalists to the famous summer school and festival in the Berkshires . Boston Symphony officials said they expect them to show up this July . If they actually do arrive , it may be an indication that the former grip of the cultural ideologists has indeed relaxed . To China watchers , it also might indicate that Peking 's desire for cultural exchange may be more than a passing phase .                     