@@733920

txt At a time of high tensions in Iran and when Soviet-US SALT ( strategic arms limitation treaty ) talks are at a delicate stage , neither the Carter administration nor the Soviet leadership seems eager to make an issue of advanced MIG-23 aircraft in Cuba . On the US side , this results in a decision by President Carter not to regard the aircraft as a threat to security ? as long as their numbers do not increase and as long as the Soviets do not put nuclear weapons into Cuba . Soviet restraint , say sources in the US Defense Department , could be shown by halting deliveries of new planes to Cuba , especially MIG-27s ( these are MIG-23s adapted for ground attack ) . Senior Defense Department officials have underscored President Carter 's promise in his Nov. 29 news conference to continue to use US intelligence facilities to monitor Soviet compliance with the agreement , concluded after the 1962 Cuban missile crisis , not to put offensive weapons into the Latin American socialist republic . // From page 1 Both sides keeping cool on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ linkage between Cuba and the question of how much the Soviet Union may be doing to overthrow the Shah of Iran , it is recalled that Soviet pressure on Iran , Pakistan , and Turkey played some role prior to the 1962 missile crisis . In a quid pro quo , US ballistic missiles were removed from Turkey by President Kennedy at the same time Soviet bombers and missiles were pulled back from Cuba . This time , the Soviet Union has warned the US not to intervene with military forces in any situation arising from the Shah 's present difficulties in Iran . President Carter repeated Nov. 29 that " we do not have any intention of interfering " in Iran 's internal affairs " and we do not approve any other nation interfering in the internal affairs of Iran . " US defense planners , however , are unwilling to say whether it would require an invasion of Iran or other cross-border moves by Soviet or Soviet-backed forces to activate the 1957 Iran-US mutual defense treaty . In 1946 President Truman threatened to send US troops and was successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army from Iran 's Azerbaidjan and Kurdistan provinces . The Carter administration is concerned that the MIGs-in-Cuba issue not be added to other objections raised by US conservatives to ratifying a SALT II treaty in the Senate , should the decision be made to submit it in that form . The Soviets appear equally concerned . Premier Alexei Kosygin told seven visiting US senators in Moscow recently that discussion of the MIGs in Cuba should not be linked to SALT II , since , he claimed , the MIGs do not violate the 1962 understanding . US officials will not discuss for the record the actual numbers and types of MIG aircraft flown into Cuba since last spring . But they have not denied the account in the usually authoritative magazine Aviation Week and Space Technology . It reported that 12 MIG-23 " flogger " variable-sweep-wing aircraft sent to the island appear to be the nucleus of what could become two full squadrons ( 12 to 16 planes each ) . One squadron would be for air-to-air interception , upgrading the capability of MIG-21s and older models that have long been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would be the MIG-27 , carrying Gatling gun-type weapons . At least two of the current contingent are of the MIG-27 type , while the 10 others , Aviation Week said , are a mix of MIG-23 Flogger D and F models . They can carry " multiple ejector racks " for additional weapons , and are equipped in Eastern Europe with laser aiming devices . In Cuba they are flying daylight practice missions .                     