@@728519

txt The new leadership of Cambodia released today 486 persons described as all the remaining political prisoners jailed by the ousted Chief of State , Prince Norodom Sihanouk . In a ceremony , outside the National Assembly , the prisoners  --  including old men , women and children born in jail  --  were pronounced " patriots whose revolt against abuses , corruption and the absence of all social justice was fully justified . " They were given mimeographed documents bearing their thumbprints and attesting their release . Prisoners from the provinces were given the equivalent of SI or $2 for bus fare home . The prisoners applauded the announcement loudly and joined in a Government - sponsored cheer : " Long live Lon Nol ! Long live Sink Matak ! Long live Cheng Heng ! " The three leaders are the Premier , First Deputy Premier and Provisional Chief of State , who deposed Prince Sihanouk . They did not attend the ceremony . The Government , represented by Trinh Hoanh , secretary general of the National Committee of Salvation ? the movement that overthrew the Prince two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to impress on the freed prisoners and the several thousand spectators that the new . leaders were restoring rights that Prince Sihanouk , " intoxicated with personal power , " had uniustly abrogated . In a reference to the Prince 's call for an uprising to restore him , Mr. Hoanh said , according to an official French translation of his remarks to the crowd : " Do not forget that his feudal power , " if re-established , " would fill our prisons again . " Mr. Hoanh also reiterated the new leadership 's avowal of neutrality . " Cambodia refuses to be either Czechoslovakia or an Asian Panama , " the statement said , " and tolerates no intervention in her internal affairs . " Some of this appeared to go over the heads of the assembled prisoners . Because they had been taken straight from their jails to the National Assembly , most learned only this morning of Prince Sihanouk 's overthrow . Reasons Are Unsure Many were equally vague about the reasons for their arrest . " I knew someone who was against Sihanouk , " was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmer , had for his six years ' in prison . A man who gave his name as Loy Oth said he had been accused of belonging to the Khmer Serai , an extreme rightwing movement , but said that the charge was untrue . He said that the accusation was made 10 years ago and he had been in jail since . Neak Noth , another freed prisoner , asked what he would do now , replied : " I do not want to do anything . I just want to go home . " He is 13 years old and said he had been in jail five months without any idea why . On the street outside the ornate National Assembly , built in the style of a Khmer temple , a farmer said he had been in jail for the last year and a half because he had complained about his province chief 's ban on fishing in a certain lake . He said his legs had been beaten until he could no longer stand . Sitting on the sidewalk with his wife he told his story to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case and gave him contributions of 10 and 20 cents . Some of the prisoners classified as political had been arrested for contraband dealings across the South Vietnamese border ? an offense Prince Sihanouk considered treason . There was no way of confirming whether in fact all political prisoners had been released . Right-of Pursuit Denied PNOMPENH , April 2 ( AP ) ? The Cambodian Government denied today that United States or South Vietnamese forces had a right to pursue the enemy into Cambodia . " Faithful to its policy of strict neutrality , Cambodia will not in fact accept the right of pursuit carried out on its territory , " a Government statement said . The statement asserted that the Government would protest all violations of Cambodian soil " by foreign armies , from whichever camp they may be . " The White House disclosed Saturday that United States commanders in South Vietnam were considered free to order troops into Cambodia in pursuit of enemy forces during a battle . As far as is known , this policy of hot pursuit has never been exercised . Reports from Saigon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietcong troops in a forest two miles inside Cambodia . Field dispatches said these operations were carried out in cooperation with Cambodian officers on the border . Vietcong Attack Reported PNOMPENH , April 2 ( Reuters ) ? Vietcong troops are continuing to exert pressure on Cambodian outposts , according to a Government statement today . It reported a " massive attack " near the Vietnam border . A communique issued here said about 100 Vietcong soldiers , backing local supporters of Prince Sihanouk , last night attacked a civil defense post defended by army and provincial militia forces . The post is at Phum Kampo , five miles from the border and 12 miles . from the provincial capital , Svey Rieng.                     