@@728828

txt Severe service cutbacks already are having their effect on would-be Army officers . For the first time since the Vietnam buildup , the Army is releasing ROTC ( Reserve Officer Training Corps ) graduates after three to six months ' active duty . About half of the Army ROTC graduates scheduled to serve in fiscal 1971 will be allowed out after a short tour . Since the buildup in the war , the shortest period a new officer could serve was two years . Similarly , the Army is trying desperately to cut back on Officer Candidate Schools , which now are being reduced to a minimum . Those who have signed up to go to OCS are being canvassed to see whether they will agree not to go . If so , these soldiers can have their obligation reduced from three to two years and can get the assignment of their choice . Pollution patrol President Nixon 's selection of environmental leadership has stirred charges of growing influence by the business community ? which itself is responsible for most pollution . He has assigned his proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , traditional stronghold of the commercial viewpoint . Three of his five appointees to the Air Quality Advisory Board of the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare represent industries ? and make businessmen the largest single bloc ( 7 of 15 members ) . He has created a National Industrial Pollution Control Council of 55 industrialists , chaired by the head of a firm ( Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company ) being sued on charges of polluting Wisconsin rivers . The practice may be backfiring . Another member of the same council heads a concern ( Weyerhaeuser Company ) which the President 's own Attorney General is suing on charges of poisoning waters with mercury . It is only fair to add , however , that many firms , on their own initiative , already are taking steps to curb industrial pollution . Try , try again Working within the system can sometimes be a trifle discouraging . Last January four students from the District of Columbia 's Walt Whitman High School snapped up the suggestion ( which then HEW Secretary Robert H. Finch had made in a speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Office of Education . The students volunteered to devote their after-school and weekend hours to collecting  --  and distributing to students and schools interested  --  information on changes which have been effected peacefully in curriculum , dress codes and grading practices , at specific high schools around the country . Other students joined the four . HEW gave them a small office , a telephone , and franking privileges . Work on the project has been intensive . But the major effort was to come this fall when schools open . Then the ax fell . This month students were told they not only would not receive a budget for their work , as they had proposed in an Office-of-Education grant proposal , but that the project itself was terminated . HEW , they were told , is not the place for educational reform work . Undaunted , the students , who protest they were only sharing information , not setting policy , now are redrafting their proposal in hopes of winning foundation support instead . They cut two ways President Nixon finds regional visits  --  like this week 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profit . There will be more of them , especially between now and the November elections . The first part of the given argument is valid : The President finds that governors , mayors , local businessmen and the like talk to him much more freely and informally on their own home turf than when they are awed by the oval office in the White House with all the trappings of the presidency . There is , indeed , more and better communication . The rest of the argument , unspoken , also is valid : That the President gets excellent exposure in the local news media and builds his " silent majority " thereby .                     