@@728809

txt The ocean may have more waves than meet the eye . Even a flat sea may harbor invisible disturbances in its depths . Scientists call them " internal waves . " They are shaped like ordinary breakers that carry surfers to shore . But they 're underwater . Think of an ocean with layers . The average ocean has three : a thick , cold , dense layer on the bottom with two thin layers on top of it . Each thin layer is warmer and less dense than the layer beneath it . All three layers have waves traveling across them . Until recently , oceanographers could only speculate about the existence of internal waves . Now David A. Cacchione , a graduate student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , has photographed some . He built an artificial " ocean " in a tank in his laboratory . With colored dyes , he marked the surface of one of its underwater layers . Then he generated internal waves and took pictures of them as they " broke " on his artificial " shore . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be sculpturing the undersea edges of the continents . Underground power California has talked long but done little to tap geothermal power ? a vast underground source of energy . When natural underground water meets very hot rocks in the earth 's crust , steam results  --  as at Yellowstone Park and other thermal regions . If wells are drilled , steam can be harnessed to drive electric generators . Oil companies and public utilities are increasingly interested in geothermal sources , which may provide much of the electrical energy needed in the dry American West during coming decades . Now a survey by the University of California has uncovered geothermal fields in the state 's Imperial Valley which have the advantage of being less salty than other fields at the northern end of the valley . Salty fields are not practical because brine corrodes equipment and is difficult to dispose of . The new fields are similar to those at Cerro Prieto , where the Mexican Government is constructing a 75-megawatt geothermal steam project . Dr. Robert Rex , University of California , Riverside , says the new fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least 30 years . On pins and needles Scientists in New Zealand have pinpointed a major cause of erosion in Chilton Valley : ice needles . High in the Alpine region of Canterbury on South Island , scientists painted a row of stones , then watched to see what would happen . In two weeks of frosty weather the stones inched downhill more than two feet . Ice needles , measuring some four inches in length , form when moisture in the soil freezes . During the day they melt , only to form again each frosty night . This continual expansion and contraction displaces the dirt and everything on it . Dr. Jane Soons of the University of Canterbury in Christchurch says this soil movement on high-altitude surfaces which are bare already hinders the growth of any vegetation . One aim of Dr. Soons ' research is to find plants that resist ice needles . Such stabilizing ground cover could bring more of Canterbury 's high country into productive use . Time to get caught up Indian oceanographers hope to harvest some of the knowledge foreign scientists have long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years scientists from numerous countries have studied the Indian Ocean , its food and mineral resources . Soviet and Japanese fishermen particularly have benefited from these findings . Now Indian oceanographers are planning to host a comprehensive symposium at Cho-chin Jan. 12-18 . They hope all scientists interested in the Indian Ocean will attend . The meeting could pull together the nations ' diverse findings , improve scientific understanding of the Indian Ocean , and help India profit from an ocean which washes its shores .                     