@@733732

txt Not a single weapon will be scrapped as a result of the first special session on disarmament of the United Nations General Assembly , which ended last week . Nor will any weapons order be canceled . The only product of five weeks of talk was a set of guidelines for more talk and study . Diplomats and academic junketeers have insured themselves against layoffs for years to come , and the American and Soviet Governments have again shown how well they can cooperate at the barricades behind which they arm in the name of peace . It would be wrong , however , to dismiss the special session as a mere boondoggle . No one imagined that this conclave could issue marching orders to governments . The only fair standard for such an international assembly is whether it contributes to a climate that will lead , at other times and in other forums , to fewer weapons , greater security and the freeing of valuable resources . There is cause for modest satisfaction , therefore , that for the first time , the non-nuclear states went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of conventional weapons is a threat to peace . They also agreed that efforts to limit conventional weapons can not wait for nuclear disarmament by the major powers . Indeed , they went further and conceded that restraints on non-nuclear weapons may be a prerequisite for greater control over nuclear arms . The predicted confrontations between the nuclear and non-nuclear states or between the rich and the poor never occurred . The rich were more candid than usual in conceding that the huge sums they spend on arms deprive the poor of economic progress ; the poor were more realistic than usual in acknowledging that the rich have real security problems . One result was a restructuring of the United Nations ' own machinery for arms control . What was once a clubby little Geneva committee , co-chaired by the two superpowers , will now be enlarged ; its chair will rotate monthly among 37 members , and the General Assembly will frequently review its work . This should mean more pressure on the superpowers to explain their huge arms expenditures ? no bad thing . It also means that France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will become a full participant . And there is a chance that China may soon join . The Chinese went beyond ritual denunciation of the superpowers at the recent session and , for the first time , publicly addressed the practical problems of arms control . All this is to the good ; such issues as the regulation of armament sales and the reduction of stockpiles of nuclear weapons can not be managed by the major powers alone , much less by the two superpowers . Perhaps the most striking thing about the special session was its serious tone . Attempts to play to the galleries fizzled . Iraq quietly withdrew its draft resolution censuring Israel 's military relations with South Africa ; most nonaligned states wanted no such disruption . Moscow did not even attempt to score propaganda points off the American neutron bomb . Disarmament is one area where you must take your progress where you find it , microscopically.                     