@@729756

txt The Supreme Court declined today to review a Federal court order for school busing that has touched off violence and boycotts in Pontiac , Mich . By lotting the lower court 's ' decision stand , it avoided ruling an the volatile issue of busing to achieve racial balance in Northern schools . At issue was whether a community is guilty of discrimination , and therefore must undertake busing aimed to eliminate all predominantly black schools , when school officials fail to adjust school district lines and when they build schools in allblack neighborhoods , knowing that the schools will be largely segregated . Courts Free to Act The Supreme Court has never considered if such " sins of omission " justify court-ordered integration plans . Its action today does not amount to a ruling that busing is required in these situations , but it does leave lower court judges free to order busing in other cases springing up in the North . Without giving reasons , the Court denied a hearing to the , Pontiac school board , which asserted that school segrega , tion in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not of discriminatory actions by school officials . The action today leaves in force one of the first busing orders to be issued by a Federal court in the North , an order that quickly released the , mtense emotions inherent in ' the busing issue . Shortly after the order went ' into effect last August , 10 of Pontiac 's school buses were dynamited . Five men , including a former Grand Dragon of the Michigan Ku Klux Klan , have been indicted in the bombing . This week a boycott began after antibusing leaders charged that the busing had led to an upsurge of racial incidents in the Pontiac schools . School officials said that attendance fell by an average of 21 per cent yesterday . These incidents came in reaction to a ruling by Federal District Judge Damon J. Keith , who ordered that about 10,000 of Pontiac 's 24,000 public school students be bused . The object was to spread the city 's Negro students , who make up about 32 per cent of the school population , throughout the city so that no school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rare in North Under past Supreme Court rulings , Federal judges may order integration only if they find segregation is a result of discrimination by a government that denied Negroes the equal ) protection of the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment . Widespread busing has been ordered throughout the South to dismantle the segregation left over from the old school segregation laws , but busing orders have been rare in the North because school segregation appeared to be the result of neighborhood housing patterns and not discrimination by government officials . Judge Keith held , however , that when the Pontiac school board built new neighborhood schools in areas that were allblack or all-white and continued to use school zones that had become segregated , it was guilty of intentional discrimination that violated the Fourteenth Amendment . ' ' Sins of omission can be as serious as sins of commission , " he said . School officials protested that they had tried to counteract neighborhood segregation but that when they located schools conveniently for the students some of the schools were invariably segregated . The United States Court of Appeals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Keith 's , decision , finding " a quantum of official discrimination " in the school board 's actions . Pressure Increases The school ' board 's appeal was the first Northern case to reach the Supreme Court since it upheld widespread busing in three Southern cases last April . The Supreme Court has not heard an appeal from the North since it declared school segregation unconstitutional in 1954 , and pressure for such a ruling appears to be growing in the form of a proposed constitu-1 tional amendment that would forbid school assignments on the basis of race . Senator Robert P. Griffin , Rpublican of Michigan , the Senate minority whip , became an outspoken advocate of such an amendment after busing was begun in Pontiac and Detroit was threatened with a similar order by a Federal judge The Supreme Court also denied a hearing today to the school board of Winston-Salem and Forsyth County , N. C. , where extensive busing has been ordered . When the board asked for an emergency stay shortly before classes began , Chief Justice Warren E. Burger issued an unusual 10-page opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court 's recent busing decisions by er roneously concluding that racial balance was required . But he did not grant the stay because he said the entire Court , should consider the qucs tion . He did not dissent today when the Court denied the school board a hearing on its appeal , leaving the desegregation order in effect . The Supreme Court agreed today to decide if drive-in movie theaters violate obscenity laws when they show spicy films that can be seen by passing motorists or neighborhood children . The appeal involves the conviction of William Rabe , proprietor of a drive-in in Richland , Ore. , that showed the film " Carmen Baby , " Courts in Rhode Island and New Jersey have found the film not obscene but the Oregon Supreme Court upheld a $600 fine against Mr. Rabe on the ground that the " context of its exhibition " made it obscene . There was evidence that metorists and children outside the fence could see the film , and the Oregon court found that it violated the privacy of residents of nearby homes . In asking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state asserted that , even if a film was not so lewd that it could be banned from closed theaters , it should be a crime for a drive-in to show a film that " illuminates the nighttime sky of a residential area with a vivid portrayal of erotic sexual scenes . "                     