@@733956

txt Letters Before You Damn the Shah of Iran . . . To the Editor : It has been great sport for mobs to sic hounds on a treed raccoon , for white men wearing masks to " try " without a hearing a scared black boy and for immature American students and actresses to go to the very country that was killing and torturing our soldiers and to break bread with the enemy . Is n't it time we look at facts in Iran before we let our frustrations , anger and greed plunge us into mob psychology when we know that our Russian enemies are masters at taking well-meant humanistic American sympathies and turning them into seeds to destroy this great republic ? The Shah of Iran took over a backward country that had fallen ' from world leadership hundreds of years ago . There were 16 million people in Iran then ? poorly educated and without hope . Now there are 45 million people with the highest increasing rate of literacy and education in the world . He has sent 35,000 students to study in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and return home to help Iran and its people . He has sent other young people to England and France to learn . The Shah has provided land reform so that a few no longer control vast , untilled acreages . He has brought farm experts in from all over the world to teach his people how to feed themselves . With our help , he has built Of Nicaragua , a Priest And a Somoza ' Pattern ' To the Editor : " ' Palpable Nonsense ' About Nicaragua , " the Jan. 4 letter by Ian R. , director of the Nicaraguan Government Information Service , criticizes as lacking integrity an anonymous priest 's letter about the situation in Nicaragua published on your Dec. 19 Op-Ed page . In refutation Mr. refers to " another Nicaraguan priest , Jesuit Father Ernesto Cardenal , an avowed Marxist , who finds no difficulty in traveling incessantly throughout the world , loquacious in his extravaganzas against President Somoza . " It should be noted that Father Ernesto Cardenal is not and never has been a Jesuit . No doubt the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fact a Jesuit , a prominent member of " The Twelve , " but not at all an avowed Marxist . As an information director addressing the national press , Mr. does not appear to be all that well informed . But there is a deeper truth that Mr. evades . It is this : Those in true danger in Nicaragua are usually not the prominent opponents of the Government , such as " The Twelve . " As the O.A.S . report revealed , the pattern has been for the " nameless " heads of poor families , workers and cam pe sinos or truculent teen-agers to bear the full wrath of Somoza 's reprisals . It is precisely the " anonymous " people of Nicaragua who fear for their lives . ( Very Rev. ) JOSEPH C. TowLE , S.J. Vice-Provincial , New York Province Society of Jesus Bronx , Jan. 5 , 1979 Politics and the M.T.A. To the Editor : Governor Carey has revealed his contempt for the transit-riding public by his recommendation of Stephen Berger and Carol Bellamy for positions in the M.T.A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our metropolitan transit system from the realm of politics into the hands of individuals of a more professional nature . Maybe I 'm a bit naive , but would n't it be nice for a change to have people who have dedicated their lives to mass transit operating the greatest system in the world ? CHARLES A. RUSIN broomyn , Jan. 2. 1079 the Dez River dam to irrigate the desert . Recognizing the Russian threat , he has bought arms from America , hired 35,000 Americans to bring forth Iranian oil and spent billions of the oil dollars here to prevent a Russian takeover , such as has occurred in Iraq on one side of him and Afghanistan on the other . He is the most stabilizing influence in the Middle East , as Presidents Kennedy , Johnson , Nixon , Ford and Carter have all said . All with Iran 's own money , not American foreign aid . What positive programs do these revolutionaries espouse with all their complaining ? Fewer arms for Iran , less agriculture , less foreign help to improve Iran . They seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people who have been in prisons in Iran for selling and transporting large quantities of dope ( not just a little for their own use ) , who tell their versions of what happened to them in prison ? These people do n't think of the young kids whose lives could have been ruined by those 10 kilos of heroin they were caught with . Before you damn the Shah of Iran , ask yourself who will be the real loser if our press forces him to resign by publicizing " the other side 's " shouting only . Are we going to leave a vacuum that the Russians will fill on their march to Africa , Israel and Saudi Arabia ? The Shah gave the Israelis oil on credit when they were refused help To the Editor : One of the saddest sights around New York City today is the deserted New York Ship Terminal . A magnificent facility , it became available 10 years too late . With only one major trans-Atlantic ship and very few cruise ships using the pier , it seems too bad that for once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make something of this huge amount of available space . We certainly need a new major convention center in midtown , and it would be relatively simple to join the piers and create the largest convenTo the Editor : Your editorial praising Senator Case 's decision to deny a head start on seniority to his successor , Bill Bradley , correctly noted the diminished importance of such an advantage . John Warner of Virginia , pleased with the indulgence given him by his predecessor , Senator Scott , was alleged to have argued recently that his extra few days in office would yield as a main benefit a privileged status in the Senate garage . While I can only share in The Times 's approval of the reforms that have meant that more substantive matters are no longer dependent upon the arbitrary seniority system , I must also object to the undeserving example cited to illustrate the point . Residents of the capital city must object to your offhand characterization of time spent in the study of " D.C. affairs " as both " irrelevant " and from other sources in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide . spread in Iran but do not mention the intimidation of airline pilots and shopkeepers who attempted to continue to : operate , which may have resulted in a mere illusion of support . And what kind of people inspire Iranian students in the U.S. who invade the home of the Shah 's sister and 90-year-old , sick mother , threatening to kill them and causing bedlam and revolution right in our own country ? I submit that we should weigh our own future carefully if we again permit these things to happen . The students had best ask themselves who sent them here so that Iran could be a better country . When their actions cut off their money from home , I hope we do n't put them on our taxpayers ' backs . We should send them home to their once-orderly , progressive country and let them take shovels and dig their way back out of the Persia they have destroyed from within . More importantly , however , we must ask ourselves what will happen to us next if we allow mob rule : a Ku @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over . Yes , the Shah is our friend , and we do n't have too many left in the world . FRANK GARD JAMESON Glendale , Calif. , Jan. 3 , 1979 The writer , who heads an airline small parts manufacturing company , is chairman of the Freedom Foundation . tion center in the East . The rooftop parking and the ramps are in place . To run the crosstown buses to the site would be an easy extension of existing routes . The costs mentioned for building the new center over the Pennsylvania Railroad tracks remind one of another Yankee Stadium-type fiasco , with huge finders ' fees already authorized . The city could convert the piers at a saving of $100 million to $200 million . The result would be one of the most beautiful and spectacular convention halls in America . JAY R. BRADS Larchmont , N.Y. , Jan. 4. 1979 The Pope 's Languages To the Editor : The Jan. 4 letter by Rabbi Judah Cahn puzzles me . Was the good Rabbi hinting that the Holy Father should have included a blessing in Hebrew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jesus , I thought , spoke Aramaic . Furthermore , why should not the Pope use Arabic when it is the language of millions of Christians ? Besides , it was Rood enough for Maimonides . DAVID H. PARTINGTON Middle Eastern Librarian Harvard College Cambridge , Mass. , Jan. 5 , 1979 " soporific . " If the turbulent politics of the District were to induce a Senatorial snooze , they would surely bring on nightmares as well . And further , since so many or our problems are shared with New Jerseyans , notably in the ' areas of housing and transportation , an understanding of the operation of our Government would surely assist Mr. Bradley in his efforts to be an effective representative . There is hope , however , that Mr. Bradley will be more sensitive to the needs of the capital than other , more senior Senators . Having lost his garage space to Senator Warner , Senator Bradley will have ample time to ruminate upon " D.C. affairs " while searching in desperation for a place to park on our congested city streets . We in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ RENNETI " J MURPHY Washington , Dec. 29 , 1978 Toward a ' Spectacular ' Convention Center On the Importance of D.C. Affairs If the New York Archdiocese Takes Over Metropolitan Hospital To the Editor : The plan to give Metropolitan Hospital to the Archdiocese of New York , as reported in The Times of Jan. 6 , is based on wrong assumptions : that it would lead to better care and that the city would save money . If the archdiocese were to take over Metropolitan , medical care would hardly change ; the city would pay as much as it did before . In fact , as The Times reports , medical care at Metropolitan is already the responsibility of the archdiocese . Were Metropolitan handed over to the archdiocese , the cost of Medicaid would simply be transferred from the municipal to the voluntary system . The city would still foot the bill . Transfer of title would not make debt service disappear : Someone would have to pay . When Montefiore tried to take over North Central Bronx , it wanted the city to assume its debt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from all income levels is largely wishful thinking . At Metropolitan , the Health and Hospitals Corporation is currently seeking to attract private patients in a group-practice plan staffed by New York Medical College physicians affiliated with the archdiocese . It has partly succeeded , but is being thwarted by a facility which discourages patients who are free to pick and choose . Metropolitan is non-code-compliant : it has six-bed wards , toilets in the halls , no ward telephones , no TV . The problems of overbedding and unbalanced budgets in municipal as well as in voluntary hospitals do not arise from bad management . They issue largely from a diminishing tax base , a shrinking middle class and an increasingly indigent population . Paradoxically , hospital beds are also emptied by improved medical care : Patients who once stayed 15 days are now discharged after eight . The Times mentions that St. Clare 's loses $1 million a year in its outpatient department alone . St. Clare 's may be in trouble , but no one is suggesting that it is badly run or that it should be turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whoever takes over the responsibilities of the municipal hospital system will lose money . The city shoulders expenses for mental health , prison health care , Medicaid and care for the working poor . Over $100 million of $400 million in tax levy money pays for the indigent sick whom the voluntaries now turn away . The proposed fate of Metropolitan is not an isolated one . Montefiore has for some time lusted after North Central Bronx . New York University may lay claim to Bellevue . But the same doctors would still care for the same sick ; the cost would be the same . Whatever the savings in a cost-conscious ethic may be , it would come largely out of the hides of the working poor . MILTON KIRCHMAN Board of Directors , New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation New York , Jan. 8 , 1979                     