@@728996

txt The Chilean Congress elected Marxist Salvador Allende president today by an impressive 153 to 35 margin . A short time later , the military command ordered all private aircraft flights suspended and all landing sites closed until further notice in Santiago Province . A spokesman said the emergency measures were ordered to prevent anyone from fleeing the country who might have been involved in the assassination attempt Thursday against Gen. Rene Schneider , the nat'on 's army chief . Schneider , 57 , lay near death in a military hospital . He was arm , arm the in times three a majority in the election , thus shot requiring a vote of Congress neck and chest by assailants busy a at car his stopped who acting as an electoral college . intersection . Santiago He watched the voting on television in his home . Shot 3 Times Parties Make Deal ? Three men , one a prominent lawyer with conservative views , were apprehended this afternoon in an apparent attempt to flee to Argentina in a small plane . Authorities said Salvador Allende the lawyer carried a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposed an ext r a ordinary guard around Allende as he celebrated his victory at a champagne party at his home in the Santiago suburbs . Aides said Allende did not drink but was toasted by friends . Block MI Streets Roadblocks were established on all streets leading to his modernistic two-story home . Troops and police sealed off a 36-block area around Congress and a security helicopter flew overhead as the votes were cast . Allende , 62 , failed to receive The 50 senators and 150 congressmen voted in alphabetical order , depositing sealed ballots in an urn in the ornate honors chamber of Congress . Allende will be inaugurated on Nov. 3 . His approval by Congress was made certain when the Christian Democrats pledged their votes to him in exchange for passage of a statute of constitutional guarantees aimed at preserving Democratic pluralism under his Marxist regime . He replaces Christian Democratic President Edouardo Frei for a six-year term . Allende is pledged to nationalize copper and all other resources , banking credits , most of rural Chile for farm cooperatives , and a number of other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Yankee imperialism " and is expected to expropriate most , if not all , of the $964 million United States investment in Chile . On Chile 's Easter Island , 2,400 miles out in the Pacific Ocean , 60 American Air Force technicians on a highly classified ionospheric r e se arch center began stripping their top secret electronics gear and prepared to go home . The U. S. decided to close the station and two others in Chile .                     