@@730310

txt Mario M. Cuomo , who was appointed by Mayor Lindsay to explore " possible revisions " in the controversial plan to build scatter-site , low-income housing in Forest Hills , indicated yesterday that he would recommend a substantial compromise of up to a 50 per cent reduction in the size of the project . Mr. Cuomo also said he had been heartened by " a spirit of compromise " that he had discerned among the project 's opponents . " They realize that if there is no compromise , the original project will be built , " Mr. Cuomo said in an informal chat in a City Hall corridor . He said that he might recommend a compromise that would scale down the project in the predominantly Jewish community from three 24-story buildings with 840 families to perhaps 420 families ... " It will look like a com- , promise if it 's cut in half , " Mr. ' Cuomo said , before reporting ' the results of his eight weeks ' efforts to Deputy Mayor . Edward K. Hamilton . " Each side will receive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been a political thorn in the side of Mayor Lindsay for the past year . Opponents of the project traveled to both Florida and Wisconsin during the Presidential primaries to oppose the Mayor 's bid for the Democratic nomination . The Mayor 's close aides have conceded that the project has undermined Mr. Lindsay 's popularity among some segments of the Jewish community . " This is a good opportunity for the Mayor to say , ' I 've made some mistakes ? I 've learned something in six and a half years of City Hall , ' " Mr. Cuomo said , Jerry Birbach , a leader of the opposition to the project , who at one time had eschewed compromise , indicated yesterday that Mr. Cuomo 's assessment of a changed mood was correct . " To me , if there 's a viable solution , something we can live with , fine , " said Mr. Birbach , reached by telephone in Miami Beach , where he is on vacation . " If there is no viable solution , the community will scatter . " On May 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the people of Forest Hills were " interested in a compromise . " Mr. Birbach was defeated in the Democratic primary for the ' State Senate last month . Mr. Cuomo said yesterday that there were already indications that middle-income Jews were moving out of the predominantly Jewish neighborhood . " The vacancy rate has gone up , " he said . City Given Same Argument He is using this argument with some city officials who also have taken a hard line against the compromise , including Simeon Golar , chairman of the New York City Housing Authority . " We 're all anxiously awaiting the Cuomo recommendations , " Mr. Golar said . " I would be opposed to any solution that sells out the interests of poor people , and would do violence to both law and morality . " Mr. Cuomo said that if the Jews fled the area , which he said was one of perhaps 20 stable middle-income areas in the city , it would be a double loss for poor people and blacks . It would mean that the housing project would be situated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a ghetto . The mediator acknowledged that Federal guidelines had dictated that the project be massive so that the cost for a room would come in under the Federal maximum , But he said that it would be in the city 's , interest for the city to scale down the project and pay the difference . The New York Times Mario M. Cuomo Could such a scaled-down project gain approval of the Board of Estimate ? The board members have indicated that they would not again approve such a project . But Mr. Cuomo made it clear that he would propose a tandem plan that would provide that if the hoard rejected a compromise measure , the original plan would remain in effect . 2 Obstacles Overcome Two obstacles to the project were overcome last May . Governor Rockefeller vetoed a bill aimed at killing the project , and the Appellate Division reversed a lower court ruling that had halted work . The State Court of Appeals has upheld the Appellate Division . Mr. Cuomo said that he had met almost nightly for the past six weeks with a group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " From 8 to 11 at night they would express their hostility to the project , and I would encourage them , " Mr. Cuomo said . " At 11 o'clock I would play ' devil 's advocate . ' I would point out that the project alreed " had been approved by a , governmental body and upheld by the court , and that some proponents of the project felt that these lawful , orderly procedures were being overturned simply by public pressures . " Moreover , the pattern of pressures was familiar to some proponents of the project , and the end result was detrimental to black and poor people , " Mr. Cuomo said . By the same token , Mr. Cuomo has advised Lindsay administration officials that construction of the project as planned at present would constitute a Pyrrhic victory for both ' Mayor Lindsay , and the project supporters , because the white ; middle-class residents would move out of the community to other areas .                     