@@729601

txt The Manned Spacecraft Center moved into full stride today on the second phase of Apollo 15 . This is a less dramatic but potentially more historic phase -- e-trying to wring fundamental secrets of the solar system from the rocks , soil and photographs brought back from the moon by Col. David IL Scott , Col. James B. Irwin and Maj. Alfred M. Worden . " Actually , this mission is just beginning in terms of the science , " Arthur C. Clarke , the scientist and writer who wrote " 2001 : A Space Odyssey , " remarked just after the Apollo 15 splashdown last Saturday afternoon . Today , all day , in a spotless room on the second floor of the Lunar Receiving Laboratory , technicians in white coats and hospital-like caps demonstrated what Mr , Clarke was talking about as they weighed , numbered and stored the first of the 175 pounds of lunar samples brought hack by the astronauts . In other offices and laboratories , scientists and space agency officials were studying the first of the strikingly clear and dramatic color photographs to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the astronauts . As newsmen watched through a glass partition in the receiving laboratory , technicians stuck their hands and arms through long , black plastic gloves attached to the rims of round portholes in the sides of glass-and-stain- ' less steel chambers filled with nitrogen . Inside this " clean " atmosphere , where the lunar samples were protected from contamination , were two long tubes containing core samples from the moon 's crust , and perhaps half a dozen small plastic bags containing rocks , Weighed and X-Rayed Manipulating the core samples with the gloves , a technician lifted them onto a small scale , and another noted the weight . Then the samples were taken off to be X-rayed . All this week , working by a set of procedures that have become standard now that lunar exploration is no longer a novelty , technicians and scientists in the laboratory will be inventorying , photographing and storing away rocks and core samples . The Apollo 15 astronauts themselves spent a full work day in " debriefing , " then underwent medical examinations that showed them to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normally . Tonight Colonels Scott and Irwin made their second after-hours visit to the lunar laboratory to identify some of the rocks they had collected , but whose locations on the moon had ' not been photographed and fully documented . " One thing we 're extremely pleased with this time is the willingness of the crew to come and look , " Dr. William Finney , chief of the Manned Spacecraft Center 's geology section , told newsmen . ' This was said to he the first time that returning astronauts had volunteered to work with the geologists in their off-duty time . In concentrating on the " undocumented " rocks at the outset , while recollections were still fresh in the astronauts ' minds , the geologists were expected to delay until at least Friday their first look at the crystalline " genesis rock , " This is so named because it may be a part of the original lunar crust and therefore may offer valuable clues as to how the moon , and maybe the earth , were formed . The sealed aluminum box in which the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ samples are contained somehow became unsealed , Dr. Michael Duke , curator of the moon laboratory , said . He reported that this was expected to ruin some kinds of experiments that might be performed on the rocks . But he said determination of the age and composition of the " genesis rock " ? its key characteristics  --  would not be affected . A briefing on the preliminary scientific findings of Apollo 15 was tentatively scheduled for tomorrow afternoon . But spokesmen for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration said it would be " very preliminary , " inasmuch as most of the moon laboratory work this week is being devoted to describing and classifying samples . For 200 Scientists After the rocks have been thoroughly examined , tagged and described , many will be cut into sections according to the classifications of the 200 scientists in the United States and abroad who are known as " principal investigators " for the NASA lunar-scienceproject . Then , probably in October , the samples will be sent to the principal investigators , who will pore over them in hopes of adding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cosmos . The process has become so standard a pursuit in the two years since the first moon landing that most of the samples will be sent by registered mail .                     