@@731408

txt Two defense lawyers in a murder trial admitted today they had discovered the body of a missing Skokie , Ill. , woman four months before the police found it , but they never notified authorities . The body of Miss Susan Petz , 21 , was recovered by police last December after two children found it while playing in a mine shaft near Witherbee in upstate New York . Attorneys Francis Beige and Frank Armani told a press conference that their client  --  Robert Garrow , 38 , of Syracuse , N. Y. , on trial in the murder of Philip Domblewski of Schenectady ? told them last September of raping and killing a woman and putting her body in a mine shaft . THE LAWYERS said they then made a search for the body . " We passed the mineshaft 10 times before I found it with a flashlight at twilight , " Beige said . " Armani lowered me into the shaft by my feet and I took pictures . " Beige and Armen ' also admitted that last September , following information provided by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victim , Alicia Hauck , 16 , in a cemetery in Syracuse , and took pictures , but again did not notify authorities . Miss Hauck 's body went undiscovered until . December when a Syracuse University student found it , BELGE DISCLOSED that Miss Petz 's father , Earl , had come to see him , seeking information about his daughter , because Garrow was a suspect in the disappearance . He said he told Petz nothing about finding his daughter 's remains . " The information was so privileged , I was bound by my lawyer 's oath lawyer-client confidentiality to keep it confidential after I found the body , " Beige said . " I spent many , many sleepless nights ever my inability to reyeal the information , especially after Mr. Petz came in from Chicago and talked to me , " he said . " Both Armen ' and r , knowing how the parents of the two girls must feel , wanted to advise them where the bodies were , " Beige remarked . " But since it was a privileged communication , we : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confidence . " " DEATH IS DIFFICULT enough to accept , " Armani said , " but worrying and wondering , it 'll drive you insane . " The lawyers said they felt released from their lawyer-client obligation by Garrow 's testimony yesterday during his trial in Hamilton County here for the murder of 18-year-old Domblewski . In his testimony , Garrow gave incriminating evidence against himself in the slayings of the two women . The police chief of Syracuse said he would ask district attorney of Onandaga County , where the Hauck girl 's body was found , to charge Beige and Armani with obstruction of justice . MEANWHILE , legal authorities in New York City said the issue of what a lawyer should do when apprised by his client of a criminal action is a gray area . Police had begun hunting for Miss Petz last July 20 when they found the body of Daniel Porter , 22 , of Concord , Mass. , in the Adirondack State Forest Preserve near Johnsburg , N. Y. Miss Petz and Porter had left Boston two days earlier for a camping trip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ student at Boston University . Both in his own testimony and under cross-examination , Garrow said he could not recall the dvents immediately surrounding the death of Domblewski . The prosecution has charged Garrow routed Domblewski and three companions from their campsite at rifle-point , tied them to trees , and then fatally stabbed Domblewski.                     