@@729568

txt The House Banking Committee has approved a bill that would authorize $2 billion in Government loan guarantees for companies in trouble , especially for the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation , which says it must have $250 million immediately to save it from bankruptcy . Before the House committee had acted , Deputy Defense Secretary David Packard submitted prepared testimony saying that he was firmly opposed to expanding legislation for Lockheed into a general bill for bailing out other businesses . Mr. Packard said the Defense . Department " does not need nor want a broad loan guarantee bill which will only encourage continuation of these practices which have caused this trouble . " On orders from the Administration , however , Mr. Packard sought to withdraw that part of his testimony opposing a broad bill , but Representative Wright Patman insisted on putting Mr. Packard 's original remarks into the record . The broad loan guarantee legislation , now adopted by both Senate and House banking committees , would certainly intensify the Pentagon 's already serious problem of holding private businesses up to adequate standards of performance on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For this legislation would do much to remove the risks for other large corporations that might get into trouble as a result of management ? inefficiency or blunders . Presumably if this legislation is enacted , any large corporation about to fail would be able to get help by pleading that thousands and thousands of workers would lose their jobs . Although Lockheed has based its case in part upon the preservation of competition in the aircraft manufacturing industry , this bill is essentially anticompetitive in its implications . For it would mean that a precedent and a mechanism had been established for bailing out very large and very inefficient companies . One is forced to wonder what other candidates for loan guarantees the Administration or the Congressional committees have in mind after Lockheed gets its $250-million . Will they be airlines ? Will they be steel companies ? Would a loan have gone to Penn Central , if that poorly managed railroad had not gone bankrupt ? The birth and death of companies is essential to a healthy , dynamic and efficient economic system , not a process of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of the Vietnam war should mean a further reduction in the nation 's output of helicopters , air transports and many other defense goods . If , in the name of general employment policy , unneeded defense producers are kept in business and well-supplied with orders , there will be vast wastage of resources and a diversion of national energies of the kind that President Eisenhower foresaw in warning of the impact on national policy of the militaryindustrial complex . Proponents of the loan to Lockheed insist that the L-1011 Tristar airbus is a good airplane with excellent prospects for capturing a large share of the commercial market . If this is so , why do the commercial banks that have been working closely with Lockheed not lend it the additional money ? Why should Government bear the risk ? Or , if Lockheed is not soundly managed and the prospects for the L-1011 are dubious , why should its management team be rescued ? Where is the evidence that the national economy stands in peril if this rescue operation is not rushed through ? Are there not more serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precedent is established for rescuing huge and inefficient corporations and substituting Government decision-making for private commercial lending decisions ? Before this loan guarantee legislation is passed , the House and Senate will do well to demand better answers to such questions in free and unencumbered debate .                     