@@729542

txt Sen. Henry M. Jackson D. , Wash. told the Senate today the Soviet Union has 100 generals and admirals and 300 supersonic military planes stationed on Egyptian airfields . " Moreover , there are close to 200 fully-trained Russian combat pilots permanently based in the Unit ed Arab Republic Egypt , " Jackson said , " and if one adds the numerous squadrons of such aircraft based in Syria and Iraq , it comes to a total of nearly 600 . " Wo n't Tell Ills Source Jackson refused to reveal the source of his information . He said it was unclassified information , however , and accurate . Jackson , an unannounced but aspiring candidate f o r the Democratic Presidential nomination , said that against this " very considerable " force in the Middle East , the Israeli Air Force is " outnumbered five or six to one . " Jackson was joined by Sen. Birch Bayh D. , Ind. in attacking the Nixon administration for what they said was failure to maintain a military balance of power in the Middle Sen. Henry Jackson the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dministration continues to acquiesce before a massive buildup of Soviet military equipment in Egypt and Syria while it remains blind to the threat to our own security that misguided diplomacy en-courages , " Jackson said that while the administration has been withholding from Israel the arms it requires to defend itself , " the Soviet Union has poured vast quantities of weapons into Egypt . " Sophisticated Planes Given Included in the Soviet weapons going to Egypt , he said , are some " extremely sophisticated aircraft that are not yet widely available even within the Russian Air Force . " " Reports strongly suggest that it was our failure to stand up and insist upon Soviet and Egyptian compliance with the Soviet supersonic fighter taking off . East . Jackson called administration policies there " short sighted . " Barry Counters Statement Sen. Barry Goldwater R. , Ariz. countered that the reason the United States is not sending more planes to Israel is that it lacks the aircraft . He suggested that Bayh and others disturbed by the slow delivery of U.S. planes to Israel offer amendments to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to provide more money for the acquisition of planes . " It has become increasingly clear the America policy in the Middle East imperils not only the security of Israel , but terms of the stand-still ceasefire of last August that has encouraged the ever-increasing flow of arms from Moscow to Cairo , " Jackson told the Senate . Bayh said that on June 20 , the U.S. halted delivery of Phantom jet planes to Israel . He said July is the first month since the Johnson administration agreed to sell Israel the Phantom fighter aircraft that none has been delivered . " In the absence of Soviet restraint i n arms shipments , we must maintain the military balance of power in the Middle East by continuing the delivery of these Phantom jets on which Israel 's security so heavily depends , " Bayh said .                     