@@731959

txt A hill to require financial institutions to disclose their lending practices was passed by the House Monday and sent to the Senate . The measure is a first step in a major effort to eliminate redlining ? refusal to provide or the placing of prohibitive rates on mortgages and home improvement loans in deteriorating neighborhoods . It wil require both federal and state lending institutions Other stories from the state legislature are on pages 2 , 1 . to file semiannual statements pinpointing by ZIP code the areas where mortgages are granted , and total dollars invested in those loans . REFUSAL TO file the reports with the state commissioner of real estate would constitute a business offense subject to a single fine of $500 or a fine of $100 a day for each day the statements are not filed , whichever is greater . Filing a false report could result in a prison term of one to three years and a fine of up to $10,000 . The measure was passed , 91 to 91 , after a heated , hour-long debate . Sen. Philip Rock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought the measure had a fair chance to pass in the upper chamber . Rock questioned , however , whether the bill could survive a constitutional test in the courts . 2 The sponsor of the bill , Rep. Michael Holewinski D. , Chicago , said the measure will force a court test on whether the state can compel federal lending institutions . to provide information . The Illinois Legislative Investigating Commission had attempted to subpena such information , but a court voided these suhpenas . Holewinski emphasized that his bill provides that no providon of it is severable f rem another , which would force the courts to act on the issue . Rep. Walter R , , Chicago led the fight against the bill , charging that the reporting process would be too costly and would wind up hurting small investors in financial institutions . is chairman of the House Banking Committee . THE BILL ALSO requires that the financial institutions detail the dollar amounts and number of savings depositsby VP code . The measure is limited to lending institutions in counties at more than 100,000 population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ predominates . Supporters said that buyers in redlined neighborhoods are charged higher interest rates and are required to make larger down payments it they obtain a mortgage at all . Those lawmakers maintain that redlining has been a major factor in the decay of the inner cities and the flight of residents to the suburbs , Many downstaters opposed the bill on grounds that it would cost their financial institutions large amounts of money but would serve 110 purpose because redlining does not exist in many downstate areas .                     