@@729243

txt It was the best of times again ? if you did n't look too hard . There was the TV mobile unit parked in front of the Academy Awards theater in Beverly Hills . A crowd of curious people were milling about on the sidewalk outside . The lobby was throbbing with middle-aged bearded types ( trimmed to just the right degree of programmed carelessness ) and working-press types , eyeing one another warily and making with inanities . The Hollywood people had gathered to hear the nominations announced for the prime motion picture achievements of 1970 . And , for a few minutes , it was possible to forget that MGM and 20th-Century Fox are ghost towns , that the motion-picture industry has become a plaything of corporate conglomerates , that movies are today being made out of producers ' hats in Santa Fe or Chicago or Bend , Ore . You could even forget that the leading candidate for the best actor award  --  George C. Scott  --  was glowering on a movie location in Spain , sending back hostile vibrations and insisting that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thundering cavalry The vibrations were felt in Hollywood . But on this morning , so were the counterforces . They came thundering down from the Academy Award offices upstairs , led by " Duke " Wayne , rather like the Hollywood cavalry riding to the relief of a beleaguered industry outpost . The press followed the cavalry into the auditorium , ready to pretend it had once more made the world safe for Sam Goldwyn and Darryl F. Zanuck ? and we were secretly relieved because deep down that 's the way we wanted it to be . Inside , there were long tables of pictures and canned press releases and a platform built across the center section of seats on which a multitude of cameras formed ranks . The president of the Academy , writer Daniel Taradash , mounted the stage to say that the nominations would be announced by four former winners , and so they were . They filed up , one after another , to record  --  for the TV cameras  --  what we had already read in the press release distributed at the door Like The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and pretty . Rod Steiger , stocky with graying sideburns . John Wayne , exuding strength , unbloodied by the day 's skirmish , ready to lead Hollywood to greater victories over the conglomerates . Anthony Quinn , rugged , appraising , slightly bemused . Each did his stint of reading , and Miss Jones did it twice because the sound fouled up . Then it was all over , and the phones strung out along the seats were full of reporters  --  or were they press agents ? ? just like " The Front Page . " A knot of women reporters formed quickly around Tony Quinn , most of them holding microphones that trailed off to a recording box held in the middle distance by men looking bored . Mr. Quinn turned earnest , addressing himself with a sort of fixed determination to the questions , mostly vapid . Periodically , he looked around to make sure his route of retreat was open . Miss Jones and Mr. Steiger attracted lesser , but equally dedicated , knots . Duke Wayne split . Quickly . If you did n't look @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an air of modest excitement . In that euphoric state , you would n't have noticed the preponderance of press agents present or the glazed look in a good many eyes or the total  --  and quite remarkable  --  absence of anyone young in the room . Magic and hall bearings This was the film establishment marking the beginning of its annual season that would end with the presentation of the Academy Awards on April 15 ? just as it had been done since 1918 , when Hollywood made magic and corporations made Jail bearings and both knew their place . Then , when cynicism begins to take over , ? ou see standing quietly in a side aisle i gray , bespectacled man who looks like corporate comptroller but is really run-ling this whole bash . His name is Robert Wise , and he has no knot of people around iirn , so you wander over to talk . And sudienly you feel better . You know there are fridges to the young . This quiet man is wilding them daily , putting his money and its stature behind young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Hollywood by aking charge of its ultimate tribute to it.elf  --  the Academy Awards . The TV unit is still there when you leave , and so are the clumps of people , less wary now that the candidates are known , but still talking inanities . You leave with a sense of continuity that somehow gives you comfort . Hollywood is dead , all right , you tell yourself ? but long live Hollyvood anyway !                     