@@732939

txt Once again the quadrennial cry to abolish the Electoral College is heard in the land . The familiar argument is cited that the shift of a few thousand votes could have given Gerald Font who lost the popular vote , an Electoral College majority . But in reality such a result has not occurred since 1888 , when Benjamin Harrison edged out Grover Cleveland . In every modern election , no matter how close , the electoral result has paralleled the popular vote . This parallelism is no accident for a practical reason that seems to escape single-minded reformers . As Election Day approaches , voters pull away from third and fourth party candidates who clearly have no chance of winning an Electoral College majority and make their choice between the major party candidates . The concentration of significant political choice inside the two-party system provides a profoundly important force for stability in our heterogeneous , continental society . There are risks in abolishing the Electoral College and subverting the two-party system . The risks are at least as serious as the remote contingency that the popular-vote.loser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abolition proposal , sponsored by Senator Birch Bayh of Indiana and others , would provide for a run-off if no candidate polled at least 40 percent of the popular vote . This would soon convert the initial election into a dry run or shakedown cruise . It is easy to envisage the vote for minor party candidates  --  such as George Wallace in ** to sufficient size to deny either major party nominee the necessary 40 percent . The parties would become fractionalized and fragmented . There are modest changes that could serve to safeguard the Electoral College against mischief and manipulation . Over the years , individual electors have voted or threatened to vote contrary to the outcome in their states . Last year , one such cast his ballot for Ronald Reagan , though Gerald Ford was entitled to it . There is a ready solution : Keep the " College " but dispense with the individual electors . The casting of votes in the Electoral College should be only a formality . One other change seems advisable . In the event that a multi-candidate contest forced an election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the House should be allowed to vote as individuals rather than by state delegations as now required by the Constitution . This would eliminate the risk of state delegations hopelessly deadlocked along party lines . These are small changes , but only small changes are needed . The risks so often and so alarmingly depicted of maintaining the Electoral College are in fact remote and unlikely . If a candidate were to win an Electoral College majority without a popular majority , it would most likely occur if the country were extremely closely divided and , in effect , not decisively for either candidate . The country accepted such an anomalous result in 1888 and would , presumably , do sp again . Meanwhile , the political habits , traditions and expectations that have grown up around the Electoral College have served the nation well . If they are to be maintained , the College has to be preserved rather than lightly abandoned in favor of a vacuum .                     