@@733372

txt PRESIDENT ANWAR Sadat of Egypt said Monday he would be willing to go to Jerusalem within a week for unprecedented Middle East peace talks with Israeli leaders . Israeli Prime Minister Menahem Begin said he is prepared to welcome the Egyptian leader personally at the airport . As a result of the remarks by the Egyptian and Israeli leaders , the way seems clear for a historic visit by Sadat to . Jerusalem . It would . be the first time an Arab leader had gone to Israel since the Jewish state was founded in 1948 . The Israeli and Egyptian leaders made their remarks in separate interviews by satellite with-CBS correspondent Walter Cronkite . Addressing United States television cameras , Sadat replied , " You can say that , " when asked by Cronkite if his proposed trip to Israel could take place in the coming week . FOLLOWING TIDE Sadat Interview , Begin told Cronkite that the U.S. ambassadors to Cairo and Tel Aviv are being Local experts on the Mideast hail Egyptian President Anwar Sadat 's proposal to go to Israel for peace talks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visit from other Arab countries . Page 16. asked to be middlemen in arranging the visit , which was suggested by Sadat last week . Begin said he will tell the Israeli parliament Tuesday about the proposed visit and then will ask the U.S. ambassador in Israel to relay an invitation to Sadat through the American envoy in Cairo . Begin said he is prepared to cancel a weekend trip to Britain if the visit takes place in the coming week . Sadat said the only condition he is attaching to the trip is that he be allowed to address the Israeli parliament . Begin said he personally will introduce Sadat to the parliament . SADAT ALSO said he would be willing to hold talks with Begin and other Israeli leaders after the speech to the parliament . The Egyptian leader said the alternative to peace in the Middle East is " too horrible " to put into words , In Washington , the State Department said the U.S. is willing to facilitate a meeting between the Egyptian and Israeli leaders . " We are awaiting fuller reports with more details @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is the desire of both parties , we are willing to facilitate such a meeting . " Concerning conditions to his acceptance of the Invitation , Sadat said : " The only condition is that I want to discuss the whole situation with the 120 members of the Knesset parliament and put the full picture and details of // the situation from our point of view . This is the only condition . " THE DIALOG between the Egyptian and Israeli governments has overshadowed the Arab foreign ministers ' meeting in Tunis , Tunisia , and has raised expectations that Cairo and Jerusalem might begin direct discussions on their problems without waiting for a Geneva conference . In the interview , Sadat said he was awaiting a " proper " invitation from Begin , and he suggested that it come through the auspices of the U.S. , since Egypt and Israel do not have formal relations . Asked when he was ready to go to Israel , Sadat replied : " Really , I 'm looking forward to fulfilling this visit in the earliest time possible . " " That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " You can say that , yes , " Sadat responded . SADAT SAID that in addition to and addressing the Knesset , " I may exchange our views with Begin . " He also said that he has not told any of his Arab colleagues about his plan , " and I did n't ask them to agree or not to agree on this . " " I felt my responsibility and my responsibility as president of Egypt also is to try all means to reach peace , and I took this decision , " he said . " For sure , there are those against it but . . . I am convinced that this is the right way , and my people back me . " Asked what the " ultimate " result could be , Sadat said : " We are in a crucial moment . There has never been a suitable moment in the Arab world to reach genuine peace like we are now . So I want to put the facts before them , and in the same time we want to discuss what will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It will be horrible . " Believe , me , horrible , " he said . BEGIN , advised of Sadat 's remarks Monday afternoon , said that " tomorrow I will be in a position on behalf of the government to inform President Sadat that he will be able to address our parliament . " No Arab leader has ever visited Israel , as Sadat said he is willing to do . But there have been reports of meetings between Israeli leaders and King Hussein of Jordan along the border between Israel and Jordan . In Tunis , meanwhile , Arab League foreign ministers decided Arab nations will hold a Middle East summit Feb. 11 , giving Egypt ample time to continue its moves for early peace talks with Israel . SIMULTANEOUSLY , THE league 's ministerial council condemned the Nov. 9 Israeli air raids in southern Lebanon and announced that the Palestine Liberaton Organization PLO will fully enforce agreements respecting Lebanon 's sovereign rights .                     