@@733016

txt Hurting the Poor to Help the Poor Governor Carey has challenged the New York State Legislature  --  and all New Yorkers  --  to follow him in adopting a budget that would turn the state 's social policy in a dramatic new direction . The next few weeks , or days , will show whether we are ready to match his daring . The Governor proposed the unprecedented step of reducing the allowances paid to at least two classes of welfare recipients  --  and reducing them below the minimums held to be essential for tolerable support . Allotments for clothing or furniture have been cut before , but this would be the first time that basic support levels have been cut even as food and other prices continue to rise . Not even state welfare professionals accuse the Governor of insensitivity to the needs of the poor . They are urging him to restore about $400 million of the 8485 million he proposes to cut , but feel compelled to suggest where the extra money might be found . He refuses to commit it until it can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare is itself a welcome sign . It is prompted by the Governor 's impressive argument that the future of everyone in New York  --  including those dependent on welfare programs  --  requires a revival of the state 's economic capacity . The state 's economy has been stagnant since 1960 , he points out , while most of the rest of the nation has made immense progress . New York 's per capita income in 1960 was 27 percent higher than the rest of the country 's ; in 1975 it was only 10 percent higher . In seeking causes for the decline , the Governor points to a tax burden that puts New York at a gross disadvantage compared to the rest of the country , including neighboring Connecticut and New Jersey . in 1961 , per capita state and local taxes in New York were 43 percent above the national average ; at present they stand 63 percent higher . Yet despite this rising tax burden , New York 's total spending on education and welfare rose to the highest levels in the nation , 32 and 82 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believes that there exists a direct relationship between New York 's high tax bills and the relative decline of its economy . His thesis , which must be given a chance , is that jobs can be held and attracted only if taxes are reduced in the years . to come , and this can happen only if education and welfare costs are contained . Because an across-the-board cut in public welfare is impractical , the Governor proposed budget reductions in the basic allowances for families without children or aged members  --  the so-called home relief program that is financed by the state and its communities , without Federal assistance . Mr. Carey would cut allowances to " employable " recipients  --  those who are not handicapped and have no children  --  to 85 percent of the present standard and their rent allowances to 75 percent of the present maximum ; the standards for " unemployables " would be cut somewhat less . To take aim in this fashion at some of the poorest citizens so as to relieve taxes for others is a difficult position for any political leader . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fails to make budget cuts in other areas , such as education . It is a move away from the decent and liberal instincts of a population that has been proud of leading the nation in social policy . But it is even more difficult to deny the Governor 's logic that the survival of any benefits for the needy depends on the health of the state 's economy . He argues that a further rise in taxes would only lead to an increase in those who need help because the higher taxes would drive out job-creating businesses to states with more hospitable tax rates . The Governor can not make New York competitive overnight , but he seeks to send forth the message that the state 's policy has been reversed and that tax relief is on the way . It would be irresponsible to reject his lead .                     