@@732490

txt The nation 's economy turned in a solid overall performance during the first three months of the year and showed signs of continued high growth right through election day . The economic recovery is looking better every day , even though unemployment is still high by historical standards . Democrats are watching a campaign issue fade away and President Ford , for the moment , is basking in the brightened outlook . The Commerce Department provided the latest economic scorecard Monday . Gross national product , total value of the nation 's goods and services and the broadest measure of how much Americaps buy and sell and build , rose at a ? 7.5 per cent annual rate in the first quarter . The rate of inflation declined to 3.7 per cent , lowest since the third quarter of 1972 , when wages and prices were controlled by the government . But the decline appeared to be overstated . Together , the figures made the first quarter one of the better three-month economieperformances in the 1970s . MANY ECONOMIC forecasters be . lieve the present growth pattern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1976 , but opinion is sharply divided beyond that period . Some say the country Is headed for another recession ; others see a period of sluggish growth . Maynard Comiez , acting chief economist for the Commerce Department , predicted further gains for the rest of the year but added , " I do n't think you would characterize it as a boom . " The unemployment rate fell sharply in January , February , and March anfl now stands at 7.5 percent of the work force . The jobless rate is not expected to improve as rapidly in the coming months , mainly because economic growth , while still high , is not considered strong enough to create enough jobs . BUT THE ECONOMY is still In a deep hole after last year 's recession  --  and a long way from reaching its full capacity . While the inflation figure was extremely low , Comiez said It probably was understated and too good to last . The underlying rate of inflation is still in the range of 5 to 6 per cent , he said . Comiez said declines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't continue much longer . In fact , he noted , gasoline prices are already rising and on their way to a usual summertime peak . " We may have seen an end of the decline in meat prices , " Comics said . " But I do n't think we 're going to see rapidly rising food prices : " He predicted " some small Increases " in food prices for the remainder ' of the year . ACCORDING TO the Commerce Department , GNP in current dollar terms rose by $43.4 billion or an 11.5 per cent annual rate in the first quarter , to 91.238 trillion . With the effects of inflation stripped away , the real gain is 7.5 per cent , up from 5 per cent from the fourth quarter of last year . Half the firM-quarter economic growth occurred because industries once again began stocking their warehouses with new inventory , signaling a pickup in production and business activity . The value of inventories went up by $16 billion over the previous quarter . One of the causes of the recent recession was the massive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When they could n't sell their huge stocks fast enough , they began laying off workers and cutting back production until they did sell . Now that the vast inventory accumulated has been disposed of , businesses are cautiously rebuilding them . But consumers must continue their buying patterns to prevent a repetition of the last recession . GNP figures showed that first-quarter sales indreasecl by 3.7 per cent , a slowdown from the 5.2 per cent of the previous quarter . But that slowdown in buying is not expected to continue .                     