@@733323

txt WASHINGTON  --  In an effort to gain approval of the Panama Canal treaty in both the United States and Panama , President Carter and Brig . Gen. Omar Torrijos said Friday the U.S. has the right " to act against any aggression or threat directed against the canal . " In a " statement of understanding " issued after the two leaders met at the White House for an hour and 90 minutes , the U.S. and Panama also affirmed that the right of the U.S. to use military force to keep the Panama Canal open did not mean that the U.S. would intervene in " the internal affairs of Panama . " " Any U.S. action will be directed at insuring that the canal will remain open , secure , and accessible , and shall never be directed against the territorial integrity or political independence of Panama , " said the joint statement . THE STATEMENT was issued to ease apprehension in the Senate , even among supporters of the treaty . The wording on how the canal would be operated after Panama takes full control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both this country and Panama and to calls for clarification . President Carter had said Thursday , " I think the clarification is crucial . " A plebicite on the treaty is scheduled in Panama on Oct. 23 , and both sides wanted to insure that there was agreement on controversial points before the voting . Friday 's statement was made to meet that objective . In addition the brief statement said that the Neutrality Treaty , one of the two canal documents signed by the two leaders in Washington Sept. 7 , provides that military ships of the U.S. would be entitled to go through the canal " expeditiously . " THE CLARIFYING statement said this term was intended to mean that in case of an emergency American warships could " go to the head of the line of vessels in order to transit the canal rapidly . " Sol Linowitz , who had been one of the American negotiators of the treaties , briefed Senate leaders after Carter and Torrijos , the Panamanian head of gee // Carter , Panama 's chief clarify canal pact terms // ernment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evening briefing at the White House that he was " pleased " by a statement made by Sen. John Sparkman D. , Ala. , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee . Sparkman told him that the clarifying statement was " helpful " to Senate approval . Linowitz also said that the Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd D. , W.Va. also " was pleased . " EARLIER TWO former secretaries of state testified in favor of ratification . Henry Kissinger contended before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that rejection of the treaties " would weaken the President 's authority at the beginning of his term " and be interpreted as a " demonstration of national weakness . " Dean Rusk warned that if there were trouble with the canal it would be far easier for the U.S. to assert a right to protect it with the new treaties than under the 1903 agreement , which he said " has no standing in the modern world . "                     