@@733012

txt In an unusually blunt assessment of city labor practices . an advisory panel chosen by Mayor Beame called yesterday for an end to " unqualified " political apointees in city government and for the adoption of sweeping collective-bargaining revisions to strengthen the hand of management . Charging that New York City Mayors ? including , by implication , Mr. Beamehad long given jobs to people with no discernible qualifications for them , the panel , the Mayor 's Management Advisory Board , also urged that the city undertake " periodic weeding out of unqualified managers " in all agencies . Report Released Quietly The 72-page report from the panel . headed by Richard R. Shinn , the president of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company , brought a swift denunciation from Victor Gothaum , the municipal labor leader , and a perfunctory commendation from the Mayor . who said he would not discuss its suggestions . In contrast to previous reports from Mr. Shinn , which were usually released amid some fanfare , the personnel document was quietly placed before news reporters at City Hall on a Friday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a city official , that Mr. Beame was mindful enough of its controversial findings to want to dissociate himself from them for the time being . " What would you do if you were the Mayor this year ? " asked the official . " You // would n't blast this thing out . You 'd float it out gently down the stream and see where the tide takes it . " " It 's a farce , " said Mr. Gotbaum , the executive director of District Council 37 of the American Federation of State , County and Municipal Employees , belittling the report 's call for a new oversight mechanism for future labor negotiations . " The one thing we notice about the Mayor 's committees is that they avoid the unions like the plague and then send something out like it 's the gospel , " he added . " This is just another sickening ex ! pression of that . The report will go no place , Dick Shinn is a nice guy , and I want to wish him well in the insurance business . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tiThe removal of large numbers of managerial-level personnel from Civil Service and collective-bargaining jurisdictions ? a move the municipal labor unions and Civil Service organizations have long opposed as an invitation to potential patronage abuses . The Shinn panel said the move was necessary , however , to develop " a strong identity " for the city 's managers . ! ! A requirement that all manageriallevel appointees  --  including those who get their jobs through the political process  --  complete a managerial-develbpment program and that they be selected " in relation to clearly defined job specifications and skill requirements . " A system in which the performance of all appointees would be evaluated periodically was also urged . ! IA " modernization " of collective bargaining , which labor leaders are also likely to single out for opposition . The report wants to set up a " coordinative mechanism " to oversee labor negotiations and establish " criteria " for them , including one that all wage and benefit increases " will be possible only where offsetting cost savings can be demonstrated . " CThe appointment of " public members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oversees negotiations . The report recommended that these new members be appointed by the Mayor without union approval . ! Major changes in Civil Service regulations , including the consolidation of titles and so-called " broad-banding , " a term referring to granting the city the ability to move workers from job to job without going through lengthy approval procedures . The report also suggested the removal of certain work rules as a matter for collective bargaining and the use of " performance evaluations " . in making promotions and appointments , as opposed to relying exclusively on performance in Civil-Service examinations . These and other recommendations were seen yesterday as striking at the heart of some of the city 's most difficult political problems . Although a few politicians occasionally speak of ' ' Civil Service reform , " practically none has ventured into the thorny specifics that Mr. Shinn 's ' report addressed yesterday . So sensitive was City Hall to these issues that an informed official said Mr. ' Beame chose to wait for disclosure of the report  --  which was said to have been completed weeks ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concluded his delicate negotiations with the labor unions on the means to pay off the city 's SI billion short-term debt . Mr. Shinn , in an interview , defended the Mayor 's attitude by saying that Mr. Beame had promised to study his report at length . " It 's not going to be buried . ' he said . " I 'm sure it will require sonic analysis . " In his short statement , Mr. Beame said First Deputy Mayor John E. Zuccotti would head " a special group " to study the report and make recommendations . Mr. Zuccotti said that it was " not the case " that Mr. Beame was attempting to dissociate himself from the document , and that the Mayor 's office would devote " a high degree of effort " to examining it .                     