@@729295

txt Court actions in at least three states seeking to guarantee students the right to vote where they attend school  --  rather than where their parents live ? could be a major factor in determining the impact of the 18-year-old vote . The catch : Many college communities . outnumbered by the potential voters on the nearby campus and fearful that their towns could be " taken over , " are seeking ways to prevent students from registering where they study . And vague election statutes in most states , requiring a residence period and a usually ill-defined " intent to remain " in the community , can be interpreted by local election registrars to exclude student applicants . ? In Kent , Ohio , scene of the tragic student-National Guard confrontation last May , students are sueing to be able to " vote in the community where they have the greatest interest . " Graduate students were often excluded , they say , from registering even before the 18-year-old vote became an issue . Says Kent law Prof. Michael Geltner , who is arguing the case , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposed upon because they have no say . " Alabama ruling contested ? In Tuscaloosa , Ala. , students from the University of Alabama are bringing a similar suit , stemming from refusal of local registrars to permit graduate students to register in a 1968 election in which a local black was running for Congress . ? In New York State a suit will be filed , according to Bert Newborn , an American Civil Liberties Union lawyer helping with the case . He alleges that " failure to allow students to have a say in the political issues which directly affect them for four years has led to town-gown confrontation .. . . " ? In Massachusetts the ACLU is investigating the possibility of filing a similar suit . Meanwhile , a 19-year-old student applicant from Connecticut is told by a Cambridge , Mass. , official , " You have to be self-supporting before you can register here . That is the law . " In fact , the law requires six months ' residence and " intent to remain . " // *College towns face youth vote // Before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well have passed a bill now under consideration to prevent mass " dormitory votes " by establishing strict criteria for student voters such as financial independence , parents ' residence , or place of motor-vehicle registration . As passage of a constitutional amendment to guarantee 18-year-olds the vote at local and state levels appears more likely ? the Senate passed this proposal 94-0 last week ? attention is turning to whether , and how , the newly enfranchised 11.5 million will vote . Parental echo forecast A number of political analysts , including Richard M. Scammon , director of the Elections Research Center , believe that young voters will echo their parents at the polls . But 35 percent of the 11.5 million are on campus , and other observers note natural voting advantages of youths gathered as a bloc on college campuses , rather than scattered as individuals across the country . " It stands to reason that if you could collect the 18-year-old vote you would have more impact than if it were scattered , " says Mr. Newborn . He adds , " If you could concentrate 15-25 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you might really shift a crucial number of seats . " Moreover , while student involvement in the November , 1970 , elections was unexpectedly low , given the degree of passion on the campus in May , there has been lively interest in local elections on some controversial campuses . University of California students in Berkeley are campaigning for a City Council slate ; in Madison , Wis. , three students sit on the City Council ; in Kent , Ohio , a former Kent State student , one of the 25 persons indicted in the wake of the May shootings , is running for City Council . Many college towns are not enthusiastic about the local vote . City officials argue that students pay no taxes locally ( not always true ) and are transients with no real interest in the community . Students retort in the Alabama suit , which affects 5,000 to 6,000 students 21 and over , that state requirements that they own property or hold jobs in the community discriminate against them over other transient groups , like management trainees . They claim that students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moreover , students are counted in the census figures on which congressional representation and federal aid are computed . A 1965 Supreme Court case Carrington v. Rash , forbidding the State of Texas to disallow military personnel the vote on grounds that they were transients , may hold out some hope for the student suits if they reach the Supreme Court . Strict interpretation In Kent , where there are 27,000 residents and 22,000 students , the Board of Elections interprets strictly the state election regulation that a student voter outside his parents ' home must have established " permanent residence " if he wishes to vote in his college town . Between 4,000 and 5,000 Kent students are eligible to vote , even without the 18-year-old vote . Students say nearly none who try make it . Laura Fridrich , a 23-year-old junior and one of the plaintiffs in the student suit , has a scholarship and federal grant to go to school and an affidavit certifying she is an " emancipated child , " no longer dependent in any way on her parents . She says that , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stay in Kent after she graduates , she feels this is n't relevant to her case as Kent is as much her home as any place else . Joseph Sorboro , City Council president , insists that the issue is a " financial " one . " More than likely these students are n't paying taxes like real estate , but if they had a bloc of votes they could vote and pass measures causing property owners to pay higher taxes . " Bloc pattern doubted But Craig Morton , student body president , who helped set up the case along with the local ACLU as a direct response to the Kent State tragedy , sees things differently . " Official statements especially by the county prosecutor and county police are all anti-student . If students were allowed to vote none of these people would be in office . " Some observers are not convinced students will vote in a bloc even if they are allowed to vote in their college communities . Ian MacGowan , who works full time on the 18-year-old vote issue for Common Cause , says , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on campus and we find it very hard . You do n't find that much interest in having a bloc or that much unanimity . The conservatives might be as active as the liberals . " He concedes that easier regulations combined with attractive local candidates could galvanize student registration , but he adds that " the local voting issue could be a fly in the ointment " in the effort to get state legislatures to ratify the constitutional amendment to allow 18-year-olds the vote at the state and local levels .                     