@@731962

txt A report was circulating in high echelons of the Defense Department Tuesday that the crew aboard the Cambodian patrol boat the stopped Use United States me ! - chant ship Mayaguez mutinied and set sail for Thailand . The report has not been completely verified by high Pentagon officials . But if true , as one Pentagon official acknowledged , the report provides a " comic-opera twist ' to the ship seizure that led to the use of American military power and at least five deaths . As described by Defense Department officials , the report is that the patrol boat that stopped the Mayaguez in the Gulf of Thailand carried a Cambodian crew and four Khmer Rouge officers . ACCORDING to the report , three of the officers went aboard the Mayaguez and one of the officers stayed on the patrol boot . At that point , according to the report , file ' Cambodian crew , which apparently was In President Ford Is " frustrated " at the military 's slowness in reporting casualties in the Mayaguez rescue . Pdge 12 . Commanding officer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firepower t h a n anticipated . Page 13. the Cambodian navy before the Communist takeover , threw the Kilmer Rouge officer overboard and headed for Thailand . Upon approaching the port of Sattaship , in Thailand , the crew , according to a message received by the Pentagon , informed Thai officials that it was the boat that had stopped the Mayaguez and requested permission to come into port . IT WAS UNCLEAR to Pentagon officials , who greeted the whole report with a certain degree of incredulity , whether the boat , which is armed with a three-inch gull , had been granted permission to enter Sattaship , The presumption of these officials was that the boat received permission to enter the port but that Thai officials , not desiring to further complicate relations with the new Communist government in Phnom Penh , were reluctant to confirm its presence . One of the bewildering aspects of the report -- and one of the reasons that Pentagon officials are treating it with a certain degree of skepticism-is that it does not completely agree with the Account of the seizure provided by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ news conference in Singapore that the ship was stopped by rtwo relatively small patrol boats , believed to be about 50 or GO feet in length . The boat that entered Sattaship is a 150-foot boat  --  a former submarine-chaser provided by the United States to the French and then to the Cambodian government . There is a suspicion , therefore , in Pentagon circles that the Cambodian crew which took the submarine chaser may have contrived the story that they were involved in the seizure of the Mayaguez.                     