@@732141

txt NEGOTIATORS FOR striking City Colleges ' teachers accepted a two-year contract Sunday afternoon , ending their three-week strike . Classes were scheduled to resume Monday at 8 a. m . Students were advised to come to classes as scheduled . Registration deadlines have been extended to Wednesday , a City Colleges spokesman said . The agreement by the Cook County Colleges Teachers Union ended a strike marked by heated rhetoric and the jailing of Norman Swenson , union president , for defying a back-to-work court order issued by a Circuit Court judge on Aug. 25 , the first day of the walkout . Both the union and board described till pact as " a fine one . " The union won annual longevity raises of $350 to $500 per teacher , an item the board had originally eliminated from its budget . And during the second year of the two-year pact , teachers will receive raises ranging from $1,050 to $1,500 . MARY JANE Rudolph , union vice president , said teachers " gained a great victory and a fine new contract and have withstood all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . " Speaking at a press conference at the La Salle Hotel ; after a membership meeting , Rudolph said that most of the approximately 800 teachers attending voted to accept the contract and return to classes Monday . A formal , secret ballot will be taken on each of the eight campuses within a week , she said . " There were a few nays , but practically every faculty member felt it was a good Contract , " she said . SWENSON . WHO attended Sunday 's negotiations , had to return afterwards to Cook County Jail , where he is serving a five-month sentence for contempt of court . It was anticipated that Swenson 's attorney would try to get the union leader out of jail on an appeal bond early in the week . In addition to the restoration of the annual raises , the board agreed to neg6-tiate further with the union If more funds become available during the year from sources such as a legislative override of Gov . Walker 's reductions in state aid to education . An " independent factfinder " also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determine if there are any additional funds available for faculty salary increases . That report is due by Jan. 1 . CITY COLLEGES Chancellor Oscar Shabat described the contract this way : " We did n't lose any power or give any money away that we did n't have . The board was able to maintain its balanced budget , which is a mark of fiscal responsibility . Neither the faculty nor any other board employes received cost-ofliving increases . We just could n't do it . " Rudolph said that in addition to the annual increments , teachers won raises ranging from $500 to $1,000 , but Shabat said there were no raises during the first year of the contract . After the final bargaining session , Shabat said he and Swenson " were both smiling and we shook hands . " OTHER PROVISIONS in the contract were : e EliMination of all five  --  month teacher contracts , one of the major strike is sues . Those teachers affected will receive annual contracts unless their work is unsatisfactory . ? Full contract rights and grievance procedures for teachers at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which has many state and federally funded programs . ? Partial restoration of board cuts in pay for substitute teaching , summer school classes , adult education , and overtime . ? Six hours of " release time " for the heads of departments . ' ? Improvements in medical insurance , an option to use accumulated sick leave for pregnancy and childbirth , and paternity leave without pay , among other improvements in fringe benefits . ? Maintenance of current class sizes of 35 during the day and 39 for evening classes . Because of the class days lost during the strike , teachers and students will have to give up the Veterans and Columbus Day holidays and several days of Christmas vacation in order to meet the minimum 75 days of instruction required by the state , Shabat said . But the spring semester will begin as planned on Jan. 12 . The colleges serve 95,000 students and employ 1,400 teachers of whom 1,250 are union members .                     