@@732545

txt The Israeli Government has acted to prevent a landslide in favor of Palestinian nationalism among the Jewish republic 's half-million-strong Arab minority . It has set up three top-level committees with the goal of reconciling the Jewish and Arab communities and opening up better opportunities for Isaeli Arabs who complain they are ' treated as second-class citizens . But the Cabinet was far from unanimous in deciding what action to take . The vote in favor of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin 's proposals May 23 was seven to five with two abstentions ( Defense Minister Shimon Peres and Minister of Agriculture Aharon Uzzan ) . Shmuel Toledano , the Prime Minister 's adviser on Arab affairs , who is widely known for his liberal views , said the purpose of the Cabinet 's decision was to foster the integration of Israel 's Arab citizens , particularly the intelligentsia , into the country 's administration , public bodies , and society . " It is the first time that Arabs in Israel will become partners in shaping their destiny , " he said . But not everyone is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Zuabi , a former mayor of Nazareth and for many years aligned with the governing Labor Party in the Knesset ( parliament ) , said he doubted the administration 's capability " at this late hour " to implement the necessary measures . Contacts with the Palestinians of the West Bank of the Jordan River , resumed after Israel took over that territory in the 1967 war , have brought increasingly into the open the question of identity for Israel 's Arab citizens . " We have a split soul , " said Rasmi Bayadse , an Israeli Arab serving as assistant adviser to Prime Minister Rabin . The dilemma was summed up this way by another leading Israeli Arab , the late Abdul Aziz Zuabi , a former deputy minister for health in Golda Meir 's Cabinet : " The trouble is that my people are at war with my country . " The situation has become more acute with the growth of Palestinian nationalism in recent years . The exposure to virtually incessant antiIsraeli propaganda over the Arab news media // *Israel moves to appease protesting Arab minority // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly on young people . Israel 's Moscow-oriented New Communist Party has been a major beneficiary of this trend . In municipal elections last December , the most important Arab town in Israel , Nazareth , ousted its traditional conservative leadership , loyal to Israel , and replaced it by a communist mayor and town council . Violent demonstrations took place March 30 in a number Of Israeli Arab villages in protest against a government decision to requisition Arab land in Galilee . The demonstrations constituted a serious warning to the government . " In the course of 28 years Israeli Arabs have gained affluence and prosperity , but there has been little thinking in depth , " said Raanan Cohen , director of Mr. Rabin 's Labor Party 's Arab-affairs department . " We have educated many intellectuals , but we failed to enable them to give constructive expression to their political feelings . " The five-hour debate on this problem at the May 23 Cabinet meeting was tfie first thorough airing of the issue since Mr. Rabin became prime minister two years ago . Mr. Rabin may 24 received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grievances and suggestions . Israeli radio said the Prime Minister refused the Arab leaders ' request that he rescind government plans to take over Arab land in Galilee . He also turned down a request for a special inquiry into the March 30 riots in Galilee . " All this is only a beginning , " said a source from the Prime Minister 's office . " We shall try our best . But the end result will depend also on many an Arab factor , inside and outside Israel . " Of the three committees set up by the government one will be at ministerial level , presided over by the Prime Minister , another will consist of senior civil servants , and the third will be an advisory council of Jewish and Arab leaders , who will concentrate on seeking to reconcile the two communities .                     