@@734304

txt The chance mating of two species of ape in an Atlanta zoo has led to the birth of a healthy offspring  --  the first reported ape hybrid . Analysis of genetic material from the parents and from the young hybrid is said to support the recently advanced theory that new species sometimes arise from the juggling of such material over a few generations , rather than from a prolonged series of small mutations taking perhaps thousands or millions of years . According to one of the analysts , the birth has also made more plausible the possibility of hybridization between other distantly related primates , such as a gorilla or chimpanzee and including a human being and a great ape . Gibbon and Siamang Parents The mating was between a male gibbon and a female siamang , sharing a cage with another female siamang in an exhibit of lesser apes at the Grant Park Zoo . Both species , being apes , have no tail , but they have long arms and are arboreal , and share the same forest habitat in Southeast Asia . The genetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genetic material , in the cells of each parental species are almost completely different , which is why the successful mating is considered so remarkable . It is suspected that the hybrid ape , like most hybrids , is sterile . An attempt at mating however , is planned when the ape reaches maturity . " She may surprise us , " Dr. Richard H. Myers , one.of searchers , said yesterday . In normal cell division the genetic material , or " information bank , " within each cell nucleus organizes itself into chromosomes that then split in two to provide nuclei for the daughter cells . Gibbon cells have 49 chromosomes ; siamangs have 50 . The chromosomes occur in pairs , one having been derived from each parent . In normal gibbon mating , the female egg cell contains 22 chromosomes and the male sperm add the other 22 . In siamang mating , each parent contributes 25 chromosomes . Cells in the hybrid ape have 97 ? 22 from its gibbon father and 25 from its siamang mother . Dr. Myers and Dr. David A. Shafer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " siabon . " Both men are at the Human and Behavioral Genetics Research Laboratory of the Georgia Mental Health Research Institute in Atlanta . Dr. Myers is also with Georgia State University and Dr. Shafer is with the Emory University School of Medicine , both in Atlanta . In the historic concept of evolution , two distinct species evolve from a common ancestor by becoming geographically isolated from one another and then develop . ing along different paths . Such evolution occurs through numerous small changes , or " mutations , " within the genetic material that determines body structure and function . For this to occur , the two geneticists noted , the separation must persist for " hundreds , thousands or millions " of years , preventing interbreeding between the two evolving lines . The differences must become so great that the two species can no longer mate successfully . Chromosomes Are Compared The gibbons and siamangs , however , seem to have lived side by side during the estimated 5 million years since they diverged from a common ancestry . The implication is that the evolution occurred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Atlanta geneticists compared chromosomes from the two parental species and found that only one pair matched in any significant way . Yet , coded into the chromosomes of both species are almost identical instructions for the synthesis of blood constituents and other bodily features . This has led the ' researchers to suspect that differentiation between the two species arose from multiple chromosome rearrangements rather than many small " point mutations . " Such rearrangements could produce a new species " in only a few generations , " they said . Hybridization between gibbons and siamangs in the wild is considered highly improbable . Both species are believed to remain with the same partner for life . Although their vegetarian diets are somewhat similar , they tolerate proximity of the competing species more than they do that of rivals among their own kind . Some Siamang Characteristics Adult siamangs , however , are almost twice the size of gibbons and usually have their way in a showdown . They are characterized by a web between the second and third toes , which has appeared in the hybrid , and a throat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The young hybrid lacks the throat sack , but it still vocalizes in half a dozen ways , which are being recorded . As an infant it had the light-colored facial ring of a gibbon , but it now has the white beard of a siamang . The hybrid was one of two born in 1975 . The other died of causes apparently unrelated to its unusual genetics . A number of mammal hybrids occur under the special circumstances of zoo confinement , such as those between tigers and lions . Only after recent chromosomal analysis of the ape hybrid has the full significance of its birth become evident as described in the July 20 issue of Science and expanded in an interview yesterday . ' Genetic Distance ' Cited The differences between chromosomes of the parental species are in striking contrast to the chromosomal uniformity that reflects the common ancestry of the great apes , Old World monkeys and man . " This suggests that , in terms of chromosome structure , there exists a greater genetic distance between these lesser apes than that which distinguishes the great apes from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . Human beings have 96 chromosomes , while great apes have 98 . Asked about human hybridization with an ape , Dr. Myers said the new findings " lend some credence " to such a possibility . He noted that in captivity it was very difficult to breed chimpanzees with one another . However , the new techniques of laboratory fertilization and embryo implantation that led to the birth of a normal baby a year ago could be applied . Apart from the public outcry that would follow any known attempt at human-ape hybridization , Dr. Myers said little would be learned genetically from such an experiment that could not be derived from other research                     