@@732560

txt Jimmy Carter ? basking in a surge of support from former political foes ? appears to have locked up the Democratic presidential - nomination . He is now : ? Still planning to stay on the trail of uncommitted delegates and to continue to woo party power brokers . ? Looking ahead to the party platform which he wants to limit to broad statements without specifics wherever possible to keep his wide base of support in the party . His delegates represent both the left-wing , as in Iowa , and the right-wing , as in North Carolina , and he wants nothing in the platform to alienate any of these delegates . ? Sifting a list of two-dozen vice-presidential prospects . The sudden coming together of the party behind him leaves him free to select a vice-presidential running mate of his own choosing . At one time Carter aides thought it might be necessary to use the vice-presidential spot as a means of bargaining for other blocs of delegates . But he managed to win over support from other powerful delegates , he says , without making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , did any of the other Democratic figures ask for any quid pro quo in exchange for their support . Mr. Carter is believed to be looking toward Washington for a running mate . He is reported to have written off the option of another governor or unknown non-Washington face . At this writing , Mr. Carter 's Ohio victory and his showings in New Jersey and California had won him the endorsements of Gov . George C. Wallace and Chicago Mayor Richard Daley . He had also announced that Sen. Henry M. Jackson would throw his support to the Carter camp , probably next week . Senator Jackson told newsmen he would not deny Mr. Carter 's statement . Mr. Wallace has 168 delegates ? though there is some doubt . about how many would be free to vote for Mr. Carter on the first ballot at the convention in New York City . Some states in which the delegates were elected have laws requiring first-ballot votes for the candidate in whose name they were elected . Mayor Daley 's statement that he now supports Mr. Carter has a double @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the parfy ? and following his remarks , Illinois favorite son Sen. Adlai Stevenson released his own 86 delegates , who were expected to go for Mr. Carter in New York . Senator Jackson holds 248 delegates . If Mr. Carter is correct , and Senator Jackson throws support to the Carter camp , it would be a significant breakthrough . // *Carter focuses on uncommitted bloc // ( Monitor Washington correspondent Godfrey Sperling Jr . reports from Washington that backers of Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey felt that it was too late for the Senator to jump into the race . Rep. Paul Simon ( D ) of Illinois , head of the draft-Humphrey effort , said : " My guess is that it is now not probable that he Humphrey will attempt it . /1 ( Mr. Simon said it was not so much the delegates Mr. Carter won June 8 as the media attention being given Mr. Carter , with Walter Cronkite and Eric Sevareid , for instance , helping add to the Carter momentum . Mr. Humphrey himself had not announced his own plans at this writing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were cool for several weeks earlier this year . Each saw the other as the major threat to his chances , especially in the early , important Florida primary . Mr. Carter also did his best to thwart Mr. Jackson 's carefully laid plans in New York State . And in Pennsylvania , a Carter victory ended the Jackson campaign . But , observers note , the two foes actually have far more in common than they were ready to admit to voters . Their philosophies are not far apart . And Mr. Carter nominated and strongly supported Senator Jackson at the 1972 Democratic Convention . An air of relief swept over the Carter camp here as the Ohio results came in . Ohio squelched the late-blooming drive by Sen. Frank Church and put the final defeat on the Udall campaign . Only California 's Gov . Edmund G. Brown Jr . appears to be carrying on the battle with much vigor . Observers suggest he is looking toward 1980.                     