@@733409

txt NEW YORK ? A surgical supply salesman whose major training was a two-week course on how to use his company 's devices told a New York State Assembly task force recently that he had to help a surgeon unjam a surgical saw the doctor had wedged into the skull of a patient . Another salesman of orthopedic devices testified that he was called upon to help surgeons who had inserted an artificial knee joint upside down minutes before quick-drying cement would have locked the joint in place . A thirst salesman said lie had been in operating rooms 40 to 50 times in the last seven years and had been asked regularly to assist doctors to figure out what organs they were examining with his company 's diagnostic equipment . TILE STARTLING testimony was given to the assembly 's Medical Practice Task Force , headed by Assemblyman Allan Heves ' , a Democrat from Queens . Ile charged that the evidence exposed " a very serious pattern of abuse . " None of the patients involved was permanently injured , according to the witnesses . However , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see if any laws were violated , Ilevesi indicated . In the skull operation , salesman George Schott said , he was asked to be in the operating mom of a hospital because the surgical saw was new and had not yet been purchased by the hospital . The hospital and the doctors were not named , but the task force said the operation took place in New York State in 1972 . SCIIOTT SAID the surgeon had never practiced with the saw . It became // More salesmen report helping out in operations // jammed after the physician was about a third of the way through a delicate operation to cut out a circular piece of the skull , Schott testified . The doctor asked Schott for help and , the salesman said , he showed the doctor that he was holding the saw incorrectly , and Schott freed the jammed saw blade . The hospital eventually bought the saw . In the knee operation , which also reportedly took place In a hospital in New York State , salesman Larry Kluge told of watching in horror as surgeons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not convince the doctors that they had made a mistake until just before the special cement hardened . They eventually ripped the joint out and put it In properly , Kluge said . IN THE CASES Involving diagnostic equipment , salesman Larry Doll said , surgeons sometimes became confused with his firm 's equipment because it showed organs from different angles than other diagnostic equipment . " I was never asked , ' Is this a liver , or is this an ovary ? ' but sometimes doctors need help determining what they arc looking at , " Doll told the task force . lie said also that he was frequently allowed to take films of operations involving his firm 's equipment so that the films could be used for teaching and promotional purposes .                     