@@731994

txt Israeli Premier Yitzhak Rabin will have some tough questions to put to President Ford at their talks opening in Washington Wednesday . These concern : - Negotiations with the United States for new arms contracts , specifically for the Lance ground-to-ground missile , laser equipment , and the F-15 Eagle supersonic aircraft . These talks were suspended after the collapse of U.S. Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger 's mediation efforts last March , when the United States announced it was reassessing its Middle East policy . ? Israel 's $2.5 billion aid request . ? More information on Mr. Ford 's talks with Egyptian President Sadat in Salzburg . So far , only a sketchy report was given by Dr. Kissinger to Israeli Ambassador Simcha Dinitz . ? What the United States is prepared to do to counter the anticipated increase in the Soviet naval presence in the Red Sea as a result of the reopening of the Suez Canal . Anticipating a hard bargain , the Prime Minister has secured from his Cabinet considerable flexibility when the question of Israel 's // *Rabin will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for discussion . But he will be less free with regard to the resumption of talks for an interim agreement with Egypt . In a somewhat harshly worded statement , after an all-night session , the Cabinet unanimously resolved " not to accept " now what it rejected last March when the Kissinger talks ended in deadlock . Instead , the Cabinet wants a new departure . " The Israeli Government would be ready to reexamine its position should there be a parallel change in Egypt 's position , " the communique stated . To the disappointment of four " dovish " Cabinet ministers , the majority rejected their proposal to adopt a peace program and to communicate it to President Ford . Instead the Cabinet authorized the Premier to " reach an understanding and agreement " with the U.S. administration " on the direction of peace efforts if and when an interim agreement is settled " without tying Mr. Rabin 's hands with specific details . The government is concentrating on the partial settlement approach because it feels it is more " practical " and has a better prospect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not want to disclose yet his ideas for a full peace settlement , since this might be misinterpreted as a negotiating position rather than a definiative statement of Israel 's peace goals . This secretiveness apparently has its roots in the frequent criticism of Mr. Rabin alleging that his early disclosure of Israel 's maximum concession contributed to the failure of Dr. Kissinger 's last mediation effort . Having thus learned his lesson , the Premier initiated a Cabinet resolution that was deliberately vague about Israel 's peace concepts . It spoke only of " defensive borders with all Israel 's neighbors , " and referred to previous Cabinet decisions that were approved by the Knesset ( Parliament ) . This vagueness , it is assumed here , would enable Mr. Rabin to inform President Ford confidentially of his personal concept of peace . Thus , for instance , he might agree to Egyptian sovereignty over " virtually all " the Sinai peninsula if Egypt recognizes Israel 's security interests and permits Israeli forces to deploy on Egyptian territory for 20 or 50 years . The Premier mentioned this in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an American idea . Asked if the same principle could be applied to the occupied West Bank of the Jordan River , Mr. Rabin said in the same TV appearance . " I would not totally rule it out . " Dana Adams Schmidt reports from Washington : On the eve of President Ford 's talks with the Israeli Premier , U.S. officials see the Middle East situation this way : The short-term outlook for peace is good ? because none of those concerned wants to fight . But prospects for definitive settlement of Arab-Israeli differences remain dim ? because neither side seems willing or able to make significant concessions . The long-term outlook for the area is profoundly disturbing because of the arms buildup in the countries around the Persian Gulf and the growing importance to the world of the oil flowing from an area within a 200-mile radius around the head of the gulf .                     