@@734122

txt Our dependence on imported oil ? now about half of all our consumption ? continues to push the American economy toward recession and erode our influence in the Middle East . That view is universal , but there is no consensus on what to do about it . Most of the proposals for reducing oil imports that President Carter heard at Camp David last Sunday were soon dismissed as impractical or politically unattainable . The approach with the fewest drawbacks seemed to be the elimination of price controls on domestic oil . The President can - 'eregulate without new legislation . He is said to be drafting a plan for it , to be accomplished in phases over the next few years and linked to a new tax on oil company profits . Deregulation alone probably can not reduce oil imports by the critical 5 to 10 percent that would restore a measure of American influence over the policies of the oil cartel . But it would be a substantial beginning ? provided the President allows oil prices to rise fairly rapidly and does not make decontrol conditional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government 's complex system of controls , created after the OPEC oil shock , has held the average price of domestic oil to about $9 a barrel ? around $6 less than the current import price . Any relaxation of controls would raise the price , discouraging consumption while also encouraging additional domestic production . The drawback of deregulation , of course , is that substantial income would be transferred from consumers to the oil companies . According to a recent Congressional study , overnight deregulation would cost the public an extra $14 billion in the first year . Since heating oil and heavy industrial fuel prices were permitted to rise to world levels some time ago , most of the added cost would be felt at the gasoline pump ? about a nickel a gallon , which would raise the cost of living by about one-half percent . That does not seem too high a price to pay for the likely benefits . If oil had been decontrolled two years ago , it is possible that the latest round of OPEC pricegouging ? which will cost consumers more than five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phasing in the higher prices over a year or two would hold down the inflationary impact . Otherwise , the faster prices rise to world levels , the better . But enormous increases in oil company profits , just when consumers are suffering through gasolione price inflation , would create deep resentment and erode public support for deregulation . Thus , whether or not one believes that the windfall is unfair , it makes political sense to tax away some of the added oil company profits . The least disruptive and most manageable tax would be a flat excise charge on each barrel of crude oil , with the revenues returned to the public as an annual income tax rebate . The rebate would restore purchasing power to the economy without damaging incentives to conserve fuel . Still , this may be unattainable . The last time Mr. Carter sought a tax on crude oil , the Senate balked ; Congresssional leaders are no more encouraging now . Linking the tax to a rebate could make it more palatable . But years of angry debate have left consumer and producer interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress on most energy legislation . If Mr. Carter ties his deregulation to Congressional action on an oil tax , we may end up with no policy at all . Decontrol is desirable ; decontrol combined with an oil profits tax would be more desirable . Under the circumstances , let the President protect the nation from OPEC gouging and Arab blackmail and let Congress bear the burden of deciding whether consumers should get a partly offsetting benefit .                     