@@733059

txt The New York State Legislature has returned from its spring recess to find that expiration of the Emergency Tenant Protection Act , which limits rents , is only nine weeks away . The law was enacted in 1974 to restore the regulation of apartments that fall vacant and to permit localities outside New York City to adopt their own versions of rent stabilization . The Democratic-run Assembly has already voted to extend the law for three more years but the Republican-controlled Senate is holding back in the hope of bargaining for some change in the system . Change is needed , but not the frantic kind that will occur if this vital subject is left to the closing hours of the session . New York City 's rent regulations include both rent control  --  at present holding annual increases to 71/2 percent  --  and rent stabilization  --  where guidelines govern the rentals laid down in leases . These are two very different systems that sometimes cover adjacent apartments in the same building . The regulations are outrageously complicated , expensive to administer and painfully discriminatory . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The system has contributed to the decline of buildings and neighborhoods . While tenants tend to believe that all landlords are rich , the market value of rent-controlled buildings has plummeted and many have been abandoned . Many tenants are already paying rents they can not comfortably afford and many are being denied adequate service . It will not be easy to legislate a way out of a system that has distorted the interests of both tenants and landlords and made it impossible fairly to relate incomes to costs , rents to values and investments to profits . But the worst course would be to perpetuate such a system . The rent-control portion of rent regulation in New York City  --  formally called the Maximum Base Rent system and covering about 500,000 apartments  --  will be altered only if the negotiations surrounding renewal of the state-law require it . The state law imposes the conditions that shape the city law , and unless it is changed now , the City Council is not likely to act . Three sets of changes are needed to make apartment buildings a sound investment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dollar increase per room per month each year even though the raise would exceed 71/2 percent of the rent for some apartments . This would make a difference where present rents are so low that a 71/2 percent increase can not begin to cover rising costs of fuel , labor , taxes and insurance . It would not affect tenants over 62 years old whose income is below $6,500 and who pay a third of that for rent ; they are already protected . Similar protection should be extended to lowAncome families with children , provided they are not on public assistance . The city would compensate landlords for these artificially low rents with tax benefits . Second , a change in the way an owner can claim special increases when his cash income is less than his cash outlay . The procedure needs to be simplified . Also , bank interest on a first mortgage should be included in measuring a landlord 's hardship . Rent increases to relieve hardship should not be limited arbitrarily . The rents should be raised as needed to cover the deficit , with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value pay similar rents . Third , a change in the process by which an owner is required to make repairs before qualifying for an increase . At present , he must correct all dangerous violations of the housing code plus almost all other violations before he can raise rents . This often makes it impossible for him to finance the repairs . The law , accordingly , should permit increases before repairs , provided that repairs are made within six months . From the point of view of tenants , two other changes in administration and law seem desirable : First , improvement in the performance of the Housing Court . The law itself can never guarantee proper building maintenance . Enforcement machinery must be strengthened to achieve fair and prompt response to tenant complaints . Second , a change to prevent landlords from underpaying real property taxes . Tenants rightly object to paying higher rents to cover higher taxes , only to find that some owners neglect to pay taxes altogether . Where owners are delinquent , tenants should be permitted to pay the tax portion of their rents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not be altered in these ways unless the Legislature requires it in the next few weeks . If such changes can not be made , then the law might as well be allowed to expire on July 1 . That would at least have the effect of decontrolling all apartments as they fall vacant . It would not be the most desirable way of assuring additional income for owners , but it would be better than a system that is inexorably destroying the housing supply , to the ultimate benefit of no one .                     