@@734235

txt President Carter , buffeted by contending factions on all sides , faces perhaps the hardest selling job of his White House career : To persuade Americans , in the words of Treasury Secretary W. Michael Blumenthal , that the United States stands at a " historical turning point in the government 's management of the economy . " This may involve , presidential advisers agree , some painful sacrifices for many , perhaps most , Americans in the years just ahead in order to erase inflation and related problems from the US scene . To help him with the task , Mr. carter has realigned his economic staff , naming Mr. Blumenthal his preeminent spokesman on all economic matters , national and international . " We all know , " said the Treasury chief , newly armed with this authority , " that spending is easy ; borrowing is easy ; living off our capital is easy . " But saving and investing for the future ? putting off present consumption for the sake of a secure prosperity for tomorrow ? that is hard . " What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ backed by Alfred E. Kahn , chief White House inflation fighter ? believe has to be done ? In a word , switch national priorities from spending to saving , or rebuilding the capital stock ( plants and equipment ) of the economy . Only thus can the US begin to bring its trade accounts into balance , sell more goods abroad in an increasingly competitive world , and stanch the outflow of wealth to pay for oil from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries . Investment of this kind will take not only time , but hundreds of billions of dollars . This may mean less money to spend on other government programs . " Government spending , " said Mr. Blumenthal in a key speech heralding the new approach , " has grown from 39 percent of disposable income // From pa ? e 1 Convincing US to save in 1957 to 50 percent in 1978 and has shifted away from capital construction and defense toward transferring income among groups . About one-half of the federal budget now goes to income transfers . " No one denies the need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and medicaid , aid to dependent children , jobless compensation , pensions to veterans , and the like . But their net effect is to pump more and more money into ' consumption and less and less into investment and saving . Other factors noted by Mr. Blumenthal : ? Inflation , which averaged only 1.6 percent in the first 20 ' post World War II years , has averaged almost 7 percent a year since 1970 and currently is at a 13 percent rate for 1979 . ? Tax rates on individuals , to pay for expanding government programs , have escalated sharply in the 1970s . ? " Labor productivity what a worker produces in a hour of time has slowed to a crawl , growing only 0.4 percent over the past year , " he says . ? Since 1973 economic growth has averaged only about half what it did in the 1950s and 1960s . ? The US now buys half of its oil from overseas , contributing mightily to huge deficits in foreign trade ? a record 8.5 billion last year . All this translates into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of moving toward a balanced budget , reducing federal spending as a share of gross national product , easing government demands on the nation 's financial markets , de- ' regulating key segments of the economy to promote competition , and dismantling oil price controls . Does this sound like a Republican platform ? Yes , which may " make it harder for President Carter , already deserted by many liberal Democrats , to convince Americans of the belt-tightening which lies ahead . " Are you saying , " Mr. Blumenthal was asked Sunday on " Face the Nation " ( CBS-TV ) , " that the problems which our economy faces at this turning point are so fundamental that any president ? whether Republican or Democratic ? woule have to pursue the same policies ? " r . " Any responsible president leading his country , " replied the Treasury chief , " would ' have to follow those policies . "                     