@@732163

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 36 Letters to the Editor Full Employment : The HER . 50 Approach To the Editor : William Shannon is to ' be congratulated on his excellent Oct. 1 column , which recognizes full employment as the major issue in the upcoming Presidential campaign . Unfortunately , Mr. Shannon fails to understand that H.R. 50 , the HawkinsHumphrey Full Employment Bill , is in fact a measure for developing national economic planning around the goal of a job guarantee for every individual who wishes to work and for providing implementing machinery to achieve that goal in short order . Instead of a vague commitment to planning in the abstract , the bill directs its planning toward the primary need of our society  --  decent jobs at fair wages  --  and backs this planning up with the structures needed to provide those jobs . The major provision of the bill requires the President to submit to the Congress annually -a " Full Employment and National Purposes Budget " which would specify our national priorities in a context of maximum production and genuine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic needs , including those for housing , transportation , health and education . In addition to these national-level mechanisms , local planning councils under Labor Department guidance would work to plan and develop federally financed reservoirs of public and private employment projects at the local level . Initial action would include an authorization of $15 billion to To the Editor : It is more than passing strange that the Federal Government has taken the hard-nosed attitude with respect to financial aid to the City and State of New York in the light of its policies and programs making available full faith and credit guarantees of the United States to foreign as well as domestic business enterprises . The Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 authorizes Federal guarantees of up to $500 million of taxable obligations issued by state housing finance agencies carrying the full faith and credit pledge of the United States . A stated purpose of the act is to encourage the formation and effective operation of state housing finance agencies which - carry out programs providing housing for persons and families of low , moderate and middle income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and despite the wellpublicized difficulty of such agencies to obtain financing at reasonable rates ( if at all ) , no definitive action has been taken to Implement this program . One wonders about the political philosophy which denies Federal financial aid to New York City but makes full faith and credit guarantees of the United States available to foreign housing developers as provided for in Title III of the Foreign Assistance Act . That program , administered by the Agency for International Development , has an authorization of $780-million . It has made loan guarantees from A to Z. In 1972 , Argentina had over $39 million under contract and The Children Lose To the Editor : The New York City Board of Education 's denial of new funds for the education of handicapped students at alternate schools such as Henry Street School wilt severely damage those who can least afford it . The cost far outweighs any short-term saving . Henry Street School , a project of Henry Street Settlement , serves emotionally handicapped children from poor families at no charge . It and other nonprofit schools receive public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have no facilities . Admission requires a psychiatric report that the child has emotional and learning disabilities and Board of Education certification that it has no place for the child . Forgetting labels , we serve severely troubled children who are victims of poverty and racism . In public school they seldom attend classes and derive little benefit from them . Their attendance rate at public school is 35 per cent ; at Henry Street it increases to 85 , with significant advances in reading and other skills . Our direct costs are half those of public schools . The new board policies will close our school to new students and return our present students to the public schools . We would not object if public schools served the children as well , at equal cost . But they do not . The cost of not educating these young people will exceed that of educating them at schools like ours . It will be felt in the increased number of disturbed and disruptive children on the streets during school hours , going nowhere . CHRISTOPHER ANGEI.L Chairman , Board of Trustees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay for jobs in the private and public sectors to bring the unemployment rate down to 3 per cent within eighteen months ( Congressional Research Service estimates that only $10.7 billion total net would be required ) . As envisioned in the bill , the fullemployment program would provide for regulating the over-all demand where it would be most needed . Specific anti-inflation policies are set forth together with guidelines for the Federal Reserve and other regulatory agencies . Calling H.R. 50 an " anti-discrimination measure " is gross distortion . Equal employment opportunity and genuine full employment are interwoven . When there are in fact " useful and rewarding opportunities for all adult Americans willing and able to work , " employment discrimination based on race , sex or other extraneous factors is necessarily largely minimized . But to state that the bill 's primary goal is " anti-discrimination " is overlooking its major thrust . The judicially enforceable right to a job emphasized by Mr. Shannon is only a minor  --  though useful  --  provision of the bill , included as one way to supplement the basic administrative implementation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objective . H.R. 50 responsibly moves us toward that end . AUGUSTUS F. HAWKINS Member of Congress , 29th Dist. , Calif . Washington , Oct. 2 , 1975 Reflections on a Strike To the Editor : The solution to the Broadway musicians ' strike is quite simply one of equality . As you know , musicians are paid to work non-musical plays . We ( the actors ) should have equal rights with them ( the musicians ) . For every " gig " musicians play we should have a comparable number of actors backstage . ( I ca n't think of a logical reason why , but it seems to me it could be the same reason used by musicians to demand payment for not playing in non-musical shows ) . When Leonard Bernstein steps to the podium we would be safe in knowing that six to ten actors were safely employed and sitting backstage playing cards . This would do wonders for a union with SO to 90 per cent unemployment . Personally , 1 would like to be the non-acting actor sitting at Shea Stadium to balance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between-inning tunes . Where do I audition ? WOODY ENEY New York , Oct. 2 , 1975 ? The City 's Foremost Task To the Editor : The statement in The Times ( Oct. 2 ) of Dr. Bernard Gifford , Deputy Chancellor of the city 's schools , is certainly untimely . Saying " what good will it do if we balance the budget and destroy the social fabric of New York " may have been appropriate for 1970 and may again be applicable in 19S0  --  but it is not constructive for 1975 . The salvation of New York City is the first priority today . Otherwise , there will not be much of a social fabric remaining . PETER SAI.TZ Jamaica , N.Y. , Oct. 2 , 1975 Sinai-Pact Debate : The Congress ' Limits To the Editor : Severe disagreement has developed between the President 's advisers and the Senate Foreign Relations Committee concerning the status of the Sinai disengagement accord . The Senate Foreign Relations Committee argues that the agreement is , in effect , a treaty and thus must be confirmed by a two-thirds vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although it was not always so , current policy requires the guarantee of the host country . At least thirty foreign jurisdictions have benefited by the guarantee . Considering the list of nations benefiting , notes of New York City should be preferred to the full faith and credit of some of the host countries . The inactivity of the Administration with respect to the domestic housing guarantee program is all the more astounding in view of the statement in the A.I.D . report for 1972 to the effect that it followed a policy of encouraging all U.S. investors to participate in the program through public advertisements and mailings . Yankee come home ! EDWARD R. LEVY Executive Director , New York City Housing Development Corporation New York , Oct. 3 , 1975                     