@@732731

txt Nearly 1,000 off  --  duty police officers , for the second day , noisily demonstrated early this morning in front of Gracie Mansion , angering neighborhood residents who pelted them with bottles and tomatoes . At least one demonstrator was hospitalized with a head injury . The demonstrators , who gathered in front of Mayor Beame 's official residence to register what they said was their rising frustration over new work schedules and deferred raises , began their rally at , about 12:30 A.M. At first there were only a dozen pickets who carried placards that said uncomplimentary things about Mr. Beanie . As they marched in a driving rain , they appeared greatly outnumbered by uniformed patrolmen who watched warily . March on East End Avenue But by 1:15 A.M. , the pickets ' group had swelled to nearly 1,000 and , as the protesters had done early yesterday , marched south on East End Avenue . Rattling garbage cans , loudly blowing on whistles , shaking their fists in obscene gestures and shouting slogans , the demonstrators marched west on 86th Street to Park Avenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back to East End Avenue and the Mayor 's mansion . A spokesman for the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association , said that his organization had not sponsored this morning 's demonstration or the one early yesterday . However , numerous leaders of both events identified themselves to reporters as P.B.A. delegates . As they marched , residents of buildings on the avenue yelled at them to be quiet . But the residents ' remarks were countered by loud jeering and the setting off of firecrackers by the picketing demonstrators . Uniformed police officials watching the proceedings , who were asked about the legality of the marching and the use of firecrackers , declined to respond , At least two of them shrugged their shoulders and smiled . " Who 's going to enforce the law ? " another uniformed patrolman said . However , the demonstrators were clearly surprised when the verbal admonitions of residents were translated into bottles and tomatoes . One bottle , which appeared to have been tossed from 180 East End Avenue , landed squarely on the forehead of a demonstrator . He fell to the ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carried to a patrol car and taken to Metropolitan Hospital . " We tried to demonstrate peacefully and what we get is potties on our head , " said Patrick Burns , a delegate of the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association , who acted as spokesman for the demonstrators . Soon after the injured nolicemanwhose identity was not immediately disclosed  --  was taken to the hospital . a police squad brought out a searchlight and flashed it on No. 180 , scanning the f-cade of the building in an effort to detect bottle-throwers . " This is exactly the sort of behavior that we would never expect from our policemen , " said Edith Fisher , a resident of 180 East End Avenue . " To demonstrate two days in a row is outrageous and an invasion of our civil liberties . " Residents just across East End Avenue from Gracie Mansion say they can recall dozens of demonstrations , but yesterday they agreed angrily that a rally early Sunday by more than 1,500 off-duty police officers was the noisiest and most unruly in memory . That rally started at about 12:30 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traffic on the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive and disturbed the sleep not only of area residents but also of patients at Doctors Hospital on East End Avenue and 87th Street . " These policemen marched without a permit , and they did everything for which they 'd normally arrest others , " said Mrs. Fisher . Anger on Both Sides Spokesmen for the picketing policemen offered no apologies yesterday to neighborhood residents for the disturbances associated with the rally . And , indeed , the anger of the residents appeared to be matched by that of the police officers themselves . " Tension is very high among the men right now , " said Officer James Cullen of the 23d Precinct . " This picketing started out in a jovial mood . Now there are no , smiles among us . " The picketing by off-duty police officers began last Friday at nearly all of New York City 's 73 station houses . On Saturday the policemen extended their demonstrations to Gracie Mansion and to the Queens home of Police Commissioner Michael J. Codd . And yesterday they once again paraded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in front of precinct houses seemed lighter . While the policemen picketed , representatives of the P.B.A. negotiated with city officials on ? new work schedules under which police officers could lose up to 10 off-days a year . The proposed schedule has been bitterly criticized by policemen and yesterday , in front of Gracie Mansion , several pickets had their wives and children along to support their contention that the schedules ; you 'd adversely affect their family life . Wife Protests Work Schedule " I already do n't get to see my husband much  --  can you imagine what will happen under the new schedule ? " Darlene Maloney , whose husband , Bob , is a patrolman , asked bitterly . The proposed work schedule is supposed to go into effect next Sunday . The negotiations yesterday also involved the question of a 6 percent deferred raise that the P.B.A. is seeking , The Beame administration , which was represented in yesterday 's two-and-a-half hour session at an undisclosed location by the First . Deputy Mayor , John E. Zuccotti , has maintained that it will grant a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawsuit to win such an increase retroactively . Both city officials and representatives of the P.B.A. reported " some progress " in the talks in a joint statement last night . Further negotiations were scheduled for today . But the statement of " some progress " did not appear to mollify the picketing policemen last night . " The city wants to squeeze the breath out of us . " Officer Cullen said . Among those who expressed concern over the early-morning rally was Peter Albert , night manager at Doctors Hospital . " It was bedlam , just bedlam , " he said . " The patients complained to the nurses all night . These cops honked horns , they yelled obscenities and they blew whistles . And the uniformed cops just watched everything and did nothing . "                     