@@731289

txt The White House was preparing to fight the findings of the Joint Congressional Committee on Taxation with charges of politics and unfairness . And then the call came from the Internal Revenue Service on Tuesday afternoon , saying three agents were on their way over with a letter for the President . What the three delivered was a 30-day notice that President Nixon owed nearly half a million dollars in back income taxes , virtually the same amount cited by the committee . The discussions on whether the President should pay ended abruptly . The President and all of his advisers agreed that he had no choice , politically , but to pay the taxes . To do otherwise , after the IRS had made its findings , they reasoned , would only add fuel to the fires of impeachment efforts on Capitol Hill . IIIS TAX attorneys argued that the findings were not well founded and could probably have been challenged successfully in tax court , but Nixon ignored them . As late as Monday , as stories were leaked out of the congressional committee concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , White House chief of staff , was outlining the strategy the White House hoped to follow . The White House sought to persuade the four Republicans on the committee to vote agaisnt accepting the report , so it could be charged that the tax question had turned into a partisan exercise by Democrats . KENNETH GEMILL and Chapman Rose , Nixon 's tax attorneys , were prepared to go I into tax court to challenge the findings , and had assured Nixon and Haig that they had a good chance of winning . The President was particularly embittered by the staff report of the committee , complaining privately that it wiped out his children 's inheritance and would eat up his liquid assets . Fully aware of the criticism he might receive by fighting back , since he had promised to abide by the committee 's finding , the President was said to believe that he could convince the American public that the tax findings were based solely on partisan considerations ' and were just another example of how his enemies were out to destroy him . White House aides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's having sent a destroyer to pick up his dog during World War II , and to suggest that former Presidents just might have ordered government planes to transport their family and friends .                     