@@732783

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor Science : ' Our Leadership Is in Danger ' To the Editor : The recent sweep of the 1976 Nobel Prizes by U.S. scientists is a tribute both to the outstanding scientific contributions made by these individuals and to the system of science that has evolved in this country since the Second World War . Yet , while . basking in the glow cast by these Nobel laureates , we must not lose sight of the fact that our world leadership in science and technology is in danger  --  as your editorial " Nobel Sweep " ( Oct. 20 ) pointed out . The universities have been the keystone of basic research in the American system of science , but their ability to maintain a strong program of basic research is being undermined . Several factors contribute to this alarming situation . Among the most serious are ( 1 ) the sharp decline in Federal support for university-based research over the past decade and ( 2 ) a projected downward trend in college enrollments during the 1980 's due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have led to fewer academic jobs and , in turn , to an increasingly older faculty . Since most of the professors in this older group are still far from retirement , there will be limited opportunity for young scientists . Yet these are the people who must pick up the torch if we are to maintain a viable research capability in our universities . They are the Nobel laureates of the future . The long-range implications of these trends are serious , but there are some hopeful signs . The National Science Foundation , the chief Federal supporter of basic research in universities , has had a major increase in its 1977 budget . The recent re-establishment of the Office of Science and Technology Policy in the White House ? with bipartisan support ? indicates that there will be more thought given by M.A.C. : ' The Next Step To the Editor : The sudden and unexpected demand for the new $250 million issue of Municipal Assistance Corporation bonds is a most welcome indication that investor confidence in New York City is returning ( news story Nov. 5 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loans it had received in order to avert financial disaster . The State of New York will be removed from the city 's list of creditors . The next and most logical step would seem to be the elimination of another group of creditors : those creditors who have been forced to bear the most onerous burden , i.e. the holders of $1 billion of short-term city notes past due and subject to the moratorium . Nothing short of full redemption of these notes should be tolerated . No further exchange offers for 8 percent M.A.C . bonds or the like can be justified in light of renewed investor interest . The original issues of M.A.C . bonds sold in the public markets were issued for the purpose of retiring short-term obligations at maturity and in full , in order to avoid default . Now that there is a new market for M.A.C . bonds bearing more than 10 percent interest , another exchange offer similar to , the past two To the Editor : The recent resolution in the U.N . condemning the independence of Transkei , voted on favorably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is yet another case of political shortsightedness and , worse , pandering by the more responsible elements of this body to those whose motives are often open to speculation . The only justification put forward by the members of the U.N . for their retributive action is that a recognition of Transkei as independent would amount to approval of South Africa 's internal policies . The world seems to have forgotten one thing : nationalism . Long and voluble have been the criticisms against separate development and the so-called " evils " perpetuated by this system . Yet it seems as if the U.N . would willingly push the Xhosa back into the arms they abhor . Although the South African Government envisions eventual independence for its nine tribal homelands and follows a policy it feels is best suited to achieve this end , the decision to accept independence rests with the African tribes themselves . Some , such as Chief Gatsha Buthelezi of Kwa-Zala , have refused to entertain the notion . This is the situation that invites concern and criticism from the world . Those are the Africans who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ignoring tepositive outgrowth of the difficult racial situation Mary Stilmart government to the role of science in solving national problems . It is important that the public be aware of the difficulties faced by our universities and of the downward trend in support for research . Unless America increases its support for science  --  both at the Federal and the private level  --  we will be without the technologies needed to deal with problems in such areas as food resources , energy and environmental preservation . Science in this country is still strong , but it will be endangered unless we attend to the problems faced by our universities and insure adequate support for basic- research . The Times editorial has performed a valuable service in calling attention to these facts . RICHARD C. ATKINSON Acting Director National Science Foundation Washington , Nov. 4 , 1976 would be nothing less than a 15-to-20-percent devaluation of the note holder 's investments . NORMAN G. TEITCHER Fresh Meadows , N. Y. , Nov. 5 , 1976 ? To Protect Our Elderly To the Editor : As a geriatric social worker , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the elderly and believe part of the counterattack should be directed against the manifestly inadequate criminal-justice system . Finding ways to get senior citizens to report crime and feel secure against reprisal should be made a top priority . That means that social agencies supply transportation and escort service to the older victim for all court appearances . That also means the guarantee of anonymity in open court , with such data sealed in court records rather than handed over to the defendant who may be bent on vengeance . Criminal-court judges must be monitored by the media and by civic organizations . Those who seldom sentence the assailants of older people should be held up to public scrutiny . Since the elderly comprise the largest age bloc of voters , retaliation at the . polls would be the ideal sort of poetic justice . BARRY LEE COYNE Jamaica , N. Y. , Nov. 4 , 1976 in southern Africa is irresponsible . Transkei made its decision as early as 1963 . The Xhosa clearly wish to be independent . For once we are not being asked for handouts , nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We do have an African nation enduring peacefully and democratically . Can recognition of the attempt by the Xhosa to retain their cultural identity and to assume with dignity their place in the U.N. , for which they have worked long and hard and well , seriously be viewed as condoning the internal policies of the country they have left behind ? Would a call for a little understanding and support really be remiss ? FRANK J. FERREIRA New York , Oct. 28 , 1976 ? On Helping Lebanon To the Editor : I was infuriated when I read in The Times a few days ago that this Government plans to send hundreds of millions of dollars to Lebanon to help it rebuild . Why ? Did we contribute to its destruction ? Let the rich oil sheiks rebuild Lebanon , as it was their Moslem brethren who took part in its destruction . And let the U.S.A. spend the money to rebuild our cities . A trip through the South Bronx should prod the conscience of the Government . MATILDA F. SCHULHOF Bronx , Nov. 3 , 1976 Unwelcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Willowbrook decree , institutions for the mentally retarded are reducing their , populations significantly , and- small , supervised hostels and group homes are growing in number in order to meet the demand for a viable alternative . But societal acceptance of the mentally retarded into local communities has been slow in keeping pace , and is being hindered by prejudice , misunderstanding and lack of information ? universal obstacles in the way of anything new or different . I am a counselor working with retarded adults in a newly opened hostel in Queens . Last Tuesday , one of my clients , whom I shall call John , and I experienced two very different situations : one illustrated positive acceptance , while the other painfully reinforced the still-too-prevalent negative reaction of neighbors in the community . I took John to see a ? prominent neurologist in Manhattan , who treated him as an adult , and with the respect and common courtesy which anyone deserves . In spite of his inability to answer all of the doctor 's questions , John appreciated the fact that the questions were directed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case in such situations . Later on Tuesday , John and I went to vote , something he felt strongly he wanted to do , and had a responsibility to do . He knew . exactly whom he wanted to vote for , having logical and valid reasons for his choice , but he needed help in pulling down the right levers and did n't move fast enough to suit the election clerk , . which prompted her to handle him . roughly and say , " These people are so stupid , why do they have to vote ? " Fortunately , John did not hear the woman 's cutting remark , so I quietly said to her , " He has as much right to vote as you and I do , " and dropped it at that . Sensitivity to the needs and rights of mentally retarded persons obviously is n't something which can be mandated by law , but insensitivity is not something which must be accepted or tolerated . The retarded are moving into and becoming an integral part of our local communities , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allow ourselves . the enriching experience of getting to know some of the mentally retarded individuals . ROSAMOND RAE Mount Vernon , N.Y. , Nov. 4 , 1976 ? Electoral Compromise To the Editor : With the switch of relatively few votes in one or two key states , President Ford would have accomplished the greatest comeback since Lazarus . But , like Lazarus , it would have smelled . We would have another President who won the majority of the electoral votes but lost the popular vote . The forty-million-plus who overcame voter apathy , alienation , etc. , and voted for Carter would be told : " Sorry , folks , one man , one vote has an asterisk after it . " Three Presidents , John Q. Adams in 1824 , Rutherford B. Hayes in 1876 and Benjamin Harrison in 1888 , have been elected under this anomaly . It obviously can happen again . Will the voters of 1980 or 1984 or 1988 accept this inconsistency ' with the same equanimity that they had 88 or 100 years ago ? A possible solution is that the winner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electoral votes . These votes would be taken from the present electoral votes of the states . The larger or more populous , states , for example , would give up 11/2 or 2 of their electoral votes and the smaller states one electoral vote or a fraction thereof . Fractions would hardly present a problem , as some states vote in this manner at the national party conventions . I believe this proposal would be an acceptable compromise between the proponents and opponents of our present electoral system . It certainly would help avoid a fourth contorted and possibly contested national election . ( Rev. ) CLAUDE LENEHAN Washington , Nov. 4 , 1976 ? A Case for a Holiday To the Editor : While Russell Baker 's Nov. 2 column was repudiated that day by the electorate , Mr. Baker neglected one suggestion that would greatly stimulate voter participation in our major elections . A principal problem ( perhaps second to registration ) is the inconvenience caused by standing in long lines at the polls and by time constraints in getting there . We designate days in commemoration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dead and our labor force ( not to mention religious holidays ) as times wheh national importance and recognition override our normal day 's activities . Surely no single day deserves more ' recognition as one of importance  --  if not in celebration of the past then certainly out of responsiveness to the future  --  than national Election Day , Closing business operations on this day would certainly enable people to have an easier time making their way to the polls , Transkei : United Nations vs. the Xhosa The country should , by designating Election Day as a holiday , make it public policy that a person 's participation in the political system is deemed on this day more important than his economic participation . CRAIG M. BROOKS Philadelphia , Nov , 3 , 1978                     