@@730944

txt President Nixon called on the American people today to exert pressure on Congress to adopt his legislative proposals . Striking a conciliatory tone toward the Democratic-controlled Congress , in marked contrast to his more combative attitude last Wednesday when he characterized Congress ' record as disappointing , the President today emphasized that the questions at issue are not ones of partisanship , or ones of the President vs. the Congress . " It is important , on all sides , that we approach this legislative season with a willingess to make those reasonable adjustments that are necessary to reach a common objective , " he said in his national radio speech . HE DESCRIBED the brief address as a " opus on some of the highlights " of the midterm State of the Union Message that he will send to Capitol Hill tomorrow . That message is expected to be 10,000 words long , and include recommendations on 50 different pieces of administration-backed legislation . There was no mention of Watergate or the controversies between the White House and the Senate Watergate committee and the special Watergate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. Dean III , former White House counsel . It was apparent , however . that Nixon was reterring to Watergate when he drew a parallel with American gains on the international front during the last four years and his hopes for the pending legislative package . " WE WERE able to achieve detente with Russia and China and end the war in Viet Nam I because we sought to turn the world away from things that divide it , and to build a new pattern of rela ' tionships on the basis of those things that can unite nations and peoples whatever their differences , " he said . " By the same token , the time has come to focus here at home on these great goals that can unite all Americans . that affect all Americans , and in which all Americans have a direct and personal stake . " The six major areas cited by the President where Congress can take action to help all the people were anti-inflation measures , energy bills , urban programs , human resources proposals , crime and drug laws , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now before the Congress can have a significant impact on the life of each of you , " Nixon told his radio audience . HE WARNED against excessive spending , against making too many cuts in the defense budget , and against ignoring energy legislation designed to increase the nation 's energy supply . While urging cooperation between the legislative and executive branches Nixon said there were " three basic principles " which he feels are essential , hinting that there will be no compromise from the White House . They are : Maintaining the national defense sufficient to safeguard the country from attack and to provide an incentive for mutual force reduction . ? Holding down total federal expenditures . ? Not placing limits on Presidential powers " that will jeopardize the capacity of the President , in this and in future administrations , to carry out his responsibilities to the American people . " THE " SPOTLIGHT of public attention and public debate " must be held directly on the major issues that face the country , he said . " It is your attention , " Nixon told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion , that in the final analysis will determine whether and how well these goals are achieved . "                     