@@730323

txt " Not again ? " said the hotel clerk as he greeted this correspondent upon arrival . " Not more trouble here ? " We assured him it was a purely routine , friendly visit . " But every time you newsmen come to Dacca , it 's because there 's a war or civil unrest or a bad storm . What is it this time ? " he persisted . We reminded him the arrival of a lone Western journalist scarcely constituted a press deluge of the type which arrives for major developments . But one could not help recalling that previous visits to what is now Bangladesh usually coincided with some tragic happening for the Bengalis . Such as the great cyclone of November , 1970 , the arrest of election-winner Sheikh , Mujibur Rahman in March , 1971 , and the subsequent Pakistan Army orgy of violence against the Bengalis of East Pakistan . And the flight of all those millions of Bengalis as refugees to India in April , May , June , and July of 1971 . Followed by the build-up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1971 . Then , finally , the afternoon of war in January and February this year , with Sheikh Mujib released from arrest and returned to power as Prime Minister of a new nation facing enormous problems . Exciting landings Now it was time for another look at Bangladesh and its status . First , the little personal things that greet and impress the newcomer . Dacca 's Tejgaon Airport has had its runway repaired , but when it rains heavily the old bomb craters tend to sink a bit , making bumpy or exciting landings . Eventually this capital will have a new airport , which dampens enthusiasm for spending a lot on the old one . Lacking any arrival cards , harried immigration officers scribble all the passport details on pieces of paper that may or may not survive the day . But within two days visitors must report to the foreign registration office to ensure the government knows all about them . The taxis  --  that faithful barometer for measuring a nation 's true stamina and welfare  --  are in short supply and dreadful con3ition with fluttering steering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deen repaired at a curbside bicycle sta ; ion . Yet these rattletraps now charge ; candalous prices , literally whatever the Myer thinks the passenger will pay under ieavy protest . After some pyrotechnics , we settled for fare from airport to hotel roughly three imes higher than last year . Vo Grand Hotel ' In fairness , one must admit petrol is ex  --  ensive , most of the vehicles were requisiioned during the war and rescued in bad iondition , repairs are constant and expensive , and almost no new cars are being mported . Dacca 's two modern hotels are awash vith diplomats , air crews , relief officials , echnicians of many sorts ? all foreign . Many Russians and East Europeans are risible , and the managements try to keep Inly comparatively friendly groups on the a me floor . // *Bangladesh revisited : scenes of noisy progress // During our stay here , the Russians had their own favorite end of the lobby where they convened at times by the dozen . They are husky , uncommunicative young men , reputed to comprise two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around the country in his big Soviet helicopter , a machine some Western diplomats claim he finds embarrassing to use . A genuine international " Grand Hotel " atmosphere is lacking here , however , for a week 's careful observation has disclosed not a single " femme fatale " type . There are a few women , but they clearly are businesslike , no-nonsense females . One American male , a bachelor who resides elsewhere in the city , nevertheless insists " there are some pretty girls in your hotel . " He drops in regularly to verify this impression . The city itself is fuller , noisier , and dirtier , which probably denotes progress . The people seem to be getting enough to eat , although pockets of scarcity are reported in some isolated rural sectors . Bengali officials occasionally are accused of withholding rice , waiting until there is a scarcity , then selling it at inflated prices to very poor , very hungry people . One such official recently was beaten to death by irate villagers . Finance Minister Tajuddin Ahmed 's national budget , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ June 30 as a budget for reconstruction . " When you understand it , " quipped Western businessmen around town , " please explain it to me . " The big Mirpur bridge just outside Dacca remains a major bottleneck . A temporary one-lane span for light traffic is available , as it was six months ago . But heavy trucks still must be ferried across the river , with long queues of vehicles laden with all manner of relief supplies waiting to get to the Dacca side to haul their loads northward . Nothing whatever is being done to rebuild Mirpur bridge . An American company was constructing a new bridge there before the war , and it now has claims against Pakistan for unpaid bills . Bangladesh is not likely to foot Pakistan 's bills here : It feels it lost enough from Pakistan exploitation . Nor is Pakistan likely to give much priority to paying bills incurred in Bangladesh , now that it is a separate country . So nobody pays , and the bridge pilings and heavy American equipment stand idle while traffic crawls past , slithering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meanwhile , has left many contradictions . For example , the performance of the young Mukti Bahini leader who blew up the United States Information Center library in Dacca last December as a protest against the alleged approach of the U.S. aircraft carrier Enterprise into the Bay of Bengal . The Enterprise , it turned out , never came within 1,000 miles of Chittagong , but he warned the 150 people in the library to get out and then wrecked it . Needless to say , he made quite an impression on the librarians . So they recognized him immediately when he came in recently to use the books in the library 's temporary headquarters . But officials decided to let bygones be bygones , since the quest for knowledge seemed genuine enough . Books is books , as they say , and times have certainly changed here .                     