@@730753

txt The Soviet art exhibit , sought by art museums thruout the country , will go on display at the Chicago Art Institute in late July and early August for about a three-week period . Informed sources here told The Chicago Tribune today the 41 paintings , never seen in the United States before they went on exhibit April 1 at Washington 's National Gallery of Art , also will go to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art . Information elicited from a spokesman there indicated Fort I Worth , Tex. , will be the third city . The announcement will be made officially tomorrow morning in Los Angeles by Dr. Armand Hammer of that city , board chairman of Occidental Petroleum Corp . and art collector . It was Hammer who , thru long business and cultural associations with the Soviets , was instrumental in bringing the exhibit of Impressionist and Post-Impressionist paintings to this country . APPEARING WITH Hammer in Los Angeles will be John Pictures on back page Maxon , associate curator of the Chicago Art Institute ; Kenneth Donahue , the Los Angeles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth . Officials of the Chicago Art Institute , hopeful they would be one of the few chosen galleries to exhibit the priceless collection , have feared predict or talk about their prospects lest any premature news leak risk loss of the paintings for a Chicago showing . Occidental Petroleum sources also have closely guarded the news . Since opening at the National Gallery  --  the exhibit closes here April 29 ? nearly a quarter of a million people have viewed it , according to gallery sources . It has been the biggest attraction at the National Gallery since the Mona Lisa was put on display in 1963 . THE SOVIET collection includes works by Cezanne , Gauguin , Van Gogh , Matisse , Monet , Renoir , Rousseau , Picasso , and Pissarro , from Leningrad 's Hermitage and the Pushkin State Museum in Moscow . For Chicago , it will be the second art coup in five months . In February , the Art Institute put together an exhibit of Renoir works by borrowing from other museums and private collectors . That show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ records with 354,169 visitors . The merest hint that Chicago might be given consideration in getting the Soviet show came on March 30 when Dr. Hammer appeared at a preopening press conference in Washington rith Mrs. Ekaterina Furtseva , the Soviet minister of culture . Most of the Soviet paintings were purchased in Paris during czarist days by t w o Russian millionaires ? Sergei Shchukin and Ivan Morosov . After the 1917 Revolution , their collections became the property of the state .                     