@@734280

txt A pattern of resistance is building against Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini 's relentless campaign to clamp a fundamentalist religious straitjacket on Iran . On the surface , the ayatollah still seems to have a big enough mass following to retain control . Islamic revolutionary fervor has not yet dimmed . He is backed by many segments of Iranian opinion , not least the urban and rurar " peasantry " in a country that is more than 50 percent illiterate . But disillusionment has begun to set in , particularly with his failure to satisfy the peoples ' greatly raised economic expectations . The economy is only staggering along , if anything still going downhill ; unemployment is huge , inflation high . The danger for the ayatollah in all this is that he must offer some practical answers to the peoples ' needs lest the disillusionment spread beyond the growing but at present limited and mainly leftist opposition . For the time being , the anti-Khomeini forces are biding their time while the more extreme elements strike at the edges of his power . // From page 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own sense of urgency or desperation in a speech to Islamic revolutionary guards . Saying that misguided people were uniting in underground activities against his revolutionary authorities , he added : " If we want to reach final victory we must know what to do , so that we will not suffer the same fate as Hitler , who committed suicide . " Latest developments in the still deeply unsettled country include : ? Assassination of a prominent lay supporter of the ayatollah 's fundamentalist blueprint for Iran , Taqi Haj Tarkhani . ? Explosions interrupting the flow of oil and gas from the Aghajari field in southern Iran to the huge refinery port on the gulf at Abadan . Analysis ? The wounding by explosives of three policemen and two Islamic revolutionary guards in another Iranian gulf port , Khorramshahr . ? The dismissal of military police chief Gen. Saif Amir Rahimi a few hours after he had dramatically announced July 9 that he had uncovered a plot to provoke confrontation and weaken the revolution . The general promptly said he would resist his firing . General Rahimi 's allegation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the uniformed services as Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan makes a new effort to restore their organizational efficiency after the near anarchy and chaos that followed the overthrow of the Shah . But the killing of Mr. Tarkhani , the pipeline explosions , and the wounding of the policemen and revolutionary guards may well be part of a pattern of resistance ? albeit not coordinated . They reflect a common desperation by antifundamentalist or anti-Khomeini forces to strike at the Ayatollah . without at this stage risking an open , all-out confrontation which they might all too easily lose . If and when such a confrontation does come , it is likely to pit the left ( probably under radical leadership but including even moderate social democrats ) versus the religious fundamentalists . Two things can be noted about the Tarkhani assassination and the explosions along the Aghajari pipeline and in Khorramshahr . First , responsibility for killing Mr. Tarkhani was claimed by a secret organization called " Forcian , " which also boasts of murdering Gen. Vali Ullah Qarani and Ayatollah Morteza Motahari earlier this year . Forcian is thought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late All Shariati , who under the Shah preached an anti-clericalist revolutionary ideology clothed in the language of early Shia Islam . An even bigger group with guns opposed to the Ayatollah Khomeini 's fundamentalism is the Mujahideen-e Khalq ( Crusaders of the People ) , which professes Islam but manages to combine this profession with radical , even revolutionary ideology . Second , the explosions along the pipeline ( still not yet confirmed as sabotage ) and in Khorramshahr were in the oil-rich province of Khuzestan , where Arabs constitute a sizeable minority and contribute significantly to the work-force in the oil fields . Khuzestan is a potentially explosive seat of opposition to Ayatollah Khomeini because the Arab minority deeply resents Persian domination . In addition , the workers in the oilfields , both before and since the revolution , have been more susceptible to or infiltrated by marxist or communist teachings than workers in any other section of Iranian industry . There are three main groups under marxist influence or direction in Iran . First , there is the old official communist party , called the Tudeh Party , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by almost fawning on Ayatollah Khomeini . Second , there is the National Communist Party of Iran , outwardly putting a distance between itself and Moscow . Third , and perhaps most important , are the armed Fedayeen-e Khalq . Apparently recognizing that the left is where an eventually effective opposition might come from , the government has recently announced laws making it a crime to incite strikes or engage in " collectivist activities . " Collectivist activities would be all the easier for leftists to organize if the economic situation further deteriorates . Small wonder then that Ayatollah Khomeini wants his fundamentalist straitjacket in place before any such economic deterioration invites effective leftist exploitation  --  and before the left comes out of its present disarray .                     