@@732976

txt New York State has asked the Federal Government for $4.3 million  --  more than three times the amount provided by law  --  to administer this summer 's program to feed needy children . The program gave the state bureaucratic difficulties last year . Officials of the United States Agriculture Department , which finances the multimillion-dollar program , appear inclined to grant at least part of the unusual request , although they have made no commitment to the state . The State Board of Regents has said , however , that it will not allow the State Education Department to manage the program this year unless adequate funds are provided to administer it . Just what would happen in that case is unclear . The Agriculture Department also has agreed to pick up , as a " demonstration project , " as much as $700,000 in additional costs that might be incurred by using 131 New York City schools as distribution sites for this year 's program . These actions are part of a general scramble here and in Washington to tighten the management of the program in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theft and questionable business practices that plagued last year 's Summer Food Service Program . New U.S. Regulations to Be Issued This effort has already resulted in the relieving of the top two Education Department officials involved in last year 's program from responsibility for this year 's program . This week new and considerably more stringent Federal regulations will be issued to govern the program . The Summer Food Service Program is intended to serve as a summer counterpart to the National School Lunch Program , providing free meals to children in economically deprived areas . It is financed entirely by the United States Department of Agriculture , and administered in New York State by the Education De- partment . Although the final figures are still being tallied , last year 's New York State program , which served more than one million meals daily , appears to have cost about $70 million . This sum represented the value of food distributed and was in addition to the administrative money that the Federal Government pro ' vide &; According to drafts of its management plan for the 1977 program , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requested to augment its monitoring of areas that caused it the greatest problems last year . These included : II/Irregularities in the bidding procedures used by the organizations , known as sponsors , that distributed food , and the companies that provided catering services . These brought chirges from legislators and public-interest organizations that some sponsors might have acted in collusion with food suppliers  --  through kickback schemes and other maneuvers ' to milk thousands of dollars from the pro ; gram . The state said last year that it lacked the time and the manpower to review each of the contracts , a si uation it does not wish to repeat . 1Wasted food , through failures to adjust the amount of food delivered to distribution sites to the number of children who actually show up for meals , through the serving of spoiled food and through the removal , sometimes in bulk , of food from distribution sites by persons for whom it was not intended . Critics of the program have charged that because sponsors are paid for administrative costs based on the number of meals they serve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of meals . This provision will be essentially the same in the 1977 Agriculture Department regulations , and thus the state feels closer monitoring will be necessary . Under the Federal regulations , the state . would normally receive only 2 percent of its 1976 volume  --  or about $1.4 million ? to administer the 1977 program . Officials of the program complained publicly late last year that this would be inadequate to prevent a repetition of the problems that dogged the 10-week program in 1976 . Shift in Distribution Awaited ' They are hoping to be assisted not only by the additional funds , which they requested in a letter to the Agriculture Department , but also by the shift to distribution through public schools and by the tighter regulations . The officials feel that they could have better control over meals served in the schools , thus cutting down fraud and waste in the program . ' " Everyone has been saying that using the schools would be better , and more expensive , " said Dr. Thomas Calvin , the Education Department 's assistant director for federally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see . " The use of the schools would require Board of Education approval . Persons involved with the proposal on the city level feel that with the Federal guarantee of funds there should be little opposition to the move . Dr. Calvin was one of the two officials of last year 's program who have been relieved of responsibility for this year 's . His duties , as well as those of Dr. Stanley Campbell , who was shifted from the program 's management last month , will be assumed by Carol Steinberger , who managed New Jersey 's program last year . The new Federal regulations are designed to give the state greater latitude in deciding who is qualified to sponsor food distribution sites for the food-service program , according to William G. Boling , chief of child nutrition for the Agriculture Department . They would , for the first time , allow state administrators to use the past performance of a sponsor as grounds for denying participation in the program , and also provide " step-by-step certification " of the documents filed by participants in the program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both to deter falsification and to make it easier for the Government to take legal action in those cases that do occur . The regulations would also require disclosure of the names of all the officers and employees of sponsors and caterers in order to prevent conflicts of interest . Mr. Boling said the Federal regulations that he " dearly hopes " will be published in final form Tuesday would be even more stringent than the draft released in January and would embody many suggestions made by Representative Elizabeth Holtzman , Democrat of Brooklyn and a frequent critic of last year 's food program . Miss Holtzman had complained after the release of the draft regulations that , while they were a " significant improvement , " they needed additional tightening to eliminate " the collusive relationships which have existed between sponsors and vendors . "                     