@@728771

txt Are United States women 's colleges facing the fate of the hoop and the bustle ? Developments appear to add up to a terse : " Go coed or close your doors . " Some of the best-known all-women institutions are taking in men . Others , attempting to hold the line , are paying a price . Early reports indicate that applications at most women 's colleges are down as much as 50 percent for fall admission . One small women 's school , Monticello College at Godfrey , Ill. , has just closed up and sold out . Applications were off one-third from last year , when enrollment totaled only 383 . ED Constitutional issue ? " Parochiaid , " already a hot topic in several states , is moving toward the Washington scene . The Nixon administration appears inclined to support a dual system of education consisting of both public and parochial schools . After telling directors of the National Catholic Educational Association that " we must find ways to get public opinion behind you , " the President in March appointed a commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the specific problem of parochial schools . " Although the commission 's report is not expected until 1972 , opponents of parochiaid are already swinging into action against what they view as a constitutional abridgment and a threat to the viability of the public schools . ED Segregation academies Time was when educators in the South shrugged off the threat of private , segregated schools for white children . They are n't taking the trend lightly any more . Across the Deep South  --  especially in non-urban areas having a heavy percentage of black schoolchildren ? these " academies " are springing up in reaction to federally imposed desegregation plans . What bothers professional schoolmen most is that state legislators and other political leaders seem bent on aiding these schools . Some county school officials are said to be funneling public-school resources into the " segregation academies . " Complicating the picture is the fact that many of these schools are organized around churches , the word " Christian " often appearing in the school name . Some fundamentalist congregations , determined to have segregated education yet hard-pressed to pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ethics of taking state aid  --  in view of their traditional belief in separation of church and state . EEI Now , a surplus Too many teachers ? Some officials report that two out of every three of last month 's graduates applying for school jobs are turned down . Other sources indicate that even present staffs are being pared . Behind this switch-around from the recent teacher shortage stand two facts : ? American colleges are turning out huge numbers of teachers , more than ever before in history . ? School budgets have been trimmed in the financial crunch of federal-fund cutbacks and local taxpayer resistance . One outcome forecast : a stiffer attitude on the part of school boards against union demands for salary increases and benefits . Danger : endorsement Anticipated political activity this fall by thousands of American college students has campus administrations walking a tightrope . A number of campuses are scheduling a two-week recess just prior to the November general election to free students to campaign for congressional and local candidates . Some academicians wonder : " What has this to do with education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But college and university administrators are wary of possible reaction in their state capitals and in Washington . They are already acutely aware of how campus developments affect legislative action . Now they 've been warned that if their institution endorses candidates , the loss of their campus 's tax-free status is a distinct possibility .                     