@@729223

txt The threat of a nationwide rail strike eased today when the largest of the four unions involved in the dispute reached agreement on a new contract . Details of the settlement were withheld pending ratification by locals ' of  --  the 180,000-member union , the Brotherhood of Railway and - Airline Clerks . Two . smaller unions reached agreement Feb. 4 . This leaves only the United Transportation Union still without a settlement . UTU represents 90,000 workers . All-Night Session Today 's settlement came about 5 a . Chicago time after an all-night session with mediators from the Department of Labor . Labor Secretary James D. Hodgson made this statement after the - settlement : , " The demonstrated ability to reach agreement in the case of these three unions gives us every reason to expect that agreement should be achieved with the fourth union . " End of Strike Ban C. L , Dennis , president of the clerk 's union , said last week his union definitely would strike on March -1 if an agreement were not reached . The UTU has made no such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ban imposed Dec. 10 by Congress to halt a one-day walkout . All four unions struck , on Dec. 10 , but Congress enacted the emergency legislation , which also gave the workers a 13.5 per cent , or about a 50 cent an hour interim wage hike . Two unions , the Brotherhood of Maintenance Workers and the Hotel and Restaurant Employes Union , reached agreements on Feb. 4 . Respectively , they represent 60,000 and 3,000 workers . Report to Congress As - part of the congressional legislation , President Nixon was to report to Congress with proposals for ending the dispute . Those proposals were submitted ? on deadline last night . Altho they , were not made publin pending the return of Congress from , the long weekend holiday , the proposals were not expected to be much different from recommendations by a White House panel last year . The panel proposed a 37 per cent wage hike , which was opposed by management , and a liberalizing of work rules , which was opposed by labor . The administration has taken the position on many occasions that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the back-towork legislation expires March 1 , the government would have no recourse . Another rail union , the Brotherhood of Railway Signalmen , has , scheduled a walkout for March 5 . President Nixon would be able to invoke a 60-day cooling off period to prevent that strike were it to occur . The marathon session which produced the clerks ' settlement was presided over by Assistant Secretary of Labor-W . J. Usery Jr . and George Ives , chairman of the Federal Mediation Service .                     