@@732982

txt Letters pg . 16 Letters Toward ' Human Rights Impact Statements ' To the Editor : President Carter must be commended for his bold human-rights initiative . It is imperative , however , that he not back down now in the face of increased Soviet repression of dissidents . Indeed , there are several additional steps he should take to assure that his initiative will be viewed with the utmost seriousness around the world . President Carter should consider appointing . as a member of the White House staff , an Ombudsman of International Human Rights , whose job it . would be to report to the President on the status of human right 's in countries with which we have dealings . It might be the job of this ombudsman to prepare " human rights impact statements " ? modeled after the environmental impact statement now required of certain legislation  --  which would assess the impact of treaties , trade agreements , grants in aid , weapons sales and other bilateral and multilateral international programs on the human rights of the Larry Engel people in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place considerations of human rights above economic and strategic considerations , but it would be obligated to be informed about and to consider the impact of its actions on human rights . Neutral standards can and should be developed for the evaluation of basic rights , such as freedom of speech , due process of law and protection against discrimination . These standards need not rigidly incorporate a single monolithic and culturally biased ethnic of freedom ; they can and should reflect the vast differences among societies in their expectations of liberty and in their current capacities to live with freedoms which have taken centuries to evolve in the Western world . Vietnam has taught us that we must not become the armed policeman to the world . But there is no reason why we may not aspire to becoming an important component of the world 's collective conscience in matters of human rights and civil liberties . ( Prof. ) ALAN M. DERSHOWITZ Harvard Law School Cambridge , Mass. , March 2 , 1977 Maine Settlers : ' Our Case Is Not So Weak ' Of Social Security And a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court 's ruling nullifying the dependency requirement for widowers , and probably husbands as well , as a " victory for the women 's movement " news story March 3 is to be guilty of severe myopia . This seemingly simple , equitable decision can only be the cause of the greatest inequity . Let me explain : The purpose of Social Security benefits is to replace a loss caused by retirement , death or disability . Where no dependency existed prior to the occurrence of one of those three events , there is no real legislative purpose in paying benefits . However , one may legitimately ask , why require dependency for males and not for females ? The fact is that the Social Security Act originally did require a form of dependency for female survivors . However , a Congressman zealously fighting for his non-dependent constituent prevailed upon Congress to abolish the dependency requirement for widows , thus setting the stage for the current decision . The decision will place an additional burden on young wage earners  --  both male and female  --  to pay for benefits for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solution is for Congress to reinstate art identical dependency requirement for both males and females . But can we reasonably expect Congress to pass a " deliberalization " of the Social Security Act , at the risk of losing the votes of adversely affected potential beneficiaries ? MARTIN GREENBLATT Spring Valley , N. Y. , March 4 , 1977 ? To the Editor : In her Feb. 27 Op-Ed article , Barbara Dorr Mullen says it for all of us : " A mite too young to retire , a mite too old for hiring , " and not yet eligible for Social Security . Unfortunately , if Mrs. Mullen imagines that Social Security will solve any problems , she is in for a profound shock . Income , however large , from real estate , investments , inheritance , etc .. will not stop or alter the monthly checks . But earned income carries a built-in penalty . Of every dollar over the allowable pittance , she will have to pay back half to Social Security the following year , which could be a year with little income or none @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worst is yet to COME . MARGARET O'CONNELL Hempstead , L. I. , March 3 , 1977 To the Editor : Journalists are giving much space to the claims of the Penobscot and Passamaquoddy Tribes for a substantial share of the State of Maine , including old cities and the ancestral homes of many farm families , mine included . These ' claims are being reported with an approving air , with no more than a " sorry , old fellow " pat on the back for the people who for generations have turned these lands into homes and productive capital . But our case is not so weak before the law . It is well set forth by the Attorney General of Maine in a nearly full-page article in the weekend issue of The Bangor Daily News of Feb. 19-20 , and is based on events long antedating the Indian Non-Intercourse Act of 1790 , on which the Indians base their claim . In 1755 , when the French and Indian Wars were under way , the Province of Massachusetts declared war on the Penobscot and Passamaquoddy Tribes , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1759 the war in Maine was ended , and Gov . Thomas Pownal traveled up the Penobscot River and issued a proclamation declaring that the land of the Penobscot and their allies , the Passamaquoddy , had been To the Editor : I am offended by the Feb. 27 letter from Bernard H. Goldstein , chairman of the Special Committee on Penology of the New York City Bar Association . He is critical of those who favor " severity " to cope with the problems of delinquency and suggests that their attention is diverted from the other problem areas of housing , schools and discrimination . We are not concerned about " delinquency " and " delinquents . " Our concern is with " murder " and " murderers , " unless Mr. Goldstein believes that a juvenile who brazenly robs a small storekeeper and then wantonly shoots him to death is a " delinquent . " People are now more fearful for their own safety than they are concerned about the social climate that breeds delinquents . When a building is on fire , you do not first telephone the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better building . You call the lost through conquest by Massachusetts . This act was subsequently acknowledged , the Maine Attorney General reports , by both tribes in various documents , in 1760 and later . Although the tribes continued to occupy various lands , they did so at the sufferance of Massachusetts . There is much else in the Attorney General 's statement which is important . But the crucial fact is that , though Massachusetts did agree in 1775 to set aside some land for hunting and fishing by the Penobscot in return for their help in the Revolution , in 1790 neither the Penobscot nor the Passamaquoddy held any legal right of possession to land in Maine . This would be why my ancestors and other settlers in eastern and northern Maine in the late 18th and early 19th centuries moved into the area without opposition and in confidence that their titles as well as their lives were safe and secure . And it explains why the Federal Government as well as other buyers of land in that region have never had reason to question their land titles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1977 The Lewis homestead is in Springfield , Me. fire department . Mr. Goldstein needs to know that we are having a fire . People have a right to life and safety . Their rights are certainly equal to the rights of murderers ( delinquents ) . We need to put the fire out . After that we can turn to the broader problem of building better buildings . JACK BERNHARD New City , N.Y. , Feb. 27 , 1977 City Employees ' Share To the Editor : We all realize that New York City is facing a serious crisis . Therefore , I believe that City Hall and Albany should get the ball rolling so that all city service employees pay their full share of city taxes , irrespective of where they live , It is unfair to have native New Yorkers pay high taxes to support the civil service employees ' salaries and huge pensions when they move out of the city to avoid their responsibility . Naturally , this does n't refer to retirees . PHIL BNOPPING Bronx , Feb. 28 , 1977 Economy : To Promote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Put the Fire Out ' To the Editor : Your Feb. 26 editorial on " Deficit Thinking " rightly questions the view currently held by many conservative ethics that the slightest danger of higher inflation via government budgetary expansion must be avoided at any cost , including the cost of continued high unemployment . Another cost which needs to be emphasized is the continued low level of capital expenditures . Conceivably , private investment could move up strongly on its own without any further stimulus to demand via government action , but there is little in the way of evidence to support this optimistic outlook . Indeed , all recent reports point in the opposite direction . In any event , as your editorial indicates , this is the basic issue in the current debate over the Administration 's proposed budgetary program . While the mainsprings of investment are far from clear , the key role played by demand expansion is now widely accepted by most economists . The stimulus under President Carter 's proposed budget would come to substantially less than one percent of the country 's G.N.P .. relatively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : u t . That the inflation rate would he significantly affected by such a limited type of action at this time seems extremely unlikely . Critics of the Carter grogram appear to hold the view that In expansion fueled entirely by private expenditures can avoid any inflation . vhile one initiated by governmental Iction can not . Some increase in prices , ncluding higher interest rates , can be xpected in either case . Those who say ve need an absolute guarantee against ny further increase in inflation are Bally saying we must be reconciled to a continued deficiency in private investment . While there is little likelihood that the effect of the proposed budget on prices will be serious , fear of such an outcome on the part of businessmen may nevertheless hold back the rise in capital spending . If this proves to he the case , the business community may well end tr , in the no-win position where the current expansion can not move ahead with any vigor without budgetary action by government but where our business leaders can not bring themselves to support this necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation 's as well if they would rethink their position on this crucial issue and work with the government to promote a stronger expansion ? FRANK C. PIERSON Joseph Wharton Prof. of Political Economy , Swarthmore College Swarthmore , Pa. , Feb. 28 , 1977 Tevye in Vilnius To the Editor : A March 2 letter proposed a showing of " Fiddler on the Roof " in the Soviet Union . In fact , a source-story for that musical . " Tevye the Milkman , " has been performed in the Soviet Union as a play . It has recently been produced , in Yiddish , by the Jewish state theater of Vilnius . MATTHEW LAUFER Bronx , March 3 , 1977                     