@@728635

txt President Nixon 's ardent opposition to any Senate restrictions on his conduct of the war in Indo-China stems from a single , basic axiom of foreign policy . Simply stated , it is this : When dealing with communists , do n't make empty threats . The consequences to the Communists of not meeting legitimate , reasonable United States demands should be made clear , according to this theory . And failure to meet them should elicit a quick , decisive punishment from the U.S. Withholding an appropriate punishment , this theory goes , will be interpreted as weakness . Thus it was , in the case of Cambodia , President Nixon repeatedly warned the North Vietnamese that they would be taking " grave risks " if they attempted to " jeopardize the security of our remaining forces in Vietnam by increased military action in Vietnam , in Cambodia , or in Laos . " The President was determined that this not be regarded as an empty threat by the Communist side . Eyes on Paris talks Now , in the face of a Senate revolt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He believes it essential that he be allowed in the future to impress the Communists in a way they can understand . Experts on dealing with Communist regimes say that a sharp rap on the knuckles is often an effective way of getting concessions . This is why White House officials still believe that something could come out of the Paris negotiations . Soviet scholar and former U.S. Ambassador to the Soviet Union , George F. Kennan , referring , in this case , to the Russians , urged American policymakers to " make no request " of the Communists " unless we are prepared to make them feel our displeasure in a practical way in case the request is not granted . " He added that the administration should not be afraid " to use heavy weapons fOr what seem to us to be minor matters . " He suggested that in dealing with the Communists it is " sometimes necessary " to " take a sledgehammer to swat a fly . " Mr. Kennan warned that " they are quick to sense and take advantage of indecision or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure to maintain at all times an attitude of decisiveness and alertness in the defense of his own interests . " Some may argue that conditions have changed considerably since this was written in the deep cold-war years . And it can be argued that such a theory is not directly applicable to Asian communism , with its abundant component of nationalism . Still , this is the general theory being used here to explain the President 's determined opposition to the Cooper-Church amendment and other bills now being considered by the Senate calling for a halt to U.S. military activities in Cambodia and elsewhere . The record shows Mr. Nixon has followed the axiom carefully . In his past troop-withdrawal speech on April 20 , President Nixon made the warning in clear , unambiguous terms to the other side . " I repeat what I said Nov. 3 and Dec. 15 , " he declared . " If I conclude increased enemy action jeopardizes our remaining forces in Vietnam , I shall not hesitate to take strong and effective measures to deal with that situation . " // *Nixon wants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced his decision to send American troops into Cambodia , in what some , including members of his own Cabinet , considered a sledgehammer tactic . Explaining his decision at a press conference later , Mr. Nixon recalled that he had " warned " the Communists " that increased enemy action in Laos , in Cambodia , as well as in Vietnam , was something we had noted . .. and if I found , that increased enemy action would jeopardize the remaining forces . . . I would take strong action to deal with it . " The warning was clear . The action was decisive and unexpected . The threat was not empty . Ad-'ministration sources are saying that the comparatively moderate responses from both the Soviet Union and Communist China indicate that the Amercan President was speaking a language that the Communists could well understand , that ' gotten message was clear , and that it had gotten through . The fact that the Chinese Communists merely postponed the scheduled May 20 meeting in Warsaw between the U.S. and Chinese envoys for " several weeks " instead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permanently endangered his " era of negotiation " by his acts . This is equally true of the Soviet Union , which still has not yet recognized Prince Norodom Sihanouk 's government in exile as the true Cambodian government . The Soviet leadership , furthermore , has apparently not allowed the Cambodian affair to interfere with arms-limitations talks in Vienna . In fact , there is some evidence , as Mr. Nixon has argued , that his action conferred " credibility " on his threat  --  at least in Communist camps . The White House says such credibility would be diluted by any restrictions now being considered by the Senate . Even compromise versions of the Cooper-Church amendment to the foreign military sales bill , which would prohibit an extension of U.S. military activities in Cambodia beyond the June 30 deadline set by the President , are considered unacceptable to the President .                     