@@731403

txt A FEDERAL investigation of the Cook County Board and some of its employes over reports of corruption in county zoning matters is under way . Thirteen of the 14 board members received subpenas yesterday from the U. S. attorney 's office to appear before the federal grand jury or subpenas from the Internal Revenue Service for their financial records . The 14th board member , Joseph Woods , said he had been out of town , but that he had an appointment late in the afternoon to talk to the IRS . He said he expected the IRS to subpena his records . MICHAEL L. Igoe Jr. , secretary to the County Board and the son of a former federal judge , already has testified before the grand jury . He reportedly was questioned Wednesday and Thursday about procedures in board matters and in zoning cases . Bernard J. O'Brien , zoning administrator for the board 's Department of Building and Zoning , and Board President George W. Dunne are among those subponaed by the grand jury . Dunne refused to say what date was set for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be next week . A Loop attorney , Robert E. Haskins , who blow the whistle on Ald. Paul T. Wigoda 149th in the rezoning of the old Edgewater Golf Club , reportedly was being questioned about numerous Cook County zoning cases he handled for builders and developers . ONE INVOLVED the rezoning of 98 acres near Northbrook to permit the owner , Thomas Origor , wealthy developer and owner of the Chicago Fire football team , to build an apartment complex . Floyd Fulle of Des Plaines , a Republican board member and Cook County Republican chairman , said he had received an IRS subpena for his personal and business financial records . He said he had talked the matter over with Dunne and they agreed that everything possible should be done to cooperate with the federal authorities and " clear the air " of charges involving the County Board . The County Board Is made up of 10 members elected from the City of Chicago and five from the suburbs . All board members from the city are Democrats and all from the suburbs traditionally are liepublicans . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago by the death of Lillian Piotrowski , a Chicago Democrat . Only a few days ago Fulle issued an angry denunciation over persistent reports that he was under investigation or that he soon would be indicted . HE SAID that In the 10 years be has been a board member , the board had never reversed a recommendation by the County Zoning Board of Appeal to deny a zoning change sought by a builder or developer . Several times , however , the County Hoard had rejected zoning changes recommended by the Board of Appeals , Fulle said . " I have nothing to hide and I want to put an end to all these ugly rumors , " Mille said                     