@@732106

txt Egypt and Israel are near agreement on the major hurdle in the interim peace talks , Israeli sources said Sunday , with Egypt accepting Israeli technicians at a key listening post in the mountains east of the Suez Canal . In return , the Israelis have accepted an additional five-mile advance by the Egyptians and 36 more tanks on the east bank of the Suez . Thus the way seems clear for a new interim agreement , barring last minute hitches . Egypt previously demanded that all Israelis withdraw from the Gidi and Mitla passes , the passes thru which any Egyptian force would have to move in an attack . " ON THE SUBJECT of most Items , agreement is quite clos e , " Secretary of State Henry Kissinger said . This was his most optimistic remark since the current shuttle began . In Alexandria a high Egyptian official said Sunday that efforts to reach a new Egyptian-Israeli interim accord are " fluid and promising . " Presidential spokesman Tahsin Bashir said United States Ambassador Hermann Eilts paid two calls on Foreign Minister Ismail Fahmy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Egyptian government by Kissinger , who was in Israel . The latest agreement would have the key listening post at Umm Khashiba in the Gidi Pass manned by a " symbolic American presence , " Israeli sources said . The American flag would be flown , but Israelis would actually operate the equipment . That way , one Israeli official said , " we can tell whether the MIGs are warming up on the Egyptian airfields . " THE EGYPTIANS have been offered an equally useful listening post into Israeli-held territory on the eastern side of the passes . Reuters news agency told of another breakthru , saying that Israeli and American sources have reported an Egyptian pledge not to join in a new war if it is started by other Arab na lions . However , the sources said that terms of the interim peace agreement would free Egypt to join the fight if Israel were the aggressor . Kissinger will carry Israel 's reaction to the latest offers back to Egypt Monday morning . About two more round trips in the shuttle process will still be necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. officials . Israel has agreed to Egypt 's advancing 18 miles east instead of 13 and having 76 tanks instead of 90 . Kissinger delivered Egypt 's proposal to Israeli cabinet members Saturday night and Sunday morning , and then the cabinet members met for four hours to discuss them. , AFTER THAT , Kissinger met again with premier Yitzhak Rabin and others for 91/2 hours . Asked about Umm Khashiba , Kissinger replied , " I do not want to go thru every problem . " This was one of the problems that contained to be dealt with when I came out here . We have made good progress in relation to it . " Asked whether the Egyptians have agreed to allow American technicians at listening posts , Kissinger said , " That is another issue on which we have made progress . " Do you think it is all wrapped up ? Kissinger was asked . " I can not be sure because we have not actually started drafting anything yet , " he said . " That will become clearer in a number of days . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rudets oil fields . They said that despite Tel Aviv news reports to the contrary , Sadat has not withdrawn an earlier agreement that the pact would run until still another meat is signed three years or more fro:n EOM Details of the settlement are to he worked out by joint Egyptian-Israeli commissions , with the United Nations taking part but having no vote , the sources said .                     