@@733721

txt Letters DAVID D. RUTSTEIN , M.D.THOMAS W. BULMERLENORE GLANZEARL D. OSBORNALVIN TOFFLE ... pg . A18 Letters Toward Opening Medical School Doors To the Editor : Mr. Bakke will be admitted to medical school , but the problem remains . Many cases will ascend the legal ladder in an unlikely attempt to reach a clearcut solution . Now we need a medical school admission policy that avoids the legal questions and attacks the underlying problem . Let us agree on a set of assumptions : ( 1 ) The major social responsibility of a medical school is to educate the best doctors for research and practice to give the best possible medical care to everybody . ( 2 ) A society has the responsibility to aid intrinsically capable disadvantaged students so that they can compete fairly for medical school admission with theirmore fortunate peers . ( 3 ) The present impasse is mainly due to the small proportion of fully qualified disadvantaged students in the pool of medical school applicants . Increasing that proportion would relieve the situation . The proportion . of qualified disadvantaged applicants can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for very gifted students at the time of medical school application ( the Harvard Health Career Summer Program ) and early in secondary school education for promising youngsters looking forward to being a doctor . The former provides opportunities to capable disadvantaged students being educated at relatively inadequate colleges . It has had limited usefulness and should be continued and expanded . More important is a thoroughgoing program at an earlier age for promising disadvantaged students aspiring to a medical career . The Westinghouse Science Talent Search of the 1940 's attempting to compensate for the reduced number of scientists educated during World War II pointed the way . The program of the American Foundation for Negro Affairs ( AFNA ) in Philadelphia has demonstrated since 1971 that this concept is applicable to medical school admission . The program includes close cooperation with the Philadelphia medical schools ; identification and preceptor placement of promising students in the second secondary school year ; identification of deficiencies in science subsequently repaired by special courses and tutorials ; financial aid usually through part-time jobs such as laboratory assistants in a medical school , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program has been expanded to the law in Philadelphia and to medicine and law in New Orleans . The sorely-needed upgrading of elementary and secondary schools for disadvantaged students is critical but not limit ing. as demonstrated by very impressive accomplishment . Over 1,000 stu dents in Philadelphia and New Orleans have been admitted to the medical program , now supported by the Department of Health , Education and Welfare . The immediate need is leadership . Outstanding U.S. medical schools could make a major contribution by the appointment of a committee to review accomplishment to date and to make specific recommendations to all medical schools and to government concerning further local and national implementation and financing . If a successful program were launched , the proportion of qualified disadvantaged students in the pool of applicants would be increased . Students would be selected from this larger pool of applicants using excellence as the major criterion . There would be greater opportunities for the disadvantaged student to enter medicine while high standards of research , education , and care could be maintained and improved . Mown ) . D. RUTSTEIN , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ridley Watts Professor of Preventive Medicine , Emeritus , Harvard Medical School , and Distinguished Physician , Veterans Administration . The Herd Instinct on the City 's Bus Lanes Patronizing ' Advice On the E.R.A. To the Editor : In yesterday 's editorial page you stated that it is not known why buses travel in clusters Given an initially uniform spacing of buses ( or elevators , etc. ) making stops upon demand to take on or release passengers , the random deviation from uniform spacing gives slower cars more time to accumulate . L " . litigaggs. passengers in front of them and vice versa . Having become more heavily loaded , they must stop more frequently to let off passengers , so there is both a first and second derivative positive feedback to the progressive clustering of independent vehicles . There is a wide assortment of strategies to deal with this well-known and understood phenomenon . However , those in position to implement them derive satisfaction from the discomfort and inconvenience of the passenger public . One notorious malefactor has been known to exult that the New York City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choice in the matter or do not have any credible alternative . Such a remark by the warden of an institution of criminal confinement would , of course , right fully bring down upon him ( or her ) the wrath of civil libertarians everywhere . But then , of course , no one expects public transportation to be covered by the prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment . THOMAS W. BULMER Yonkers , July I , 1978 To the Editor : Recently your editorial page carred a section with the heading " Out of Service " in which a comment was made about the vagaries of bus drivers and bus service . The question ( which you left unanswered ) about why must buses run in herds was facetiously answered in The Times ( London ) some years back . A reader wrote that once during the war a bus was hit by a buzz bomb and that , ever since , the buses have believed in the convoy system . Was one of our American buses ( We have the same problem in Chicago , too ) hit by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Or a brick ? LENORE GLANZ Chicago , July 3,1978 Budget Disarmament To the Editor : Your resume of the U.N . Special Session on Disarmament pointed out that there was wide acceptance of complete and total disarmament . This concept is radically different from arms limitation and that it was mentioned by so many speakers is a new direction for the world 's nations . They reason that so long as nations retain their military might wars will be likely , even inevitable . They have seen the armaments escalate to unacceptable levels since the SALT talks between the U.S. and Russia started and they feel that some other way of curbing the arms race must be found . Arms budgets are ascertainable and private groups in Sweden , England and the U.S. have been issuing figures on armaments including those of the Communist bloc . Further work on a larger scale with the help of government agencies could produce very reliable budget data . Budget reductions are something which both politicians and citizens understand and they would be welcome . When it comes to reducing any type of weapon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deep suspicion . The advocates of the budget route propose that every nation cut its military budget by 10 percent per year and that this be continued to the point where no nation has more armaments than are needed for , internal security . This budget route to reducing armaments and ultimately eliminating them is certainly worthy of serious consideration . EARL D. OSBORN New York , July 5 , 1978 To the Editor : Your July 4 editorial opposing extension of the deadline for ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment correctly recognizes that " the very process of amending the Constitution is at stake " ? and then draws precisely the wrong conclusions from this fact . Yes , the " nation 's founders wisely prescribed a slow and difficult process for amending the Constitution " ? but they lived in a low-change , slow-paced agricultural society in which it took a week to communicate from Philadelphia to New York . They lived in a world that was pre-global , and ? so far as women , blacks and native Americans were concerned ? predemocratic . Today welive in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acceleration of change will be the thoughtful design of new , more adaptive political institutions . It is time vie began thinking deeply about what form a constitution for the next century might take , including what new and more flexible amending procedures are required . In the meantime , the Equal Rights Amendment ? urgently needed to protect the limited gains won by women ? has been blocked by deliberate stalling tactics based on our anachronistic amending process . Your advice to women to be patient is patronizing . Worse yet , your notion that the Constitution must remain rigidly resistant to change does not protect the Constitution , it threatens it with further obsolescence and thus subverts its very legitimacy . ALVIN TOFFLER New York , July 4,1978 Objection to a Salute To the Editor : As a taxpayer and citizen , I object to the firing of a 21-gun salute by Fort Knox soldiers to honor a disgraced exPresident . If the community of Hyden , Kentucky , wishes to dignify Richard Nixon with a motorcade and a lot of general hoopla , that is its prerogative . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employ of the nation . The Secretary of the Army should issue a stern reprimand to the misguided officer who authorized chic artinn R.H.HAwEs Washington , July 3,1978 Concerning Saudi Arabia 's Role in the Middle East To the Editor : Amos Perlmutter begins his Op-Ed assessment of the Saudi role in the Middle East ( " The Saudis and Peace " June 29 ) with two basic errors of fact . In identifying the Saudi chief of intelligence , he confuses an obscure businessman in Jidda with Prince Turki al Feisal , who was appointed head of the Foreign Liaison Office in December , 1977 . Mr. Perlmutter alleges that in September of the same year this official met secretly with the Israeli Foreign Minister , Moshe Dayan . The State Department , a senior member of the Saudi royal family , and an Israeli Embassy spokesman all categorically deny that any such meeting has ever taken place . Mr. Perlmutter says the Saudis encourage instability in the Middle East and the Horn of Africa because they " fear a strong Egypt that would become stronger after a peace with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their reasons owe less to future scenarios than to knowledge of the past . The current Saudi arms build-up can be traced to a mustard gas attack by Nasser 's air force on the town of Najran on Dec. 30 , 1962 and , in subsequent years to 108 drops of arms and materiel along the Saudi coast of the Red Sea . Nasser died in 1970 , but today the Saudis still dread the contagion of Arab radicalism . A change of regimes in Egypt could , in the words of one Egyptian commentator , " cause those who sit on wells of gold to sit on wells of fire . " Mr. Perlmutter 's assertions that the Saudis have " failed to come through " for Sadat and that they " share culpabilitz for his isolation " are scarcely supported by the facts . When serious food-price riots erupted in Egypt in January , 1977 , Sadat flew secretly to Riyadh for support . The Saudis put together a $4 billion rescue package to restore subsidies and keep Sadat in power . The Saudis had no advance word of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ensuing uproar across the Arab world they broadcast the message that their aid would continue . It now amounts to more than $3 billion a year , about three times the level of U.S. support . Mr. Perlmutter cites Lebanon and the Horn of Africa as supporting evidence of his theory of Saudi-inspired instability . In Lebanon it should be recalled that the six-part Riyadh conference of October 1976 produced the one interlude of relative peace . In the Horn of Africa , it was only after four years of Saudi cash and cajoling that Somali President Siad Barre evicted the Russians from their naval berth at Berbera . From his arguments , Mr. Perlmutter 's suspicions that " the Saudis are not interested in peace in the Middle East " appear to be groundless . The Saudis have neither the intention nor the capability to impose a Pax Saudia in the Middle East. - Preoccupied with developments at home , their role in the region is usually to mute disputes ? where they can , with trust , moral authority , and cash ? a policy that might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , July 3 , 1978                     