@@728463

txt President Nixon today ordered the Pentagon to release the names of American airmen and civilians who are killed in Laos . Ronald Ziegler , White House press secretary , said the order was part of the administration 's plan to fully discuss the role of the United States in Laos . Previously , Ziegler explained , Laos casualties have been reported in the over-all list for southeast Asia , . which includes casualties from the Viet Nam war . Saigon Command Notified In Saigon , the United States military command said that it has received orders to begin reporting American aircraft losses over Laos effective immediately . The policy change , a spokesman said , " is in accordance with instructions received from the secretary of defense and in order to provide additional information to the public . " All United States military aircraft losses and military air personnel casualties incurred during support missions over Laos will now be made public , Ziegler said . " This is the same procedure that is followed in South Viet Nam and North Viet Nam , " he said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaction missions along die South Viet Nam and Laotian borders involving United States personnel conducting operations in South Viet Nani will continue to be reported as a part of the South Viet Nam casualties , " he continued . Many of these firefights , while part of the war in Viet Nam , do spill across areas of the unmarked Viet Nam-Laos border , it was explained . Ziegler said the President has ordered that any casualties suffered by American military advisers as a result of hostile action also be reported by either the department of defense or the department of state . " This refers to the advisers and personnel involved in training and logistical support , " he said Six Civilians Killed Since the Nixon administration took office , Ziegler explained , six civilians have been killed by hostile fire while serving in Laos in a support role . The state department identified them as : Arthur Stillman and Dennis Mummert , killed last Aug. 5 in an ambush near Ban Nong Rem . Chandler Edwards , killed April 24 , 1969 , in an ambush at Ban Soukhouma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on - the Plain of Jars , when his helicopter was hit by hostile ground fire . William J. Gibbs , killed May 13 , 1969 , near Nam Bac , when his helicopter was hit by hostile ground fire . And Ralph S. Davis , killed Aug. 19 , 1969 , southwest of the Plain of Jars , when his small plane was struck by hostile ground fire . Employed by Relief Group Stillman , Mummert , and Edwards were identified as employes of International Voluntary Services , a relief group under contract to the United States aid mission in Laos to work with refugees and in other " peace corps-type " projects . Merkel , Gibbs , and Davis were employed by Air America , a charter air line , reportedly operated by the Central - Intelligence agency , and also under contract with the aid mission . Over the week-end , White Rouse officials had revealed that 25 American government employes and one dependent were killed by hostile fire while stationed in Laos . The six who were killed in 1969 were among ' , the 26 , Ziegler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 50 " civilians who have been killed in Laos since 1912 , Ziegler said the deaths have been reported in different ways , and while the United States government is certain of at least 26 deaths , there could be a larger number . In any event , the press secretary said , the total of such deaths is less than 50 . Ziegler 's back-pedaling was seen as an effort to avoid embarrassment such as the administration felt over the weekend , when , one day after the President said no American military personnel had been killed in ground combat in Laos , it was revealed that an army captain had been killed by enemy fire in February , 1969.                     