@@729667

txt Despite repeated protests over the behavior of the South Vietnamese troops operating in Cambodia , Saigon is expected to continue launching cross-border drives there And there appears to be no quick end to the Saigon troops ' looting , or their often brutal treatment of Cambodian civilians . These are the conclusions one comes to after having a look at the conduct of the South Vietnamese Army from the perspectives of first Phnom Penh , then the Cambodian countryside , and finally Saigon . The Phnom Penh government is in a difficult position Many Cambodian officials have concluded that the only way to put an end to the misbehavior of the South Vietnamese troops is to have them all withdraw from Cambodia . But they realize at the same time that the Cambodian Army is not strong enough yet to police the border areas where the South Vietnamese are operating . The Cambodians wo n't be that strong for some time to come . ( Another thing some Cambodians admit privately is that the behavior of their own troops is sometimes less than exemplary ) - Long-range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have help for a long time from the Vietnamese , " said an experienced diplomat . " And the Vietnamese realize that they have got to keep the North Vietnamese out of their old base areas along the border " The South Vietnamese and CaMbodian Governments are expected to hold negotiations soon on the possible ' withdrawal of some of the South Vietnamese troops serving in Cambodia . The number of South Vietnamese troops operating there has reached a maximum of about 10,000 in recent months . The South Vietnamese are said to have agreed in principle to Cambodian suggestions that they withdraw from their only permanent base in Cambodia . It is at Neak Leung , on the Mekong River about 36 miles southeast of Phnom Penh . The regimental-size base helps protect Phnom Penh and the Highway 1 and Mekong River supply routes to the Cambodian capital . // *Cambodians feel South Viet thorn // Some experts think the Cambodians are capable of taking over- the - Neak Leung base by the end of this year . Such a move might make the Cambodian Government look better in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the South Vietnamese were invited to come into Cambodia in the first place . But the South Vietnamese are not about to stop launching cross-border operations into the former Viet Cong sanctuary areas in Cambodia . They consider such operations necessary for their own defense At the moment , they have an agreement with the Cambodians whereby they can move 16 kilometers ( 10 miles ) into Cambodia at any time without prior clearance Some real concern In negotiations , the South Vietnamese may , agree to try to put greater restraints on their troops . But no one seems to be under any illusions any longer as to how effective such restraints would be . The Cambodian Government has been publicly protesting for nearly a year , and privately protesting for even longer , over the behavior of the Saigon troops in Cambodia . In response to these complaints , South Vietnamese Cabinet ministers and Army generals have shown appropriate concern , some of it quite genuine . They have promised greater efforts to whip the troops into line , and they have issued high-sounding directives . , , - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was having Cambodian liaison officers assigned to Vietnamese units . But the liaison officers have been unable to get out to the units causing trouble , and some frankly admit of fearing for their lives if they complain too loudly over the behavior of the South Vietnamese . There is concern , it seems , at the top levels of the Vietnamese command . The problem comes at company and platoon levels . And if anything , things have got worse rather than better in some parts of Cambodia in recent months . Let 's face it ' " Let 's face it , our troops do n't behave very well in South-Vietnam ; " - said one South Vietnamese officer . Once they get into Cambodia , the South Vietnamese troops are dealing with people whom most of them consider inferior . So the tendency to steal and to mistreat civilians becomes greater . ( " After all , they 're only Cambodians " is the attitude . ) To stay on the good side of his poorly paid men , the Vietnamese officer looks the other way while his men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and many times he is younger and less experienced than the men he is supposed to be commanding  --  he might just find himself abandoned the next time his unit gets into a fire fight GIs ca n't go along When the South Vietnamese operate in South Vietnam , American advisers are often nearby , so the South Vietnamese troops watch their behavior a bit more carefully But under the current U.S. policy , American advisers are not permitted to accompany the South Vietnamese into Cambodia . Another problem in Cambodia , according to some sources , is that the South Vietnamese regard the Cambodians living in the-border areas as people who have for years collaborated with the Viet Cong " You ca n't expect them to have sympathy for those who in a sense preyed upon them for years , " said an American source Revenge mixed in Moreover , the Vietnamese troops are aware of last year 's incidents following the outbreak of the war in Cambodia in which Cambodian troops mistreated , and sometimes shot , Vietnamese civilians living in Cambodia . So a feeling of revenge is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heart of the problem , however , is the historic , deeply rooted emnity between the Vietnamese and Cambodians . " The South Vienamese are arrogant and aggressive , " said a senior diplomat in Phnom Penh . " The Cambodians are smiling and phlegmatic . Under the best of circumstances , their relations are not going to be good . " First of two articles on the war in Cambodia . Next : a story about a group of Cambodian guerrillas who defected from the Communist side .                     