@@730329

txt The economy is booming Is n't it ? Well , then , why the hangover of concern and uncertainty encountered among the nation 's businessmen ? Consider the stock market , that touchstone to the psychology of the business community and the private investor . It ' began last week with a slump , nursing its fears of Senator , inflation , rising interest rates , growing budget deficits and the weak dollar . On Wednesday it perked up at the news that Henry Kissinger was talking secretly in Paris with the North Vietnamese . But on Thursday the market decided that Henry did n't have any secrets worth speculating about  --  and it fell , despite the really good ( but complicated ) news that the Federal Reserve Board and the United States Treasury had got their ducks lined up , were selling German marks to support the dollar and . were working out swap deals for foreign currencies . Heat and a polluted haze hung over Wall Street , and stock brokers and mutual fund managers wondered what evil spirit was oppressing them  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as it had been doing since the end of May . Then came Friday  --  and new Gross National Product figures broke through the clouds of gloom . The Government reported that total output of goods and services in the April-June quarter had climbed by $30-billion  --  and that , with the over-all rate of inflation slowed to 2.1 per cent , the real gain in output was 8.9 per cent , the fastest rise In more than six years . The Dow-Jones climbed by 10 points , wiping out the week 's losses and putting it 5 points ahead . Was Friday a one-day flash in the pan or is the reality about the strength of the economy finally getting through to investors ? Few economists will deny that the economy is looking stronger and stronger . The G.N.P . growth in the second quarter was even bigger than expected  --  considering the impact of rains and floods in the East . And , while not even the most bullish economist expects the last quarter 's fantastic real growth rate of almost 9 per cent to continue , most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 6 per cent in real terms . Similarly , while few economists expect that inflation will continue at so slow a rate as 2 per cent , most think it will not go above 4 per cent . The economy still has plenty of idle resources to grow on ? unemployment has come down but still amounts to 5.5 per cent of the labor force ; industry is using its manufacturing facilities more intensively  --  but is still operating at only about 80 per cent of capacity . Consumers are boosting their spending month by month . Housing construction , which usually peaks early in a business expansion , has held up remarkably well . And a high rate of homebuilding means a high rate of spending on things like furniture , refrigerators and other consumer durables . Most hearteningly of all , from the standpoint of the stock market , corporate profits are looking awfully good . From the last quarter of 1970 to the first quarter of this year , profits before taxes have climbed from $71.6-billion to 891.9-billion . This year most economists are looking for corporate profits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent over last year  --  and even more in terms of after-tax profits . Why , then , is there so much uncertainty ? The Democrats ' Presidential candidate , George , really seems to be at the head of Wall Street 's worry list . The Nixon Administration has commissioned the economic consultant Pierre Rinfret to help spread the anti-qzmcq#Govern panic . Last week he told a meeting of the New York Security Analysts that if were elected the Dow-Jones average would plummet to 500 ( it closed Friday at 920 ) , capital spending would collapse , rocketing inflation would develop , the Government would adopt exchange controls to keep corporations and individuals from investing abroad . Alas , said Mr. Rinfret , a President " would tear down the free enterprise system . " . Mr. Rinfret enjoys a high standing in Wall Street , having declared before the 1969-70 recession , " There ai n't gon na be no recession "  --  a correct forecast , Mr. Rinfret now insists , since he used a double negative . To sum it all up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a letter to his clients , " The stock market is , at present , a very selective affair with unusually strong cross-current within it . High-grade growth stocks are still in strong uptrends , and some  --  but by no means all  --  speculative areas of the market are also doing well . At the same time the cyclical areas of the market show relatively poor action with some deterioration noticeable in previously strong cyclical groups , especially building . Proper group and stock selection thus is especially important at this time . " No charge . ? 02,729.1211 , . SILT.                     