@@730159

txt They are silent , unseen and deadly  --  and nothing at all like the spiny steel balls you 've seen bobbing in the water on some old war movie . They are the U.S. mines now ringing North Vietnam 's major ports , and they are incredibly more sophisticated than their World War II counterparts . Long , cylindrical and loaded with complicated fuses and timing devices , they look like torpedoes , and they can do almost everything but smell the ships they 're designed to destroy . This is the Navy 's first big mining operation since World War II , and weapons-makers have used all that time to develop cunning devices that will undoubtedly pose devilish problems for the North Vietnamese , or possibly the Russians , assigned to clear them away . The mines of 30 years ago were simply dumped into the water to await some ship bumping into them . The mines of today can be triggered in a variety of ways , sometimes by nothing more than the sound of an approaching engine . Following contingency plans that had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , low-flying attack planes from aircraft carriers sowed the North Vietnamese coastline with these destructive devices in the dark of night . ( Mines can also be planted by submarines , but there 's no indication that submarines were used in this operation . ) The devices apparently were a mixture of magnetic , acoustic and pressure mines . How the Mines Work Magnetic mines explode when a metal object passes overhead . Acoustic mines are triggered by the sound of a ship 's engine . And pressure mines are activated by the increased water pressure created when the hull of a ship passes nearby . The variations on these basic schemes are almost endless . Some mines can be set to explode only after picking up the sound of a ship , its magnetic field , the increased water pressure and finally its sound again . More complex still , others may be equipped with " counters . " These mines might be set , for example , to explode only after picking up the combination of **34;1047;TOOLONG signals  --  for the seventh time . All this is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mines and detonate them , a very tough job under the best of circumstances . As a former mine countermeasures officer on a U.S. minesweeper , I remember how hard it was for our crew to cope with dummy mines during training exercises off South Vietnam and Thailand in the early 1960s . Despite days of searching , it was n't uncommon for us to miss numerous mines ; we 'd learn of their location only on the last day of the exercise , when they 'd release buoys to the surface . Worse , we were frequently " destroyed " when things failed to go according to plan . Our wooden , 172-foot-long ship plowed through the water , dragging elaborate devices well astern that were supposed to simulate the sound , pressure and magnetic signals given off by a big ship . In theory , our ship was designed to slip over mines without disturbing them ; the trailing devices would detonate them after we were safely by . In practice , we often watched as a smoke . flare would ' break water within 30 feet of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ "  --  and we had been blown out of the water again . Trouble for the Fish As the Pentagon noted yesterday , mines can be programmed to arm themselves as soon as they are laid , or to delay arming for predetermined periods of time . In this case , the U.S. mines in the Tonkin Gull wo n't be armed until 6 p.m . ( Hanoi time ) tomorrow to give foreign ships a chance to clear out of North Vietnam 's ports . Even the most elaborate activating devices are n't foolproof , Navy men concede . Some critics of Mr. Nixon 's move , for example , suggest that shallow-draft junks could carry goods ashore from larger ships anchored beyond the minefields . To counter this , the Navy could set some mines to go off upon receiving very faint signals . But if the detonating device is made too sensitive , the mine might be exploded by strong currents or even a big fish . - The Pentagon also disclosed yesterday that all the U.S. mines will automatically " become inactive and safe ... at some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't indicate when that might be or what the U.S. fleet is prepared to do in the meantime to keep the North Vietnamese from locating and exploding its mines . If the President were to lift the operation before the mines are scheduled to become dormant , the U.S. would presumably share some of its information about the location and arming of the mines with the North Vietnamese . The Navy might even join in to help clear the mine fields , some military sources suggest . One Pentagon ' expert noted that the U.S. could sweep the mines with special devices pulled through the water by helicopters  --  one of the newest wrinkles in mine clearance . Another possibility : Sending down Navy divers to the nightmarish and time-consuming task of disarming the mines one-by-one . The U.S. minesweeping capability has n't been really tested since the Korean War . There , an American minesweeping force that had been allowed to slip into obsolescence since World War II found itself stymied by relatively crude contact and magnetic mines laid by the North Koreans from Sampans and other small craft . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to clear the way for amphibious landings in that conflict . One chagrined Navy veteran recalls the slow pace of a minesweeping effort to clear the way for an amphibious landing at Wonsan . " It took so long that when the first troops got ashore , they were met by Bob Hope 's troupe , " he says . The entertainer ? and land troops had managed to make it to the Korean city while the U.S. minesweepers were still fishing around in the water .                     