@@731684

txt Now that the Greek people have voted overwhelmingly against restoration of the monarchy and the return of King Constantine to the throne , the next question is : What kind of parliamentary republic will they have ? Greek Prime Minister Constantine Caramanlis , whose position is greatly strengthened by Sunday 's 89 percent vote in favor of the republic , has so far not disclosed his innermost thoughts on the country 's con ? stitutional future . Some knowledgeable sources claim that he has dropped past preferences for a Gaullist type of presidential government , and now favors a republic with limited powers for the president and a strong premier . Stronger executive Whatever the constitutional form , the powers of the executive are certain to be strengthened since this objective has been close to Mr. Cara-manna 's heart since the ealy ' 60 's . Ironically enough his conviction of the need for a strong executive contrlb  --  uted at that time to his disenchantment with the palace . Most frequently mentioned for the post of president is the respected former Premier Panayotis Canellopoulos , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elections last month in order to be available for the presidency . The defeat of the crown in Sunday 's referendum was widely expected . In the years since World War II the royal family had failed to remain aloof from Greek politics as the Constitution required It to , frequently becoming involved In a partial way even if unintentionally . But perhaps what contributed most to the loss of his throne was Constantine 's own behavior in relation to the colonels who seized power In 1987 . Although he was definitely opposed to them and to their totalitarian philosophy , the King suffered a severe loss of prestige when he failed to dislodge the colonels with his ill-conceived countercoup in December , 1967 . His long silence after he fled toRome caused his prestige to slip further . Only if Constantine had become convincing as a fighting king , analysts here believe , would he have had any hope of retaining the throne in the heady atmosphere of freedom which has enveloped the country since the disintegration of the military junta In July . To many Greeks the issue of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sunday 's vote . This helps to explain the high rate of abstentions in the referendum , which totaled nearly 30 percent . Parties oppose Kina All the opposition parties , which together garnered 45 percent of the vote In November 's parliamentary elections , actively campaigned against the King . The neutrality of the governing New Democracy Party and Premier Caramanlis thwarted any rallying to the throne that might have ? come from that conservative direc tion // *Gre  --  ce without a king // The republican victory Sunday prompted spontaneous scenes of jubilation throughout the country . In Athens huge crowds of mostly young people poured into Constitution Square with car horns blaring and fireworks exploding In the air . Among the slogans rhythmically ( limited by the crowds , the one most frequently heard was " efige . . . efige . . . " I he is gone , he Is gone ) .                     