@@730492

txt White House press secretary Ronald L. Ziegler said today that Presidential adviser Henry A. Kissinger has scheduled an unprecedented third day of secret talks with the North Vietnamese in Paris for tomorrow . This is the first time in 19 secret meetings that the President 's national security adviser has held a third session with the North Vietnamese . The session occurred as reports continued ' that the talks concerned whether South Vietnamese President Nguyen Van Thieu would remain in office . ! This speculation was prompted yesterday when Maj. Gen. Alexander M. Haig Jr. , Kissinger 's top assistant , joined his boss South Vietnamese officials in Saigon last week . Calls It Speculation Ziegler repeated an earlier statement that the reports were speculation . Asked if the presence of Haig at the talks and their extension for a third day meant a " weakening " of American support for Thieu , Ziegler said " that would really be reaching . " Ziegler was asked if President Nixon 's statement at his press conference last week that the United States is not thinking a abandoning Thieu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason to issue a new policy statement . " Withdrawal of United States support for the Thieu regime has been one of the repeated demands of the North Vietnamese as one of the bases for a negotiated settlement of the war . In his latest offer to the North Vietnamese on terms for a cease-fire , Nixon said Thieu had offered a step down if other details of an agreement could be worked out . Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird said yesterday that the Paris talks were in " a very serious , significant , and sensitive stage " and that there is " no question that we are on the road to peace . " Sen. George , the Democratic Presidential nominee , said over the weekend that he believes Nixon is encouraging rumors of a potential settlement as part of his campaign for reelection . " I do n't believe that Mr. Nixon is going to end the war , " said . " I think the peace rumors are flying to coincide with the closing days of this campaign . " Kissinger and Haig are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Viet Nam 's Politburo , and Xuan Thuy , chief of Hanoi 's delegation to the Paris peace talks . Kissinger last met with Tho and Thuy on Sept. 26 and 27 in Paris .                     