@@734178

txt Letters Save our Time-Tested Electoral College To the Editor : The proposed amendment to eliminate the Electoral College in the election of the President represents a great danger to the fabric of the American system of democracy . It poses problems which are more serious in their implications than those which it purports to correct . We would urge our legislators , with all the vigor at our command , to restudy the history of constitutional law and to commit themselves to the preservation of the finest system of government which our society has ever known . The proposed amendment was introduced by Senator Birch Bayh of Indiana , chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee for Constitutional Amendments . Let us concede that this sytem of electing Presidents , which was developed by the Founding Fathers , has its weaknesses , which should be cor Kimble Mead Rightful Oil Profits To the Editor : I am the owner of some stock in an oil company . As such , I would be the beneficiary of " windfall " profits resulting from deregulation . So let me speak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take that profit away from me ? My share of the profits would be earned by selling oil my company produced ? selling it to those who wish to buy it at the ( then ) free-market price . The profit so earned is my property , mine by right . The only just , moral standard of a fair profit is " all the market will bear . " The free-market profit reflects the voluntary , unforced choices of buyers and sellers , each acting for their own self-interest . In a free market , a trade is made only when the price is such that both parties expect to gain ? i.e .. to profit ? from the transaction . I recognize the buyer 's right to his gain , and I demand that he recognize my right to mine . As for those so consumed by envy that they do not wish to see anyone profit , who would rather see the money disappear in the Federal bureaucracy , to them I present the following non-coercive option : Do n't buy the oil . Let those who oppose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Let them drill for their own oil . Or let them do without . I do not recognize their right to call upon the police power of the state to force me to accept their notion of what is a just reward for my investment . I do not exist to serve them . HARRY BINSWANGER New York , May 1 , 1979 To the Editor : Your April 25 editorial " Israel Digs Into the West Bank " seems again to question Israel 's right to determine its own perceptions of what constitutes secure and defensible borders . Your reference to " dangerous opportunism " indicates a naive acceptance of the Arab world 's definition of history . There seems to be little disagreement among Israelis that a polyglot of Jews and Arabs living side by side on the West Bank is indeed the most dependable safeguard for the security of their country . The history of the area bears repeating at this time : Trans-Jordan seized this area militarily in 1948 in defiance of the United Nations . In 1967 , Jordan launched a war of annihilation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government and the present coalition Government agree on one thing ? the West Bank does not belong to any other state . A new settlement is in fact a tenuous effort by a pioneering people to reclaim land , unusable until now , as protection against any future attacks from this troubled territory . I deeply believe that as long as Israel respects the Arab population living in this territory and proceeds to make plans for the autonomy of the Arab settlements in the area , as agreed upon in the peace treaty , there is no violation of international law . I concur with Foreign Minister Dayan 's position that the condition of living peaceably together  --  Jew and Arab ? would proceed reasonably smoothly if we outsiders did not constantly draw attention to each development . Our Government dramatizes the significance of these settlements disproportionately to their actual impact on any alternative utility to the Arab population living in the area . Israel does indeed view the West Bank quite differently from the Sinai and even the Golan . It would seem that some of us refuse to recognize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judge whether civilian settlements fulfill a security requirement . That is the responsibility of the Government of Israel . Perhaps the long view one gains from around the conference table of an editorial board half a world away retied or eliminated . However , the overriding value of this unique system far outweighs its faults . The late Professor Bickel aptly characterized the uniqueness of the present system as " the genius of a popular democracy organized on the federal principle . " Ingeniously , the Founding Fathers balanced the rights of larger states with the needs of smaller ones and succeeded in making our Government as nearly representative as possible in terms of the will of the various segments of our population . We should understand then that the Constitution , when adopted , was designed to serve a twofold purpose : to provide for a democratic system of government which would reflect the views of the majority and at the same time prevent the minority from being overwhelmed by the majority . To do this , our forefathers developed a comprehensive system of checks ang balCapitalists ' Way To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrogance does pretty much what it pleases ? in any society . If Professor Marion Levy 's . April 16 letter criticizing my Op-Ed article , " A Marxist Turned Capitalist Finds the Bottom Line Too Low , " was needed to clarify this point , then we should all be thankful for his intervention . Every society , however , has certain differences from other societies as well as many similarities . If " scholarship " all too often focuses on either similarities or differences , wisdom lies in knowing where one ends and other begins . In my article , I was more concerned with what is distinctive in capitalist character , with the preoccupation with profit and the metamorphosis of human feelings and thoughts into means for making money . My main point was that this peculiar form of dehumanization is not so much a matter of choice as a rational embodiment of a social-economic function that is peculiar to capitalism , and that even someone aware of the danger can not completely avoid it . I should now like to add that it is by stressing what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dynamics as a social system , while treating only its general qualities ? in the manner of Professor 's Levy 's letter ? has traditionally been the way of disguising these specifics and making it appear that no important change has ever happened or can happen . Would it be arrogant of me to say which class benefits from this particular distortion or reality ? ( Prot . ) BERTELL OLLMAN Dept. of Politics , N.Y.U. New York , Apri125 , 1979 To the Editor : A recent news story showed that New York State legislators fear a loss of revenue from reductions in the tax rates on residential heating and utility bills . Their fears are unfounded . New York State 's reported $40 million annual loss of revenue from the 1 percent sales tax reduction on residential heating bills is completely offset by higher collections of sales and utility taxes from escalating energy bills . What legislators ignore are the huge causes one to lose sight of the tragic detail of young men and women killed in three generations of war . It may even cause Israel to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategic warning points on higher ground . MANFRED OHRENSTEIN New York , April 25 , 1979 Beyond ' Hand Wringing ' To the Editor : While deploring Israel 's policy of continuing to plant illegal settlements in the West Bank , The Times can come up with no solution except hand wringing by the American Government . If President Carter could free himself from the Zionist lobby , he would tell Mr. Begin and his fellow fanatics that for each new illegal settlement the U.S. Government would cut off $200 million from the economic bribe we agreed to pay Israel for the so-called peace treaty with Egypt . There is no legal or moral reason why the American taxpayers must subsidize a policy that our leaders think will encourage a new Middle East war . THOMAS J. MULLEN JR . Whitehouse Station , N.J. , April 26,1979 ances and of divisions of authority , all of which were designed to make the Government as nearly representative as possible of the multifaceted concerns of the total nation . In the process it has prevented a demagogue from arising who might be able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ segment of the country and thereby lay claim to power . The Electoral College has assured the rights of individuals and minority groups . Every person in our country belongs to some minority ; every person has interests ; every person wants to feel that his voice will be heard . The Electoral College has insured that the concerns of no group can be overlooked . What the Electoral College has achieved is that in organizing a campaign for the Presidency the candidate must direct his attention to every area of the country . He must appeal to and understand the different needs of different sections of the country , and he comes to the realization that he is the President of a varied society with different interests , different goals but with a common hope in the viability of the democratic process . This system has worked well from the very beginning , and before we begin to toy with one of the main props in our structure , we should consider carefully and long the ramifictions . Beyond that , the Electoral College has preserved the two-party system and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presidential elections in so many other countries . There is a world of difference in being elected on the basis of an Electoral College of 538 votes and being elected with a majority of a few hundered thousand votes in an election in which 60 or 70 million citizens may participate . The victory achieved through the Electoral College provides the new President with a stronger base of popular confidence and insures the orderly transition from one Administration to the next . Let us not forget that three out of the last five elections were won by hairsplitting majorities . Let us preserve the system which has made us the mightiest nation on earth . ( Rabbi ) BERNARD ROSENSWEIC President Rabbinical Council of America New York , May 4. 1979 The Unwanted To the Editor : Your April 23 editorial " A Home for the Shah " ends with the statement : " Americans should welcome the unwanted , proudly . " This includes , I suppose , ! di Amin . No , thank yt4i . RICHARD MARRGRAF Granville , Ohio , April 25 , 1979 increases in hidden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sales and utility gross-receipts taxes , which are based on gross revenues . As oil and natural gas prices rise , so do hidden gross-revenue taxes , which customers pay in utility costs . Consequently , state and city make extra millions on every energy price increase . What must be done , as a first step , is to freeze the hidden tax at the dollar amount now collected , so that gas customers are not forced to pay " windfall " taxes . The state and the city would not lose any revenue since the tax rate would be set at present revenues . As an alternative to the hidden utility gross-receipts tax , New York taxpayers would benefit more from a tax paid directly by the customer , which would entitle him to a Federal tax deduction . Historically , utilities in this state and city have been used as tax collectors . The time to change that policy is now . In Connecticut , Massachusetts and New Jersey , where people and industry are relocating from New York State , all utility bills are exempt from state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Comptroller Brooklyn Union Gas Brooklyn , May 4,1979 Parking and the Arts To the Editor : It is all over in New York City for sure in this creeping inflationary period when Lincoln Center charges $7 for two hours of parking , a garage that up to now set an example to gougers in this great place . Where will it all end ? ' Come on down , Lincoln Center , and match your evening prices with the equitable , fair daytime prices . Or watch out , box-office profits will slide . BLYTHE FOOTE FINKE Palisades , N.Y. , May 2 , 1979 Jew and Arab , on the West Bank in Peace Windfall Taxes for the Consumer to Pay                     