@@729046

txt A sudden , substantial broadening of the scope of the trial of 1st Lt. William L. Calley Jr . now is virtually certain here . The result : The trial would open up a veritable Pandora 's box of issues , far wider than the guilt of a single Army lieutenant in a single tiny hamlet in South Vietnam . Chances now appear strong that the defense will seek to get deeply into the questions of what other soldiers have done while in Vietnam , of standard Army procedures in Vietnam , and the broad general approaches that characterize United States activities there . Judge Reid Kennedy has ruled that the defense attorneys for Lieutenant Calley may seek from witnesses testimony on everything they saw or did March 16 , 1968 , at the hamlet of My Lai 4 in Quang Ngai Province in South Vietnam . Judge 's ruling The prosecution has sought limitation of cross - examination to matters pertaining only to the actions of Lieutenant Calley that day . The defense will hope to raise a question in the mind of the six jurors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different from other people and whether he was a young officer going a bit further than others but not going out in some strange unilateral activity . A strong indication of things to come was offered within minutes of the judge 's ruling when defense attorney Maj. Kenneth Raby began questioning the witness about the activities that day of Lieutenant Calley 's boss , Capt . Ernest Medina . Initial charges against him were returned for further investigation . Under questioning , Captain Medina 's radio-telephone operator , former Sp. 4/c John T. Paul , testified that he was with others and the captain in a group checking bodies for weapons . One woman lying face down in the paddy stirred , Mr. Paul said , and Captain Medina exclaimed that she had Associated Press 1st Lt. William L. Calley Jr . More than a single issue a grenade and shot her twice . Mr. Paul said he had not seen the grenade himself . One of the specifications in charges against Captain Medina is that he murdered a woman . The charges against the captain are still being investigated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had asked the court to limit cross-examination by Lieutenant Calley 's defenders to areas covered in direct examination . Judge Kennedy ruled , " Anything that this witness saw or personally did in the village of My Lai he can testify to in cross-examination . " Beyond that , the judge indicated that the defense may be able to go into still broader areas when the defense presentation commences . The effect of the judge 's decisions will be to substantially broaden the scope of the trial during the prosecution phase and to give the defense extremely wide latitude in trying to save Lieutenant Calley from conviction on the charges of premeditated murder .                     