@@733457

txt ALBANY , Jan. 14 ? A two-year survey of New York State 's mental health system has found that more than a fourth of the 26,000 adult patients in mental hospitals are not ill enough to be . kept there . The survey , completed last year , rouna that 17.5 percent of the mental patients are , in fact , capable of leading relatively independent lives outside the hospital , either by themselves , with families or in adult homes , halfway houses or boarding houses . A total of 10.6 percent would require care in nursing homes or healthrelated facilities that are less restrictive than mental hospitals . The patients can not now be discharged , mental health officials acknowledged , because there are not enough community facilities to provide services they would still require outside of the hospital environment . ? State Accused of ' Dumping ' The disclosure of the ' findings comes at a time of political controversy that is already directed at the state 's longtime policy of discharging mental patients deemed fit to leave state hospitals . Many legislators and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mental patients into localities  --  particularly on Long Island and on Manhattan 's West Side  --  without providing money to care for them . For example , Perry B. Duryea of Montauk , L.I. , who is the Assembly minority leader and the leading candidate for the Republican gubernatorial nomination , has called for a " moratorium " on the so . called dumping of mental patients . tsovernor Carey , in response , asserts that the state has increased its financing of outpatient mental-health care . He accused Mr. Duryea of distorting the record and fomenting " political propaganda . " At the same time , Mr. Carey has acknowledged , in appearances before some communities , that the discharging of mental patients may have been too much for those communities to absorb in the past . More Funds to Be Allotted As a result of its survey and . heightened public concern , the State Department of Mental Hygiene is about to propose a new , five-year plan to upgrade its support of " community resources " for the care of mental patients who ire fit enough to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next week , will include a " substantial " increase in the financing of such communty facilities , according to a senior state official , who declined to say what the increase would be . Other officials said the money would be used to hire local " case managers " for individual patients , and to set up community residences and training , rehabilitation and transportation programs . The Governor 's budget , plus the release of the new five-year plan , are likely to set off new battles over mental-health policies in the State Legislature , which only last year approved the third reorganization of the troubled Mental Hy- // giene Department in the last three years . The center of the controversy might well prove to be the department 's finding that 28 percent of the adult resident patients in state mental hospitals , in effect ; do not belong there . This conclusion was - based on a computerized survey of the patients ' ability to function  --  a survey made to determine what support they need . The study covered 146 items , ranging from vision , speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The census of patients in 28 state mental hospitals was begun two years ago , so that the department could for the first . time learn the full range of the problems it was treating and whether it should make different plans for the future . The conclusions were based on a view evolved in recent years among mentalhealth specialists that , because of the availability of ? new drugs  --  among other reasons  --  mental hospitals are not appropriate places to treat patients who are not physically sick or potentially antisocial or destructive to themselves or others . Court Ruling Bolsters View The state 's study does not mean that officials believe that 28 percent Of ' the patients in state mental hospitals can be released right away . Nor does it even mean that those who have been released are capable by themselves of avoiding the problems that have upset local communities . What it means , in the view of mentalhealth officials , is that the patients should be released , if only to be cared for in community surroundings  --  and that they even have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . bolstered by recent Federal court decisions holding that mental patients are entitled to care in the " least restrictive " environment . Accordingly . some states have been ordered to remove patients from large mental hospitals  --  a trend New York State has followed without such an order . Kevin M. Cahill , Governor Carey 's special health adviser , said : " Not only is it true that 28 percent can receive care in less restrictive settings , but the law of this land as promulgated by the Supreme Court has been that you must provide care in less restrictive surroundings . " The vast drop in population of state mental hospitals occurred somewhat appropriately , and somewhat without planning , prior to this administration . This administration 's effort has been to seek community funding , but we have not had the kind of data to plan with until the new study . Yes , there have been errors in the past and nobody is running away from them . And yet we 're going to persist on that path because it 's the right one . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has dropped from 90,000 to 26.000 . State mental-health officials say this does not mean that the hospitals have " discharged " 64,000 patients . Most of the recent decline has been attributed to deaths . Many Patients Readmitted For many years , in fact , state mental hospitals have admitted 25,000 to 30,000 patients a year and have discharged almost as many each year . According to Dr. Arthur L. Arnold . acting first deputy commissioner in the Department of Mental Hygiene , this means that many patients are being discharged and then readmitted because they do not get proper care in the communities . Of 18,000 patients discharged in recent years , he said , half need help on the outside to avoid readmission . Community " support systems " would be aimed at three different groups , he said : those previously discharged who are having problems ; the nearly 9,000 patients who " flow through " the hospital system each year by being readmitted and then discharged when their symptoms subside ; and the 28 percent " backlog " of patients in hospitals who could be released @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where the discharged mental patients have ended up , mental-health officials said 7,000 of them were in family-care homes . About 6,000 of the 20,000 people living in proprietary " adult homes " around the state  --  including Manhattan and Long Island  --  are also former mental patients . Willowbrook Decree Recalled An aide to Governor Carey acknowledged that the state has paid less attention in recent years to the problems of mentally ill patients than to the mentally retarded  --  especially children  --  who have come under the so-called Willowbrook consent decree . The Willowbrook consent decree was a Federal court order directing the state to care for the mentally retarded with certain staff ratios and in community surroundings . The state budget for services for the mentally retarded has risen much . faster than it has for , the . mentally ill . Whether the state budget 's appropriation for " community support " for the mentally ill finds favor with the Legislature remains to be seen . Besides Mr. Duryea 's talk of a " moratorium " on " dumpng , " there is also talk among legislators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mental patients from being pLced in any one community .                     