@@733923

txt TEHRAN  --  Several hundred thousand demonstrators took over central Tehran Sunday , shouting slogans against Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi In a huge protest march . The crowd of demonstrators joined together on the six-lane highway called Shah Reza Avenue . On main roads heading to the north of the city , where the shah , most foreigners , and wealthy Iranians live , the army deployed tanks across the highways in a security cordon to contain the march . At crossroads , tanks were in position , backed by truckloads of troops . ONE GROUP OF ABOUT 70 demonstrators , led by women cloaked in black A report on the devastating effects rioting has had on Iran 's economy is in Business , Section 5. chadors , the Islamic dress worn by Iran 's Shi'ito Moslems , joined the procession . The demonstrators carried banners and were kept in formation by marshals . Some raised their fists in the air and shouted slogans praising the shah 's chief religious opponent , Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomelny . ' Organizers of the procession , religious and political leaders opposed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hundreds of thousands march to protest shah // million people to join  --  roughly one-quarter of the capital 's population . " We are going to get well over a million , " one said . THE MARCH LOOKED like the biggest protest demonstration against the embattled shah in a year of increasing turmoil . The protest took place on the first of two holy days during which Iranian ShiIles mourn the death of Hussein , founder of their sect . Government troops enforcing martial law and leaders of the protest movement have stated they want to keep the demonstration peaceful . Key points including ministries and embassies were guarded , but it was hoped that the army would let the march  --  expected to cover eight miles and take up to eight hours  --  take place without interference . Saturday , oppositiion leaders expressed growing conviction that they are winning their fight to force the shah from power . They also said they felt the end of the struggle is close at hand . Publicly , opposition leaders say they expect the protest march to proceed peacefully " unless the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them fear a bloodbath . Opposition sources said the government , reacting nervously to the crisis , has arrested hundreds of political activists in recent days , even as it publicly proclaimed its intention to release more than 200 political prisoners next week . A PROMINENT lawyer , Hedayatollah Mediae Daftary , who has been active on behalf of political prisoners , said he has received unconfirmed reports that as many as 3,000 persons have been rounded up . Ile said troops had seized many persons in their homes . Others have been stopped in the streets , searched , and arrested if they were found to be carrying political leaflets , he said . One man who was arrested Thursday and released a few hours later told The Tribune that several hundred persons were under detention at a military barracks where he and his wife had been taken . Prof. Nasser Pakdaman , director of the Iranian Association of University Professors , said the prisoners were crowded together in unsanitary conditions . Military jailers refused to allow the prisoners to use toilets more than twice a day , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardliners in the regime and see the action as a tactical blunder that will only fan opposition to the shah . " The general demand in this country Is that the shah must go , " said one leading opposition figure . " He has been so dishonest that no one believes him anymore so no one will deal with him . " He and other opposition spokesmen expressed confidence that the pressures now being mounted against the shah will inexorably force him to abdicate and go into exile . The campaign has gathered momentum since the start of the Shiite Moslem holy month Moharram on Dec. 2 . The shah has failed in attempts to persuade opposition leaders to join in a coalition government , and a wave of politically motivated strikes has virtually paralyzed the country 's economy . THE UNITED STATES continues to stand behind the shah , and Western diplomats said there is no sign of any crack in the army 's loyalty to the 50-year-old ruler . Government sources reported that 21 persons were killed in new fighting Saturday in the western Iranian city of Tabriz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Qom . Some observers believe a major bloodbath on Sunday would severely test the army 's loyalty . As an example , two of the fatalities in Tabriz were a result of an incident in which an army officer was shot by a soldier , who was then shot himself by another soldier . But even if the Sunday march goes off peacefully , some diplomats here are skeptical about the shah 's chances of political survival . " The economic situation is more pro- ? foundly disturbing than the street situation , " said one Western ambassador . Strikes have drastically disrupted the oil industry , which provides 80 per cent of Iran 's revenues , and production is down from 6 million barrels a day to only 2.7 million barrels . ALL GOVERNMENT ministries have been closed by strikes , as have wholesale and retail merchants and banks . Employers are reported to be laying off many workers . Electrical workers still repprt to their jobs , but shut off electricity for several hours each night " to show the military who is really running the country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because striking customs workers are allowing food imports into the country . But a Western diplomat said , " The economy ca n't go on very much longer in this state without real hardship setting in . " Ile said the only thing that might lead the regime to feel secure would be a collapse of the strike movement in the face of hardship . But there is no sign of this , and it appears workers will become more rigid in their demands the more desperate their situation becomes . AN OPPOSITION spokesman agreed . " The shah is waiting for the people to get tired and give up , and they are waiting for him to get tired and give up , " he said . " But the people are ready to hold out as long as necessary to get rid of the dictatorship . " There is a semblance of calm in the country but this is belied by troops and tanks standing guard at key installations , a nightly curfew , shuttered shops , and uncollected garbage piled high in the streets . Thousands of foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in anticipation of trouble . The march Sunday will precede by a few hours the start at sundown of Astaire , the blackest day in the orthodox believers ' calendar . Ashura commemorates the 7th Century martyrdom of the Imam Hosain , a grandson ' of the prophet Mohammed , who was beheaded by Sunni Moslems from Syria .                     