@@731115

txt Watergate conspirator-E . Howard Hunt has told investigators that while a member of the Central Intelligence Agency in 1964 he supervised a political spying operation against the Presidential campaign of Sen. Barry Goldwater ER. , Ariz , 1 , the Tribune learned today . Informed sources said Hunt told the Senate Watergate Committee he conducted the activity on orders of a " superior stationed at the White House . " An investigator said Hunt indicated the " superior " also was a member of the CIA , but this could not be confirmed . A spokesman for the CIA , which is forbidden by law from conducting domestic intelligence operations , declined to comment on the allegation , saying that the agency had turned over all information dealing with the Watergate investigation to congressional committees and had a firm policy against making any public statements . HUNT , who pleaded guilty to plotting the Watergate burglary and was sentenced to years in prison , reportedly was stationed in Washington during 1964 . Sources familiar with the account given by Hunt said the operation occurred while Hunt was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over several employes . " According to Hunt , sources said , a superior " ordered " him to send two of his subordinates to Goldwater 's Washington headquarters in an effort to obtain copies of campaign schedules , press releases , and any other information available . TILE OPERATION WAS successful , Hunt said , and was repeated at regular intervals during Goldwater 's campaign against President Johnson . In each case , Hunt reportedly told the committee , he passed the information directly to the superior . According to one investigator , Hunt said the spying operation was limited to obtaining information from the headquarters and was never directed at the candidate personally . There was no indication , the investigator said , that burglary or wiretapping ever was involved . A longtime Hunt acquaintance said he found it " unbelievable " that Hunt , a conservative , would spy against Goldw at e r under any circumstances . Goldwater has reportedly been informed of Hunt 's recent disclosures but efforts to reach him for comment were unsuccessful . GOLDWATER HAS often expressed belief that his cornpaign had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , was when the Democratic dirty-tricks operator Dick Tuck put a woman spy on a Goldwater campaign train to distribute a phony newspaper . A former Justice Department official said , however , that the Johnson administration had asked federal investigative agencies for information on Goldwater during the campaign . He said the FBI provided some information on Goldwater 's staff , but that he was almost certain the Arizona senator had never been put under " physical or technical surveillance by the FBI . "                     