@@733227

txt Soviet-American relations have not run smoothly since Jimmy Carter 's inauguration and altogether too much time has been spent of late on mutual recrimination . Indeed , Mr. Carter has been getting it from both sides , with a fair number of Americans ascribing the Russian pique to his ineptitude . So there 's good news in Pravda 's latest complaint against him . Unlike some of the President 's jumpier American critics , the Russians accept his avowed desire for agreements , especially on arms control , and assure him that " d  --  tente has a future . " It is some of his specific proposals they do not like  --  and some of his attitudes about what is fair and foul between superpower 's trying to keep their competition cool . Fair enough . To deliver this response to a generally conciliatory speech by Mr. Carter two weeks ago , the Russians chose their most prominent student of the United States , Georgi Arbatov , an influential Politburo counselor with a deeply vested interest in d  --  tente . Do n't overdo it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on sensitive nerves in the Kremlin ; it wo n't cause a war but it could lose valuable time . The Soviet leaders , he insisted , have been sniping at the new man in the White House not for propaganda advantage but because they genuinely worry about where he is headed . This was a fair bid for clarification , even though we believe Mr. Carter has been reasonably constant and plain in his approaches to Moscow . He thinks the agreedon levels of nuclear weapons are too high and the limits on types of weapons too vague . He wants a whole series of other agreements to inhibit the spread of nuclear and conventional arms . He wants the Russians to care more about stability and economic development in the rest of the world and , without challenging the legitimacy of any regime anywhere , he wants to continue to call attention to outrageous violations of human rights everywhere . Mr. Arbatov understandably challenged the President to explain how some of his emerging military policies square with his arms control proposals . Mr. Arbatov also reminded the White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard-headed Soviet leaders expected in return for a more forthcoming attitude on other questions . There is ample time for closer examination of the specific issues in this debate . What is heartening is that sober men in Moscow now fret about how they can better understand this fellow Carter . What a pleasant antidote to so many recent American contentions that the misunderstandings between Washington and Moscow were entirely Mr. Carter 's fault  --  and entirely his to straighten out . This self-reproach grew out of a dangerous , even . arrogant tendency in American thinking . Whereas the test of political genius once lay in being " tough " to the Russians ( Mr. Nixon in a Moscow kitchen debate , 1959 ) , it came more recently to lie in the art of " massaging " the Russians into agreement ( Mr. Nixon in a Kremlin bedroom , 1972 ) . This put a premium on the fact of agreements instead of their quality . Statesmanship came to be measured by the amount of solicitude shown the Soviet leaders or the extent to which they were spared embarrassment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to solve Soviet problems ahead of all others . The latest Pravda article still seeks to play upon these American sensitivities . But it is encouraging to find a Soviet spokesman trying to be solicitous toward Mr. Carter and to train him to understand Russian concepts of coexistence . Both sides still have much to explain ? about how to trade off cruise missiles for supermissiles , for example . And if the American proposals appear onesided , there is no lack of forums for counterproposals . There should be nothing alarming about Moscow 's condemnation of an American negotiating position . What has been alarming is the orgy of American guilt about the Russian remonstrances and the assumption that the absence of swift agreement marks Mr. Carter as a bumbler or worse . So Mr. Arbatov 's concern , paradoxically , is re.sauring , and helpful .                     