@@731781

txt Deepening apprehension over the U.S. economic outlook has hardened Democratic response to President Ford 's tax-energy package . Some Republicans also are wavering . ' Washington reappraises the whole situation , political and economic , after one of the most candid ? and bleakest ? administration budget projections in history . The projection got immediate validation , seemingly , in the January jump of unemployment to 8.2 percent ? the worst since 1941 . Democrats and labor groups say the White House forecast of three years of unemployment hovering around 8 percent is simply " unacceptable . " They demand more pump priming . Faster inflation ahead Administration spokesmen , on the other hand , point to the huge two-year federal deficits already budgeted and warn against possible faster inflation ahead . More comfortingly , however , Treasury Secretary William E. Simon and Alan Greenspan , chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers , say the last-minute budget forecasts are merely " projections " that are apt to be modified . Federal Reserve Board chairman Arthur F. Burns takes a more optimistic view of the situation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer but attacks the budget projections : " Why do people put out figures like that when they do n't know what they are talking about ? " President Ford , it is understood , did not see the figures until just before they became public . Separation urged Dr. Burns urges Congress to separate the energy program from the tax recovery program and delay the energy program 90 days . The House voted to do this by a big margin . One-third of the Republicans joined the majority . Crusty AFL-CIO chief George Meany on CBS-TV 's " Face the Nation " Sunday cited unemployment and said , " I just do n't think the American public will take it . " " I do n't think the White House or the Congress realize the dimensions of the problem , " he continued . " We 're past the recession stage . We 're going into depression . " The mood here lacks the virulent partisanship sometimes found in White House-Congress clashes . There is genuine liking for Mr. Ford on all sides . But a recent Harris poll showed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he could manage the economy . He got overall a 60 to 36 negative rating . Somewhat the same // *Congress vs . Ford on economic pump priming // mood affects Congress where the economy suddenly overshadows all other issues . Arguments are too technical for most of the public to understand but unemployment rates are comprehensible : 5.2 percent for married men ( twice a year ago ) ; blue-collar workers , - 11 percent ; construction Workers , 15 percent ; Vietnam veterans in their 20s , ' 20 percent ; youths under 20 , 21 percent , and black teenagers , 41 percent . The latest national January figure of 8.2 percent surprised the administration , and shocked and stunned Congress . All sides turn to economic notables for interpretation . These differ among themselves but the " conservatives " around the White House appear to take a graver view of federal deficits , and manifest a greater hostility to governmental intervention , than do " academic " economists . Among the latter the widespread charge is that the Ford stimulative tax cuts are too little and wo n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the business slump and unemployment are reducing normal output drastically , currently at a rate of around $25 billion a year in lost production in what is technically called the " full employment surplus . " With underproduction like that there is n't so much danger of inflation if the government runs up a big deficit , some argue . Rep. Henry S. Reuss of Wisconsin , an influential Democrat with experience in banking and economics , called the Ford recovery package a " disaster , " declared the " American - people are way ahead of their leaders , " and added that they " wonder what Washington is waiting for " in getting to the main point of the recovery which is " job  --  jobs  - -  jobs.                     