@@728395

txt There were still some sore muscles yesterday among the doctors who last week averted a tragedy when the electric power failed during an open heart operation at Hines Veterans hospital in Maywood . James Belles ' heart was in the surgeon 's hand when the main power failed and then the auxiliary power failed in a freak accident . The heart-lung machine , which takes over the job of the patient 's own heart and lungs during such operations , stopped pumping . Belles would have died within minutes from a lack of blood to his brain and other vital organs except for heroic efforts by 25 doctors . When the lights went out in the hospital , doctors in the hall and in other rooms flocked to the operating room because they knew that major surgery was in progress and a patient 's life at stake , said Dr. Roque Pifarre , who was performing the operation . " It was the kind of nightmare that every surgeon dreads but hopes will never happen , " he said . T h e doctors immediately formed teams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a heart-lung machine technician , to man the three manual pumps that could keep the device working with muscle power . One of the pumps needed to be turned at such a high speed that one man could operate it for only three minutes before tiring , Colby said . This pump had to be turned at 175 to 200 revolutions a minute to keep the blood flowing into Bellas ' body . Any wavering in t h e revolutions would cause too little blood to get thru , thereby endangering Bellas ' life . For the critical 15 minutes that the electricity was off , five men pushed themselves to their limits in order to maintain the blood flow , Colby said . Two men took turns at each of the other two pumps and another man operated the pump that brought oxygen into the blood , he said . Other doctors were standing by to help when needed . " This power shortage has never happened before and you never really expect it to , " he said . " It jolts you right down to the tips @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not been determined . Dr. Pifarre , whc was assisted by Dr. William Neville , chie ) of cardiac surgery , said that because of the emergency pumping action by the doctors , Bellas had no problems and is doing very well . During the six-hour operation , the surgeons corrected blocked coronary arteries and brought a new blood supply to Bellas ' heart .                     