@@731644

txt EARL BUSH , Mayor Daley 's former press aide , was sentenced Tuesday to a year in prison on mail fraud charges by Federal District Judge Philip Tone . The charges were based on Bush 's secret ownership of Dell Airport Advertising , Inc. , which , Ulm his influence in the city administration and City Council , won a city contract to sell advertising space at O'Hare International Airport . Tone imposed a sentence of a year in prison on each of 11 counts , but ruled they could be served concurrenUy . TONE IGNORED a plea by Bush 's defense attorney , James Coghlan , that his client " had followed the law as he knew it and responded to the known legal requirements by honoring them , albeit in a minimal way . " In arguing against a prison sentence for Bush , 59 , Coghlan said the former Daley aide did not willfully violate the law because he had never gone to law school and was n't aware he could be in violation of a statute . Assistant United States Atty . Samuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ann Tighe , argued that the jury of nine women and three men , in finding Bush guilty on Oct. 11 , " had already confronted the issue of willfulness . " A good jail sentence would demonstrate to others in a position of having inside information and power that they 're not going to walk receive probation if convicted . " Tone agreed that the jury had decided the issue , but added that he recognized the " extraordinary . expense " Bush had undertaken in defending himself in two trials , and so would impose a " sentence of leniency . " So no fine or court costs were imposed . IN AN EARLIER trial in September a jury found Bush not guilty of extortion but could not agree on the 11 counts of mail fraud . A mistrial was declared , and Bush was ordered to stand trial again on the mail-fraud counts . Before being sentenced Tuesday , Bush told the judge : " It was never my intention to cheat the city , the mayor , or the taxpayers of Chicago in any shape or form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political figures recently convicted , featured an appearance by Mayor Daley as a witness . The mayor testified for 90 minutes . He said he had fired Bush , a long-time aide and speech writer , in 1973 after learning he was the secret owner of Dell , from which Bush had collected $202,000 in dividends between 1963 and 1973 . On the stand Daley never said he would n't have awarded the lucrative contract to Dell had he known Bush was the sole owner . DALEY SAID the " reasonable thing " would have been for him to " investigate the facts and circumstances " and try to find out more about the operation . Bush , who took the stand in his own defense , contended he did not intentionally violate the law , The prosecution presented evidence , however , that the money Btish received in the 10 years he owned Dell was sent thru the mail in checks which did not carry Bush 's name , and that some of the money was funneled thru a public relations firm , then relayed in full to a Bush @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bank trust , evidence showed . Questioned by reporters after the sentencing , Bush said he will appeal . He told newsmen : " I have been wrongly associated and identified with people who have pleaded guilty or been found guilty of bribery , coercion , conspiracy , perjury , kickbacks , and secret profits . And I have never been charged with any of these offenses . " He did not specify whether he was referring to the recent convictions of several aldermen and other political figures . BUSH SAID he had no complaint about Mayor Daley or his part in the trial , but refused to discuss the impact of the mayor 's testimony . Pending his appeal , Bush was released by Tone on his own recognizance . Bush , who lives at 8449 N. Laramie Av. , Skokie , left the courthouse with his wife , Sylvia.                     