@@733117

txt Letters Letters Social Security : The Myth of Self-Support To the Editor : President Carter proposes to shore up the Social Security system by supplementing the employers ' and employees ' contributions with general revenues . There seems to be a general assumption that the system was supposed to be forever self-supporting . However , lest the President 's proposal be described as a radical departure from the original plan for old-age insurance , let 's look at the record . When , in January of 1935 , President Roosevelt 's Committee on Economic Security recommended the bill which became the Social Security Act , all but one of its members assumed that within 30 years contributions from general revenues would be necessary , and I believe that most . of them thought that such contributions would be desirable . As the late Dr. Edwin E. Witte , the committee 's executive director , subsequently wrote of its report : " A large deficit , to be met from general governmental revenues , would develop in the old-age insurance system after 1965 . " At the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A Sprinkler System In Every Building ( ) the Editor : Loss of life from fire in buildings can be prevented . With adequate planning this country can reduce these fatalities to almost zero . Consider these significant facts : ( 1 ) The loss of life due to fire in sprinklered buildings each year in the U S. is close to zero . ( 2 ) The cost of providing sprinkler protection for any building is returned to the owner in eight to ten years by savings in fire insurance premiums . ( 3 ) With the development recently of a sprinkler head which shuts off in the absence of fire , water damage is minimal . Laws requiring all buildings , even one-family dwellings , to . he provided with sprinkler protection are long overdue . Such laws , besides saving many lives , would reduce property losses and reduce greatly the community cost oC maintaining Fire Departments . BENJAMIN LII , OwsKY Brooklyn , May 30 , 1977 I he writer is a former Chief Inspector oi the Building Department in Manhattan . Guzzlers in the Air To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gas-guzzling cars he missed a far greater target : tile airplane . A 747 jumbo jet can swallow 50,000 gallons of gas at one gulp to take 300 to 350 persons about 2,000 miles . If we concede a large car the ability to go 10 miles per gallon , this means that 50,000 such cars can travel 500,000 miles on the same amount . of fuel . If the crisis is as serious as the President says it is , then it would seem sensible to cut down on air traffic as well as automobile traffic . Indeed the implications of massive consumption of fuel by airplanes are so serious that an entire reassessment of air travel may be more important than sniping away at the terrestrial gas hogs : Travel by air is the most energywasting ( if speediest ) form of transport invented by the mind of man . GEORGE ALLEN Philadelphia , June 1 , 1977 White House and persuaded Mr. Roosevelt to insist on leaving the tax rates blank in the proposed bill , and on deleting actuarial tables from the report .. Only because the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change . While the bill was- being considered by Congress , the . blanks were filled in by payroll tax rates higher than those originally proposed . These , on the basis of revised actuarial assumptions , were thought to make the system " self-supporting " at least until ' the early years of the next century . I think that none of the committee 's staff , and no member of the committee except Mr. Morgenthau , believed for a moment that the system either could or should be perpetually " selfsupporting . " I know that neither the committee 's chairman , Frances Perkins , nor Dr. Witte had faith in the actuarial tables ; there were just too many variables to make accurate predictions possible . Even the predicted need for general revenues by 1965 was just a guess , hopefully made by those who , unlike Mr. Morgenthau , believed that our system , like those in Pitiless Behavior ' To the Edtior : What a repulsive example . of selfrighteous morality is revealed by Jan A. Maas in his Op-Ed article " Playing Don Quixote at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whether or not he shoplifters ? he observed were drunk , clumsy and threatening is beside the point ; they are most often poor and hungry . His - need to equate their acts with violent street crime is misguided and devoid of . understanding and insight into the city 's problems . How depressing and ironic that an Episcopal priest feels compelled to demonstrate his anger in pitiless behavior . ROCHELLE OWENS New York , May 2$ , 1977 Flawed Mideast Plan To the Editor : The May 25 letter from Tawfig IIasou of Charlottesville , Va. , offers the formula for another Middle East state , similar to ' the one he has apparently ' left for our more favorable economic and political climate . It is a farce for the Arabs to.:greet Begin 's election with " anger " when the Arabs treated previous Israeli  --  officials with boycott , terrorist attacks upon children and outright refusal to negotiate or recognize . Among Tawfig Hasou 's provisions and formulas he forgot to include compensation for the 600,000 Jewish refugees from Arab countries . JEROME ABRAMS North Plainfield , N.J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financed equally by employers ' contributions , employees ' contributions and general revenues . THOMAS H. ELIoT Burlington , Vt. , May 21 , 1977 The writer was the first general counsel of the Social Security Board , 1935-38 : ? The Fiscal Policy Link To the Editor : Congress and the public should be made aware of the close connection between monetarypolicy and the deficits in the Social Security system , which are currently a subject of much attention . The Federal Reserve has used unemployment in its misguided , futile efforts to contain inflation . In turn , unemployment has sharply restrained Social Security tax receipts , based as they are on payrolls , while stimulating Social Security expenditures by accelerating retirements . On a wider scale , it ' has been the Federal Reserve use of unemployment that has been largely responsible for the vast Federal Government deficits in recent years . What we have had has been , not reckless fiscal policy as Federal Reserve Chairman Burns ar : gues , . but misguided monetary restraint applied with messianic zeal . Indeed , + the current ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatest threat to full employment , and in turn to balanced Federal budgets , to the fiscal positions of state and local governments throughout the country and to the well-being of the private , nonprofit sector of the economy , let alone the viability of the Social Secur-. ity system . ( Assoc . Prof. ) ERVIN MILLER : Finance , University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia , May 23 , 1977 Horses and Economics To the Editor : The May 13 editorial " Let the Horseplayers Play " starts with a statement that a bill was about to be entered on the U.S. Senate calendar " quietly ; almost by stealth . " The writer neglected to state that the same bill passed the House of , Representatives last year after two days of public hearings ' before the ' Transportation and Commerce Subcommittee in which 39 witnesses testi-F fied . The vote in Congress was 315 to 86 . In. the Senate , representatives of ? three states , by the device of offering 12 amendments , were able to stall con , sideratiOn on the merits and thwart the will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours of the 94th Congress . The United Stales Trotting Associa- - tion , representing 40,000 members in the standard-bred sport and their many more thousands of employees and others dependent on harness racing for ' a livelihood , completely agree on the economic importance of the horse racing and breeding industry which we are trying to preserve . Let me say that we in racing are absolutely certain that " off-track betting does not ultimately breed interest in the sport . " We 've had six years of it now in New York ? six years of ? continuous decline . Our approach to the Congress has ? been open and notorious . Our enemies in 0 . T.B. , and . the computer companies are well aware of our intentionsand. hopes . All we ask is that all the Senators be permitted to vole on the Magnuson. bill . ERNEST B. MORRIS President , Saratoga Harness Racing Inc . Saratoga Springs , N.Y. , May 26 , 1977 Of Confined People , Federal Intervention and the Willowbrook Example To the Editor : In a recent letter , New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition , and that of other state attorneys general , to a bill ( H.R. 2439 ) now pending in Congress that would authorize the United States Department of Justice to intervene in cases involving violations of the constitutional rights of institutionalized people . Mr. Lefkowitz opposes the bill because ( a ) it would upset " the delicate - balance of Federal-state relations " ; ( b ) there is no need for Federal intervention , and ( c ) there is " an abundance of legal-aid agencies dedicated to representing .. confined persons . " One case should suffice to expose Mr. Lefkowitz 's arguments . The Willowbrook suit was brought originally in behalf of approximately 5,000 mentally retarded children who were being stored , like refuse in a warehouse , under unspeakable conditions . No one who entered Willowbrook at the beginning of the lawsuit will ever forget the sight or the smell . The catalogue of horrors is too large to set forth here , but it included a child whose flesh bore maggots beneath his rotting and unattended cast . . Some . whose deaths could have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quietly and desperately . The combined resources of the New York Civil Liberties Union and the Legal Aid Society , later joined by the Mental Health Law Project , were brought to bear on these conditions . The lawsuit is now entering its sixth year , and has been vigorously resisted throughout by state attorneys , including Mr. Lefkowitz , who tried to prevent the consent decree even after the Governor and all other state4efendants had agreed to it . Not even the terrors of Willowbrook stayed the state 's resistance . To date , the out-of-pocket expenses of the case , not counting salaries for lawyers or staff , probably exceed $50,000 . The lawyers ' time , at prevailing rates , probably would cost several hundred thousand- dollars more . Perhaps such a sum is not a great deal of money to eliminate the widespread violations of constitutional rights found by the district court , but it is a great deal more than the , families of the mentally retarded residents of.Willowbrook could afford . Fortunately , the Attorney General of the United States intervened and absorbed much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weight against the State of New York . Without Federal intervention , the case probably could not have been brought and certainly could not have been litigated properly . Too often in cases like this the strategy of state defendants is to delay the litigation until the plaintiffs or their lawyers have exhausted their resources . Federal inter- ' ? vention made that strategy impossible . During the civil rights struggle in the South , when state officials in Alabama or Mississippi cried " states : rights " and deplored Federal intervention , most of us quickly dismissed their claims , recognizing them for what they were . We should do no less when the state officials are in New York and the civil rights are those of helpless children in Willowbrook . Mr. . Lefkowitz bears precisely the same legal relationship to retarded children in Willowbrook as George Wallace 's attorney generals bore to black children in segregated schools . That relationship should be borne in mind when evaluating his opposition to H.R. 2439 . IRA GLASSER Executive Director New York Civil Liberties Union New York , May 25 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            