@@731042

txt The threat of renewed warfare hovered over the Middle East today after Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Dayan disclosed that Egyptian forces were massing on the west bank of the Suez Canal . Dayan 's statement coincided with reports of a full military alert which went into effect last night . Speaking b newsmen Dayan said that the Egyptians " are concentrating their forces and I suggest that we not be surprised if they renew the war . " Official Egyptian statements e c hoe Dayan 's assessment that the truce might not hold up . Government spokesman Ahmad Anis said Israel 's failure to pull back to the Oct. 22 cease-fire lines causes " a very serious situation . " Asked whether this meant Egypt might renew fighting , he replied in a Cairo news conference : " It could of course mean that Egypt will go back to war . We can not sit with our hands tied in face of these violations . " DAYAN emphasized that the war was not over despite the two - week - old cease - fire . He speculated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Israelis from the 700 square miles they control on the canal 's west bank . " I think it is certainly expectable for the Egyptians to renew the war ... the Egyptians can not be satisfied that we are west of the canal and they are not willing to make any arrangements with us such as a minimal arrangement on straightening out cease-fire lines , " the defense minister said . Israel has insisted that prisoners be ' exchanged before it pulls back its troops . LAST WEEK . Egyptian resident Anwar Sadat warned of a possible attack by his forces if the Israelis fail to withdraw to the positions they held on Oct. 22 . Military observers here say that Sadat may seek to rescue his 20,000-man 3d Army , which has been encircled by the Israelis for nearly two weeks . It is not known what forces Egypt has available to mount an offensive , should it decide to do so . The bulk of its combat forces are either surrounded or in static positions on the east bank of the canal and a sizable number of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ According to some military sources , Sadat may renew hostilities and call on direct Soviet intervention should his forces be threatened . with defeat . Meanwhile , the Tel Aviv military command said Israeli and Egyptian soldiers blazed away at each other today with small arms fire for about an hour . The fighting was reported near Ismailia in the central sector of the canal and near Bur Taufiq at the-waterway 's southern end .                     