@@729167

txt Indirect Arab-Israeli peace talks continued today as Dr. Gunnar V. Jarring , the United Nations intermediary , transmitted to Israel an Egyptian response to suggestions made by Israel 10 days ago . Dr. Jarring met separately in his 38th-floor office with Dr. Mohammed H. el-Zayyat of the United Arab Republic , Muhammad H. el-Farra of Jordan and Yosef Tekoah of Israel . Mr. Tekoah , on leaving Dr. Jarring 's offfice , said that Israel would study the Egyptian response " very carefully . " Secretary General Thant , speaking at a news conference , said of the indirect peace talks : " I am cautiously optimistic about the outcome of those discussion s . " That cautious optimism , " he added , " is shared by Ambassador Jarring . " Jeune Afrique , a Paris-based news magazine specializing in African affairs , made public today a 14-point document that it described as the memorandum handed to Dr. Jarring by Premier Golda Meir in Jerusalem 10 days ago . The text called for a peace contract spelling out the commitments to be undertaken respectively by Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israeli withdrawal from territories " located beyond the positions agreed to in the peace treaty , " thus leaving Israeli 's future boundaries open for negotiation . Origin of Text Unclear Jeune Afrique said it obtained the text from an unnamed London correspondent but did not say how the correspondent got it , There were no new indications about the nature of the Egyptian response to Israeli proposals . Last week informed sources said that Egypt saw nothing new in the Israeli " paper " but would not formally reject it . Egypt was believed to have slated to Dr. Jarring her desire for big-power guarantees and a strong United Nations peace-keeping force . Mr. Thant in his news conference also hinted that some headway was being made in the secret exchanges , when he said that with Dr. Jarring " actively engaged in discussions of a very delicate and difficult nature , " he found it reasonable to suggest that the Big Four powers refrain from being " too active " in their own consultations . He thus sided with the United States against the Soviet Union in an argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American , Soviet , British and French representatives here . Malik Seeks Pressure Charles W. Yost of the United States has been calling on the Big Four to give " quiet diplomacy " a chance and let Israel , Jordan and the United Arab Republic find out whether they can make headway in the Jarring talks withbut being prompted . This view is shared emphatically by Israel . Mr. Tekoah said on leaving Dr. Jarring 's office that nothing should be done to " interfere " with the indirect peace talks . The Israelis apparently fear that with only the United States defending their cause , both the Big Four and the Security Council can be turned into instruments of pressure on Israel . Yakov A. Malik , the Soviet representative , has been arguing that this is the time for the big powers to redouble their efforts . The four representatives met today . Another meeting waS set for Jan. 27 . Mr , Thant said at his news conference , in response to a question , that the inclusion of American and Soviet troops in a United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than it would solve . He said that British and French contingents , on the other hand , could play a useful role . Secretary of State William P. Rogers , at a news conference Dec. 23 , discounted as " totally impractical " the idea of a peacekeeping force consisting exclusively of American and Soviet troops . He said the United States had never given any thought to such a possibility . He added , however , that the Nixon Administration did not exclude the possibility of an American peace-keeping role in a wider framework , provided it was accepted by the parties involved . Mr. Rogers said that such peace-keeping efforts by third parties could not be a substitute for an agreement between Israel and her neighbors but would be an " added assurance " once a settlement had been reached . He added that such peace-keeping efforts should be made under the auspices of the Security Council . The Soviet Union , Britain and France also have gone on record , in different terms , in favor of some kind of bigpower action to underwrite a settlement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           