@@732789

txt Daniel P. Moynihan won election to the United States Senate yesterday and shouted jubilantly to a jostling crowd in his headquarters , " It 's time we made some claims on the national Government . " Mr. Moynihan topped a cautious campaign that counted on the normal Democratic sympathies of New York voters by easily defeating James L. Buckley , the Conservative-Republican incumbent . With 12,407 of 13,844 districts reporting , the vote for Senator was : Moynihan 2,973,200 His long gray hair toppling over his forehead and perspiration gleaming on his roundish face , Mr. Moynihan told several hundred supporters in his jammed storefront office on the Avenue of the Americas : " New York was on the ballot  --  and New York won . " It took almost 10 minutes for Mr. Moynihan to squeeze through the cheering crowd and step to the platform to claim victory . Six years ago , the cheers had been for Mr. Buckley , who won an unexpected victory as a third-party candidate . But last night , Mr. Moynihan reconstituted much of the traditional Democratic vote  --  with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some liberals disgruntled over his narrow primary-election victory  --  and it was his turn to congratulate Mr. Buckley for " gracious " concession . Then Mr. Moynihan headed for a series of celebrations , but today , his wife , Liz , said , he will go to Harvard to teach his customary class there . He did not interrupt his academic chores during the campaign and will not today , she said . Mr Moynihan led by 2-to-1 margins in the traditional Democratic territory in // New York City , and at 10:50 P.M .. Mr. ? Buckley stepped before a dejected crowd in the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel and conceded that he had lost . The two men had competed for the seat that had not been held by a Democrat since the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy in 1968 . In the cite , Mr. Moynihan ran ahead of his party 's Presidential candidate , Jimmy Carter , in Catholic and Jewish neighborhoods. lee had seemed to be in trouble in the blaci ; ? omiounity all through the campaign , and , the city results bore out that treiele @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bronx , in a heavily Jewish district , it was Mr. Carter by 6 to 1 , but Mr. Moynihan by 10 to 1 . In Bay Ridge in Brooklyn , Mr. Ford doubled Mr. Carter 's vote in an Irish area while Mr. , Buckley barely edged Mr. Moynihan . In a nearby Italian neighborhood , while the President narrowly beat Mr. Carter , the Senate poll put Mr. Moynihan ahead , 3 to 2 ; Only a handful of the state 's Congressional Districts produced races that politicians had picked as close and the results seemed to leave Democrats with the 28-to-11. edge that they held in the last Congress , In the Westchester County district . that Peter A. Peyser left to run for the Republican Senate nomination , Bruce Caputo , won . A couple of Democratic freshmen Jerome A. Ambro , on Long Island , and Edward W. Pattison , in the Albany area  --  were leading , but very narrowly , as late returns trickled in . Buckley Concedes Defeat Tears glistened in Mr. Buckley 's eyes as he stepped into the television lights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " As one who has admired Mr. ' Moynihan 's speaking out for freedom in , the world , I hope he speaks out for freedom in the country . " His wife , Anne , and their six children looked at Mr. Buckley admiringly . From the crowd of 400 came shouts of " God bless you , Jim " and " We love you , Jim . " The Senator professed to find " a great victory " for conservatism in the results . " We have brought New York State , the most liberal state in the Union , to the point where we had a real contest this year , " he said . Mr. Buckley , who ran a lonely and unsuccessful campaign in 1968 , won two years later as the beneficiary of an unusual split . The Liberal Party supported the Republican candidate , enabling Mr. Buckley  --  the first third-party candidate ever to do so in New York  --  to slip in on the Conservative line with 39 percent ; of the total vote . An enrolled Republican , Mr. Buckley sat with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by some threats by Conservatives to run candidates against local Republicans , was handed the Republican nomination for re-election this year . But . Mr. Moynihan , who narrowly won a five-candidate Democratic primary , proved an elusive target . A voluble sort with a penchant for the catchy phrase , Mr. Moynihan had talked or written : timself into trouble from time to time , and Mr. Buckley 's campaign manager suggested hopefully one day that the opponent had a capacity to " self-destruct . " Mr. Moynihan knew that , too . More titan most candidates , he liked to wander off with reporters covering him , for a couple of beers , perhaps , or some conversation . One gray day as he strolled the streets of the East Side of Manhattan , he asked clinically for a guess about how he was doing , and he was told just fine , unless . . . " ... Unless I step on myself , " he concluded . Crangle 's Composite Candidate ' Joseph F. Crangie , the canny Erie leader , saw what he thought was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offset Mr. Buckley 's appeal with blue-collar and Catholic voters who had drifted away front the Democrats , ho wanted a centrist Catholic , but one who would not he rejected by the Jewish voters who dominate Democratic primaries in New York and who tend to be liberal . Mr. Moynihan , as United States representative to the United Nations , won much public attention with his defense of Israel . He seemed right to Mr. Crangle , and the Erie leader persuaded him to run . Many Democratic professionals were worried about the makeup of the Democratic field for Senator . As it developed , it included three clearly identifiable liberals : Representative Bella S. Abzug , former Attorney General Ramsey Clark and City Council President Paul O'Dwyer along with Abraham Hirschfeld , a wealthy businessman . Mr. Moynihan won by i percentage point in the primary . But that victory ; freed him . to edge back to ideological terrain that he found comfortable . Mr. Moynihan dominated the general ; election campaign . The Buckley literature I scoffed at him as " the professor , " trying Ito @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moynihan turned his professorial skills to advantage , often countering a Buckley challenge with a little lecture of the sort he was accustomed to delivering to his political science students at Harvard . He had a technique or swallowing up Mr. Buckley 's rhetorical points with a comradely professorial whoop that seemed to baffle the Senator , an innately polite man , In their first joint appearance , Mr. Moynihan lured Mr. Buckley into the sort of discussion that might have graced a Catholic college philosophy seminar . Nor were there many joint appearances , by New York standards . The campaign wound up as pretty much what the Moynihan team wanted , a straight liberal-Democrat vs . Conservetive-Republican fight . Mr. Buckley conceded the success of the technique when , in a quiet news conference a couple of hours after his public statement , he said that the Moynihan victory had been a " fluke . " Although his opponent is a liberal , he sa ; d , he is " perceived as a conservative  --  he succeeded in pre-empting the middle . " Four of the five Congressional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Second , Third and Fifth Districts on Long Island and in the district that Mr. Peyser abandoned . the 23d , which is based in Yonkers and extencle into the Westchester suburbs and the Bronx . The other district , the 27th. stretches from Binghamton east througll the hill country almost to the Hudson . Here was the district-by-district Congressional picture : Second District For Thomas J. Downey entered Congress at 27 two years ago , helped by the after-effects of Watergate . But the South Shore disrtict is 2-to-I Republican in registration and the party tried to take it back this year by running Peter Cohalan , a member of a prominent Republican family and a man who won plaudits during the five years he spent as Supervisor of the Town of Islip . Last night , Mr. Downey seemed headed for a 3-to-2 victory . Third District This district straddling the Nassau and Suffolk lines pitted Jerome A. Ambro , the Democrat who rose from Huntington Town Supervisor to Congress two years ago with the help of the reaction to Watergate , against ' Howard T. Hogan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent in money and a full-time campaign manager to help Mr. Hogan . As the votes came in , Mr. Ambro maintained a safe 3-to-2 lead and appeared re-elected . Fifth District Prominent for years in the political news , Allard K. Lowenstein had run for Congress in Brooklyn and Nassau and won national renown as fomentor of the " dump Johnson " movement in 1968 , which was also the year that he won his lone term in Congress . Two years ago , he challenged John W. Wydler , the Republican incumbent in this district that includes Hempstead , Valley Stream and Lynbrook in the Nassau suburbs , and he lost . This time , Mr. Wydler quickly fast , - ioned a 2-to-I lead and appeared safely re-elected . 23d District This district produced the most . inter . esting Congressional race in the state . Both parties put up articulate men and spent a lot of money . The Republican-Conservative , 33-yearold Bruce F. Caputo , who gave tip his Assembly seat to run , defeated the Democrat , .1 . Edward Meyer , a 41-year-old former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' the pulpit of the First Presbyterian Church of Margaretville and New Kingston , that he shares with his wife , Linda , William Harter spent full time seeking the seat of Matthew F. , a " Watergate freshman " who was felt by Republicans to he vulnerable . Mr. drew into an early 2-to ? 1 , lead , however , and maintained it to hold ' onto his seat .                     