@@729001

txt Mayor Lindsay , in his first direct public attack on President Nixon , held the President personally accountable last night for the tone of the 1970 political campaign , . which , he said , " has spread a cloud of suspicion and mistrust over our whole nation . " " This is one of the few campaigns in memory in which men apparently seek not merely to defeat their opponents but literally to eliminate them from our public life , " Mr. Lindsay aserted at the Family of Man dinner at the New York Hilton Hotel . About 1,000 guests attended the dinner , sponsored by the Council of Churches of the City of New York . Mr. Lindsay received the council 's gold medallion for " his massive contribution to the family of mankind . " Last year President Nixon received the award . Bunche Gets Award Dr. Ralph J. Bunche , Under Secretary of the United Nations , and Kingman Brewster Jr. , president of Yale University , received the eighth annual awards of a bronze medallion and $2,000 . Dr. Bunched who Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dinner chairman , Whitney North Skymour Sr. A third award was to have been presented to Cesar Chavez , the- leader of United Farm Workers Organizing Committee , but he refused it , saying he had a standing policy of declining all personal awards . In his speech , the Mayor shunned indirect criticism of " the National Administration " or " the Federal Government " ? wording he had used before ? and blamed Mr. Nixon for introducing tactics of fear into the political campaign . " It is the voice of national leadership  --  backed by writers , researchers and senior advisers from the White House , and by the President of the United States , " he told the black-tie and white-clerical-collar audience , which applauded vigorously . " It strangely echoes the frightening voice of the fifties ? when ' soft on Communism ' was the all-purpose weapon . " " And in virtually every state , campaigns try to convince the electorate that the only defense against the lunatic left is the mindless right . " The G.O.P. Backed The Mayor , a Republican whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by those who believe that he plans to seek the Presidency in 1972 on a Democratic or independent ticket , reaffirmed his Republican affiliation . " I believe that America and the Republican party traditionally stand for honorable goals honorably sought , " he said , adding : " But when the President and his lieutenants tell us to be afraid , when they pretend that respected candidates condone violence ? as though Weathermen were running in this election  --  then they are deserting the essential principles of both country and party . " Mr. Lindsay 's endorsement last week of Arthur .1 . Goldberg , the Democratic-Liberal candidate for Governor of New York State , led political observers to ponder whether he would endorse out-of-state Democratic candidates for high office in preparation for a switch to the Democratic party . Last night he vigorously defended , by name , five , liberal Democratic candidates and one liberal Republican who , he said , had been - unjustly attacked in the present campaign . The Democrats were Senator Albert Gore of Tennessee ; Senator Vance Hartke of Indiana ; Senator Edward M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidate for Senator from Connecticut . Mr. Lindsay also defended Senator Ralph Yarborough , who lost the Democratic primary in Texas . The lone Republican , Senator Charles E. Goodell , had previously been endorsed by the Mayor . " Listen to the voices voters are hearing this fall , " Mr. Lindsay said . " A TV commercial in Indiana ? shows a Vietcong soldier pointing a gun at the viewer , while a voice charges that Senator Hartke has helped the Vietcong kill Americans by a liberal vote on American trade policy . " Texans saw pictures of riot and arson , while a voice implied that Senator Yarborough sanctioned this madness by supporting Eugene McCarthy in 1968 . " Slick one-minute spots in Tennessee claim that Senator Gore 's vote against Judge Carswell G. Harrold Carswell , whose nomination to the Supreme Court was rejected ? a vote echoed overwhelmingly by the people of Florida ? is proof of an anti-Southern bias . " Here in New York , Senator Goodell is the target of a purge and is labeled ' radical liberal ' ? an undefined term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an early end to the war in Vietnam . " Mr. Lindsay 's speech , billed by aides as the Mayor 's testament for the 1970 political campaign , also criticized " timid progressives " in both parties who had failed to rebut these charges . The Mayor also attacked Vice President Agnew , whose nomination Mr. Lindsay seconded at the Republican National Convention of 1968 . The Mayor has since said that he regretted that action . " The Vice President of the United States has denounced the leadership of Cornell University for an event which never took place at Cornell , " Mr. Lindsay said . " He said that Mr. Duffey considers himself a ' Marxist revisionist ' ? which is the precise opposite of what Reverend Duffey said . And he has stated that Edward Kennedy , who has seen two brothers assassinated , does n't understand What violence has done to America . " The Mayor 's aides explained that the Cornell reference was to an event  --  a student beaten up by radicals  --  that had actually occurred at the University of Connecticut . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the Mayor 's remarks at the University of Pennsylvania " into disparagement of the honorable and brave service of our soldiers in Vietnam . " In his speech at the university earlier this year Mr. Lindsay said that he had admiration for those young men who said that they would not serve in the Army in Vietnam and were willing to take the consequences . " These are the guys who are heroic , " he had said . Last night the Mayor said that his speech had been " a plea for students to reject violence and work within the rule of law . "                     