@@730086

txt The city will conduct " face-to-face recertification " of its entire relief caseload , interviewing clients in all 503,291 cases , totaling 1,255,721 persons , by latest count . The review will take at least a year to carry out . Plans for the complete checkup were announced yesterday by the Human Resources Administrator , Jule M. Sugarman , who asserted that the city 's latest samplings made for the state and Federal Governments showed that an average of only 3.8 per cent of the cases were " totally ineligible " for aid . Alie also said , however , that 3 per cent could not be located at the time of sampling , 1 per cent refused to cooperate and 3.1 per cent had been classified into wrong categories , raising problems about Federal and state reimbursement . This would raise the total of questionable cases to 10.9 per cent , although many of these could have been at least initially eligible . Mr. Sugarman added that errors in overpayments and underpayments affected an additional 28.7 per cent of the caseload . He attributed much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Service and a changeover from caseworkers to clerks for income maintenance . Experience , he added , has shown a need to modify the simple declaration-of-need system . The net cost of mispayments and ineligibility was estimated by Mr. Sugarman at $63 ? million annually . The current city budget for actual cash grants to welfare recipients totals nearly 81.2-billion , of which the Federal Government pays almost half , with the city and state sharing the rest . For the state Department of // Social Services , Deputy Commissioner Bernard Shapiro , supervising the city 's program , said yesterday lie was " gratified " that Mr. Sugarman was making improvements . State Pressure Applied He said the state had been applying pressures that include disallowance of reimbursement and other sanctions in " thensands " of individual cases . In Albany , the state agency made public a report on both upstate and city eligibility samplings for the last half of 1971 . This cited statewide ineligibility from 2 to 4 per cent in federally aided categories of relief and 5.1 per cent in non federally aided home relief . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levels and the national experience . " The state agency said , however , that it was ordering tightened administration by local agencies because of a " major problem " in overpayments and underpayments  --  ranging from 10.6 to 19.3 per cent in overpayments across the state and from 3.9 to 9.4 per cent in underpayments . The state report said New York City had " an inordinately high level " of cases it reported as " unable to locate " or " unwilling to give information , " and labeled such classifications " particularly questionable . " City Figures Disputed Mr. Shapiro said a state " subsample " of the city samplings had found ineligibility or erroneous payments in 10 out of 54 family cases that had been reported by the city as completed and correct . Of 26 cases the city left " indeterminate , " Mr. Shapiro said , the state tracked down 21 and found four ineligible . Mr. Sugarman said he had named a task force five months ago to work on the eligibility problems . He said its study in dicated that ineligibility due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unintentional client error 0.7 per cent and departmental error 1.48 per cent . The city welfare administrator reported a detailed program " to correct both agency and client errors in the eligibility and payment determination process . " He said " we must re- store credibility to the welfare system " and " do it in ways fair to the client . " The changes start with a revised application system , requiring documenting such as birth certificates , rent receipts and employment records . Pilot Tests Conducted Three welfare centers are conducting pilot tests of a recertification system for all their clients , Mr. Sugarman said . The face-to-face interviews will be started for all drug addicts on welfare in June , and then extended to the Aid to Dependent Children category . Mr. Sugarman said the aim was to handle 3,000 recertification interviews a day , 60,000 a month . He said the city Budget Bureau has authorized hiring of 1,000 more income-maintenance clerks beyond a current 13,000 in the Bureau of Public Assistance . The city will set up appointments for clients , who will then be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Social Services , Mr. Sugarman added , is programming its computer " to establish a central registry of all persons using any kind of public assistance . " The department is also studying the feasibility of " an income monitoring system and a Telex link " to the Social Security Administration . An " error accountability program to eliminate agency errors , " Mr. Sugarman said , is being designed to identify errors by type and operating centers . He said " the five worst centers each month will get a special review team to find and correct the problems , " and all centers are to be monitored by computer . A study is under way on possible expansion of qualitycontrol sampling , Mr. Sugarman said , both to expand requirements and frequency . The study is also exploring the possibility of using " private certified public accounting firms to do validity studies . " The state Department of Social Service 's call for a tightening up of local administrations , included proposals for new training and retraining of staffs , and for clarification and simplification of procedures and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completely flat grant that will help eliminate computational errors , especially ht shelter items . " Relief recipients now get a basic grant depending on the number of persons in their case for instance , $208 a month for a family of four  --  and an additional payment to cover their varying costs of rent and heat .                     