@@731061

txt President Nixon privately has promised one Republican senator that he will move ahead " quickly " to explain to the public every facet of the questions raised about his relationship to the panoply of Watergate-related issues . The presidential promise was made after Mr. Nixon 's initial meeting with 15 Republican senators Tuesday night . The President did not say what forum he would use to make this explanation to a skeptical nation . Sources report that , judging from the conversation at the Tuesday night meeting , he apparently has not decided what format to use . Senators prbposed Several possible forums to the President . Their consensus , Sen. Robert Dole later told this newspaper , seemed to be " a feeling that it 's going to take some forum that no one yet has thought of . . . to reestablish credibility and believability in a question-and-answer type of thing " if the President is to convince Americans of his innocence in Watergate and related matters . Panel proposition Senator Dole proposed two novel formats in subsequent conversation with this reporter : ? A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? perhaps " Brooke , Mansfield , and a couple of congressmen , " Senator Dole suggested . ? Or a similarly small panel of well-known TV newsmen ? such as " Cronkite , Chancellor , Reasoner , " he suggested . Senator Dole and others in the meeting are certain one idea apparently being considered at the White House would not be sufficient : a presidential address before a joint session of Congress . That would result in " a monologue , " they say , without the crucial opportunity to ask questions . The Senate Watergate committee formally has offered the President one possible forum : an appearance before its members . But even some sources close to the committee do not expect him to accept . Senator Dole // *How will Nixon clear air ? // thinks this would not be the most believable forum because he says the committee now has polarized many Aniericans , some strongly in support , some adamantly in opposition . Transcript suggested The committee 's resolution , passed Tuesday by 5-to-1 vote , calls for such a meeting between the committee and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earliest convenience , at the White House , with statements and answers to questions , not having to be under oath , with counsel for both the President and the select committee participating . . . . " It also called for " a complete transcript of such discussions , which entire transcript will be made immediately public . " Senators at the meeting agreed that it was , in the words of Sen. William E. Brock of Tennessee , " totally frank and forthright . " In works which others echoed he told this newspaper that " virtually everyone had a chance to speak his mind , and they did so to good effect . " There also seems unanimity in the view that the meeting was , in the words of several , only " a first step " toward restoring the President 's cre dibility . The meeting " was n't designed to be an answer " in and of itself to the credibility problem , Senator Brock said . " It was designed to seek answers , " and as such was " a very fine first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting , two hours and 15 minutes long , was one of a series the President has been holding this week with Republican Party leaders , Republicans in Congress , and some Democrats as well . At the meeting , Sen. Edward W. Brooke of Massachusetts repeated his call on the President to resign ; President Nixon said he would not , and that he had done nothing to warrant impeachment , either . Sen. Clifford P. Case of New Jersey called the meeting " a candid discussion of ways in which the facts iould be brought out . " Senator Case is a co-sponsor of legislation now before the Senate to establish an independent prosecutor . A similar proposal is pending in the House , after having gained Tuesday the expected approval by the House Judiciary Committee . The proposal now goes to the full House for consideration .                     