@@730655

txt Attorney General George F. Kugler Jr . was cleared today by the State Commission of Investigation of any inference that he or his staff had covered up information that ultimately led to the extortion conviction of former Secretary of Stale Paul J. Sherwin . The commission released a 93-page report , and 1,643 pages of testimony , concluding that it had found " no reliable evidence whatever to reasonably justify a conclusion that Attorney General Kugler was derelict in his law enforcement obligations . " The commission reached its decision despite testimony by // Herbert Stern , the United States Attorney , indicating that Mr. Kugler had known of the Sherwin case more than a year before any prosecution was begun . Mr. Kugler 's testimony on this point contradicted Mr. Stern 's , which the commission found weakened because " he could not remember the exact words used " in a meeting with Mr. Kugler and " since his memorandum on the meeting was not dictated until several days or a couple of weeks later . " A spokesman for Mr. Kugler said this evening that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the commission report . Governor Cahill , who has delayed filling two State Supreme Court vacancies reportedly in the hope that the commission report would exonerate Mr. ' Kugler and clear his path to one of the nominations , was vacationing in California . Sherwin and two co-defendants , Michael J. Manzo , a contractor , and William C. Loughran , a Republican fund-raiser , were convicted last October of charges that they had tried to fix a $600,000 highway contract in return for a $10,000 contribution by Manzo to the Republican state finance committee . Authoritative Republican.lead- , ers reported that the exoneration of the Cahill administration of any ' cover-up in the kickback scandal had cleared the last obstacle to an announcement , perhaps before the end of the month , that Governor Cahill would run for a second term this year . At the same time , the exoneration apparently killed any chances that Federal Judge Frederick B. Lacey would oppose the Governor in the Republican primary as the candidate of a conservative coalition that includes such public figures as Representative Charles W. Sandman Jr . of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had expressed interest in running for high public office in New Jersey , and a growing number of Republicans who had become disenchanted with the liberal record of the Cahill administration were eager to see him deny the Governor renomination . G.O.P. Meeting Set Although a conservative candidate in the Republican primary may still emerge from a meeting this weekend of antiCahill Republicans , the chances are that It will not be Judge Lacey , who , Republican sources said , would have required at the very least that the State Commission of Investigation report today be highly critical of Attorney General Kugler . According to the sources , Mr. Cahill had put off a final decision on whether to seek reelection pending the release of the report , with the understanding that he would not run again if the report had charged any coverup . The charges of cover-up surfaced soon after state and Federal grand juries indicted Sherwin , Manzo and Loughran on June 28 , 1972 . It was disclosed , then that the impetus for the Federal investigation two months earlier had been provided by a number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attorney Herbert J. Stern by David A. Biederman , a former deputy attorney general and former chief counsel to the State Transportation Department . The memos , dated October and November , 1970 , tell of Sherwin 's attempted interference with the award of a contract on a Route 46 resurfacing job to the low bidder but they make no mention of a $10,000 bribe . The commission investigation was ordered by Mr. Kugler on Aug. 1 , 1972 , after State Senator James H. Wallwork , Republican of Essex County , publicly challenged the integrity of the Attorney General 's office as a result of the Biederman memos . The commission said today that it had uncovered no evidence that Mr. Kugler had ever seen any of the pertinent memos or knew anything about an alleged bribe until a month before the indictments were handed up . The commission established , however , that a copy of the memo written on Oct. 30 , 1970 , by Mr. Biederman to Transportation Commissioner John C. Kohl , saying that Mr. Sherwin 's interference " could be considered as part of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ file in the office of Evan W. Jahos , head of the Division of Criminal Justice and one of Mr. Kugler 's top aides . Biederman Scored The commission was highly critical of Mr. Biederman , saying he had acted out of " animus " toward Mr. Kugler when he delivered tthe memos to Federal officials . The commission said Mr. Kugler had denied Mr. Biederman 's request for tenure and had instituted conflict of - interest charges against him after Mr. Biederman returned to private practice in November , 1971 , and represented two clients with whom he had come in contact as a deputy attorney general . The members of the commission also said that when testimony of state officials and Mr. Biederman were in conflict , they always found the testimony of the officials " more trustworthy . "                     