@@734225

txt Letters EUGENE V. ROSTOWVLADIMIR SOLOVYOVARTHUR J. MORGANDOROTHY OTNOW LEWIS , M.D.PAT ... Letters SALT II 's Threat to Our Power to Deter To the Editor : I fully agree with Ambassador Gross ( letter June 1 ) that nuclear weapons raise moral issues which touch the nature of democratic society . In the speech last summer from which he quoted , I characterized nuclear arms as " inherently repulsive " and recalled the American proposal of the Baruch Plan in 1974 , venturing to predict and to hope that the Soviet Union would embrace those bold and inspiring ideals when it becomes tired of war and the risk of war , bored with empire and exhausted by the intricacies and uncertainties of nuclear calculation . But the Soviet Union rejected the Baruch Plan and is now a formidable nuclear power . As Secretary of Defense Brown said at Annapolis recently , the Soviet Union is striving to achieve a first-strike nuclear capability . That effort contradicts Ambassador Gross 's assumption that Moscow accepts what he calls the " sound doctrine of mutual deterrence . " We therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AmeriTo the Editor : Americans , including those whose special field of study is Russia , occasionally come up with some really fantastic notions about that country . Just how profoundly American specialists understand Russian affairs is evinced by a recent discovery in the field of Kremlinology ? one described by David Binder in his May 28 news article , " Doctored Pictures Indicate Race to Succeed Brezhnev . " In comparing the traditional photographs of the Kremlin gerontocrats standing atop Lenin 's tomb that were published in the Soviet newspapers on May Day , specialists from the C.I.A . and other Government organizations discovered that Politburo member Andrei Kirilenko was missing from the picture published in Vechernyaya Moskva . They concluded that Kirilenko had been replaced in the hierarchy by another Politburo member , Victor Grishin , who as head of the Moscow party organization controls that newspaper . Poor Kirilenko ! He had fallen into disgrace simply through the good offices of the American Sovietologists . Perhaps the latter would do well to learn how those huge May Day photographs , which stretch clear across the front pages of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credited to several photographers , two at the very least . One photographs the can second-strike capability as " the foundation stone of stable deterrence , " in Ambassador Gross 's phrase . Here again he and I agree , at least nominally . I say nominally because the second half of Ambassador Gross 's letter seems to repudiate the notion of mutual deterrence through a credible second-strike capability as a distortion " of traditional social values . " He adduces President Kennedy 's handling of the Cuban missile crisis of 1962 as evidence for his assertion , on the ground that there was something morally wrong in the fact that our effective deterrent position there was implicitly based on gruesome estimates of mass destruction . Ambassador Gross can not have it both ways : that is , he can not support nuclear deterrence as inescapable , and reject it as morally dubious . The Committee on the Present Danger does not advocate attempting to restore the position of nuclear and conventional-force superiority we had in Cuba in 1962 , a time when the Soviet nuclear program was just beginning to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tomb , and the other the right . Then the two pictures are pasted together . Sometimes the process is more complicated : the background is taken from one picture , and figures of Soviet leaders cut out from other photographs are pasted on it . In such cases , anyone can make a mistake . As one who has worked on Soviet newspapers , I recall many different errors made in this process . The fact that when the montage was being put together the editors merely mislaid Kirilenko was not such a great misfortune : they might have shown him twice ? something that has happened to a Soviet leader more than once . No doubt Vechernyaya Moskva 's editors received reprimands for their negligence . It would be interesting to know whether American officials in the White House , the State Department and the C.I.A . have likewise been reprimanded for interpreting a technical error as a sign of personnel changes at the top . One can easily imagine how much the Politburo members are amused at such " insights " into their lives . Let us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implementation of SALT II the American specialists will be more attentive , and more professional . VLADIMIR SOLOVY0V ? Rego Park , N.Y. , June 2 , 1979 The writer is a scholar-in-residence at ? Queens College . Rhodesian Cornerstone To the Editor : It was to the Old Testament , Psalm 118 , that Bishop Abel Muzorewa turned to express his emotion upon the proclamation of the new nation , Zimbabwe Rhodesia , saying , " This is the day which the Lord bath made . . . " There is another verse in that psalm which could well be recalled in this connection : " The stone which the builders refused for stone read black man is become the head stone of the corner . " ARTHUR J. MORGAN New York , June 1 , 1979 allowing the Soviet Union to achieve a position of superiority comparable to ours in 1962 . Such a development would neutralize the entire triad of our own nuclear force , and expose us to nuclear blackmail as well as nuclear war . Since 1976 we have reiterated steadily our view that the goal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear war but to deter the Soviet threat to use or brandish nuclear weapons in world politics . If the SALT II treaty now in prospect . permitted us to preserve our second- . strike capability and to take even a small step toward the goals of the Baruch Plan , I should support it with enthusiasm . Unfortunately , this is not the case . On the contrary , the present state of SALT negotiations is releasing dangerous pressures for arms escalation , nuclear prgliferation and the policy of sauve qui peut , as confidence in the United States declines all over the world . EUGENE V. Rosrow New Haven , June 4 , 1979 The writer , professor of law at Yale , heads the executive committee of the Committee on the Present Danger . A Healer Who Joined The Execution Team To the Editor : According to The New York Times , there was a physician present at the execution of John Spenkelink . Not only was this anonymous individual present , but he also ascertained twice that Mr. Spenkelink was still alive after the first and second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executioners to repeat their efforts . Twice he had the opportunity to attempt to resuscitate Mr. Spenkelink and instead facilitated the execution . Moreover , this person was not under duress when he performed his work . This behavior , by a licensed physician , is a violation of the Hippocratic principles to preserve life and " above all do no harm . " His name should be revealed so that the community of physicians who abide by the Hippocratic Oath can evaluate this person 's behavior and determine whether or not he should be allowed to remain a member of the licensed medical community . My own opinion is that such a person must choose whether he wishes to remain a physician and abide by his oath to preserve life or renounce his medical status and acknowledge that he is part of the execution team . DOROTHY OTNOW LEWIS . M.D. Clinical Professor of Psychiatry Yale University New Haven , May 31 , 1979 The Male Burden To the Editor : Ross Stagner 's June 3 letter about " pregnancy permission " offers a quite simple-minded solution . Perhaps instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to become pregnant , unmarried males of any age ( including those not married to the female in question ) should be required to obtain permission of both sets of parents before impregnating a minor ? emale . Now who pays for the abortion ? PATRICIA A. ST . JOHN Elizabeth , N.J. , June 3 , 1979 How Soviet V.I.P. Photos Are ' Doctored ' Robert 's ' Crimes Against the Public Weal ' To the Editor : James Reston 's own life has been of such a single piece values believed in , values lived ? that it is a considerable shame that he uses his considerable talents and moral influence in an attempt to rehabilitate Robert , one of the most disturbingly flawed civil servants of this era column May 25 . It is true , as Reston says , that the contradiction between the arms race and the hunger race is one of the great underdiscussed issues of this age , but it is by no means true , as Reston suggests , that is a valid spokesman on this or any other subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major speech on the subject ; he spoke in much the same vein while Secretary of Defense , when it was also true that he was one of the great arms salesmen of the Western world , in no small part because it helped the Pentagon budget and made it , in the phrase , more cost effective . More importantly , 's own , still-unexplained public acts on Vietnam militate against his voice as a moral one in this society , and his entire role there contradicts the image of a man who will sacrifice his career for moral purposes . If anything , the real is quite different , someone , who says one thing in public and always follows the mandate of his superiors in private , dissembling not just to the press and the public but to his high-level colleagues in Government . In truth , lied and deceived the Senate and the press arid the public at the time of the Tonkin Gulf Resolution ( out of loyalty to the President and at the expense of a larger loyalty to the truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the nation about the levels of increment of troops . ( Mr. Reston once The Times welcomes letters from readers . Letters for publication must , include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we are unable ' to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters . used the phrase that Lyndon Johnson took us to war by stealth ; he is right , and Johnson 's great pathfinder at the time was ) . He set requirements for the field commanders there that resulted , inevitably , in the abhorrent body count . One of his most appalling deceptions of both his colleagues in the Government and the American people came in January of 1966 when he told budget officials and the Council of Economic Advisers that he forecast a small war and thus there was no need to go for a tax increase , when in fact he had already promised General Westmoreland a minimum of 400,000 troops . That particular lie , done out of loyalty , of course , helped give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some officials of the Nixon Administration , I suspect , went to prison for far smaller crimes against the public weal . But his greatest crime , like that of his colleague Bundy , was the crime of silence . From 1969 on , after Nixon took over and the national debate about Vietnam tore this nation apart , , who allegedly knew more about the war than anyone else , remained silent . In that period ' 18,000 young Americans and countless thousands of Vietnamese died . Mr. Reston says that " opposed the war . " That is simply not true . At the tail end of his tour as De- . Tense Secretary , he argued to limit the bombing . That is very different from opposing the war . After leaving office , he did criticize the war in very careful private conversations with very selected journalists , words spoken more to enhance his own slipping personal position rather than be a part of the painful national debate . Thus were the good citizens of Georgetown who opposed the war allowed to think that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same kind of personal manipulation , they were allowed to think that Henry Kissinger opposed the Cambodia incursion . This is the central point about . In the excesses of office out of loyalty to the President , he is much like the now-departed Mr. ' Haldeman . But unlike Mr. Haldeman , he is a far more dangerous figure . For Haldeman never fooled anyone ; he was palpably what he was , whereas it was 's special skill to fool people better than he , to seem better than his official acts and thus to keep part of his reputation . Not all of us are , like Mr. Reston , impressed by his $100,000-a-year penance at the World Bank , and we reject his role as spokesman on a moral issue like this . We got no speeches from him in the past . We need none from him now . DAVID HALBERSTAM New York , May 29 , 1979                     