@@732143

txt The people who live in U.S. cities are greeting mayoral races across the nation this fall with a hush rather than a hurrah . In a switch from volatile urban politics of the last decade , recession , cynicism about politics , and the influence of state governments have sapped the power of big-city mayors , and , experts say , voters may stay away from the polls in droves . This is the major finding of a Monitor survey of mayoral races from Boston to San Francisco . Other findings : ? Sensing voter frustration , mayoral candidates in many cities are having to take on new campaign skills and issues ? but with less money , fewer volunteers , and under new campaign laws . // // ? Crime still tops the list on campaign refrains from candidates and for city voter concerns followed by taxes and service breakdowns in garbage pickup and street conditions . But the law-and-order rhetoric against crime of the 1960s is now being put out by almost every candidate . Even so , crime is not seen as a cutting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employee unions and the strain on city budgets pose new campaign themes . The fiscal gap for the nation 's cities could reach $8 billion in 1975 , reports the U.S. Conference of Mayors . ? In some cities , like Sacramento , campaigns stress the need to revitalize the city's. downtown and rehabilitate old homes instead of ripping them down and replacing them with " instant slumR " " This is the quietest election we 've had in 15 years , " observed an election official for Baltimore 's Sept. 9 primary . With a turnout under 25 percent , Baltimore voters in some precincts were easily outnumbered by public officials and candidates hustling voters . Old-style party machine politics appear useless in most cities while a few , such as Chicago 's Mayor Richard Daly 's , still hang on . An " antimachine " candidate won handily in a Sept. 12 Democratic primary in New Haven , Connecticut . Professional political consultants are assuming greater importance as mayoral hopefuls hire national image-makers to beef up television and radio advertisements , poll voters , and create catchy slogans . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the days of big city mayors wielding absolute power are gone . Federal judges can now disrupt city tranquillity with school busing orders . Federal money , even under revenue sharing , still has strings attached or falls short of needs . Much mayoral power has been shifted over to " special districts , " such as sewer , school , or highway authorities ? whose numbers have doubled in 20 years ? making city campaigns more local than ever . This has led to greater use of the mayor 's office as a stepping stone to a politician 's upward mobility . Last year , four big-city mayors ran for the U.S. Senate while two others gained recognition as possible vice-presidential candidates . At least seven mayors ran for representative seats in Congress . Of 153 American cities over 100,000 , in population , 89 hold elections in 1975 including some of the largest . Some examples : Boston The issue in Boston is busing . Incumbent Kevin H. White will easily hold onto his office if school calm continues through a September primary and the November final . Little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ busing , or otherwise ideologically . Both are Irish tribal-leaders who would lean on the area'a university and financial community to run a professional administration . Mayor White , a Democrat with recognition on the national scene , boasts a tax rate held steady for four years . But federal revenue-sharing funds have propped up the rate and with Massachusetts facing a fiscal crunch , the city also faces money problems for next year . San Francisco A two-time limit prevents Mayor Joseph L. Alioto from seeking re-election this November . But the recent police strike has sparked unusual interest in the mayoral election ? and made a major issue of how to deal with the wage demands of municipal employees unions . Two of the five mayoral candidates , Board of Supervisors President Dianne Feinstein and Supervisor John Barbagelata , have joined together in support of ballot propositions to automatically fire striking police and fire fighters and to pay these workers in accordance with the average ? not the highest ? salaries paid in other California cities . A leading contender , State Sen. George Moscone , has played down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city officials to anticipate problems like strikes and deal with them before they become crises . Indianapolis As in many cities , crime in this Midwest city is of most concern to those least threatened . It is the major issue in the race between William Hudnut , a former Presbyterian minister and ex-Republican congressman , and Robert Welch , a land developer reportedly worth $8 million . Incumbent Mayor Richard Luger is an unannounced candidate for the 1976 race for Vance Hartke 's U.S. Senate seat . A lackluster campaign so far has been positive and low profile with Mr. Hudnut spending time at bowling alleys , door-to-door with a man-in-the-street approach and Mr. Welch apparently saving his punch for television . Birmingham , Alabama Strictly local issues mark the race between Republican incumbent George Seibels and Democratic City Councilman David Vann ? while Jefferson COunty Sheriff Mel Bailey waits in the wings as a possible candidate . City finances and demands by city employees for more pension money divide the candidates so far in a campaign as yet hardly rolling toward an Oct. 14 election . Although , police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not require it , but each of the candidates will voluntarily report to the public on their campaign contribution . Philadelphia Flamboyant , controversial Mayor Frank L. Rizzo is really the only issue in the campaign thus far . Considered the front runner in Philadelphia 's three-man race . The tough , blunt-speaking former police commissioner whose law-and-order campaign gained attention four years ago has come on hard times . A youthful black independent , CharleS Bowser , stands a good chance of coming in second unless several corruption charges topple Mr. Rizzo . Republican challenger Thomas Foglietta has stirred little interest , as has the campaign , in this traditionally Democratic , majority white city . Contributing to this survey : Richard Cattani in Boston , Frederick Moritz in San Francisco , Judith Frutig in Chicago , John Dillin in Atlanta , George Moneyhun in New York , and CuCurtis 011.01111e1 in Los Angeles .                     