@@733396

txt Arab leaders opposed to Egypt 's peace gesture toward Israel opened a two-day meeting here today , proclaiming united opposition to the policies of President Anwar el-Sadat but apparently divided on what action to take . Proposals were made for economic and diplomatic sanctions against Egypt . But , considering the makeup of the conference , it appeared questionable that any agreement could be reached on a plan of action . Only three politically and geographically marginal Arab countries have formally endorsed the Sadat initiative two weeks after it was made , and the Arab world is in deep disarray over it . A news analysis article appears on Page 9 . Longstanding Arab rivalries were put aside by the participants  --  Libya , Syria , Iraq , Algeria , Southern Yemen and the Palestine Liberation Organization  --  to lay the groundwork for a new front , opposed to President Sadat 's dialogue with Israel and determined to impede any separate peace agreement . The fact that the meeting was held here at all and included such a cautious Arab leader as President Hafez al-Assad of Syria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Libya and other " hard-line " Arab leaders . Besides the Libyan leader and President Assad , two chiefs of state  --  Presidents Houari Boumediene of Algeria and Salem Raboye Ali of Southern Yemen  --  are attending the conference , which was called to counter the projected meeting in Cairo later this month to prepare for a new Middle East peace conference in Geneva . A Meeting of Arab Rivals The Palestinian delegation here is led by the P.L.O . chairman , Yasir Arafat , but it also includes George Habash , head of the hard-line Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine . Mr. Habash sat beside Mr. Arafat at a round table'opposite the Syrian President . a development that would have been difficult to envision before the Sadat mission to Jersualem . The conference so far has reportedly avoided the harsh language of the hardliners in an apparent bid for support from the more moderate Arab countries such as Saudi Arabia , Jordan and Kuwait , whose opposition to the Sadat moves has been restrained . The debates today were held in private in the opulent People 's Palace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was dethroned in 1969 by the revolutionary Qaddafi movement . This morning 's session , according to P.L.O . sources , was devoted to the Palestinian question , with Mr. Arafat proposing diplomatic and economic sanctions against Egypt , among other measures . Libya and Iraq were also said to have proposals for an economic boycott and // a break in relations with Egypt , but Syria was said to have opposed any complete break . President Assad recently denounced Mr. Sadat 's policies but stressed that he was against any " divorce " from Egypt . A communiqu ? after a further session tonight made no mention of any agreement on issues . It said only that different heads of delegations had stressed the dangers of Mr. Sadat 's moves and had suggested ways to combat them . A Libyan spokesman said tonight that there was still no agreement on measures to be taken to oppose Mr. Sadat 's " challenge . " lenge . " The meetings are scheduled to resume tomorrow . President Boumediene of Algeria was said to have called for . " a clear new strategy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's break with the unified Arab line on Israel . Questioned on moves to impose economic sanctions on Egypt , Foreign Minister Ali Tureiki of Libya said that several Arab countries had done this on an individual basis . " I 'm sure there will be something collective from ' the summit , " he declared . Mr. Arafat also expressed " optimism . " 1But despite such statements doubt seemed to prevail here that anything more than expressions of solidarity would come out of the talks . Basic differences remained within ? the Palestinian delegation on the question of a negotiated peace settlement , with Mr. Arafat still favoring some kind of negotiations and with Mr. Habash firmly ruling out peace talks . It was said there was an exchange of hard words between the two Palestinian leaders in the morning session . The difference in views on a peace settlement could block the conference from taking any effective action against Mr. Sadat , according to participants in the session . Syria believes that Geneva peace talks are out of the question in the near future but has not excluded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like Libya , holds that the only solution is through armed struggle . Reconciliation between the rival regimes in Syria and Iraq is an important side issue at this meeting and in the opinion of some analysts the essential condition for any kind of an effective front against Mr. Sadat . The enmity between the two Baath Socialist leaderships in Iraqi and Syria goes back for years and has been characterized not only by fierce verbal attacks but also by assassinations , bombings and a number of coup plots .                     