@@734054

txt A deep lake that formed a natural time capsule in southwest Florida thousands of years ago has yielded discoveries that have raised scientists ' hopes that they have found one of the most important sites for studies of ancient ? man , animals and climate in North America . The site has yielded bones of now-extinct animals killed and cooked by humans 12,000 years ago , as well as many plant specimens and artifacts , including what may be the oldest hunting boomerang ever found . A nearby burial site appears to be one of the largest in North America and dates as far back as 5,000 years . The great wealth of human remains and of animal and plant fossils is believed to offer a rare opportunity to study the complex interactions between climate , animal and plant ecology that molded early human survival in the New World . The lake bottom slopes gently to a large sinkhole with a vertical shaft that spreads out downward to form a huge , water-filled cavity that is at least 240 feet deep . Its mineral-rich and oxygen-poor water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long ago . Mineral deposits accompanying the gradual rise and fall of the water level have made it possible to trace chronology and relations between species and climate . The site was first frequented by humans 12,000 years ago , when the Northeast was still thawing out from the last great ice age . The climate in Florida was much drier then than it is today , and the water level was much lower . The vertically sided sinkhole , called a cenote , must have been attractive to humans as a source of fresh water . It also served as a trap for animals that fell over the clifflike walls and could not escape . The boomerang , found on a ledge 90 feet below the lake surface , is a nonreturning type thought to be capable of downing game up to the size of a small ' deer at a range of 200 feet . Before it was discovered , such nonreturing boomerangs had been found in ancient Egypt , Australia and Western Europe , but never before in the Western Hemisphere , scientists involved in the new studies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appears to make it older than any previously found . " Unique cultural evidence , especially artifacts of wood , bone and shell , which seldom survive in the Southeast , has been preserved in what can be described as a natural time capsule at Little Salt Spring , " said a report in the Feb. 16 issue of Science , weekly journal of the American Association for the Advancement of Science . The site is near Charlotte Harbor . Remains of 1,000 People The authors are a team of scientists from several institutions led by Carl J. Clausen , former Florida State marine archeologist . In the swampy ground of a slough near the lake , scientists have found an ancient burying ground estimated to contain the remains of at least 1,000 people who lived 5,000 years ago . It is believed to be one of the largest burial sites of archaic Indians found in North America . Bones of 100 individuals have been unearthed . Among them scientists have found a skull in which a substantial portion of the brain is still preserved . " If our projections of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are valid , " says the report in Science , " we have here the best opportunity for physical anthropological studies oh an archaic population since the discoveries decades ago at Indian Knoll , Kentucky . " Giant Tortoise Captured Twelve thousand years ago , hunters at the Florida site captured a giant tortoise on a ledge at the water 's edge . They killed it by jamming a pointed stake through its body under the shell , turned it over and cooked it . The stake as well as portions of the turtle 's shell and bones have been dated at 12,030 years before the present . The animal , of a species now extinct , was as big as the largest Galapagos turtles now in existence . The specimen found in the lake must have been four feet long and two or three feet tall , the scientists estimated . The find in Florida is believed to be the first proof that humans captured and ate these big animals . The discovery thus bears on the still unsettled question of whether these and other large animals of that era @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by human beings , said Prof. J.A . Holman , of Michigan State University , one of the authors of the report in Science . Other Bones Found On that same ledge 90 feet below the water surface were found bones of either mastodon or mammoth ; an extinct species of bison ; a giant ground sloth and at least two other specimens of the giant tortoises . The discovery that Little Salt Spring was not just another shallow lake was made 20 years ago by divers . Later , there was some informal exploration of the forbidding depths and some souvenir hunting by divers who had no idea of the scientific potential of the site . Mr. Clausen said there were two brief scientific explorations in the early 1970 's and that more comprehensive work began late in 1975 . He described the work as difficult and often dangerous because of the darkness and extreme depth of the water in which the significant finds are being made . Mr. Clausen , a veteran of underwater explorations , described the experience as " a very spooky dive . " In one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost killed when he became tangled in a work line . The diving is being done on an individual basis with sometimes as many as four people working on the project at a time .                     