@@733836

txt " Let Europe arise ! " So spoke Winston Churchill 32 years ago in a little square in this venerable Swiss city . Churchill was speaking just after the end of World War II . " Over wide areas of Europe . " he said , -a vast quivering mass of tormented , hungry , careworn , and bewildered human beings gaze on the ruins of their cities and scan the dark horizon for the approach of some new peril , tyranny , or terror . " Three decades later , it is hard to remember how bleak and grim the outlook was then ? Europe has heeded Churchill 's call and has arisen . It has done this by following what he called in that speech " a remedy which . . would , as if by a miracle , transform the whole scene and would in a few years make all Europe , or the greater part of it , as free and as happy as Switzerland is today . " He then spelled out the remedy : " It is to re-create the European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to provide it with a structure under which it can dwell in peace , in safety , and in freedom . " Strident noises on the world stage , economic stagnation in the world 's most important industrial lands , the ever-present nuclear shadow , and the rift between the richest and poorest lands capture attention and headlines in the press . But a swing through the most important capitals of Western Europe brings home just how much Europe and the Western ideals for which it stands offer renewed hope and set the pace for the entire planet . How different is the Western Europe of today from the Europe in which the generation that fought World War II grew up ! With generous economic support and military protection from across the Atlantic , it has come closer to brotherhood between the nations than at any earlier time in its history . // From page 1 EUROPE : PHOENIX FROM THE ASHES Perhaps its greatest achievement is the establishment of a European structure in which another war pitting Britons , French , Germans , or Italians against one another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the European family , " Churchill said in Zurich , " must be a partnership between France and Germany . " Indeed , that has come to pass ? no small feat after three murderous wars between them in 1870 , 1914 , and 1939 . There are many paradoxes about this new-old Europe . Its once-great powers have yielded center stage in the world to the new superpowers . They have lost their military predominance and have shed their once far-flung imperial and colonial possessions ? except for the odd island or enclave that they find it hard to unload . Yet never has Western Europe influenced the entire world more . In fact , since the Reformation and the Renaissance , Europe has proved in one way or another unstoppable . Relentless spread . . . From then onward , Western Europe first ' Europeanized " Eastern Europe ? reachng through Poland to Russia ? at the time of Peter the Great ( 1682-1725 ) . One problem A ? ith Russia today is that it still is not completely Europeanized . But the desire of today 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kicking against the pricks of the irrepressible dissidents on the other bespeak a process that is still ongoing . In the 17th and 18th centuries North and South America were " Europeanized " ? resulting in the establishment of an independent United States that has become in many ways a more effective standard-bearer for Western ideals than Western Europe itself . In the 18th century Western Europe " Europeanized " parts of South Asia ? the British raj in India and the Dutch in the East Indies ? and in the 19th century ( with parallel initiatives from the U.S. ) it " Europeanized " the Far East and Africa . Where this meant colonial rule by a met  --  opolitan European power , that rule now las been either ejected or withdrawn . What - esidual Europeanization there is may be mperfect or incomplete , but the language of progress that remains is usually European . So are the aims and ideals . Most Tonic , perhaps , is that the most potentially powerful giant of Asia , the till now aloof and proudly self-sufficient People 's Republic of China , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chairman Hua Kuofeng recently visit Bucharest , Romania , and Belgrade ( Mao never came farther West than Moscow ) , but also the Chinese are preparing the way for the dispatch of thousands of their students to the West for training in techniques and technology recognized as more advanced than those anywhere else in the world . Realization somewhat dim But what of the peoples still in the geographic cradle from which all these fertilizing and vitalizing ideas first went forth ? Oddly , they seem not fully aware of the Phoenix-like healing that has been effected since Winston Churchill spoke here in Zurich . There are still national loyalties , but they are not aflame . On the other hand , if a pan-European loyalty is aborning , it is hard to detect : A recent public opinion poll , in fact , shows the idea of Europe less popular among member countries of the European " Common Market " than at any time in its 20-year history . If national loyalties are less aflame and a European loyalty has yet to develop , however , there is for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Welsh , Breton , Corsican , Sicilian , Piedmontese , Tuscan , Fleming , Walloon , and even Bavarian . Yet at the same time the lowering of.national barriers is taken for granted . People pass through frontier checkpoints in Western Europe now virtually as unhindered as Canadians and Americans cross each others ' border . Backpacks and blue jeans Most impressive of these travelers are the young ? backpacking and in blue jeans ? who in their thousands are crossing frontiers from one end of Western Europe to the other as if it were the most natural thing in the world . Little do they realize that their grandparents ? and perhaps even their parents ? would never have dreamed of doing this . Earlier generations not only lacked the money to do it , but also between the wars and immediately thereafter crossing frontiers had its tiresome formalities and even its risks . Another heartening feature in Western Europe is that every country is in democratic hands for the first time ever . For a long time after World War II Spain and Portugal remained under dictatorial rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonels ' rule in Greece . And the European Community ( EC ) is preparing to admit all three to help keep them under free systems of government . What is more , noncommunist Europe is better off at all levels than it ever has been before . It has recovered from the scars of war and the depression . It has developed not only a fairer distribution of wealth but also a distribution of services and technological innovations either not available before or available only to a privileged few . Cars , television sets , and refrigerators are within the reach of more and more people . And those once unaccustomed to foreign travel now have relatively cheap access to aircraft . Two key organizations This coming together of a risen Europe has found expression above all in two international organizations . The first is NATO . From the start is has provided the protective shield of U.S. nuclear power under which the once-ravaged lands of Europe could grow closer together without threat or disruption from Soviet military might . Remarkably , it has held together for nearly 30 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security . The second is the EC . It is in no way a military alliance , which enables a traditional neutral such as Ireland to join it . But other traditional neutrals , such as Austria , Sweden , and Switzerland , still prefer to remain aloof from it . So do Norway and Finland ? the former because its North Sea oil enables it to do nicely on its own and because of its dislike of EC fishery policy , the latter because of its unusual relationship with its massive next-door neighbor , the Soviet Union . Wien the membership of the EC increases from nine to 12 with the accession of Spain , Portugal , and Greece , it will embrace virtually all noncommunist Europe . The family that Winston Churchill foresaw is indeed establishing itself ? healthily and in peace . Next : Pondering " the German question "                     