@@734327

txt The disclosure of Andrew Young 's unauthorized contact with the Palestine Liberation Organization has jolted the already troubled American relationship with Israel and the Administration 's shortterm hopes for drawing moderate Palestinians into the Middle East peace talks . " This is very damaaine to the President , very damaging , " said a high official . " He 's heartsick about it , not angry but heartsick , " said another . ' Set Us Back a Little Bit ' One immediate result , high-ranking officials said , was that Ambassador Robert S. Strauss , who leaves for Israel on Thursday , will have to concentrate on mollifying the Israelis and trying to clear the air to prepare for the next round of Egyptian-Israeli talks on Palestinian autonomy . " It 's going to take time to regroup , " said an Administration policy maker . " It has set us back a little bit , but it 's not going to set us back all the way . " The Yeltmq affair surfaced at a particularly awkward moment for the Carter Administration , which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President and his aides were trying to reassure the Government of Prime Minister Menachem Begin that , contrary to Israeli suspicions , there had been no shift in American Middle East policy despite increased American diplomatic contacts with Arab moderates on the Palestinian issue . Privately , high officials acknowledged that any other diplomat in Mr. Young 's shoes would be dismissed but that Mr. Young might be spared not only because of his special personal relationship with the President but also , one said , " because he 's a political asset at home " with American blacks and " such a diplomatic asset " with black African and other third world countries . Although the Young situation has become the momentary lightning rod for Is // raeli discontent over American actions , authoritative Israeli officials said that even if there had been no contact by Mr. Young with a P.L.O . observer at the United Nations , the Begin Government felt nervous about the thrust of American Middle East diplomacy lately . Last week , President Carter and Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance met over luncheon for 90 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commitments to Israel remained unchanged . Yesterday , in a major policy speech in Dallas , Ambassador Strauss asserted that the United States would " neither respond nor submit to pressure of any kind " and would set " no artificial deadline " for progress in the Palestinian talks . Both efforts were intended to soften the impact of several recent American moves and , in the face of Israeli pressures , to back away from the assessment of high Administration officials , reported by The New York Times on Aug. 1 , that there would have to be noticeable progress in the negotiations on Palestinian autonomy over the next couple of months or the West might face new pressures on its oil supplies from Arab producers . Now Administration policy makers say it is a mistake to talk in terms of a specific deadline . They prefer to emphasize the need for " a climate of negotiating progress and momentum . " They insist , as one senior official put it , that " there is no direct link " between Arab oil supplies to the West , especially Saudi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Palestinian issue . But they say that there is inherently an indirect connection since the Arab states may eventually be tempted to curtail oil supplies if they are dissatisfied with the pace or direction of the Middle East peace negotiations . Other issues have been troubling the American-Israeli relationship as well . The Israelis , for example , belatedly opposed the American decision to try to use the United Nations Truce Supervisory Organization to monitor Israeli withdrawal from the Sinai . And they have been offended by the prospective sale of up to 300 modern M-60 tanks to Jordan . Efforts at the U.N . As the Young incident illustrates , they have vigorously objected to the effort by Americans and Arab moderates to devise a new United Nations resolution that would enable the P.L.O . to accept Israel 's right to exist and to accept past United Nations resolutions outlining a Middle East peace while asserting " the legitimate rights of Palestinians . " Administration policy makers had hoped that this effort might clear the way for the P.L.O . to allow participation by moderate Palestinians in the autonomy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparently scotched for the time being by a hard-line P.L.O . statement insisting on an independent Palestinian state , a term . unacceptable to Washington . This entire sequence of initiatives , as well as press reports about American " signals " to the Palestinians , prompted a sharp public protest last week from Foreign Minister Moshe Davin . " There has been a shift in U.S. policy , " he declared , alleging that Saudi Arabia was pressing Washington on the Palestinian issue . President Carter and other senior Administration officials urgently denied any change in policy , much less an American willingness to submit to any pressure the Saudis might be able to apply because of their oil . However justified these denials may be , the entire public argument glosses over what sophisticated Israeli diplomats more accurately describe as " a change in emphasis " in American diplomacy and what American officials describe as Israeli rigidity whenever Washington tries to find new openings for moving the Palestinian talks ahead or drawing Arat moderates into the peace process . Differences Are No Less Important The differences are more subtle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Americans regard as necessary flexibility in applying American policy and interpreting the Camp David accords on the framework for Middle East peace , the Israelis see as worrisome American attempts to water down hard commitments to Israel . Privately , in calmer moments , both sides concede that the current tensions and flurries reflect the fact that the Middle East negotiations have now touched the most sensitive Issue , the future of the Palestinians on the West Bank , and therefore any diplomatic move arouses alarm in Israel. - The Carter Administration , anticipating Israeli nervousness , has been braced for it and eager to try to reassure the Begin Government that Washington 's commitment to Israeli security and the basic Camp David framework has not changed . That is why , officials sadly concede , the Young affair has been so damaging . It has fed Israel 's unwarranted fears of secret , back  --  channel deals with the Arabs .                     