@@729351

txt The Soviet Union indicated today that Leonid I. Brezhnev , whose pre-eminence in the Kremlin leadership was underscored at the just-completed 24th Communist party Congress , has now risen officially above his fellow Politburo ? members  --  apparently as the undisputed leader of the country . A formal report on the front pages of all Moscow newspapers about yesterday 's Central Committee meeting noted as a separate item Mr. Brezhnev 's re-election as General Secretary of the party and listed it ahead of the election of the Politburo and Secretariat . Since the Politburo has traditionally been regarded as the most important party organ , the placing of the party 's General Secretary above it signified a further and perhaps decisive widening of Mr. Brezhnev 's personal power and prestige . Not since Nikita S. Khrushchev 's days of leadership has one man so dominated the party hierarchy as Mr. Brezhnev appears to do mow . Revision of 1966 Listings By comparison , in 1966 , at the close of the 23d party congress , the election of the Politburo members was listed first in the formal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed further down with the list of party secretaries . The new listing , Western diplomats said , could have farreaching consequences for both domestic and foreign policy . It might indicate that the Soviet Union 's experiment with collective leadership in the wake of Mr. Khrushchev 's ouster is ended , and a Brezhnev era ' beginning , The make-up of the Politburo // ? enlarged yesterday from 11 to 15 members  --  and of the expanded Central Committee seems to bear out Mr. Brezhnev 's growing political power , since many of his close supporters were added . It can be expected that Mr. Brezhnev 's ideas and policies can now be carried out with a minimum of debate since he seems to control the organs of power . The exact duties of the General Secretary have never been detailed in public . The title was used by Stalin from 1922 until 1952 , when he adopted the title First Secretary . Mr. Khrushchev Used the term First Secretary and Mr. Brezhnev changed it back to General Secretary at the 23d congress . Mr. Brezhnev has no Government or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent months , drawing upon his preeminence in the leadership , he has taken a more active role in economic affairs at home and in talks with such foreign leaders as President Pompidou of France . Such functions had previously been shared by Premier Aleksei N. Kosygin and President Nikolai V. Podgorny . Some diplomats believe that In coming months Mr. Brezhnev may decide to deal directly with Western leaders , something he has usually left to others . But some diplomats cautioned against drawing premature conclusions , They said it would be better to watch developments in Soviet policy in coming months to see if Mr. Brezhnev does seem to act more independently . Exchange of Party Cards Among things to watch , they said , would be whether the exchange of party membership cards is carried out as Mr. Brezhnev suggested in his main report to the Congress . He said that such an exchange  --  which amounts to a pretext for a purge of some party members ? had not taken place in 17 years . If it does take place , presumably party officials thought less than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The formal announcement on the results of yesterday 's meeting of the newly chosen Central Committee , began as follows : " On April 9 , 1971 , a plenum of the Central Committee of the Soviet Communist party , chosen by the 24th Congress of the Communist party , was held . " The plenum unanimously elected comrade Brezhnev , L.I. , as General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Soviet party . " The plenum elected the Politburo of the Central Committee of the Communist party as follows . " It then listed in alphabetical order the 15 members , headed by Mr. Brezhnev , and six candidate members . The report went on to list the ten members of the Secretariat , headed also by Mr. Brezhnev . Podgorny Listed Second In his concluding speech to the congress yesterday , Mr. Brezhnev also listed the new party line-up , headed by himself . He mentioned the names apparently in order of their importance , but although Mr. Podgorny was placed second ahead of Mr. Kosygin , Western diplomats regarded this listing as simply in conformity with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as printed in the press today differed from the way he listed the names yesterday . The printed version listed all leadership posts alphabetically after Mr. Brezhnev as General Secretary . This was in keeping with the effort to show that the Politburo members are equal ? after Mr. Brezhnev . Most Western diplomats here predicted that the 15-man Politburo would be reduced in coming months to 12 or 11 members . The belief was that the three Politburo members listed last by Mr. Brezhnev yesterday might be dropped . They are Pyotr Y. Shelest , the Ukrainian party leader ; Gennady I. Voronov , the head of the Russian federation , and Aleksandr N. Shelepin , the trade-union leader . Received Lavish Praise Mr. Brezhnev 's rise has been discerned for the last year and has often been commented on in diplomatic circles here . He has seemed eager to assert his leadership , although so far there has been little of the kind of adulation that was given either Stalin or Mr. Khruschchev in the media . But at the 24th congress , Mr. Brezhnev received lavish praise that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to . The congress ended yesterday , and the press was printing the final resolutions it passed , giving endorsement to the policies of eased world tensions and a higher standard of living outlined by Mr. Brezhnev in his main report and elabo rated upon by Mr. Kosygin in his economic report .                     