@@731940

txt Saigon 's new revolutionary government has begun to show the tactics by which it plans to take complete control of the country . Its first moves were to take over the press and labor unions . This approach may be broader in its influence than it seems at first glance , when one considers the following : ? In the last months of the old Thieu regime the few newspapers that remained open toed the Saigon government line for the most part . Articles that deviated from that line were heavily censored , and the papers often appeared with gaping blank spaces in them . Last February , the Saigon government closed five opposition newspapers and arrested 14 leading newsmen , virtually emasculating what was left of an independent press . ? The Vietnamese Confederation of Labor , which has now been taken over by the Communists , was the largest non-Communist labor grouping in South Vietnam . But it would be wrong to think that it had the support or cooperation of most laborers . The overriding fact in the eyes of many Vietnamese workers was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injustice . The Confederation of Labor , known by its French initials as the CVT , was headed-by Tran Quoc Buu , a man suspected by the Communists of having once worked for the French security service , something that hardly made him popular . Mr. Buu has , over the years , secured strong support from the AFL-CIO in the United States . He is wealthy enough to have maintained several " minor wives , " and in the eyes of many Vietnamese , this has done little to enhance hisprestige . In recent years , Mr. Buu did little to challenge the Saigon government and often cooperated with it in a quiet way . Thus , for many workers , the important question is not likely to be whether the CVT was taken over or not but whether the workers ' standard of living will improve under the new revolutionary government . South Vietnam has suffered over the past few years from rampant inflation . and massive unemployment . Coping with these problems will be basic tests for the new government . Under the old government , some workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside the ranks of organized labor unions . More than 10,000 pedicab drivers were thrown out of work about a month ago when the Thieu government concluded that some of them were working for the Communists and bringing explosives into the city of Saigon . They were ordered off the streets , and most of them had no place to go to find new work . One man who had started out 40 years ago as a ricksha puller under the French was found living destitute on a 9-by-6 foot platform in a tiny house in Saigon when this reporter talked with him two weeks ago . His family had left him ? the worst disgrace for a Vietnamese ? because he had been unable to provide for them . After the pedicab owner , fearful of the police , took the man 's only means of support away from him , he was living day to day thanks to small contributions from a Roman Catholic priest who was trying to organize the pedicab drivers ? and to occasional offers of rice from the family that rented the platform to him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was beyond him and that he would accept any government that would guarantee him enough work so that he could pay for a few ? bowls of rice each day . It is hard to imagine that Nguyen Dau will be worse off under the new revolutionary government than he was under the old regime .                     