@@729383

txt The mayors of eleven of the nation 's largest and most important cities joined Mayor Lindsay in touring New York City this week . Members of the legislative action committee of the United States Conference of Mayors , they have been visiting urban areas across the country , frankly conceding that their " road show " is designed to dramatize their common plight . It is a plight , indeed . One is struck with the high caliber of the men who occupy these mayoral posts and , simultaneously , with the impossibility of their task ? trying to wrestle successfully with all of the nation 's most difficult social problems while lacking fundamental governmental powers and anything close to adequate resources . The visiting mayors stressed that what they saw here in the desolate , deteriorating Brownsville section of Brooklyn was not altogether unlike what they daily see at home . The blight is more pervasive in Brownsville , more devastating than anywhere else in America ( save perhaps Newark ) , but some blight exists in every large city . There is human blight as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D'Alesandro of Baltimore , the city is becoming " a repository for the poor . " This is the crux of the urban crisis . The past decade has seen little change in the total population of many major cities , but vast changes in the composition of that population . In Baltimore , Mayor D'Alesandro explained that only about one-third of his city 's residents pay any income tax and that about one-third of that third have an income of $3,000 or less a year . Out of a total population of 905,000 , he said that the city has only 118,000 substantial taxpayers . To raise city levies is to risk driving this thin rank into the suburbs . Cities rely largely on real estate taxes . The spreading blight erodes this tax source . Mayor Henry W. Maier of Milwaukee pointed out that cities are being forced to finance educational , social and anti-poverty programs on this base , once intended to finance only such basic services as fire protection and garbage collection . Urban costs rise because of the need to provide additional assistance to the poor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inflationary forces . Tax sources shrink . The character of central cities changes . The mayoral message being carried nationwide is one of absolute desperation . Trapped amid swirling social . forces over which they have little control , the cities generally find themselves slipping into decline . There is a constitutional cause for this decline . The cities are unmentioned in the nation 's basic compact of government . They have no inherent sovereign powers . Owing their development to commerce and trade , they continue nonetheless to provide jobs and to generate the bulk of the nation 's tax revenues . The mayors sketched the plight of the cities , a grim one ; they also urged remedial action . There is justice in their plea that the Federal Government assume a far larger share of mounting welfare costs because welfare relates to poverty and poverty can not be solved at the state or local levels of government . They make an equally strong case for direct Federal revenue sharing , under which the Federal Government would return to the cities a portion of Federal income tax revenues generated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congressional action . The existing fiscal mismatch makes no sense . The central government siphons away the bulk of tax revenues ; the local governments confront the bulk of domestic problems . There is an understandable urgency in the tone of the mayoral message . Every city 's Brownsville cries out for attention . The " road show " which has already visited some cities and will go on to others should help convince the nation that if human needs are to be met and the cities saved , the time for remedial action is now .                     