@@734355

txt Letters EDWARD R. FINCH JR.JEROME D. FRANKDENNIS SMITHBRUCE L. ROCKWOODCARL HENRYROBE ... Letters Time for Earthlings to Sign a Moon Treaty To the Editor : There is much media discussion on outer space , and Congress will soon be considering the United Nations moon treaty now before the General Assembly . The 1979 draft treaty , as part of a compromise by many delegates , places no moratorium upon exploitation of the natural resources on celestial bodies , pending establishment of an international regime . This permits orderly attempts to establish whether such'exploitation is in fact feasible and practical by permitting experimental beginnings and then pilot operations , a process by which we will learn if it will ever be feasible to exploit commercially the mineral resources of celestial bodies . The U.S. delegate has stated that the United States will , when and if negotiations for such a regime are called for under Articles XI and XVIII , make every effort to see that such a regime is successfully negotiated . Further consultations as provided in the treaty are not anticipated for at least eight years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a considerable period before the possibility of commercialization arises . Such a possibility should be discussed more appropriately when feasiAn Illusion Called Nuclear Superiority To the Editor : Since the days of spears and clubs , weapons have conferred strength upon their possessors , both in appearance and in actual fact . Nuclear weapons have abruptly and permanently Pbroken this connection , but the psychological link persists . The SALT H hearings have made clear that the overriding motive for striving to exceed the Soviet nuclear arsenal is fear . We fear that unless we match them weapon for weapon we will appear to ourselves and to other nations as weak and irresolute . This will tempt enemies to attack and allies to defect . Because there can be no effective defense against them , accumulations of nuclear weapons increase the insecurity of all nations , including that of their possessors . Since their actual use would be suicidal , they project only the illusion of power . Unfortunately , humans readily respond to appearance as if it were reality , often with disastrous consequences . Until national leaders find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national power required by the realities of nuclear weapons , nations will continue to compete for the illusory goal of nuclear superiority , to their eventual destruction . JEROME D. FRANK Baltimore , Sept. 4 , 1979 bility has been proven and solar power systems as well as space manufacturing facilities are more practical realities . This in no way detracts from scientific research utilizing celestial bodies ' resources . The proposed moon treaty in Article VII contains important protection of the environment . The U.N . committee agreed that Article VII is not intended to result in prohibiting the exploitation of natural resources which may be found on celestial bodies other than earth , but rather that such exploitation will be carried out to minimize any disruption of the existing balance of the environment . As organizational models for the exploitation of space resources continue to be designed , the proposed treaty does not favor or prohibit any single setup . An Intelsat-type enterprise , for example , would be completely permissible under the terms and would provide the opportunity for an equitable sharing of benefits . Participation by U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as manager for the Intelsat global communications system . The opportunities and prospects for private enterprise , working through such organizations , are enhanced , not diminished , by mutual cooperation under the proposed treaty . To the Editor : Harris 0 . Schoenberg , director of B'nai B'rith International , fails to understand the politics of Northern Ireland and tries to cover up his failure by the most blatant display of the verus in uno , verus in omnibus fallacy I have seen in years letter Sept. 5 . I will take his word for it when he claims that the I.R.A . is supplied with guns by the P.L.O . ( that the I.R.A . might have bought the guns is a legitimate question that Mr. Schoenberg failed to ask ) , but to call the I.R.A . " constituents " of the P.L.O . without convincing ' evidence and to link the I.R.A . with the Baader-Meinhof gang and the Second of June group is absurd and pernicious . . I do not dispute anyone 's horror at the tactics of the I.R.A. , but it should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a real and verifiable constituency , something that can not be said of Baader-Meinhof , Second of June or the P.L.O . Just count the Catholic heads in Ulster , and you 'll find more for the I.R.A . than against . Their goal is clear To the Editor : In a Sept. 6 letter , Stephen Davis characterizes the Polisario Liberation Front as " composed almost entirely of members of ... a fierce , extended clan of brigands and murderers " who deserve to be suppressed by Morocco , - presumably with the aid of the United States . I should like to remind your readers of the Advisory Opinion of the International Court of Justice of October 16 , 1975 , on the legal status of the former Western Sahara . That opinion found that while " legal ties " existed between the region and both Morocco and a " Mauritanian entity " in the period prior to Spanish occupation , these ties " do not establish any tie of territorial sovereignty " between the Western Sahara and Morocco or Mauritania . The court concluded that the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accordance with General Assembly Resolution 1514 ( XV ) . The geopolitical arguments for U.S. With regard to the often-questioned " common heritage of all mankind " language used in the new moon treaty , three points need to be made . First , the phrase is not " common province , " as stated in the 1967 Outer Space Treaty . There is considerable consensus that the distinction is declaratory only . Second , no consensus has been reached on the meaning of " common heritage " and ' ' common province " in the international law of outer space . Third , recourse to Law of the Sea rhetoric should await conclusion of that treaty and successful development of seabed resources . Lessons on what to avoid , rather than actions to be duplicated for celestial bodies , are more likely from Law of the Sea experiences . The U.N . Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space has already produced by consensus five treaties which have been ratified by the United States and which have made exemplary progress in the law of outer ? space . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advancing science for the use and development of resources from space for the benefit of all mankind . EDWARD R. FINCH JR . New York , Sept. 6,1979 The writer is a **28;996;TOOLONG delegate to the U.N . and achievable , and not the abstract call for international anarchy . They want Britain out . Most alarming is Mr. Schoenberg 's assertion that extremist tactics stimulate " ... possibly oppressive behavior by otherwise liberal governments . " There is nothing " possibly " about it . The assertion suggests that Mr. Schoenberg has not read Samuel Dash 's refutation of the Widgery Report , the 1978 report of the European Court of Human Rights at Strasbourg , the 1978 report of Amnesty International and Britain 's own report by Lord Bennett published this year ? reports which illustrate Britain 's generally abominable behavior in Northern Ireland and which prove conclusively that Britain is guilty of inflicting torture on political detainees in Ulster ? that is , men and women who have been arrested without charge or trial . I would expect more from the director of an organization that has for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DENNIS SMITH New York , Sept. 5 , 1979 intervention on behalf of Moroccan expansionism are complex and debatable , and should not be permitted to override our overall policy of concern for human rights of all peoples . Morocco has engaged in an aggressive war of extermination of native peoples in the former Western Sahara , and our policy of nonintervention is highly appropriate under the circumstances . BRUCE L. ROCKWOOD Associate Professor of Law Western New England College Springfield , Mass. , Sept. 6 , 1979 Moscow 's Choice To the Editor : Would the Russian empire really prefer World War III to withdrawing its combat troops from Cuba , upon our suspension of normal relations until they were withdrawn ? CARL HENRY New York , Sept. 10 , 1979 I.R.A . ' s Clear and Achievable Goal Western Saharans ' Right The Folly of Diverting General Revenues to Social Security To the Editor : In your Aug. 29 Business Day column " On Revamping Social Security , " Alicia H. Munnell recommends financing certain portions of the Social Security program from general revenues on the grounds that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thus should not be financed by payroll taxes . She believes that payroll-tax financing was proper for the retirement benefits provided by the 1935 act because they were completely on an individual-equity basis . Dr. Munnell 's conclusion is based on a false premise . The benefit system established by the 1935 act was , like the present structure , a combination of individual equity and social adequacy ( although with more relative emphasis on the former than is now the case ) . The original system was not a corn- ? pulsory savings mechanism , even though there was a " guarantee " that the worker would receive benefits of at least her or his own contributions plus a small allowance for interest . In actuality , from an actuarial standpoint , the employer contributions ( as well as some part of the employee contributions ) were pooled to provide benefits of a social-adequacy nature . That social adequacy was present , in the form of heavily weighted benefits for those who retired in the early years of operation and for low earners in all years , can readily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an annual salary of $600 ( a not-untypical amount in the mid-1930 's ) and retired at age 65 at the beginning of 1942 would have received a monthly benefit of $15 , with an actuarial value of about $1,500 . The combined employer-employee taxes would have been $72 . Thus , the taxes paid , even allowing for a small amount of accumulated interest thereon , represented only about 5 percent of the value of the benefits ? hardly an individual-equity situation . In summary then , although there may be valid arguments for financing Social Security in part through general revenues , it is not correct to do so ? as Dr. Munnell does ? on the bases that the program was originally established on an individual-equity basis ( it was not ) and that this principle should have been maintained'over the years , with any social-adequacy elements being financed through other than payroll taxes . In my view , using other than direct , visible payroll taxes is undesirable and even deceptive , because people do not then see the full cost of Social Security . Despite the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure the incidence of taxes of any type following the first few months after they are instituted . The imposition of new taxes , such as higher personal income taxes , would undoubtedly shortly result in a reciprocating change in the incomes structure of the country ( which econometric models , no matter how elegant , can not possibly take into account or predict ) . In any event , how are medium- and high-paid workers better off if the social-adequacy elements of Social Security are financed out of general revenues , and the payroll taxes are decreased , when at the same time other taxes paid by such individuals are increased to provide the required general revenues ? Who is fooling whom ? ROBERT J. MYERS Silver Spring , Md. , Sept. 1 , 1979                     