@@733138

txt The South African Government 's arrest of student leaders in the Johannesburg area over the weekend has increased tension in that great city 's black townships on the eve of the first anniversary of last year 's protest outburst in Bowe ) , the biggest township of them all . Twenty-five students are known to /lave been trrested ? 20 black and ' five white . The blacks are the leaders of the Soweto Students ' Representative Council . The whites are connected with Witwatersrand University . The authorities said their detention was in connection with plans for anniversary observances June 16 . More Soweto high school students boycotted their classes June 14 , and there were sporadic demonstrations and isolated incidents of stonings . To " defuse a volatile situation " a leading Soweto resident , Percy Qoboza , editor of the black Johannesburg daily paper The ' World , has called on the government to release the student prisoners at once . Meanwhile , the extraordinary terror raid in ' midtown Johannesburg June 13 ? when three black men with Soviet-made automatic pistols // From @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group of white workmen who were on a tea-break , shooting and killing two of the whites ? has only served to increase tension further , at least among blacks . Whites are going about their business with apparently almost complete unconcern . Asked if there was any tension in Johannesburg itself June 14 , a white company director who employs several blacks , said there was none at all that he was aware of . Asked if he expected his black workers to stay away June 16 , he said they had not given him any indication that they would . Even the shooting in Johannesburg had made such little impact on white thinking , he said , that not a single person among the many he had met and worked with during the day had even mentioned it to him . Confidence voiced " The police are in control , " he said . That ' more or less sums up white attitudes at present . Whites believe that if there is any serious unrest June 16 , it will be restricted to the black areas . There seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ black Johannesburg gunmen and the student leaders , although some younger blacks now are talking about the gunmen as " heroes . " As a leading adult black Soweto resident said gloomily : " You have to be arrested today to be anybody at all to many of our kids . If you are not in jail you are a nobody . In fact , they are suspicious of you . " The police arrested two of the Johannesburg gunmen on the spot , but are still searching for a third . Gunmen 's identity According to Police Minister Jimmy Kruger , the gunmen are all South Africans , but people who had slipped out of the country for training in Luanda , in Angola , and who returned by way of Mozambique , on South Africa 's eastern border . It seems possible that the gunmen are members of the banned African National Congress ( ANC ) , and that ANC leaders intended their attack to heighten the tension in South Africa at a time when black emotions are being stirred by calls for " remembrance " demonstrations . Police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be part of a larger group , but he did not think that the attack marked the start of large-scale urban terrorism . Difficult times ' " we live in very difficult times , " he said , " and we must expect that at certain stages some people terorists from outside South Africa will get through . " However , I may tell the public that the police have this thing completely under control . " One of the " weapons " that the police have developed to disperse crowds and which now is stationed in Soweto is a strange-looking vehicle called the " sneeze machine . " It is a homemade-looking affair consisting basically of a corn-cob threshing machine which pumps out a mixture of gas and talcum powder . It is mounted on a truck .                     