@@729902

txt The chairman of the Price Commission , C. Jackson Grayson Jr. , said today that speculation by high Government officials about an early end to economic controls might be " damaging " to the entire stabilization effort . In an interview , Mr. Grayson also said that If food prices continued to rise , he would join with the Cost of Living Council and " look at " the possibility of placing raw agricultural products under price controls . These products are now exempt . Asked about recent statements by George P. Shultz , director of the Office of Management and Budget , and Herbert Stein , chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers , on the desirability of ending controls as soon as possible , Mr. Grayson asserted that such statements were " premature . " " They could distort the whole control mechanism , " he said . Nixon Gives View President Nixon , interviewed recently on the Columbia Broadcasting System , commented that controls would be kept on if necessary but that he saw " decontrol coming perhaps at a faster pace . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are not enthusiastic about wage and price controls , and both have said that a rapid return to a free market economy would be desirable . ' At a news conference today , however , Mr. Stein disavowed reports that he had said controls would be removed quickly . Mr. Grayson disclosed that he had " informally " told the Administration officials about his belief that their statements could harm the anti-inflation program . " If companies start thinking ! we will be going out of business soon , " he said , " they might increase their profit margins , in violation of our regulations , and gamble that controls will end before they are investigated . " Nothing Major , He Says Mr. Grayson said that at some time the commission might start thinking about minor areas of the economy that have no influence on inflationary levels and that are not worth the bureaucratic effort of maintaining controls . " But we are not considering any major decontrol , " he insisted . " We will not look at decontrols until we see the controls are working . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time for a possible end to controls , Mr. Grayson said , would be April 30 , 1973 , when legislation giving the President power to stabilize wages and prices expires . And that power could be extended if necessary , he added . " I do think , " Mr. Grayson asserted , " that talk by anyone in the Administration ' or business or anywhere else about decontrol , before we achieve stability , could be damaging . " In fact , he added , it ought to be pointed out to business that if the present system of controls does not work , it might be faced with even more stringent alternatives in the future , including " a control mechanism with a large bureaucracy or even a reimposition of the freeze . " Mr. Grayson expressed concern over the fact that parts of the economy exempted from price controls , such as the raw agricultural sector , were so " visible " to the public eye . He was referring to the fact that food costs based on the agricultural prices had been going up at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Price Index released today by the Labor Department indicated that the price of farm products , processed foods and feeds rose by 2 per cent in December , a sub- ' stantial increase for one month . Farm products alone increased by 3.2 per cent during the month . Mr. Stein said at a news conference that products exempted ' from price controls accounted for nearly half of the increase in the index , Mr. Grayson said an examination would be made to determine if it would be necessary to remove the exemption from these products to curb inflationary trends , The Price Commission chairman , in shirtsleeves and apparently relaxed at the austerelooking commission offices here , outlined some of the othermajor policy decisions the commission will soon be acting on , They include such things as prices in the construction industry that reflect construction wage costs , special rules for companies that are losing money or recording low profits , the handling of controls on longterm contracts , and more detailed price rules for service industries . The seven price commissioners , Mr. Grayson said , will spend less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monitoring price indexes to see if policies should be revised .                     