@@733080

txt President Carter 's foreign policy team is moving into high gear , with a number of policies taking on a more definite shape and high-ranking U.S. emissaries preparing for extensive travel and negotiating . The President himself leads the way , flying May 5 to Europe for an economic summit conference , a NATO meeting , and talks with Syria 's President Hafez al-Assad . One Carter initiative has already borne fruit . The U.S. has agreed to the admission of Vietnam to the United Nations and promised new talks aimed at a speedy " normalization " of relations . Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance will be going to Iran and Spain with only a brief return to the United States before taking off once again for talks in Geneva with Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko . Vice-President Wal*Please turn to Page 6 From page 1 ter Mondale will be flying to Portugal , Spain , Yugoslavia , and Vienna , where he will meet with South African Prime Minister John Vorster . Even Mrs. Carter will be traveling soon . The First Lady will make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in early June . Monitor contributor Jim Browning reports from Paris : The United States now appears ready to recognize the Republic of Vietni.m , but the unresolved issue ? of American reconstruction aid remains a stumbling block for the Vietnamese . " There is an agreement in principle to normalize relations as soon as possible at the appropriate time , " . according to the spokesman for the American delegation to the renewed Paris talks . The spokesman , Morton Smith , said May 4 : " 1 do n't see any major hurdles as far as we are concerned . " But the leader of the Vietnamese delegation , Phan Hien , . told reporters that no relations could be established until the issue of reconstruction aid for Vietnam wa .. , resolved . On the question of American servicemen . still listed as missing in Vietnam , Mr. Smith said , " We think they have more information , " but he added , " I think they 're making a serious effort . " The American position appeared to leave the Vietnamese in the embarrassing position of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of relations . As an apparent gesture of goodwill , the U.S. has promised to drop its veto of Vietnamese membership in the United Nations , but Mr. Smith said he knew of " nothing in the works " to modify the American trade embargo on Vietnam until normal diplomatic relations have been established . The Vietnamese delegation told its American counterpart that both measures were " illegal " and demanded that both the veto and the embargo be lifted immediately . But despite all the activity , the outcome of American diplomatic moves in two key areas ? the Middle East and strategic arms limita ? tion talks ( SALT ) with the Soviets ? remain very much in doubt . In a press conference May 4 , Secretary of State Vance reiterated the U.S. position that a new international conference on the Middle East question will require adequate preparation and the prospect of achieving something before it can be convened . On the chances for progress in SALT , Mr. Vance disclosed that neither the Soviet Union nor the United States has changed its position since the Soviets rejected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr , Vance indicated that United States policy toward southern Africa has assumed a more definite form , with the U.S. intention , apparently , to be much tougher with South Africa on the question of its apartheid policy .                     