@@729762

txt The House tonight voted , in effect , to bring to a dead stop the forced busing of students to achieve integrated schools . In three separate votes , the House , by surprisingly large margins , prohibited the use of federal funds for busing , prevented the federal government from forcing the use of local funds for busing , and approved the delay of court-ordered busing until all appeals have been exhausted . Voluntary Busing Left The House did leave open the voluntary use of local busing funds , however . All three provisions were tacked on as riders to the landmark higher education bill which would provide almost $23 billion to continue federal higher education programs for five years and establish some new programs . The full bill later was passed by the House by a vote of 332 to 38 . It provides funds for direct federal aid to colleges , the creation of a new educational research institute , and $1.5 billion to help schools desegregate , but without the use of busing . The entire bill , including the a n t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate . The cutting off of federal funds enforces President Nixon 's promise that federal funds will not be used for forced busing to achieve desegration . The busing battle , long brewing in the House , had been delayed by the Democratic leadership which sought to save northern liberals from embarrassment . Many of them had supported busing in the South and then found themselves under pressure from their own constituents to oppose it in the North . Brings Heated Debate Each of the three issues touched off long and heated battles when they reached the House floor . First to be voted upon was the proposal to delay the effective date of federal court busing orders till all appeals have been exhausted . The amendment , passed by a vote of 235 to 125 , was proposed by Rep. William S. Broomfield R. , Mich . . Broomfield was joined in sponsoring the measure by six other Michigan congress . men . A federal judge in Detroit has said he might require integration of the city 's school sys. tem with suburban schools . In Pontiac , Mich. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week , the United States Supreme Court refused to intervene in the Pontiac case . Broomfield quoted public opinion showing 74 per cent of the people in the country op. posing busing . Once the House passed the initial hurdle on busing , it voted 233 to 124 to cut off the federal funds , This would include funds to school districts already under court order . Rep. Edith Green D. , Ore. , sponsor of the higher education bill , then moved to prevent the forced use of local funds for busing . " The President has said that no federal funds will be used for busing , " said Mrs. Green . " How can they then turn around and say school districts must use local and stale funds for the same thing ? " Mrs. Green 's proposal won easy approval by a vote of 231 to 126 . Elliot L. Richardson , secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , withheld comment on the amendments until he has time to study them . " The House was expressing an attitude , " he said cautiously . Less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lobbyist , who watched the long session from the gallery . " The people of each congressional district should study the roll calls on busing , " he said . " This is a reliable list of the true racists and promoters of discord in the United States . " They may wear the business suits of congressmen but in their hearts they wear the robes of the Ku Klux Klan and this night they put the torch to the Constitution of the United States . "                     