@@732523

txt The Illinois Supreme Court declared the state 's new medical malpractice law unconstitutional Friday , saying it was arbitrary for the legislature to set a $500,000 ceiling on victims ' claims . The decision also struck down provisions that a doctor and a lawyer ? be included on pretrial panels reviewing claims and that insurance companies obtain state approval to increase premium rates . Two of the seven justices , Robert C. Underwood and Howard C. Ryan , dissented in the decision on the claim ceiling . THE COURT 'S RULING upheld Cook County Circuit Court decisions in cases brought by Hartford Casualty Insurance Co. and The Medical Protective Co. , who challenged the provision on premiums , and Jean Mary Wright , 33 , of Lombard , who contested the other provisions . Mrs. Wright sued Central Du Page Hospital in Winfield , Dr. John A. Heitz1cr of Wheaton , and two hoSpital supply companies , charging negligence in a gynecological operation performed on her in April , 1075 . She said an instrument used in the operation broke , causing her permanent injury . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is permitted or denied on an arbitrary basis , a special privilege is granted in violation , of the Illinois Constitution , " the court said in its opinion , written by Justice Joseph H. Goidenhersh . The state takes over operation of a private medical agency here after Investigators said that it was financially unsound . Page 5 . " We are of the opinion that limiting recovery only in medical malpractice actions to $500,000 is arbitrary and constitutes a special law in violation of Section 13 of Article IV of the 1970 Constitution . " That section prohibits the passage of a special law " when a general law is or can be made applicable . " MRS . WRIGHT had argued that by denying recovery for loss and damage in excess of $500,000 , the legislature has discriminated against the most seriously injured victims of malpractice but had not limited the recovery of victims who suffer moderate or minor injuries . The controversial law was passed by the state legislature last year to try to control medical malpractice insurance costs . It was challenged almost immediately after it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reproseating doctors and lawyers , anticipating that the court would strike down at least some of the law , already had begun work on a new compromise plan for new state malpractice legislation . IN STRIKING DOWN the provision for a claim review panel , the court stressed that it was not implying that a valid pretrial panel procedure can not be devised . But it declared that the panel specified in the law  --  consisting of a judge , a doctor , and a lawyer  --  violates the Constitution because it gives judicial functions to nonjudicial personnel . The provision restricting premium rates constitutes a " special law " in violation of the Constitution , the court said . The insurance companies had challenged the provision because it applied to renewal rates but not to premiums for new policies . JUSTICE UNDERWOOD In dissent , acknowledged that the $500,000 limitation upon recovery hits the severely injured person hardest . " A stronger case for the limitation would exist if It permitted unrestricted recovery of actual expenses , " Underwood said , " for it is conceivable , as the majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs , total expenses of treatment and care for a seriously and permanently injured person would exceed the allowable recovery . " To , be ' weighed against that rather remote possibility , however , is the vital interest , if not the absolute necessity , of society in having adequate health care available at reasonable cost . "                     