@@732120

txt NORMAN SWENSON. president of the striking Cook County College Teachers Union , and the union 's officers were found guilty of contempt of court Thursday in Circuit Court for disobeying a back to-work injunction . Judge L Sheldon Brown fined the union $10,000 , which amounts to $1,000 for each day the union defied the order he issued Aug. 25 , the first day of the strike against the City Colleges of Chica-goBrown also imposed a $5,000 time for each subsequent day , beginning Friday , that the union continues to strike . " THIS DECISION was one of great moment and at stake here is our system of justice , " Brown said . " Teachers are supposed to be setting an example for children rather than taking the law into their own hands . Striking teachers have no more right than striking policemen or firemen . " After the bearing , Swenson , accompanied by his wife and two children , initially answered " no comment " when he was asked If he would order the teachers back to the classroom Friday . BUT WHEN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not saying I 'm not complying " and added that he intended to consult with union lawyers . Brown postponed imposing a jail term on union officers until Sept. 9 , when another hearing L scheduled . He said the union 's conduct would influence his decision . Brown has the power to lenience Swenson to up to six months in jail for criminal contempt . SWENSON SPENT 30 days In jail in 1971 for violating a similar court order during a 1968 strike , after he had exhausted all avenues of appeal . During closing arguments in the allday hearing , Gilbert Feldman , Swenson 's lawyer , said " there are strange things going on . " If you pick up a newspaper , you can read about 10 teachers strikes going on . In Chicago , more than 500,000 children are not in school . . . Only in this situation do we have court proceedings . " THE UNION late Wednesday asked the board for resumption of negotiations and the two ides were to go back to the bargaining table Thursday night . Talks broke off Tuesday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $1,100 , one-time-only , salary " bonuses " for the current school year . The bonuses would be financed thru Illinois Senate Bill 740 . This bill wouldallow city property taxes to be levied at 1972 asaaeament rates , which are higher than the recently revised rates . CITY COLLEGES Chancellor Oscar Shebat said Gov . Walker agreed to sign the bill into law only if the union and board reach a settlement . After the hearing Thursday , Shebat told The Tribune he hoped an agreement would be reached by Friday . " That 's D-Day , " he said . " That 's the last day the bill can be signed . Then we have no money to bargain about . " The union has demanded 10 per cent salary increases along with maintenance of current class sizes , regular contracts for some 100 teachers hired under five-month , automatically terminating contracts , and a grievance procedure for teachers at the colleges ' Chicago Skill Center .                     