@@728656

txt A school-desegregation decision in North Carolina last week  --  and what happens subsequent to it  --  is expected to have far-reaching significance . By a 4-to-3 vote , the United States Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals knocked down a bussing plan imposed by District Judge James B. McMillan on the Charlotte-Mecklenburg County school system . The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People Legal Defense Fund had laid great store on the McMillan plan , which calls for extensive bussing to achieve a unitary school system in terms of race . It 's all but certain the case will be appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States . Sources say they expect it to force a clearer definition of what " unitary " means and just how sacrosanct the neighborhood-school concept is . Judges in both the North and the South are looking to the Charlotte case for guidelines in handling desegregation cases before their courts . ED Not settled yet National controversy over whether a regional jetport should be located in the Florida Everglades may not be over yet . The federal government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Miami ) but agreed to finance environmental studies that would suggest an alternate site . Meanwhile , Dade was permitted to continue using a $13 million jet training strip on the original site . Now the Dade Commission , concerned by what it feels is unnecessary federal delays in finding a new site , has appropriated $65,000 to have the University of Miami make a study of the existing site . This is the first step in the county 's effort to make its own determination of where the jetport should be . e Surprise from suburbia , Richmond , Va. , faces a torrid City Council election June 9 . It could , for the first time , shift the balance of power from a majority loosely identified with the " establishment " to a combination of Negro and " independent " control . Twenty-eight candidates , including four Negroes , are fighting it out for the nine seats . The Negro Crusade for Voters , which has delivered the deciding votes in some noncouncilmanic elections , has endorsed a full slate for the first time . None of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ list that is expected to get heavy moderate-conservative support . But a new and somewhat unknown element is the first-time vote of some 20,000 voters , mostly white , added to the city rolls by annexation of a suburban area last Jan. 1 . e Sanders resurgence Georgia primaries are still three months away . But former Gov . Carl B. Sanders is currently way out front in his quest for the Democratic nomination for governor in September and election over a Republican rival in November . One top national polling organization ( Oliver Quayle ) recently came up with figures that indicate Mr. Sanders can win the nomination without a runoff , against some three or four other Democrats  --  if he holds his present support . As one of the nation 's youngest governors from 1963 to 1966 , he gained nationwide recognition as a moderate on racial issues . His popularity draws on most segments of the Georgia electorate , including a large contingent of blacks . If he retains his lead , he appears likely to face state Controller-General James L. Bentley in November  --  an ultraconservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lester G. Maddox is constitutionally barred from succeeding himself . ? Carswell conundrum G. Harrold Carswell 's campaign for the U.S. Senate remains something of a mystery in Florida . Polls show his opponent , U.S. Rep. William C. Cramer , running well ahead in the Republican primary . Not only that , but Republican state legislators in a poll of their ranks were unanimous in predicting a Cramer victory . Now political pros are quietly wondering whether the former federal district judge , whom the Senate rejected as a Supreme Court nominee , will be as strong a candidate as they first supposed . They reason that public sympathy for him now is fading . So far Judge Carswell has made no political splash since his announcement , has been a reluctant mixer with the press , and has avoided any confrontation with Mr. Cramer.                     