@@733895

txt State mental health officials have recommended the release of a former police officer , Robert Torsney , who was acquitted of slaying a 15. year-old black youth by reason of insanity , after less than a year of mental care . The psychiatric reports forwarded to State Supreme Court in Brooklyn found no indication that Mr. Torsney was sub . jest to psychomotor epilepsy ? the condition his attorney argued merited acquittal ? although officials cautioned such conditions were often transitory and difficult to determine . Officer Torsney pulled his pistol from its holster and fired a single bullet into the head of 15-year-old Randolph Evans when the youth , walking with five friends outside a Brooklyn housing project , stopped to speak to him . The policeman and his partner had responded to a radio call of an armed man at 515 Fountain Avenue in the East New York section on Thanksgiving Day in 1976 . At his trial last November , Mr. Torsney insisted he had seen the youth pull a gun , although all other witnesses to the incident said this was not so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contended this proved his client should be found innocent by reason of insanity . " That 's what this case is all about , " he told the jury in his summation , adding : " If there was no gun , this man is sick . " The recommendation by the State Department of Mental Hygiene leaves it up to the court whether Mr. Torsney should be unconditionally discharged or whether he should be released with restrictions , such as visits to a psychiatric clinic , for a five-year period . The recommendation says that he should not be permitted to walk a beat as a policeman , but did not rule out the possibility that he hold a desk job , a psychiatric worker who participated in the examination said . Justice Leonard E. Yoswein said he would hold hearings on the state recommendation in the civil part of Supreme Court within the next few weeks . The justice , noting the legal complications of the case , said he would notify the District Attorney 's office and other interested parties . A spokesman for District Attorney Eugene Gold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation , since court proceedings were pending . The shooting of the youth by Officer Torsney , who is white , led to racial disturbances in the East New York section . There was also a protest by the Guardian Association , the fraternity of black New York City policemen , over the posting of bail for the defendant by the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association . There were bitter outbursts by blacks in  --  the courtroom when the all-white jury brought in its verdict . " You 'd better commit suicide , " a spectator shouted as Mr. Torsney was led out in handcuffs . Mr. Rappaport , the attorney , and his chief witness , Dr. Daniel Schwartz , chief of forensic psychiatry at Kings County Hospital , had contended during the trial that Mr. Torsney , at the moment of the incident , suffered from automatism of Penfield . This is a rare form of epileptic psychomotor seizure , difficult to diagnose objectively , in which a person is said to react in a stressful situation like an automaton , lacking awareness of the act and emerging with no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diagnosis , " said Deborah Blaine Kaiser , chief of the forensic unit at the Creedmore Hospital in Queens , where Mr. Torsney has been held since March 3 . But , she added , " that does not mean it was not there . Nobody , including , the patient , knows what happened . ' Dr. Kaiser , who was in charge of the examination that initiated the recommendation ? under the provision 330.20 of the state criminal procedures ? said that it appeared that Mr. Torsney could function in society and was not a danger to himself or others . These are the criteria for release . " Since we have received him , " Dr. Kaiser said , " he has shown no evidence of psychosis or any kind of cerebral disfunction , nor a hysterical disassociative reaction , which was the original diagnosis . We find he suffers from no mental disease since he has been with us . " In Albany , Harold E. Smith , director of forensic service , the unit in the Mental Hygiene Department that passes on the recommendation , conceded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulties . " Within the facts , no one can predict dangerousness anymore than they can predict altruism in an individual , " he added . " This has gone through at least six psychiatrists , plus various other mental health people . So within the that difficulty of prediction , you try and give it your best shot . " The state authorities , not Mr. Torsney himself , initiated the recommendation that he be released , Dr. Smith added . The state law calls for three psychiatrists on the staff of the hospital to examine the patient and make a recommendation for release if , among other things , they find he is of no danger to himself or society . The director of the hospital then interviews and examines the patient . The recommendation is then forwarded to the forensic services group and then to the Commissioner of Mental Hygiene , Dr. James A. Prevost . Then a board of three outside psychiatrists interviews the patient and the staff and makes a recommendation on their findings . This recommendation is then sent to the court , which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the findings . In this case , two psychiatrists have been appointed to review the state 's letter , which was sent on July 27 . Legal observers , reviewing the trial , were not certain whether it was the logic of Mr. Rappaport 's psychiatric argument ? that if there was no gun , Mr. Torsney must be sick ? or other factors , such as the defendant being a policeman , that ultimately swayed the jury .                     