@@733128

txt WASHINGTON  --  The Supreme Court Thursday upheld the Illinois obscenity law , which has been unenforceable for more than a year because of uncertainty over its constitutionality . Ruling 5 to 4 , the court rejected claims of a Peoria book dealer , Wesley Ward , that the Illinois statute failed to specify what materials were Illegal . Justice Byron White , writing for the majority , concluded that Illinois had adopted the high court 's latest legal standards on obscenity through rulings of the Illinois Supreme Court . - AND EVEN THOUGH the Illinois court did not expressly describe the kind of materials subject to prosecution ? as the high court did  --  the state provided sufficient warning to meet any constitutional challenge , White said . " The Illinois court plainly intended to conform ... , " White said , " and there is no reason to doubt that , In Incorporating the guideline as part of the law , the Illinois court intended as well to adopt the . examples , " In 1973 , the high court ruled that sexual conduct depicted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave as examples ultimate sexual acts , masturbation , excretion , and the lewd display of genitals . AT ISSUE in Thursday 's decision was whether the publications Ward was convicted in 1972 of selling ? " Bizarre Justices uphold state porno law // laws and make it easier to prosecute those who deal in pornographic materials . ? JOINING WHITE In the majority were Chief Justice Warren Burger , Harry Blackmun , Lewis Powell , and William Rehnquist . The dissenters  --  led by John Paul Stevens  --  charged that the ruling abandoned " one of the cornerstones " - of the court 's Ms obscenity ruling : that state laws must specifically define prohibited sexual conduct . " One of the strongest arguments against regulating obscenity through criminal law , " Stevens stated , " ls the inherent vagueness of the obscenity concept . " IN OTHER action Thursday , the court : ? Ruled , 8 to 1 , that an 18 month delay between the time a criminal offense occurred and the indictment does not violate a defendant 's rights , even if the delay may have prejudiced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no obligation'to indemnify a government contractor who pays damages to a member of the armed forces injured in the course of military service . The case involved a Missourt National Guardsman injured . when the ejection mechanism onan F-100 fighter in which he was flying malfunctioned , The guardsman sued the manufacturer of the ejection equipment , which , in turn , sued the United States for indemnification . Illinois porno law upheld High court rules statute conforms Chicago ? and Cook County officials promise to crack down on pornography , especially that involving children , now that Illinois ' obscenity law has been reinstated . Page 18 . World " and " Illustrated Case Histories , a Study of Sado-Masochism " ? were obscene . The high court said that even if Illinois had failed to comply with its latest guidelines , Ward had " ample guidance from the Illinois Supreme Court " that the materials were obscene , " Materials such as these , which by title or content may fairly be described as sado-masochistic , had been expressly held to violate the Illinois statute , long before lits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " the court said . Ward 's one-day jail sentence and $200 fine had been held in abeyance pending his appeals . SHORTLY AFTER the Illinois Supreme Court upheld Ward 's conviction and the Illinois law , a three-judge federal court in May , 1976 , ruled in a Rockford case that the law was unconstitutional on grounds of vagueness . Thursday 's decision upheld the Illinois Supreme Court and will cause the reversal of the federal court ruling , which is still before the high court . Thursday 's decision will give stales greater latitude in wording obscenity //                     