@@729501

txt The New Jersey Legislature completed today bistate approval of a measure authorizing the Port of New , York Authority to finance and build high-speed rail connections between midtown Manhattan and ' Kennedy International and Newark Airports . In another major development , Gov . William T. Cahill signed into law a liberalization of New Jersey 's 64-year-old divorce statutes . The new law eliminates the requirement , in many cases , of placing blame to dissolve marriages and includes an 18-month voluntary separation period after which divorce can be granted by mutual consent . At the same time , the Senate gave final legislative approval to a one-year moratorium on local cable television franchise awards . The actions took place during a special session of the Legislature originally called for redistricting the state 's Congressional districts . Under the rail construction plan , the Kennedy Airport line would connect with midtown Manhattan , using existing Long Island Railroad tracks into Pennsylvania Station , while the Newark extension would connect with Port Authority-operated PATH rapid transit lines to downtown and midtown Manhattan and with Penn Central trains at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ airport-link legislation had been sponsored by Governor Cahill and Governor Rockefeller of New York . As part of New Jersey 's price to agree to the over-all project , the Port Authority will also finance and construct a commuter rail line south from Newark Aairport to Cranford in Union County , thus opening new , populous suburban Union communities to direct rail commutation to Newark and Manhattan . The New Jersey line , accord . ing to state transportation officials , will be operated on existing tracks of the Central Railroad of New Jersey and probably be operated by the ' Port Authority , while the Kennedy link will be operated by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority . The over-all project is expected to cost $410-million , with $210-million going to the Kennedy line and the remainder to New Jersey . The near parity Is regarded here as a political victory for the Republican Governor , who campaigned hard in 1969 on charges that New Jersey had historically been short-changed by the Port Authority and that the bi-state agency itself had neglected the mass transportation needs of both states . Emergency resolutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today 's special session had originally been set aside for voting on a new redistricting plan for the state 's 15 Congressional districts for next year 's elections . But when the 3-to-1 Republican majorities in both houses informed the Governor last week that they would not be lable to agree on a compromise plan by today the redistricting ' was abandoned and the session was turned over to a number of important bills left over from last month . The Assembly vote on the rail links was 69 to 0 and the Senate voted later , 23 to 0 , to give final approval . The signatures of both Governors will be formailities and according to administration aides , the legislation , which is identical to legislation approved in Albany , will not require Congressional ratification in Washington to become effective . In signing the divorce law , Governor Cahill , a Roman Catholic said : " The fact that I do not personally believe in divorce from a sacred binding contract played no role in my decision . This is indeed a pluralistic SDoiety , and I would no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than I would accept any effort to encroach on my personal rollIgious liberty . " Up to now the only grounds for divorce in New Jersey were adultery , desertion and extreme cruelty . The new provisions add homosexuality , sodomy , alcoholism , imprisonment , drug addiction and mental illness . The changes take effect in 20 days . The Senate voted 34 to 0 in approving a one-year moratorium on local cable television franchise awards . A similar moratorium was approved this month by the New York Legislature .                     