@@729164

txt The Bethlehem Steel Corporation today cut nearly in half a price increase announced last week on structural steel . The Government , meanwhile , turned up the heat on huge wage increases in the construction industry . There were these developments in the Government 's involvement with prices and wages : ( 11Bethlehem , which was criticized last week by Mr. Nixon for a 12 per cent increase in structural steel , rolled its increase back to 6.8 per cent . This put its prices in line with those of the United States Steel Corporation , which raised prices by only 6.8 per cent after the President 's statement . The move appeared certain to establish an industry pattern . CRonald L. Ziegler , the White House press secretary , said the Government was " gratified " that the increase was not so large as originally proposed but was not " sanguine " about the new level of prices . Steel prices will continue to be reviewed by a Cabinet committee , Mr. Ziegler said . CPresident Nixon met for nearly an hour with his Construction Industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommendations " to attack the wage and price spiral " in that industry . Interest Rates Decline There were these other events relating to the economy in general : CInterest rates declined further as the major banks and the Federal Reserve Board made a new reduction of one-quarter of 1 per cent in their key lending rates . Details on Page 49 . IThe Commerce Department reported that the gross national product declined in the fourth quarter and in 1970 as a whole , marking the first annual decline since the recession of 1958 , But a separate report showed that housing starts surged In December to record levels . Page 49 . Secretary of Labor James D. // Hodgson said that at the construction commission meeting , the President termed the rise in'wages and prices in the industry a " crisis situation . " But , rather than suggest legislative remedies , Mr. Nixon wants the industry to work out its own solution , Mr. Hodgson said . Mr. Hodgson is , chairman of the commission , which has 12 other members  --  four from industry , four from labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the President this morning , the ' panel resumed its discussions this afternoon itt the Labor Department . Construction wage settlements in the last two years contained average first-year increases of 15 per cent , about twice as much as in manufacturing and in the economy generally . Building costs , for this and other reasons , have risen steeply . The President , according to Mr. Hodgson , said that sonic improvement in the situation was " imperative " before the upcoming construction season , Proposals Recalled Mr. Nixon reminded the group , according to Mr. Hodgson , that he had received various proposals , ' such as suspension of the Davis-Bacon Act , which requires the Government to pay " prevailing " wages in each locality on its construction projects . But the President said he preferred that the commission reach a solution on its own . In Houston , George Romney , Secretary of Housing and Urban Development , told the National Association of Homebuilders that " the public is incensed at exorbitant housing costs . " " Exorbitant costs result from wage levels so high that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the market not only on new construction but in rehabilitation and repair weirk , " he said . Mr. Romney said " exorbitant construction costs are at the heart of the cost-push problem " in the economy generally , but he offered no specific suggestions for solving the problem . On the steel front , Mr. Ziegler said the Cabinet Committee on Economic Policy had discussed " a wide range of economic problems " confronting the industry , including a low and " deteriorating " rate of profits and " negligible " growth in productivity , or output per manhour . Mr. Ziegler , reading from prepared notes , said , " The blunt fact is that either costs must begin to stabilize or the industry confronts lost employment , markets and output . " He said the Government was " gratified " that the price level established by U. S. Steel " was not as large as the initial Bethlehem increase " but added that " We were not sanguine as to either one . " Delay in Talks Confirmed . Mr. Ziegler confirmed that an international meeting schedteed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ renewal of the present voluntary agreement limiting steel imports from European countries and Japan was postponed last week on United States initiative . But he said he expected that the talks would be rescheduled . Mr. Ziegler declined to say that the possibility of permitting more imports as a means of exerting downward pressure on steel prices had been dropped . He said the Cabinet committee could continue to consider the steel import issue . While it appeared that for the time being the confrontation with the steel industry was ended , the issue could arise again . The reason is that a wide range of products other than structural steel are still subject to price increases after one-year price " guarantees " established by the industry last year run out . U. S. Steel Sets Pace Bethlehem 's new schedule of prices , effective March 1 , showed increases averaging 6.8 per cent , the same as those announced Saturday by United States Steel . Average increases of 12 per cent were originally planned by Bethlehem . Following the announcement by Bethlehem , several competing producers said they would take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Steel Company , which , like United States Steel and Bethlehem , is an important producer of the structural-steel items involved . Others that fell into line were the Armco Steel Corporation , the nation 's fifth largest steel company , and the Granite City Steel Company , a mediumsized concern . Two of four small concerns that planned last week to match the original 12 per cent increases announced by Bethlehem  --  the Alan Wood Steel Company and the Lukens Steel Company  --  said they would join their bigger competitor in moderating their new prices . The products involved account for more than 15 per cent of American steel shipments . They are used in bridges , ships and similar projects . In broad terms , the compromise increases were $9 a for standard structural shapes ? girders and similar items ; $11 a ton for H-pilings and wideflange structurals , and $12 a ton for carbon-steel plates .                     