@@733661

txt PRESIDENT CARTER 'S visit to his minister friend in Elmhurst has transformed the quiet western suburb into a traffic jam of lawnmowers and automobile gawkers . Neighbors of the Rev. James and Mary Eleanor Wall , 451 S. Kenilworth Av. , were feverishly mowing their lawns Wednesday evening in preparation for Carter 's third visit to this neighborhood , but his first as President . Carter , who is scheduled to arrive at O'Hare International Airport at 2:50 p.m . Thursday , plans to stay overnight with the Walls , both of whom worked in his 1976 presidential campaign . That stop is part of a two-day visit to Illinois to help raise funds for the Cook Raunty Democrats and the Democratic candidates for governor and the United States Senate . THE WALLS HAVE been beset with requests from friends who want to meet the President Thursday night after he makes a speech at the Conrad Hilton Hotel , but all have been turned down . However , they can watch from the viewing area across the street behind a rope barrier . As the sprucing-up continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Wednesday night is garbage night . Dozens of garbage carts lined the parkway . " But they 'll be gone early ThursdayCortinued on page 18 , col. 1 Elmhurst set for Carter // we ca n't have the President seeing those things , " said John J. O'Malley , of 449 S. Kenilworth , a next-door neighbor of the Rev. Mr. Wall . There was substantial evidence of other sudden springtime repairs appropriate for a presidential visit . The streetsweepers made one last pass through the neighborhood Wednesday . City crews from Elmhurst had been , out all week patching streets , including narrow Kenilworth Avenue . THEY ALSO replaced glass in the 1950s street lamps , routing sparrows that had been nesting in O'Malley 's , lamp . . ? O'Malley said that the sparrows are probably the only neighbors moving out because of Carter . Everyone else was inundated with calls from relatives and friends who want to be there Thursday evening . Two doors north of the Walls ' house , Cyril and Betty Roth and their sirchildun were preparing for a deluge of visitors Thursday night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of putting out a banner saying , " Welcome back , Carter . " Her son Bill , 16 , seemed somewhat less impressed . " They all just want to get on TV , " he said . Security will bo tight in the neighborhood Thursday . The Walls ' block was barricaded Wednesday night , cutting off the stream of sightseers . And the Secret Service obtained car license plate numbers of all the residents , so that only they will be permitted on . the block tomorrow . Across the street froni the Walls ' house at 452 S. Kenilworth Av. , Mary Lou Warble saw her parkway transformed from , a piece of greenery into something resembling a hairbrush . as city crews pounded in numerous . shod.1-der high metal stakes that will be posts for a rope barricade to keep tha . crowds across the street from the.Walls ' House . ONE OTHER potential greeter of the president get ' word Wednesday that his welcome was not needed . ? At the request of the White House , - Republican Gov . Thompson said Ile has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he arrives at the Springfield airport Friday . Carter will address a joint session of the General Assembly . " As a matter of common courtesy , I had planned to greet the President on behalf of Illinois ' 11,5 million residents , " Thompson said . " I WAS JUST going to greet him and then fade into tile background . I certainly was n't going to ride in a motorcade or anything . " The governor is considered a possible candidate to oppose Carter in the 1580 presidential election .                     