@@729905

txt Police Commissioner Patrick V. Murphy denounced the Civil Service system yesterday as a " handcuff " inhibiting the promotion of strong leaders to the rank of captain and announced that he had instituted a sixmonth probationary period for sergeants , lieutenants and captains . " The Police Department has had too much outside control ? it is called Civil Service , " the Police Commissioner said at a promotion ceremony for 24 captains at the Police Academy . " It has handcuffed the police administrator . It has excluded minorities . It must change . " Commissioner Murphy said the Civil Service system of promotions ? whereby policemen take examinations and are promoted on the basis of their mark and their seniority ? had " unfortunately and tragically advanced some mep to captain who can not or will not lead . " Deputy Chief Inspector Eli Lazarus , president of the Captains Endowment Association , issued a statement opposing the probationary period , in which he said , " We view any threat to Civil Service as an opening wedge to the evils of patronage , political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rise to justifiable fears that this police administration seeks to undermine objectivity in the promotion process guaranteed by the Civil Service system , " the statement said . Commissioner Murphy said Civil Service promotion examinations did not determine leadership qualities and , as a result , " weak leadership has been acceptable . " He told the new captains that during their probationary periods they must demonstrate higher standards of leadership than had been demanded of previous officers . Police officers said they could not recall that officers had ever been placed on probation when they were promoted . However , a section in the Civil Service regulations makes provision for probationary periods , and thus . Commissioner Murphy had been able to institute them : Commissioner Murphy also alluded to the assertion made by other cities that Civil Service examinations exclude minorities who are unable to score highly on the tests , but who may have excellent leadership potential . Under the present system , such persons could be barred from promotion for years until their scores improved . The Police Commissioner is responsible ' for promotions above the rank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ falls under the city Department of Personnel ; regulates promotions in the lower ranks . Commissioner Murphy , who has reshuffled all of the top command positions in the department since he became Commissioner in October , 1970 , said he would " live up to my responsibility to remove dead wood in ' the rank of captain and above . " He said he would force i turnover in the higher ranks to provide advancement opportunities for younger persons . " We will have an annual turnover of 30 per cent in the ranks of deputy inspector , inspector , deputy chief inspector and assistant chief inspector , " he . said . Harold Melnick , president of the Sergeants Benevolent Association , said he saw " no benefit " to the Commissioner 's institution of probationary periods . " This Police Commissioner has once again seen fit to attack the Civil Service merit system , " lie said . " How did he get up there ? He 's a graduate of the system and what he is really doing is allowing elements of the spoils system to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ? A spokesman for the Civil Service Commission said that he would have no comment on " a statement which we have n't seen or heard . " The Civil Service Commission was established Dec. 15 , 1883 , as a reaction against the spoils system , under which old employes were often discharged by a new administration and replaced by loyal workers of the . successful party . But in 1881 , President James A. Garfield was assassinated by a disappointed office seeker and public attention was aroused . Two years later the first Civil Service Act was passed .                     