@@729272

txt Business Responsibility : At Least One Share Of Stock For the Public In recent months , many of America 's major corporations have taken steps to meet public demands that they look beyond " mere profit-making " and consider the impact of their activities on the society as a whole . What remains uncertain is the real significance of these changes and the effect they will have on corporate policy . During the last fortnight there have been two major developments . The Chrysler Corporation announced the establishment of an " Office of Public Responsibility " headed by three top officers , with a directive to " continually review and challenge the corporation 's practices " in such areas as pollution , safety and equal opportunity . A few days later General Motors told of naming a committee of six prestigious scientists to advise G.M. on the environmental effect of its products and operations . G.M. has been particularly busy in this area . Last summer , the company created a " Public Policy Committee " of its board of directors and since then it has departed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ G.M. board ( activist Leon Sullivan of Philadelphia ) and by naming an " outsider , " California pollution authority Ernest Starkman , as a vice president in charge of environmental activities . It has also : Funneled some $5-million of its bank deposits into black-owned banks ; given a $1-million order for truck cushions to a blackowned company in Watts ; launched an experimental program of toll-free calls to Detroit from complaining G.M. car owners . Critics Inspire Change The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company is studying the possibility of turning over as much as a third of its 24-man board , to consumer representatives , blacks and possibly even militant feminists . The Quaker Oats Company refused to move ahead with a new plant in Danville , Ill. , until the town adopted an open housing ordinance . And a growing list of companies has appointed urban affairs directors to press for minority training or investment programs . Such changes have been inspired in large measure by a sharp increase in public criticism and by the activities of public-interest groups . At last spring 's annual shareholder meetings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confronted by protests against company policies on such matters as pollution , South African apartheid , safety and minority opportunity . Groups like the Council on Economic Priorities are researching and publicizing company attitudes in such fields . The corporate responsibility question was most systematically raised by a group of young Washington lawyers who last spring mounted a " campaign to make General Motors responsible . " They sought support from G.M. shareholders for such proposals as enlarging the G.M. board of directors to include a black , an ecologist and a consumer representative . In pressing such issues , the protesters obliged the largely conservative trustees of universities , retirement and mutual funds , insurance companies and the like to consider the social impact of the world 's largest corporation , and of their investment in it . The Insurgents won less than 3 per cent of the votes but G.M. 's subsequent response suggests that their campaign was far more effective than the vote indicated . Thus there has been some progress in the campaign to increase corporate responsibility  --  but how significant has it been ? Campaign G.M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the " responsibility " issue , and even those most critical of the companies will grant that the steps they have taken , when measured against the level of such activities a year ago , represent a substantial change . Skeptics point out , however , that there has been no apparent change in the corporate managers ' concept of their mission  --  profit - making  --  and where the exercise of " responsibility " costs money and reduces profits , it conflicts with that mission . Thus they fear such programs will never get very far . Doubts Voiced Even In the short run , these skeptics say , the actions to date have not made the corporate managers of bureaucracy any more accountable to forces outside the company . They argue that the new " public responsibility " units are manned by company men , unlikely to be vigorously critical of their colleagues . Information about internal goings-on , it is felt , will , in general , still be dispensed to the public only to the extent the corporate bureaucracy finds it convenient Boards of directors , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no meaningful participation by shareholders and no voice at all for other effected groups such as employes , customers and the public at large . Moreover , the critics say , most directors are , in effect , just occasional visitors to the corporation , with their attention focused elsewhere , and are poor matches for a naturally protective corporate bureaucracy . So while G.M. 's new director , the Rev. Leon Sullivan , has vowed to " do what I can to help my brothers , particularly my black brothers , " some question how much change he can effect at G.M. , especially if he lacks an independent staff of his own . To attack the self-contained nature of corporate power , " Campaign G.MRound II , " now in progress , proposed opening up the selection of corporate directors to " constituent groups " other than shareholders . Under the insurgents ' proposals , three members of the G.M. board would be elected , respectively , by G.M. employes , dealers and car owners , subject only to veto by the shareholders . While the proposal is expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's shareholders , it will doubtless cause much debate between now and the G.M. meeting in May , not only on the general question of " corporate responsibility " but on the extent of a corporation 's unaccountability to the public it affects . And , as recent history attests , the mere ventilation of these issues can have considerable impact on corporate management . ? PmnP Sneer , ,                     