@@731801

txt In what appeared to be a major policy change , George Meany asserted today that the A.F.L.-C.I.O. would no longer involve itself in political party affairs and would take no part in the selection of delegates to the Democratic National Convention next year . Although Mr. Meany has frequently proclaimed the political independence of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations in the past , leaders of the federation 's political arm , the Committee on Political Education , have involved themselves intensively in Democratic party politics . For more than a decade Alexander Barkan , the director of the political committee , has been regarded as a major behind-the-scenes figure , in Democratic politics at the local , state and national levels . Today 's declaration , on its face , would curb his role considerably , In 1972 , Mr Barkan worked diligently and unsuccessfully in Democratic primaries and state conventions to block the selection of delegates favorable to Senator George of South Dakota , who won the Presidential nomination and was defeated by President Nixon . Last December , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Barkan was an active participant in a dispute over procedures to insure significant minority-group representation among delegates to the 1976 convention . The dispute ended in a compromise that most observers considered another setback to Mr. Barkan , who argued against any form of quota system . Today 's declaration , which Mr. Meany , the federation 's head , said was supported unanimously by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ' s Executive Council , was described as a " de facto " change of significance by one high labor official here . Another union leader warned , " We could wind up in 1976. with no one we could support  --  just as we did in 1972 . " In 1972 , the A.F.L.-C.I.O. remained neutral in the Presidential election . Policy Described At a news conference after a council meeting today , Mr. Meany described the policy of noninvolvement as follows : " We came to a unanimous conclusion that the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has no desire to influence the internal structure of either the Republican or Democratic parties and we have no desire to allow the Republican or Democratic party to interfere with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it 's known as COPE , and we are going to continue to improve it , strengthen it , maintain it , in order to try to elect labor 's friends to the House and to the Senate and to the state legislatures , irrespective of political parties . " Asked whether party officials who are officers of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. would be expected to give up their positions in the Democratic party , Mr. Meany said , " Positively not . " " The officers of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. , the officers of our state federations , the officers of the central bodies , are all American citizens and they are Democrats , some of them are Republicans , some of them are independents and they can do as they please , insofar as political participation is concerned , " Mr. Meany said . " Those who are active in the Democratic National Committee , that seems to be the subject of a lot of discussion , secured their seats on the committee as Democrats from local areas . They were not put on Wallace of Alabama for the Democrats . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in. the face of widespread unemployment there should he consideration of a shorter ( 35-hour ) workweek to make more jobs available . He proposed , too , that the mini- , mum wage be raised to $3 an hour . there by the A.F.L.-C.I.O . The A.F.L.-C.I.O. did not recommend that they go on there , and , if they desire to stay on , ' they stay on . If they desire to ' get off , they get off without any regard to any influence from the A.F.L.-C.I.O. " - Questions on ' 76 Delegates The A.F.L.-C.I.O. president ' was then asked about the election of delegates to the /976 Democratfc National Convention . " That 's the local unions , " Mr. Meany said . " Some international unions take part in that . We 've had a lot of auto workers , we 've had a lot . of steelworkers , we 've had a lot of building trades workers who are delegates to the convention . They are there as Democrats to the Democratic National Convention . Maybe some even go to the Republican National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But they go as Democrats , as American citizens and that 's their business and that 's not the business of the A.F.L.-C.I.O . " The federation takes no part whatsoever in it . When they name their candidates , then the federation 's political machinery goes into action . " Jerry Wurf , president of the American Federation of State , County and Municipal Employes , was reported by union sources to have raised a question at today 's Executive Council meeting about the policy of noninvolvement in political party affairs . According to these sources , he warned ? that labor might find itself confronted with two candidates that it could not support  --  such as President Ford for the Republicans and Gov . George C.                     