@@733683

txt TILE UNITED STATES Supreme Court States was asked Friday to block a nee-Nazi march in Skokie , now scheduled for Juno 25 , until it rules on a legal action filed by the village earlier this nnnk In a petition filed in Washington Friday , the court was asked that any Nazi march in Skokie be stayed pending the outcome of an appeal to the court on the constitutionality of three village ordiminces designed to permanently block the march . Skokie officials filed an appeal to the high court Tuesday of a lower court ruling which said the village 's anti-Nazi ordinances are unconstitutional . " UNLESS A STAY order Is granted , the Nazis will conduct their demonstration on Juno 25 , and the issues raised in this case will have been largely rendered moot , " said village attorney Harvey Schwartz . Justice John Paul Stevens took Friday 's petition and arguments under advisement but made no ruling . Schwartz warned the court that confrontation is likely to occur if the court fails to stop the mech . " The national attention this case engendered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and previous experiences of the Village of Skokie have made it all but certain that a massive confrontation will occur on June 25 , " Schwartz said . Unless action is taken at the state level to stop the march , the Supreme Court is viewed as the last legal barrier to the march in Skokie , a suburb with a large Jewish population . A U.S. DISTRICT Court and Federal Court of Appeals En Chicago have ruled that the Skokie ordinances are unconstitutional , holding that they would deny the First Amendment rights of the Nazi group . In. rejecting Skokie 's appeal last month , the Court of Appeals said that if First Amendment rights of freedom of speech and freedom of expression are be preserved , " they must protect not only those society deems acceptable but also those whose ideas it quite justifiably rejects and despises . " Jewish leaders in Skokie , which has a large Jewish population , have vowed to conduct a huge counter-march if the neo-Nazi group headed by Frank Collin does starch in Skokie . Meanwhile , the community relations department of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ march . Richard A. Salem , Midwest director of the community relations service , said the service has been meeting for several months with Skokie officials , Jewish leaders in the village , and with Collin . our mandate is to preserve peace and to minimize conflict , " he said . Ile said that Collin has indicated that the Nazi group would cancel the Skokie march if the Chicago Park District gives them permission to hold a rally in Marquette Park on July 9 . " He is willing to prove his First Amendment rights by not going to Skokie , " Salem said .                     