@@730814

txt Top former Nixon aides H. R. Haldeman and John D. Ehrlichman tape-recorded all conversations with other key Watergate figures after President Nixon ordered a White House probe in March , it was learned today . Copies of the tapes have been turned over to the federal Watergate grand jury and the Senate Watergate committee . The tapes were made in the White House offices of Haldeman and Ehrlichman . Those meeting with Haldeman and Ehrlichman evidently did not know their conversations were being recorded , sources close to the case reported . IT COULD NOT BE determined if President Nixon personally directed the monitoring , but sources close to Haldeman and Ehrlichman indicated it was carried out in connection with their official duties . Richard Kleindienst , who was still attorney general at the time , told The Tribune the tape-recordings were not court-authorized surveillance . " I do n't know what the hell they were doing up there , " Kleindienst said . " But if they were taping people , I do know it was not authorized by me . " FRANK STRICKLER , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the authorization or motives for the tape-recordings . However , he confirmed that his clients did make " several tape recordings after the President ordered an investigation . " Strickler said the monitoring occurred before he and John J. Wilson , another lawyer , were retained to represent Haldeman and Ehrlichman . There had been speculation by several attorneys that Haldeman and Ehrlichman were mpking the tape recordings on the ad. vice of their lawyei 's as protection igaInst allegations that mighl be made against them . Both Ehrlichman and HaIdeMan are said to be fearing indictment by a grand jury on obstruction of justice charges in connection with a coverup of the Watergate scandal . SOURCES CLOSE to the current Watergate grand jury investigation said most of the monitoring was carried out by Ehrlichman on telephones in his White House office . The exact number of recordings made by the two ranking Presidential aides could not be learned . However , one source speculated there are at least ' a dozen and possibly more . All the recordings , the sources said , relate to conversations between Haldeman and Ehrlichman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have been implicated in the Watergate bugging or subsequent coverup . STRICKLER acknowledged last week during the taking of a civil lawsuit deposition from Haldeman that one of the tapes includes a conversation between Haldeman and Jeb Stuart Magruder , former deputy director of President Nixon 's reelection campaign . Strickler told attorneys for the Democratic National Committee , which brought the lawsuit , that the conversation indicates that Magruder had prior knowledge of the bugging of Democratic Committee headquarters in the Watergate office building June 17 last year . Magruder has acknowledged approving the bugging , but claims it also was approved by former Atty . Gen. John N. Mitchell . STRICKLER indicated there was nothing on the tape to indicate Haldeman was in any way involved in wrongdoing prior to the June 17 break-in and bugging . Strickler also indicated that - the Magruder conversation also referred to events after the actual burglary which might be prejudicial to his client . He said those portions of the tape would not be made available to the Democratic National Committee lawyers . SOURCES FAMILIAR with the tape recordings said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be of no value in the progress of the investigation . During the time the tape recordings were made  --  the four weeks prior to the resignations of Haldeman and Ehrlichman on April 30 ? both men were in frequent contact with Magruder , Mitchell and John W. Dean , the fired White House counsel . Ehrlichman has said that President Nixon told him March 30 of this year that Dean was " in the-thing up to his eyebrows . " THE NEW York Times reported today that Herbert W. Kalmbach , Nixon 's former personal attorney , reportedly has agreed to testify for the prosecution against H. R. Haldeman and John D. Ehrlichman in any Watergate criminal trials . The Times quoted the sources as saying that Kalmbach " has not asked for nor has he been given immunity " from prosecution . Kalmbach could not be fund-raiser , ; reportedly was ready to testify specifically reached for ' comment on the that he had received personal report . assurances from Ehrlichman Kalmbach , a major Nixon that he was authorized to colbeet cash to be used to pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Headquarters in the Watergate .                     