@@733816

txt THUHMONT , Md. ? American . Egyptian , and Israeli negotiators acknowledged Thursday they have hit a snag at the Camp David summit and said greater flexibility is " ' essential " to achieve success But the negotiators indicated there is no reason to be either unduly optimistic or pessimistic about the final outcome , which may come next week despite earlier indications of a conclusion Thursday or Friday . " Our goal is to produce a framework for reaching peace in the Middle East , " said White House Press Secretary Jody Powell , who speaks for the three delegations . " More progress and more flexibility are essential if that goat is to be ? achieved . There has been some progress and some flexibility . We do not yet have such a framework for future , negotiationsl . " Diplomatic sources denied that any new obstacle had arisen . They acknowledged that progress has come more slowly than hoped . ? " YOU DO N'T SOLVE overnight problems that have defied solution for M years , " one source said . Later in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 15 minutes with Israel 's Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan . It was the first such meeting without an American participant since Sadat met privately with Weizman last weekend . Late Thursday night , Vice President Mondale canceled plans and flew here to add his weight to Carter 's efforts . Mondale , who took an active part in the summit when it began on Sept. 5 , had been scheduled to make a political speaking tour Friday . Powell declined to speculate on the ' remaining areas of disagreement . He and the Israeli embassy " emphatically " denied reports that Israel had agreed to give up sovereignty to the West Bank , indicating that key issue remains troublesome . The other most prominent subject of disagreement is the question of a homeland and civil rights for the Palestinians . Diplomatic sources have said the summit has achieved no breathrough on such long standing issues . The negotiating teams continued work on a paper tentatively titled , " An Outline for a Negotiating Framework . " Powell said the document is " certainly more than three or four paragraphs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the West Bank , but one that is far from complete . Egypt would allow Israel to station military forces on the West Bank beyond a five-year interim period proposed by the Israelis , and in return Israel would soften its stand on claiming sovereignty of the occupied Arab lands .                     