@@733664

txt The Carter administration reports further progress in strategic-arms talks with the Soviets even as it warns that the Russians can not be allowed a free hand to use conventional arms wherever they please in Africa . Paul C. Warnke , the chief U.:S. arms-control negotiator with the Soviets , reported the progress in a breakfast meeting with newsmen . Mr. Warnke said that in recent weeks and months , the Soviets have moved " closer and considerably closer " to U.S. positions in the SALT ( **25;1409;TOOLONG ) negotiations . Other officials explained that some of that progress had been made in U.S.-Soviet talks at Geneva only within the past few weeks ? weeks that have seen an apparent deterioration in the U.S.-Soviet relationship because of Africa . But President Carter clearly is pursuing a two-track approach to the Soviets , in which progress in SALT is not being linked to an apparently hardening U.S. attitude toward Soviet actions in Africa . The President 's press secretary , Jody Powell , made clear May 24 that Mr. Carter is keeping open the option of asking Congress to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ppo-Western faction against Angola 's Soviet and Cuban-supported Marxist government . Angola was the main base for the recent Katangan rebel thrust into the pro-Western central African republic of Zaire . And the White House has accused Cubans based in Angola of providing training for the rebels . Press secretary Powell said the administration has been looking into the laws that prohibit U.S. aid to the noncommunist forces in Angola . But he stressed that this does not necessarily mean that the President // From page 1 U.S. , Soviets closer on arms has decided to call for such action in that country . Mr. Powell was reacting to a Washington Post report that quoted Sen. Dick Clark ( D ) of Iowa as saying : " It is increasingly clear that President Carter has made the decision to reinvolve the United States in the Angola civil war . " Senator Clark is the author of the so-called Clark amendment , which precludes U.S. aid for military ? or paramilitary ? operations in Angola . Mr. Powell confirmed that Stansfield Turner , director of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoken with Senator Clark about the possibilities of providing military aid not only to guerrillas in Angola but also to Eritrean guerrillas fighting the Soviet and Cuban-supported Ethiopian government forces in Ethiopia . National-security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski is believed to favor such operations as a means of tying the Cubans down and restricting their ability to maneuver in Africa . It appears , however , that the administration is not united in its view of what ought to be done . Some presidential advisers are reported to be urging Mr. Carter not to get involved in support for the anti-government forces in Angola . UN Ambassador Andrew Young , for one , is believed to oppose the Brzezinski view on this . And Mr. Young has consistently had a large say in shaping the Carter administration 's Africa policy . Mr. Powell said that neither Admiral Turner nor Mr. Aaron acted on President Carter 's orders . He also said that Mr. Carter was not consulted before the two officials met with Senator Clark . The press secretary further said that it was proper to " run past " members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated that the President 's original call for a " loosening ofrestrictions " on the executive 's foreign-policy powers had not been a carefully thought-out and calculated move ? at least not at the start ? and that this may account for some confusion that persists over this matter not only on Capitol Hill but within the administration itself . " I think this started out as a generalized cry of frustration on the part of the President and then developed into a review of the restrictions , " said a State Department official . Mr. Carter 's chief arms-control negotiator , Mr. Warnke , in the meantime told reporters that a new SALT agreement would have to depend strictly . on strategic military balance and U.S. national-security interests . He said SALT should not be considered a " reward " for Soviet good behavior but a means of protecting American security . He acknowledged , however , that there was no question that such Soviet actions worsened the political climate in the United States , and thus might make it more difficult to obtain ratification of any new SALT treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the meantime , some of the delegates to the special United Nations session on disarmament expressed disappointment that President Carter had not come to the session to address them . They also were disappointed that the United States did not intend to introduce any major new arms-control initiatives at the session . Vice-President Walter Mondale was scheduled to speak on May 24 , giving an analysis of the current negotiations with the Soviets and some " new suggestions " on practical steps that could be taken in the field of conventional arms control . U.S. officials said that Mr. Carter 's absence at the UN session and the failure to introduce any major new initiatives could be attributed largely to domestic political considerations . Mr. Carter , they said , does not want to contribute further to the uncertainty in the Senate about his ability to cope with the Soviets either in Africa or in the arms-control field .                     