@@729556

txt The city 's Health Commissioner kept the oil-fouled Coney Island beaches closed to bathers yesterday despite an earlier decision by Mayor Lindsay and r other officials to reopen them . The restriction on swimming for the third straight day off Coney Island  --  which attracts as many as a million people al day on sunny summer weekends  --  was a result of the in advertent spillage Wednesday of 38,000 gallons of Bunker C heavy heating oil from the Navy ship Towle , berthed in Bayonne , N. J. Health Commissioner Mary C. 's decision to keep the beaches closed yesterday was made after an unannounced walk along the entire three - and - a - half - mile beachfront between 8 and 9 AM. , when splotches of oil were washing in . Earlier , the Mayor and two aides had conducted an aerial inspection and had decided to reopen the beach when few signs of oil were found . Health Chief Orders Restriction Kept but Some Defy It A decision on whether to permit bathing there today will be made after an early-morning aerial and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be closed to swimmers since Friday , bathers actually were free at their own risk to disregard green boardwalk signs reading " Water Polluted ? No Swimming . " Crowds Are Smaller Crowds at Coney Island were noticeably smaller , bat scattered clusters of bathers waded and swam in the dark green surf with no apparent ill effect . The tide-carried foam , however , instead of the usual white , was brown and sticky and left slight oil traces behind in the sand . Low humidity and relatively cool temperatures helped reduce the taste for swimming . Today is expected to be similarly cool , with some cloudiness and a chance of rain . For just about 20 minutes yesterday , it appeared that the ' oil threat had subsided to the point where swimming at Coney Island and Brighton Beach could resume . Health Department workers who filled milk bottles with water from the surf to check oil content " by the eyeball test , " as one described it , reported about 6 A.M. that the water- appeared satisfactorily clear . About 7 A.M. , Mayor Lindsay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parks , recreation and cultural affairs ; Martin Lang , the Commissioner of Water Resources ; and a Coast Guard officer flew over Gravesend Bay and Coney Island , in a helicopter to look for signs of the oil slick . They found " few grossly discernible prisms , " or visible patterns of oil , according to Mr. Lang . They all agreed that swimming could be resumed , and Robert Laird , the Mayor 's spokesman , made the announcement to the news media at about 9 A.M. Meanwhile , unknown to those officials , Commissioner , who heard the encouraging reports from her staff but remained skeptical , made a quiet trip to the beach about 8 A.M. and walked its entire length , checking for signs of the oil . " I found all kinds of emulsion in the foam and even pieces of oil about 3 by 3 inches , " she recounted later in an interview . " I saw oil in the water which was up against mouths and noses and was small enough to go into respiratory tracts . If it got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are also sensitive to oil on the skin . " A Difference of Opinion Meanwhile , Mr. Davidson of the parks administration learned that Dr. was on the beach , and he found her by driving along the boardwalk . It was then that he learned of her conviction that the beaches were still not safe for swimming . There remained a difference , of view , however , with the officials who flew with the Mayor insisting that the waters were safe and still wanting to reopen , the beaches . But Dr. prevailed and conveyed her views to the Mayor by telephone ? from the beach. ? As Health Commissioner , she has the power to close such facilities . Twenty minutes after the news media were informed of the beaches ' reopening , they were told that the ban re ? mained in effect . Mr. Lang , the Water Re ? sources Commissioner , was reported " very upset " by the decision , although he did not publicly contradict Dr. . Jerome Kretchmer. the head of the city 's Environmental Protection Administration , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interview with television newsmen . He said the water . " looks good to me ? like it 's good swimming . " Commissioner said later that she had already decided to check the water on her own before she heard that Mayor Lindsay and the other officials had agreed to reopen the beaches . She also said that she was not disputing their 7 A.M. analysis ; rather , that conditions had changed markedly in the time between their aerial check and her walk along the beach , and that the oil began to wash in after the . Mayor 's flight . Commissioner agreed to join the other officials in an aerial and ground survey of the beaches today . Jones Beach Shark Scare Park officials reported that by afternoon the last Navy men who had been called to duty cleaning up the oil traces at Coney Island had been released , leaving the cleanup to about 50 park employes . However , 75 Naval Reservists and Sea Scouts were still reported cleaning up at Sea Gate , the private , neighboring seafront area . Meanwhile , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for 45 minutes yesterday afternoon after the reported sighting of sharks . After that , bathers were limited to wading . At Robert Moses State ' Park , rough seas halted surf swimming in the afternoon . Turbulent seas had led to the banning of swimming at both Long Island parks on Saturday . A few oil deposits have been noticed at Jones Beach but have- not proved a problem . A lifeguard strike at the two parks is now in its seventh week .                     