@@734221

txt Gasoline prices around the country have soared by an average of 15 cents a gallon so far this year , mostly in the last six weeks , and appear likely to continue rising despite Federal controls , according to Government and industry officials . The average price of a gallon of gasoline in the United States has now reached 81.47 , up from 67.11 cents at the end of last year , The Lundberg Letter , a trade publication , said in a compilation released today . The acute shortage of gasoline in the United States has virtually eliminated Motorists in the New York area apparently heeded the call to drive less . Airplanes and trains were packed , but traffic was surprisingly light . Page 22. competition as a means of keeping gasoline prices down , industry experts concede . A result has been a largely successful effort by oil companies and gasoline dealers to recover their cost increases and improve their profit margins . 945 Price Violations Found The rising price of gasoline almost certainly reflects as well what is acknowledged to be widespread cheating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department of Energy has audited 2,256 service stations , of which 945 were found to be violating the law . In large part the price increases , which far exceed the increases in crude oil prices demanded by oil-exporting countries , reflect the looseness of the Federal price control formulas , which provide . substantial flexibility in setting prices . In Davis , Calif. , for example , the Davis Shortstop Market was recently charging $1.30. a gallon for self-service regular leaded gasoline . Nonetheless , an investigation , by , the Department of Energy found'that the station was complying with its regulations . The oil companies , which refine gasoline from crude oil ; and the service station owners have been bickering over who is responsible for the rising prices , with each accusing the other of being the major contributor . But interviews with Government and trade sources show that the price increases of 15 cents a gallon divide rougly into thirds , with one-third each going to the oil-exporting countries , the oil companies and the dealers . Since Jan. 1 , oil-exporting countries have raised prices sharply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4.4 cents a gallon . The largest , by Algeria , totals 16.4 cents a gallon . But the United States produces more than half of its own oil , and the price of domestic oil has increased far more modestly . All told , the major companies say that their costs of crude oil have increased by about 5 cents a gallon . Meanwhile , the major companies are benefiting from a change in a pricing regulation made by the Department of Energy earlier this year . The regulation , known as " tilt , " allows the companies to recover more of their costs by raising gasoline prices . By most estimates , this has yielded about 4 cents a gallon for the companies and has raised the price for the consumer even further . In addition , the companies have benefited from a long-standing policy known as " banks , " which allows the companies to save price increases they are entitled to but can not use at a time of weak demand until a time of stronger demand . In essence , these deferred price increases are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complying with another set of pricing regulations , the voluntary wage-price guidelines of the Council on Wage and Price Stability , but contend that the guidelines have held their price increases below Energy Department ceilings . Council officials could not be reached for comment on this contention . At the retail level , profit margins for dealers have increased by 4.34 cents a gallon so far this year , an increase of 68 percent over the 6.42 cents that prevailed at the end of last year , according to The Lundberg Letter . But dealers say this increase merely returns them to where they were in 1974 , when profit margins were about 9.9 cents a gallon , without taking account of inflation . In 1972 , the last year before the Arab oil embargo , profit margins averaged 6.7 cents a gallon . As with the major oil companies , the dealers have found that the Department of Energy pricing regulations have accommodated price increases of this size . In the case of the Davis Shortstop Market , Federal investigators found that the dealer had " banked " enough costs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But retail gasoline stations appear less likely to be complying with the voluntary wage-price guidelines , which make no provision for " banked " costs or for profit margin improvements from a depressed period . Last week Barry P. Bosworth , director of the wage-price council , said that " on first blush " the retailers appeared to be " taking advantage of the situation . " And the high rate of violations in the checks by the Department of Energy suggest that a number of stations may be violating the controls , which , unlike the voluntary wage-price guidelines , carry legal penalties . The investigations have turned up overcharges as high as 23.4 cents a gallon , according to energy officials . As a result , fines of $100 to $5,000 were collected and prices were reduced . But several thousand complaints remain to be investigated and the Energy Department policing involves fewer than 50 auditors ; there are nearly 180,000 gasoline stations in the country . The dealers angrily reject charges that they are violating the controls . " For Bosworth to come along and say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " said Jack Blum , general counsel of the Independent Gasoline Marketers Council . One side effect of the price explosion is that prices at the unbranded , cut-rate stations often exceed the prices at stations selling gasoline from major oil companies . This has occurred because the cuts rate stations buy from wholesalers who buy excess supplies in the spot market . But excess supplies are nonexistent now , and prices in the spot market exceed the prices paid by major companies under their long-term contracts . Gasoline prices seem sure to continue to climb in the near future . For one thing , the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is scheduled to meet next month , and another substantial increase in foreign crude oil prices appears assured . Meanwhile , the effects of past price increases has not yet entirely , reached the gasoline pump .                     