@@733346

txt A majority of those who intend to vote in the New Jersey gubernatorial election on Nov. 8 will apparently base their choice principally on their feelings about Governor Byrne and not on their perceptions of his challenger , State Senator Raymond H. Bateman . A New York Times/Channel 2 poll shows that 68 percent of those who say they intend to vote for Mr. Byrne are basing that decision on " pro-Byrne " feelings , while 55 percent of those who say they will vote fo Mr. Bateman say their decision is based primarily on " antiByrne " sentiments . The poll results , which show that the Governor has pulled , even in the contest after being far behind a month ago in , other polls , come at a time when Mr. Byrne 's job rating by the public is Improving , according to both the poll and the periodic soundings taken by the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers Untversity . The Eagleton surveys began when Mr. Byrne took office in January 1974 , and reflect the Governor 's high popularity rating during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Byrne 's popularity  --  as measured by those in earlier polls who rated his job performances as " excellent , " " good . " " only fair " or " poor " ? dropped sharply during the protracted debates over a state income tax that the Governor supported , beginning m mid-1974 and continuing the next two years . His rating was at its lowest point  --  only 17 percent positive  --  last April in the Eagleton survey , but then began a slow but steady climb . It was at 33 percent positive last month , and The Times/Channel 2 poll found Mr. Byrne with a 40 percent positive rating between Oct. 15 and 19 , when the telephone poll was taken of 2,115 New Jersey residents , including 1,416 registered voters . The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percent . The 40 percent positive rating given Mr. Byrne reflected the sentiments of the entire poll sample . When the answers of the registered voters are examined alone , the Governor is given a 43 percent positive rating  --  that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Byrne has the support of a majority of those ' who rate his performance positively , while Mr. Bateman is favored by a majority of those who give the Governor " only fair " or " poor " ratings . This would include 52 percent of the entire poll sample and 55 percent of the registered voters in the sample . The improvement in Mr. Byrne 's rating close to the end of a re-election campaign is characteristic of many incumbents , especially Presidents , whose popularity curves have been watched by pollsters . Gerald R. Ford was the most recent example of this , but his drive for election last fall could not overcome Jimmy Carter 's big early lead . Mr. Bateman has pointed frequently to the fact Mr. Byrne has taken his governmental duties en the road and made them part of his campaign , principally by arranging bill signings in various parts of the state instead of in his office . Bill Signing Cited A recent example was the signing of a bill designed to make it easier and less expensive for qualified elderly people to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army nutrition center in Camden with Rosalynn Carter , the President 's wife , among those in attendance . Mr. Bateman 's campaign has been designed to reinforce the negative perception of Mr. Byrne 's administration , which seemed much stronger several weeks ago . The Republican contender has attacked the Democratic Governor for a " lack of leadership , " but the poll results indicate he has not been able to advance his own image as a more attractive alternative at the same time . When leadership became one of the thrusts of the Republican campaign , Mr. Byrne 's started an ambitious television campaign on the theme " he made the tough decisions . " The Governor also attacked Mr. Bateman personally in campaign debates and his voting record in campaign commercials in attempts to damage or at least weaken the image of the 19-year old veteran of the Legislature . The poll shows Mr. Bateman the slight favorite of male voters and Mr. Byrne supported by a small majority of women voters . Union members said they were for Mr. Byrnebya49to34per for Mr. Byrne by a 49 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor shows more strength among blue-collar workers , lower-salaried workers and the less educated . Mr. Bateman appeals more to professional and managerial people . The preference of college graduates was evenly divided between the candidates . Other aspects of the poll also indicate the closeness of the race . Homeowners were divided 40 percent for each candidate , with 20 percent undecided or refusing to answer . Those who rent their homes liked Mr Bateman by a slim margin , but apartment renters favored Mr. Byrne by virtually the same margin . With the exception of black voters , a. large majority of whom said they favored Mr. Byrne , the breakdown of the poll according to ethnic background showed both men with similar levels of support .                     