@@730663

txt Hanoi and Washington now move with unparalleled swiftness to erase jointly the physical damage of war . The decision to set up a U.S.-North Vietnamese economic commission to assess reconstruction needs ? and the cooperative attitude it demonstrates ? are further steps to solidify the Vietnamese cease-fire . It appears the two have prodded the negotiators in Laos to achieve a cease-fire there . The White House expects a Laotian agreement " in a matter of days . " If this is accomplished , the cease-fire in Laos would be only about a week behind the schedule originally agreed upon . In a joint Washington-Hanoi communique , there were notes of caution , however . The measures that " should be taken to improve and expedite the implementation " of the agreement on Vietnam were characterized as " imperative . " - The communique follows 19 hours of con- sultations between Dr. Henry Kissinger and North Vietnamese officials in Hanoi . The substantive progress made in the Kissinger visit to Hanoi seems likely to improve the atmosphere for his five-day discussion% with Premier Chou En-lai in China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ending the war in Indo-China and normalizing relations with China falls into place It is speculated that Dr. Kissinger while in Peking will inform the Chinese of U S. intentions to withdraw from Taiwan those military forces that have been considered necessary to back up the U S. war effort in Indo-China .  --  - - In turn , it is regarded as possible that Chou En-lai will agree to some form of U.S , representation in China , even if only a trade office or delegation . In part , the immediate attention to rehabilitation of war-torn North Vietnam flows from the somewhat inconclusive ending of the ten years of strife President Nixon proclaims the agreement as " an honorable peace , " and Hanoi says it was " a victory " for communism . Both are acting as if it were a " compromise , " as Dr. Kissinger has several times called the Paris accords . Aid always given In time , America in postwar years has always aided countries it has defeated , as with Germany and Japan . This time , reconstruction of war-torn lands was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington tackle reconstruction // The amounts that President Nixon is willing to invest in North Vietnam and Indo-China as a whole are still unknown . The White House once more reaffirms that it will consult with Congress . It is anticipated that Dr. Kissinger will come home on Feb. 20 with a fresh estimate of the needs . The Nixon administration 's desire to share the war relief burden with other countries is unchanged . Dr. Kissinger will stop in Japan while en route back to the U.S. and meet with Prime Minister Kakuel Tanaka , Japan , because of its long-term interests in Southeast Asia and its generally prosperous economy , Is generally mentioned as one of those the U.S. would like to bring into the aid picture . China and the Soviet Union , the suppliers of Hanoi 's war materiel and their pOlitical comforters , are also on the list of those who could help out . Other concerns stated The communique announcing that economic aid to Hanoi would be given prioritycame only an hour after Sen. George McGovern ( D ) of South Dakota told newsmen that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for multilateral aid under a United Nations umbrella . In explaining some phases of the communique , Ronald Ziegler , the President 's press secretary , stated some of the remaining concerns of the U.S. in implementing the Vietnam cease-fire . He said " there are still sporadic violations . " The two countries have also agreed to set up a system for location of the missing in action . The U.S is particularly unsatisfied with the accounting of MIAs in Laos He added that the designation of legitimate points of entry for military supplies into Vietnam " should be acted upon immediately . " The economic commission will he orga. razed within a month , according to U.S. officials . U.S. representation , which will be equal to that of North Vietnam , will be named within two weeks . Whether there will be any members of Congress appointed to the commission was not stated . Similar channel used U.S. officials emphasized that the process toward normalized relations with Hanoi proceeds through a channel that has been used for several years by Dr. Kissinger and Le Duc Tho , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegations to the Paris peace talks " will remain in place " for needed diplomatic exchanges , he said Dr. Kissinger 's talks with Le Duc Tho , Premier Phan Van Dong , and Vice-Premier Nguyen Duy Trinh were said in the communique to be " frank , serious , and constructive . " The personal relations between Dr. Kissinger and officials of an enemy country appear to he unusually friendly under the circumstances , He visited the Museum of History and Archaeology and also the Mu . seurn of Art in Hanoi ,                     