@@729179

txt Seven British beech trees are on trial for their lives . At a recent hearing , Edmund Thompson ( for the Woodside Road Residents Association ) and William Bishop ( for Oxshott Heath Conservators ) were waging the defense . Counsel for the appellant ( a housing developer ) had opened the hearing by making his formal appeal for permission to cut down the trees . Mr. Bishop spoke feelingly in rebuttal . So did the lawyer for the local council , which had already refused the builder permission to level the mighty beeches . After concluding his testimony , Mr. Thompson braced himself for the searching questions he had painstakingly prepared himself to answer . Surprising silence Then came the surprise . There were none . The inspector gathered up written copies of the statements , closed the hearing , and withdrew to the Ministry of Environment to ponder his decision , which is n't expected for perhaps another month . The developer 's lawyer , it is believed , might have felt that cross-examination would have weakened rather than strengthened his case , since public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trees , interestingly , are on the builder 's own land  --  not on the heath at all . But they are old trees . Large trees . Beautiful trees . They form a short avenue ? green , gold , and copper in the fall  --  that is a gateway to the heath , which the locally elected conservators conserve and the council owns as the residuary " lord of the manor . " Visitors , ( logs , ' mushrooms ' Upon this heath and in the woods the villagers walk their dogs . Hundreds of visitors come on holidays from crowded suburbs to picnic here . Restaurateurs from Soho regularly prowl here searching on Sundays for edible fungi , to be served later , chopped , as mushrooms . Such things matter here . Beauty matters . Woods to walk in matter . Footpaths and bridleways matter Perhaps that 's one answer to the question so often asked by tourists " How have the English managed to conserve so much natural beauty in one of the most crowded areas on earth ? " In every village in every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William Bishops who will fight strenuously to save a few trees or to keep open for everyone a little-used footpath that has been there , rambling through private property , since Domesday . Circuitous compromise This is why the roads and lanes of England wind apparently haphazard through the landscape . 01 all who came here , only the authoritarian Romans drove roads straight as an arrow to their destinations , regardless of people 's rights and feelings . Throughout the centuries , Celts , Angles , Saxons , Normans , and English have wound then way , battling around their problems in circuitous compromise , serving on the one hand the rights of private property and on the other those of public access and the common good . This , too , is why there is so much conserved in southeast England , an area of towns and airports with an average of three people to the acre . Yet you can , if you wish , drive ( or walk ) clear across a great swathe of it without actually entering or even seeing a town Tower built for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Successive ministries have received an average of 1,000 and more inquiries and appeals a year . But there also have been others , like Richard Hull , a gentleman of fortune , who in 1766 built a tower on the summit of Leith Hill  --  highest point in southern England  --  where one may " obtain ? di extensive prospect over a beautiful country not solely for his own pleasure , but for the accommodation of his neighbors and all men . " The tower still stands and virtually the whole of the gloriously wooded hills around today belongs in one way or another to the public . Ilis.torical 1 ) 144. i-dent All this explains why those with some knowledge of English history doubt that the recommendation of the Roskill Commission to site London 's third international airport at Cublington in the heart of the Buckinghamshire countryside will ever be put into effect . The public , it is felt , will not allow it . When the local folk lit 35 bonfires on the ( Thulium hilltops and rang churchbells in 20 parishes , just as had been done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  and when they said " it would take troops to get us out of our homes " ? they were being true to the traditions that have made England what it is  --  and conserved it .                     