@@732521

txt A new Federal Trade Commission rule to protect consumers ' rights against sellers of defective merchandise went into effect Friday amid a rising chorus of opposition from those who supply the credit for such purchases . Bankers and other lenders around the country tended to agree with Federal Reserve Chairman Arthur F. Burns that the nation 's commerce could be " seriously disrupted " by the rule , which exposes them to new risks and thus will cause them to be more careful in making loans . What the FTC instituted was a " hold er-in-d u e - course rule " which would make it virtually Jmpossible for merchants to collect from credit customers whose purchased items turn out to be defective . Some $122 billion of credit was extend-. ed last year to finance the kinds of transactions covered by the rule . These include the purchase of furniture , automobiles , appliances , and home improvements . IN A CASE TYPICAL of those In which the FTC saw the need to intervene , a consumer buys a sofa and agrees to pay for it in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refuses to act on the buyer 's claim . The buyer then seeks to withhold further payments but finds that the seUer had sold the contract or arranged to have it held by someone else . The consumer is obliged to continue payments to this third party and , according to the commission , " has been robbed of the only realistic leverage he possessed that might have forced the seller to provide satisfaction . " The new rule extends liability to a third-party , bank or finance company that plrehases such contracts or that lends money directly if the borrower has been referred to it by a merchant who has a regular relationship with the lender . Contracts in force are not affected . The liability may even extend to injury sustained by someone who sits in a sofa that collapses , although it is limited to the amount borrowed . An FTC spokesman said the regulation " by specific exemption " does not apply to major credit card companies as third parties In purchasing . SOME 40 STATES have already passed similar laws , some of which permit a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever , does the lender risk more than the value of the contract . The rule , first proposed in early 1971 , was actively opposed by the American Bankers Association , the National Automobile Dealers Association , and two consumer finance trade associations , as well as by the Federal Reserve . The autetnobile dealers lost a last-ditch suit in Federal Court in Louisiana Wednesday in which they sought a delay in implementation . Many lenders , anticipating the new rule , have already moved to reduce their exposure to the risks of such installment lending , a business they maintain is not particularly profitable despite interest rates that in nearly all states are at legal ceilings . The response has usually been one of denying credit to those they see as presenting the biggest risks .                     