@@732606

txt Former President Nixon said Friday his wife , Pat , would recover from a stroke " because she 's a fighter . " Her doctors said Friday the next two days would be crucial in determining whether the former first lady would recover completely from the partially paralyzing stroke . " We would n't say she 's out of the life-threatening phase , " the Nixons ' family physician , Dr. John C. Lungren , said . He added she remained in " serious condition . " However , Lungren said at a press briefing at Memorial Hospital Medical Center her condition " seems more optimistic " now . " The rext 48 hours is an important time , " he said . The former President returned to the hospital Friday morning to visit his 64-year-old wife after having spent the night at the family compound in San Clemente , 40 miles to the south . WHEN HE DEPARTED the hospital several hours later , Nixon ? in one of his few public appearances since his 1974 resignation  --  told onlookers he was confident his wife would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good , she 's going to see this thing through and she 's going to beat it , " he said . " She 's a fighter . She is n't giving up , and for that reason , combined with the excellent care she 's receiving from the doctors , that will mean that she 'll have a complete recovery . " Looking somber , the former President shook hands with well-wishers as he left for the trip back to San Clemente . LunBros said he expected Nixon to visit the ' hospital twice daily . The Nixons ' daughters , Tricia Cox and ? Julie Eisenhower , also visiting their mother , remained at the hospital when their father left . Dr. Jack M. Mosier , a neurological ? specialist who accompanied Lungren at the morning press conference , said the former first lady was showing remarkable spirit . " MANY PATIENTS ARE very despondent , " Mosier said . " They feel that life is all over . They give up the fight . She 's done none of this . " Lungren said , " We would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only time and observation is going to give us that answer . " The doctors said at the press briefing that Mrs. Nixon remained partially paralyzed from the stroke she suffered Wednesday evening . But they said her blood pressure , which Lungren described as " quite elevated-175 over 100 or 110 " when she entered the hospital around noon on Thursday , had dropped to within normal levels . Lungren added she had no history of high blood pressure .                     