@@729826

txt The 1971 tax bill is now moving through the routine final procedures in Congress toward enactment . By any reasonable standard of responsible legislating , Congress has put on a classic demonstration of how not to write a major bill . Decisions have been secret , arbitrary , unexplained . A few men have wielded enormous power and have been accountable to no one . After the Administration presented its bill , the House Ways and Means Committee held hearings and then met in private sessions to write its own version . As usual , the dominant voice was that of Chairman Wilbur Mills of Arkansas and , as usual , his opinions did not vary from conservative bipartisan orthodoxy . The committee bill conformed closely to the President 's proposals . As usual , the Rules Committee sent the bill to the floor under a " closed rule , " permitting no amendments . This traditional procedure leaves the great majority of the members of the House impotent on tax issues . When the bill reached the Senate , the Finance Committee held more hearings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the Senate floor , the bill preoccupied the members for a week . Diligently pressing ahead , Senator Mansfield , the majority leader , kept his colleagues at work from nine o'clock in the morning until early evening and also on Saturday . More amendments were added . A House-Senate conference , then met to reconcile the two ' versions . Meeting once again in private , the senior members of Ways and Means and of Finance then chucked out just about everything the Senate had done in committee and on the floor . Now the Rules Committee is to provide another closed rule and the House members will again ratify what has been done in their name but without their knowledge or control . Unless the Senate takes the rare action of rejecting the conference report , the bill will then go to Mr. Nixon 's desk . This tax bill is in many ways a bad bill , seriously eroding the nation 's tax base when social needs are unmet and providing more incentives to business to expand capital expenditures when existing capacity is underused . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the legislative process has been brought perilously close to parody . It is not that all of Mr. Mills ' judgments were wrong but that he is accountable to no one except the voters of his one-party rural district in Arkansas in making them . He in no sense acted as the agent of Speaker Albert and the elected leadership of the majority party or of a caucus of House Democrats in shaping the bill originally . Similarly , on the Senate side , not all of the amendments added in committee or on the floor were desirable . But for the Senate conferees to recede on almost all of them suggests a considerable element of demagoguery . In passing those amendments , were the Senators legislating or were they playing to their various constituencies , knowing what they did would be washed out in conference ? Democrats try to run away from the harsh implica- tions of this question and hide behind Mr. Nixon 's threatened veto . But the President 's position on all the major issues was well-known before either chamber acted . What was not known was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutional responsibilities in writing tax legislation rather than risk a showdown with the President A grant of power to the President to raise or lower rates within a limited range would be more responsible than the taxwriting charade acted out on Capitol Hill during the last three months .                     