@@728700

txt Would American scholars be ready if they suddenly received an invitation to visit Communist China ? Experts here say an invitation may be long in coming . But eventually , they believe , the way will open up , and the United States men of letters should be prepared to make the most of it . Robert F. Byrnes , professor of history at Indiana University , makes the point in a report for a Senate subcommittee . He suggests that the cultural exchange programs which China has with Japan , the Soviet Union , and Eastern Europe should serve as models to help prepare American scholars ; though he doubts that a formal exchange program between the U.S. and China is likely . The most probable first steps , as he sees them , are that Peking may select individual American scholars whom it considers " friendly , or malleable , " or important in some technical field . A small group of such scholars , he thinks , might be invited to visit selected cities on a strict schedule . ? Antipollution switch ? Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on to his department . He is irked by the recent unpublicized recommendation of a White House panel that the Interior Department be stripped of its antipollution enforcement functions . The President 's Advisory Council on Executive Reorganization reportedly urges that environmental policing operations now shared by Interior and five other departments be grouped in a new independent agency . Interior would lose some 4,000 of its 75,000 employees , mostly in water-pollution jobs . Mr. Hickel favors keeping development and conservation functions under the same roof to better avert exploitation of natural resources before it occurs . ? The whetted ax Creation of the new office of business manager in the White House has sent panic tremors all over town . Bureaucratic fiefdoms , satrapies , even empires are threatened . George P. Shultz , the " man in charge of getting things done , " has President Nixon 's backing to make one more try at getting control over the lower echelons of government . It 's a problem that has defied solution by all presidents in the recent past . The need for tighter presidential control stems from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Today 's big , increasingly complex social issues demand speedy action . Yet divided power means virtually no power to act . So Mr. Shultz is prepared to take drastic measures . e Three at the PO Post Office officials are pleased with early reports from their month-old pilot program to train school dropouts . The Postal Academy program is patterned after the Urban League storefront academies . It provides  --  right in their own neighborhoods  --  basic education for ghetto youths . Recruiters , teachers , and counselors are Post Office volunteers . Aim of the program is to use their talents  --  often buried in dead-end postal jobs  --  to awaken new motivation among underprivileged youths of high-school age . The training period may take as long as 18 months , depending on the needs of individual youths . Then " graduates " may  --  but need not  --  join the P.O. Postal Academy programs accommodating 50 students each , opened last month in Atlanta , Chicago , Detroit , San Francisco , and Washington . In September , 300 more youths will be enrolled . e A soupcon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself to a slightly smaller slice of Americans ' take-home pay . On that date the last 5 percent of what originally was the 10 percent surtax enacted in 1968 will be eliminated . In addition , the tax deduction allowed for each personal exemption ( for the taxpayer himself and each dependent ) will be increased from $600 to $650 . Combined , these two tax changes mean that a married worker with two children , earning $150 a week , will receive an additional $1.30.                     