@@731971

txt Buoyed by recent demonstraltions of Congressional support , Israel has decided to ignore the United States ' repeated requests that she produce new negotiating proposals before the American-Egyptian meeting lin Salzburg next Sunday , acI cording to senior Israeli officials . In private contacts during the last few weeks , the officials said , the United States has urged Israel to come forward with new ideas on an interim Sinai accord with Egypt that President Ford can carry into his meeting June 1 and 2 with President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt . But Israel has decided against it , the officials said , partly be ; cause she wants Egypt to make the first concession , and partly because of the display of Congressional support represented by the letter signed last week by 76 Senators calling for generous military and economic assistance to Israel . Limit to Leverage Seen The letter , in the view of the Israeli leadership , demonstrates that there is a limit to the political leverage the Ford Administration can apply against Israel in the course of its current reassessment of Middle East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ content of the letter , which they have happily taken to calling " the spirit of the 76 . " The letter has convinced Premier Yitzhak Rabin and his advisers that they were right in deciding to stand fast on // Israel 's published conditions for a new accord and outwait the United States ' policy reassessment , which they regard as nothing more than pressure on Israel to soften her position . The decision not to come up with new proposals before the Salzburg meeting is the latest indication that the diplomatic test of wills between the Rabin Government and Ford Administration continues unabated . The strains between Washington and Jerusalem developed after March 22 when Secretary of State Kissinger 's efforts to negotiate an interim agreement on Sinai broke down . Limited Contacts Since then , there have been only limited diplomatic contacts between the two governments . Little advance preparation has been made so far for the scheduled Washington meeting between Mr. Rabin and Mr. Ford on June 11 and 12 . A rough schedule has been worked out , but so far there has been none of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a meeting . " It 's going to be a surprise party , " one Israeli official said with a sardonic smile . " Apparently we 're going to be kept guessing up to  --  the last minute . " Mr. ? Rabin is ' known to be resentful about- the criticisms of his Government that have been attributed to Mr. Kissinger , who has made no secret of his belief . that Israel should have been more flexible during the negotiations with Egypt . The Israeli Premier has felt for some time that Israel has no practical alternative but to let the Ford Administration vent its anger at Israel . Only after a cooling-off period , he has said , can Israel-American relations return , to normal and the negotiating process resume . Explanation Now Pointless Mr. Rabin is understood to believe , for instance , that ? it would be pointless for him to try now to make any further public explanation of Israel 's negotiating position , even though he has been urged by advisers to do . so to improve Israel 's image . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says would be promptly countered by Mr. Kissinger , and the whole argument over who was to blame for the breakdown would only be revived . Israel 's strategy at the moment is to wait and see what emerges front the Salzburg meeting and Mr. Rabin 's subsequent talks in Washington . The Israelis feel they now have additional breathing space as a result of Syria 's surprise decision to renew the mandate of the United Nations disengagement observation force on the Golan Heights for another six months . This move , in the view of Israeli analysts , has significantly reduced the chances of a new outbreak of fighting ir the near future . Over-All Peace Ruled Out Despite the breakdown of the last effort to achieve an interim accord with Egypt , the Israelis still believe that another limited agreement on Sinai is the only feasible diplomatic step at this point . The alternative ? negotiating an over-all peace agreement at Geneva or elsewhere  --  was described by an Israeli official as " a complete impossibility " under the present circumstances . And , despite Mr. Kissinger 's failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is still viewed here as the best possible mediator in a renewed negotiating effort . The Israelis hope that the talks toward a new Sinai accord can resume again under Mr. Kissinger 's auspices after Mr. Ford 's meeting with Mr. Rabin . The key to breaking the current stalemate as far as the Israelis are concerned is the duration of any new agreement that is to be negotiated with Egypt . This , according to Israeli sources , is the crucial issue on which the last round of talks collapsed and not , as has been reported , the initial Israeli demand for an Egyptian declaration of nonbelligerency . The Israelis maintain that , by the end of the negotiations , they had agreed to accept the lesser formulation of an Egyptian commitment not to resort to the threat or use of force against Israel , The stumbling block , according to the Israelis , was the duration of the agreement . Egypt reportedly offered to extend the mandate of the United Nations Emergency Force in Sinai for one year and then renew it annually . In the Israeli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might not be subsequently extended . Jerusalem therefore rejected it as inadequate . If the Egyptian commitment could be extended to three or more years , Israeli officials say now , this would open the way to a resumption of talks . In addition to this extended duration , Israel would also seek a significant reduction in the Egyptian economic boycott of companies doing business with Israel , and other signals of a change in the political atmosphere . In exchange , Israeli officials say now , Israel would be prepared to come up with new formulations of her own , including both territorial and political concessions . The officials declined to specify these concessions , except to say that Israel would be- prepared to withdraw from the western end of the Sinai mountain passes and the oilfield at Abu Rudeis . This position is reminiscent of the Israeli posture at the Camera cress Premier Yitzhak Rabin close of the negotiations . Israel 's final offer in the March talks was to divide the passes between Israel and Egyptian control in exchange for an Egyptian commitment on not using force . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion of American diplomats , would still be likely to do so today . A deeper Israeli withdrawal would presumably be required , therefore , if a new round of negotiations is to succeed where the first failed . In the meantime , Israeli officials are concerned with the , size of the aid package the United States will propose for Israel for the coming fiscal year . Israel expects that she will have to settle for less than her request for $2.5-billion in economic and military assistance . On the military side , Israeli officials have been led to believe that a key request , the ground-to-ground Lance missile , will be approved once the policy reassessment has been cornplted . The Israelis also expect ultimate approval of the F-15 fighters that Israel is seeking to modernize her air force .                     