@@731511

txt The United States will have plenty , of beef in the coming year despite disappointing fall crops . of livestock-feed grains , but lower supplies of pork and broiler chickens will be available , a panel of administrators led by Secretary of Agriculture Earl L. Butz said today . At the same time the panel predicted that , although food prices would continue rising , reduced foreign demand would ease the impact of the recent drought on supplies of corn and other livestock-feed grains . " In spite of the disappointing prospect of farm crops this fall , there is absolutely no basis for panic on the food supply in the United States this year or in 1975 , " Secretary Butz said in opening a briefing session for newsmen , called in an effort to put the United States . production situation into perspective with regard to national needs and the world outlook . ' Task Force ' on Meats Dr , Butz urged farmers to plan for all-out production next year , saying no acreage would be set aside in idle reserves , and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price-restraining economies in the distribution system . A department economist , Terry Barr , who is the Agriculture Department 's chief analyst on demand and prices , predicted in line with earlier forecasts that food prices over all would rise about 3 per cent in this year 's third quarter andia little more in the fourth quarter . The Weather Factor But Mr. Barr said weather affecting crops and harvests ' could still cause variations of as much as 2 per cent , either upward or downward , in the price outlook . Recent rains are expected to improve the prospects for soybeans but to have little effect on the hard-hit corn crop . The panel accompanying Dr. Butz made these other predictions : 9United States agricultural exports in the ? - 1974.75 fiscal year will fall substantially below last year 's volume but , because of higher prices , the dollar value will be nearly equal . In the fiscal year ended June 30 , the total was $21.3-billion. 9World wheat exports will decline about 5 per cent ; and the record United St*tes crop will permit a slight build-up ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decline , but because of increased production abroad and reduced demand , the Unit // ed States will have " carry . over " stocks left at the end of this marketing year . ilThe world rice outlook is uncertain because of dry weather in several producing countries and flooding in Bangladesh , but a bumper United States crop will permit increased exports and aid shipments . ( note ' United States food-aid shipments are expected at least to equal last year 's level , which was the lowest in many years . ( Net farm income this year will drop more than $5-billion , to about $27-billion , but at that level will still be the second best on record for producers , Concern over the food and price outlook has risen since early this month , when the Agriculture Department report . ed severe drought damage to corn . The harvest , which earlier predictions had put well above six billion bushels , is now expected to be slightly below five billion bushels . " Less grain will mean higher prices , " Don Seaborg , assistant to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Economic Research Service said . As a result , he said , production of broiler chickens and pork is likely to decline next year . Production of cattle , which have a longer breeding and growing cycle , is expected to continue a rising trend during the year . Less of that meat will be fattened on grain in feed lots , he predicted , and beef buyers will be getting leaner , grass-fed meat . Families of moderate income normally rely on higher proportions of chicken and pork for their protein needs ' and thus may be the first to feel the effects . But an offsetting factor may be the larger proportion of grass-fed than feedlot-fattened cattle that is sold as ground beef . The expected decline in foreign demand for , United States feed grains is a result of several factors , Richard J. Goodman , associate administrator , of the Agriculture Department 's Foreign Agricultural Service , said . First , he said , while the United States crop is down sharply , foreign production of livestock-feed grains will be up . In addition , ' higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprise abroad where heavy supplies of beef have already depressed markets . -. - Further , Mr. , Goodman said after the briefing , . inflation . ex -- acts a toll on incomes Abroad as it does.in the United States , while oil imports , are draining available cutrencyleserves . If all the predictions prove correct , pressures from United States consumer spokesthen for export controls could ease . In any event , Secretary Butz asserted : " I not only see no need for export controls , I will vigorously resist any attempt to impose them . In answer to a question , Secretary Butz said he doubted that food prices would rise as much as 10 per cent in 1975 . Other Specialists , however , declined to make a prediction . Don Paarlberg , the department 's chief economist , said he and his aides had not yet made a careful evaluation of the prospects for next year . Citing general uncertainties on inflation , he said : " There is a dragon , but there is no St. George . " Dr. paarlberg headed the " task force " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between farm and retail prices . Over all , he said , rising distribution costs had accounted for three-fourths of this year 's rise in food prices . His study offered a number of suggestions for economies in the meat-marketing system , including the Ifollowing : shipments ' of cut and boxed beef from central points ; the freezing of beef td reduce waste and changes in the grading system to discourage over-fattening of beef . Dr. Paarlberg also staid there were many ways to improve efficiency in both transportation and labor . His study cited " deadheading " ? allowing trucks to make return trips empty , and labor contracts that required fixed numbers of employes in meat departments .                     