@@729533

txt In the absence of a peace agreement in Vietnam , U.S. air forces could remain in Southeast Asia almost indefinitely . In Laos and Cambodia , local governments and armies could become almost helpless without U.S. air cover . So today , war critics are asking President Nixon : ? What are the hazards of continued use of U.S. air power in South Vietnam , especially after U.S. ground forces are reduced to almost a noncombatant garrison level in 1972 ? o Further , what risks are there in the commitment of U.S. air power in Cambodia and Laos ? As far as South Vietnam is concerned , the U.S. intention is to back up the South Vietnamese war efforts , to protect remaining U.S. contingents on the ground , and to keep a military threat against North Vietnam itself credible until a peace treaty is signed and prisoners of war are returned . Scope in question If U.S. air forces did remain in Southeast Asia , would this constitute " ending the U.S. involvement , " as promised by Mr. Nixon ? Or does he say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have described air war as " clean . " But local civilian casualties would continue and U.S. pilots could still be killed and captured . Successive U.S. governments have always informed the American people of their rosiest expectations for South Vietnam . Any misgivings were cloaked or suppressed . Now Mr. Nixon has an immensely corn ) 1ex problem . The chances of South Vietiam 's being made secure by either Vietiamization or a peace agreement are adnittedly iffy , but they are infinitely greater han for Cambodia and Laos . Two dangers are immediately visible : The history of the Vietnam war is studded vith examples of underestimates of enemy trength . Also as long as U.S. military night is stationed in South Vietnam , it is ikely to be attacked and drawn into battle . // *What air cover to remain ? // Vice-President Spiro T. Agnew warns that the remaining U.S. troops may be hit hard by the Communists . His concern is that the public will he alarmed by exaggerated newspaper accounts and will want to ditch Vietnam in desperation . Retaliation threat ? Critics of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nixon retaliate with large . scale bombing raids against the north and thus break up the Paris negotiations and end hope of early , complete withdrawal . On April 16 , in discussing American air strikes in South Vietnam , Mr. Nixon declared pointedly : " We have some cards to play , too , and we are going to play them right to the hilt where the prisoners are concerned . " The likelihood is that whatever peace that is possible will come piecemeal , first in South Vietnam and then , it is hoped , in Laos and Cambodia . What is n't being widely discussed is the question of what happens in Laos and Cambodia if the war ends in South Vietnam . The South Vietnamese may or may not have the resources to commit to these countries . South Vietnamese units are still being sent into Cambodia . In Laos they had very mixed results in trying to block the Ho Chi Minh Trail , and without U.S. forces to back them up , appear likely to avoid such a venture again . Rusk expresses caution Former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States departs South Vietnam too early , " North Vietnam can pick up Laos and Cambodia at any time by making very little additional effort . They have no defense capabilities in Laos , and apparently because of the mood in Congress we 're not going to do anything about it . " Some administration officials agree with this assessment , though the public position of the U.S. is that Laos and Cambodia can pull through by themselves with the aid of U.S. air power , economic assistance , and the type of paramilitary assistance being conducted under the auspices of the Central Intelligence Agency . Also , fighting men from Thailand have been engaged on the side of Laos , with the U.S. supporting hand visible . The danger is that if Cambodia or Laos starts to falter , the administration could feel compelled to escalate these kinds of aid . The bigger the investment , the more difficult to pull back . Lineup assessed The United States has stood behind and beside Laos since the Eisenhower days . Cambodia under Prince Sihanouk was unfriendly , and even under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to bring Cambodia quite under the U.S. protective umbrella . Congress , after the Cambodian invasion which Mr. Nixon said was to expedite U.S. departure from South Vietnam , barred military ground forces from Cambodia . U.S. ground forces are similarly prevented from being used in Laos . At times Congress has been uneasy over the covert military aid to Cambodia and Laos as well as the air support . It is perhaps understandable that the administration does not tell the world its own private assessments of such delicate military situations . But a few well-timed leaks , which conditioned the American public for all the eventualities , might reduce both the danger of deeper involvement in Indo-China as well as embarrassment should present policies fail .                     