@@728608

txt " What are we doing wrong ? " a worried White House aide asked the surprised head of a Washington news bureau here after a press briefing . The query represented a sudden new mood in Washington  --  a mood in which President Nixon is becoming more visible in the face of criticism over Cambodia . A syndicated columnist told colleagues at lunch this week that he had been called . up by a friend of the administration as one of a list and notified that this would be a good time to come to the defense of the administration 's policy . It was not difficult for hire because he strongly backs the policy . James Reston of the New York Times charged last week that " a top official at the White House " asked a group of reporters " not to embarrass the government by printing the details " of weekend United States air raids over North Vietnam . It appeared that originally it was hoped to keep the raids secret , but they became known from news dispatches out of Hanoi . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aide responsible for the attempt at suppression . In the early hours of Saturday , May 9 , following Mr. Nixon 's dramatic press conference and while cars and buses were still bringing 100,000 protesters into the capital , the President found himself unable to sleep . He called up one of the United Press International staff who had known the late Merriman Smith , head of the UPI White House bureau . The President talked discursively for some time . Understanding asked At about 4 a.m. the President dressed , went out with his Cuban-born valet , Manola Sanchez , and drove with Secret Service guards ( described as " petrified " ) to the Lincoln Memorial . At the top of the steps he talked to a group of eight students that later swelled to 50 . A reporter of the Washington Star , Garnett Homer , was at the White House at 7:30 , where he got a fill-in from Ronald Ziegler , White House press secretary . But Mr. Ziegler was soon interrupted by the returned Mr. Nixon who took over . Mr. Nixon had passed a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Memorial he had taken his valet up to look at the Capitol , and finished with a hashand-egg breakfast at the Mayflower Hotel . Mr. Nixon asked for understanding from his group of predawn students , but it is not certain whether he bridged the generation gap . Lynn Shatzkin , 21-year-old Syracuse University junior , said , " Here we came from a university that 's completely uptight , on strike , and when we told him where we were from he talked about the football team . When someone said he was from California , he talked about surfing . Much of the time he was just grasping for things to say ? grasping for ways to relate to the students . " Apparently , however , the administration is making a sincere effort to " relate . " It may succeed . In any case , it seems to have been shocked out of isolation by developments . There are indications of strain and division within the administration itself . For example , the confidential letter which Interior Secretary Walter J. Hickel wrote to President Nixon , urging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was put on the desk of a woman reporter of a local paper . It was printed , as Mr. Nixon ruefully told the nation , even before it was delivered . Reporter questioned An angry White House aide called up a Hickel aide and said , " Find out who leaked that letter and fire him . " He got . the retort , " I will if you find out who kept Mr. Hickel from seeing the President , and fire him . " The reporter who got the Hickel story , Roberta Hornig , was called in by officials and sharply questioned , but declined to reveal her source . Again , in these strange days , New York Timesman James Reston wrote ( May 11 ) that last Friday his bureau received in plain envelope through the mail a copy of " a top secret memorandum from Secretary of Defense Melvin Laird to the Joint Chiefs of Staff " outlining Mr. Laird 's views of the U.S. negotiating position in the strategic arms limitation talks with the Soviet Union in Vienna . The memorandum contained little new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Pentagon has now reached the point where even highly classified documents are being ptirloined and distributed to the press . " Besides the remarkable Hickel memorandum , a group of 230 State Department staff have signed a memorandum expressing concern to William P. Rogers , Secretary of State , over the course of the Southeast Asia policy . Local television stations were watched curiously for their coverage of the Saturday protest demonstration here . The Nov. 15 Moratorium came right after Vice-President Spiro T. Agnew 's attack on TV news coverage , and there was little live coverage . Last week , however , TV networks gave it conspicuously more space .                     