@@730376

txt The Senate Public Works Committee voted today to continue to prohibit the use of Federal highway money for the building of subways and other rapid rail systems in urban areas . Senate experts said the vote was a crippling and perhaps fatal blow to the Nixon Administration 's proposal to allow cities to spend part of the Federal highway trust fund on the construction of mass transit systems . The trust fund is a special part of the Federal budget that is financed by taxes on gasoline , tire rubber and trucking tonnage . The revenues from these taxes ? more than $5-billion a year ? can now be spent only to build highways . Republican Switched Just yesterday , the committee , which is considering a bill apportioning the trust fund among the states , had voted , 8 to 7 , to allow states , if they wished , to use part of . their share for rapid rail systems in urban areas . But overnight , Senator Robert T. Stafford , Republican of Vermont , changed his mind , and the , vote was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had initially planned to vote against the pro Senator iZCZA ; . : Zt:Wr , Vd posal but had decided to vote for it after talking with John A. Volpe , the Secretary of Transportation . " Overnight , on reflection , I realized that my original view was right , " Mr. Stafford said , adding , " I come from a rural state , you know . " Mr. Volpe proposed last March opening up the trust fund and freeing some of the money for mass transit . Since then , the Administration has been vigorously promoting the plan in Congress . A Transportation Department spokesman said today that the Administration had not given up hope that Congress would approve its proposal . Senators John Sherman Cooper , Republican of Kentucky , and Edmund S. Muskic , Democrat of Maine , who sponsored the amendment to ' allow trust fund money to be spent on rail systems , said they would offer their amendment again when the bill reached the floor of the Senate . Senator Cooper acknowledged , however , that , without the committee 's approval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Roads Subcommittee of the House Public Works Committee has held extensive hearings on the legislation but has been waiting for Senate action before it produces a bill . Nixon Administration officials and lobbyists for the cities do not expect the House to agree to broaden significantly the uses of highway trust fund money . But their hope is that the Senate will vote to allow some money to be spent on building rapid rail systems and that the House will then have to go along when the bill gets to conference , New York State receives nearly $300-million annually from the trust fund . If the Cooper-Muskie plan were to become law , New York City could , for example , use some of the money It gets from the state to build the Second Ave ' nue subway . The trust fund was created in 1956 and enabled construction of the largest public works project in the nation 's history ? the interstate highway system that , by the time it is completed at the end of this decade , will cover 42,500 miles at a cost of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who use the Federal highways and among . Representatives , few of whom have not taken credit for getting new Federal roads in their dis-1 tricts . But as the interstate system has neared completion , as the cities have become more congested by automobile traffic and as concern has grown about the pollution caused by cars , city officials and environmentalists have been leading a movement to . channel a share of the resources from highway user taxes into mass transit . The bill that the Public Works Committee is expected to approve tomorrow does contain two provisions that have been applauded by advocates of improved public transportation . One would allow trust fund money , for the first time , to be used to buy buses . Since 1970 , money from the fund has been available for building special bus lanes on ways , constructing fringe parking areas and a few other capital expenses related to mass transit . The other provision in the bill would permit some urban areas that have had interstate segments approved by the Government but have not begun to build them to spend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change in plans could be made , however , only if all existing segments of the interstate highway system in the , . area involved are already interconnected , as Is the case in New York City and cities with beltways . Across the country more than 20 interstate segments that have been authorized by Washington have been challenged by environmentalists and others and construction has not begun . At present , if the roads . are never built , the money would be lost to the localities involved . But , under the bill , this money could be used for purposes related to mass transportation .                     