@@732496

txt Letters to the Editor JACK M. DELANEYSANFORD C. BERNSTEINEDWARD W. TAYLORALLAN H. KALMUSFRED N. FIS ... Letters to the Editor . Our ' Expert ' Decision-Makers To the Editor : It is highly tempting to read a letter like Dr. Imperato 's ( April 29 ) and not really hear what he is saying . He berates your editorial comments calling for public debate on the influ-. enza program with the condescending implication that , since the swine flu and its significance were unknown to the public until recently , the mere fact that flu experts have advocated the immunization program should stifle further discussion . Stuart L .. ds Unfortunately , this is the attitude in which many " experts " become entrenched , perhaps after too many years of concentrated effort in their individual fields . It seems that nuclearpower advocates tell us to hush up and let them decide what is safe for us . Why wo n't we realize it takes many , many years to become a nuclear scientist and we could n't possibly grasp enough of the subject , just by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision ? Medical doctors have long kept a tight veil of secrecy over their techniques and medications , from the peeloff labels on the eye ointment to the X-rays or lab reports that we dare not view for ourselves . The chemical industry clouds critical statements in generalities , since we obviously could n't comprehend technical terms , and even whisky manufacturers balk at listing ingredients on each bottle because words like aldehyde might confuse the poor , dumb consumer . Military men have trained in tactical warfare all of their lives . To them Wall Street Reflections To the Editor : Your April 30 editorial " Change at the Exchange " deserves a response . Instead of being an antagonist of America 's unique and vital financial structure , I would suggest that you try to understand what it has accomplished for our country . Despite its weaknesses and failings , much of the good has centered on the auction market of the New York Stock Exchange . Winston Churchill said that democracy was an imperfect system , yet the best he knew . The same applies to our financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I believe that William M. Batten will have a unifying effect upon its vitality and upon the investors who are dependent upon its responsiveness . SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN New York , April 30 , 1976 The writer is chairman of an investment research and management firm . ? To the Editor : Your editorial " Change at the Exchange " should have been entitled , " The Wrong Change at the Exchange . " Clearly and for years experts have advocated " change , " and James J. Needham was gradually trying to institute needed modern policies . In doing so he has found himself right in the middle of two very strong factions . Mr. Needham has been trying to preserve the auction-market principle as the securities industry evolved and at the same time protect the small investor . Two major changes were made during his tenure ; after almost 200 years of price fixing , competitive rates were adopted ; then the composite tape , which does bring a little competition between specialists . All were done by Government pressure . Wisely , Mr. Needham stood his ground as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Editor : The ill-informed attitude that oil : spills are harmless , repeated most recently in your letters column on April 22 , distresses me inordinately. , Since oil is a chemical mixture , each spill is a different ecological event with different chemical potential . Qif , from one well or contained in one tanker simply is not comparable to.oilfrom another such source . Each area has different life forms. , The bottom-dwelling shellfish and bottom-feeding fish of our Grand Banks/Georges Banks region are , af : , fected by oil spills . The Falmouth , Mass. , oil spill of over five years.ago still affects shoreline and ocean life in the vicinity , and this was a minor spill. : Mr. Mertens ' letter claiming that " low , : level chronic exposure to oil has no measurable effect on marine life " may be true for one area , but as a genera ) - ization the statement simply is pot . accurate . Southern Californian and Gulf Coast environments ( waves , wind velocities , water temperatures , currents , depths. , etc. ) simply can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wilderwinter conditions of the coastal North Atlantic . The fish and lobster we harvest are not the same fish Abet sportsmen catch around Santa Bar : - . bara Oil-rig legs , nor do we harvest them with hook and line . We use , , neta and bottom-dragging gear . This suggests that metal protrusions off - the shallow bottom would hamper , , the , harvesting , much as stumps and rocks impede a tractor plowing ground . , . - Information from North Sea fishermen tells us of oil garbage , drums and similar droppings littering the bottom of that water body . Currents off Georges Bank are so great that no one has successfully recovered any of the wealth sunk with the Andrea Doria , surely a treasure hunter 's paradise  --  if it were not so dangerous . The same currents will inhibit the permanent burial of any pipe in these shallow seas . . ? I can accept the American . Petroleum Institute 's claims for waters where the institute has had decades of etperience . I can not accept them Whets they are extrapolated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To the Editor : The April 23 Op-Ed article ' Pakistan and the Atom , " written by . Pakistan 's representative to the United Nations , states that the nuclear reprocessing plant which Franee has sold to Pakistan will operate under the " safeguards " of the International Atomic Energy Agency ( I.A.E.A. ) . The article adds , " It is not correct , as wipe people affirm , that these safeguards are inadequate . " That latter statement is not true. : The I.A.E.A . safeguards are not adequate . They can possibly detect , brit ' can not prevent , the diversion of nuclear fuel to weapons development. - The I.A.E.A . lacks authority to enforce " any significant curb on nuclear proliferation . The way the I.A.E.A . handled this ' French-Pakistan transaction illustrates the problem . The danger incident : to ' : said transaction was widely publicized - in the press ; nevertheless , there we 's little , if any , discussion of that danger at the I.A.E.A . board meeting last ? February 24-25 , at which time the transaction was approved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explosion , the chairman of . Pakistan 's " Atomic Energy Commission hinted : ' that Pakistan might be compelled to follow India 's example ; and in the following December , Pakistan 's Print 's ' Minister stated publicly that his coun -- -try was prepared to go nuclear Wit-. could not acquire a sufficient convenl ? tional deterrent . Against that background of lack of any true international safeguard 's against proliferation  --  along with the " possible intent to go nuclear  --  Paliistan 's United Nations representativbnow adds a third point when he observes that any attempt to prevent a transfer of nuclear technology to Vs -- country would " be unworkable for the reason that a country like Pakistin  --  ir. ? not incapable of fabricating its ovinr fuel reprocessing plant " ( i.e. , making . nuclear weapons ) . He also revealed Pakistan 's inten- .. tion to acquire by the end of th4-century 24 medium-sized power reac. : ; tors ( 600,000 kilowatts each ) , along with fuel fabrication , reprocessing sail " heavy-water facilities . These facilities would allow Pakistan to follow the route of India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to produce electricity , then extract the - plutonium residual for nuclear explosives . Thus , as described by its United Nations representative , Pakisti-n 's planned program could give that country the capacity to produce 280 ; Hiroshima-size nuclear weapons per year  --  all under existing international " safeguards . " STUART SYMINGTON United States Senator from Paissourt Washington , April 29 , 1916- . Oil Spills and Ecology : Flawed Generalizations the thought of naive , untrained civilians making decisions concerning something as important as this country 's defense borders on the obscene . And , of course , the ultimate in " doing what is best for us , whether we like it or not " culminated in Watergate . Just when are the cognoscenti going to learn that we like to see all the data and make decisions for ourselves ? We admit we are n't as knowledgeable in certain areas as specialized technicians , but it is up to them to present the entire picture as clearly as possible and let us decide . We know we 're going to blow one once in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own shoestrings , as B. F. Skinner says , we will never learn how . JACK M. DELANEY Midland , Mich. , May 2 , 1976 what the people wanted . Mr. Batten , with less experience , faces the same pressures . James J. Needham has done a good job against impossible odds and marry will miss him on Wall Street EDWARD W. TAYLOR Plainfield , N.J. , April 30 , 1976 Of Hair and Politics To the Editor : Is America ready for a President who parts his hair on the right side ? Have we ever had such a man in the highest office of the land ? I raise this question because , in a day when no stone about a candidate 's past or present is left unturned , should we not uncover the reason for this , too ? The culprit Is none other than our little old peanut farmer from Georgia , or " Wee Jimmy , " ap your distinguished Reston puts it . Of course , " Scoop " Jackson seems to have the same affliction  --  or is his breast pocket @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carter the real thing or only a mirror-image of one ? Can a President wake up in the morning , work on the wrong side of his head with comb and brush and still eyeball it with Brezhnev , who obviously parts his hair on the left ? Just asxine . ALLAN H. KALMUS New York , May 5 , 1976 As the Garbage Piles Up To the Editor : If the sanitation workers refuse to perform their duty to pick up garbage at struck apartment buildings , New York City can save money and enforce the Taylor Act at the same time by deducting two days ' pay for each day of failure to work at the assigned job . Editorials May 8 and today . FRED N. FISHMAN New York , May 6 , 1976 The Imperiled Catskill Rivers To the Editor : Your April 17 editorial " Two for the Environment " properly commended two important triumphs for this nation 's environment . I would like to direct your attention to a major environmental loss threatening your own backyard : the Catskill Mountains  --  an environmental loss caused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York City Water Supply system 's Delaware watershed reservoirs and the gradual drying-up of the rivers downstream . This involves 180 miles of majestic , cold , mountain rivers . It is happening because the city has continually refused to alter its release patterns and management policies to ameliorate the summer low-flow and high-water temperature conditions on these rivers . Efforts to obtain cooperation from city officials by various concerned individuals and groups  --  both private and governmental ? have met with rude and callous Indifference . This constitutes an immoral aot of hostility on the part of the city toward the rest of the state and in particular to the Catskills . It Is not a question of having water In the rivers at the expense of the city 's water supply . Volumes of studies by respected private and governmental commissions have indicated that New York City can safely take its court-decreed allotment and still release adequate water downstream to insure a river environment that is ecologically sound . The rivers in question constitute the major part of the Catskills ' worldrenowned trout fishery . They are a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be allowed to die . A city which is now looking for outside state and Federal financial aid because of Its fiscal mismanagement must also recognize its moral responsibility to those areas which have suffered as a result of its parasitism and environmental mismanagement . One hundred eighty miles of clean , cold , free-flowing mountain streams surrounded by this nation 's major population belt is too great a resource to be destroyed by continued bureaucratic incompetence , ignorance and indifference . ALAN R. FRIED , M.D. Livingston Manor , N. Y. , May 6 , 1976 BRAD FIR* Geography Department Cape Cod Community College West Barnstable , Mass. , April 23 , 1978                     