@@730714

txt A 43 PER CENT increase in reports of child abuse in Cook County in the last eight months has prompted the state to set up a new round the clock program aimed at combating the " battered baby epidemic . " Dr. Jerome G. Miller , director of the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services , announced that a telephone " hot line " for reporting child abuse cases went into operation yesterday and by Monday , crisis teams will be available 24 hours a day to . investigate police and hospital reports of maltreated youngsters . In a press conference at the newly established Child Abuse Central , 1026 S. Damen Av. , Mille : . said that since July 1 , " an almost epidemic " of 399 child abuses eases were reported here ? an increase of 121 over the same period be ' ginning July 1 , 1971. u . A TOTAL OF 734 cases were reported statewide , compared with 508 the previous year , he added . In addition , 30 children have died in Illinois since ? July 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the rise in reports to the publicity surrounding the death last August of Johnny Lindqtlist , 7 , after be allegedly was beaten by his father . Johnny reportedly had been beaten once before and was in a foster home until the Department of Children and Family Services returned him to his parents . " We do n't pretend this program will stop child abuse , " Miller said . " But we want to coordinate information between all agencies  --  many of these cases are the second or third time around and are known to police or hospitals  --  so that we can prevent those that are preventable . " UNDER THE NEW program , once a case is reported on the hot line , 341-8592 , a specially trained team will immediately be dispatched to the hospital , doctor 's office , or home to investigate the incident and pro . vide protection for the child . However , Miller said that while some children will b e placed In foster homes , h e stressed that the emphasis of the program is " not to break @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A total of 17 persons will make up the crisis teams . In addition , 28 other department personnel will work with police and the state 's attorney 's office in gathering information in the event of a custody hearing . EVENTUALLY , THE program will be expanded so that parents who realize they are about to abuse their children may call the hot line and receive immediate aid . Thomas Young , head of the new program , said the department is seeking persons to donate 10 hours a week to work with abused children and their families . Volunteers may call 341-8400.                     