@@734029

txt The curtain has gone up on Act II , Scene 2 , of the Iranian revolution . It has the two current principals , Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and Prime Minister Shah-pour Bakhtiar , locked in temporary stalemate ? but for the first time at close quarters on home territory inside Iran . As the scene opens , the ayatollah has an advantage . But he still has not achieVed what he probably had hoped to achieve by . this stage : ousting Mr. Bakhtiar from office . Mercifully , this point in the drama has been reached still without the worst happening : For all the explosiveness of the situation , Iran has not yet been plunged into civil war . ( Act I in the drama , long drawn out , was the easing of Shah Muhammad Reza Pahlavi out of the country without major upheaval . Act II , Scene 1 , saw Mr. Bakhtiar first trying to delay the return of the ayatollah to Iran , then ac*Please turn to Page 16 Fiqm.:00.e 1 Jockeying for power in Iran quiescing in his homecoming . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ) Since he has been back in Tehran , Ayatollah Khomeini has talked tough . But he said at a news conference Feb. 3 : " We shall try to the best of our ability to secure tranquillity and peace in this country and offer all advice necessary for a peaceful solution . " Outwardly the gulf between the ayatollah and Mr. Bakhtiar is as deep as ever . The religious leader wants to sweep away instantly all vestiges of the Shah 's regime and install an Islamic republic . In this view , the Prime Minister counts as a vestige of the Shah 's regime . Mr. - Bakhtiar is willing to accept change , including that from a monarchy to a republic . But he insists that it be effected in an orderly fashion . He believes that a stampede could simply result in one kind of dictatorship being replaced by another . Yet it has been confirmed that the two camps are in touch through a third party in the person of Mehdi Barzagan . He is a longtime opponent of the Shah , who often jailed him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but he was released after 4 . Although a member of the nonreligious opposition , Mr. Barzagan , a former dean of the faculty of technology at the University of Tehran , has always maintained closer links with the religious opposition than have other secular foes of the Shah , such as Mr. Bakhtiar . Perhaps as a sweetener , the Tehran military governor has announced that the three-day period of grace for peaceful gatherings and marches which ended Feb. 3 was being extended , despite still operative martial law . It may also be significant that Ayatollah Khomeini has still not announced the establishment or membership of his proposed revolutionary council or revolutionary government . That step could precipitate armed confrontation , with , in effect , two rival governments in Iran each vying for authority and the loyalty of the armed forces . At the moment , the armed forces ? or at least the military command ? are with Mr. Bakhtiar . On the eve of the ayatollah 's homecoming , the military put on an impressive display of strength by simply moving troops and equipment in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was intended as a reminder that they were still to be reckoned with before they disappeared from the streets 24 hours later to avoid any provocation on the day of the ' ayatollah 's triumphant return . Countering the military in the Bakhtiar camp , the ayatollah has in his the great mass of the people . To one who saw both ? the Military parade one day and the human outpouring for the ayatollah the next ? the popular show of strength was the more impressive . It was like the Mississippi in full flood , but a great surge of people , not of water . Ayatollah Khomeini is clearly hard at work trying to add to the advantage that proven popular support gives him by now actively wooing the military . He said at his news conference Feb. 3 that he had already had contact with the armed forces , but did not specify at what level . " We want the Army to join us as soon as possible , " he said . " We want the Army to be independent and to be freed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like them . They should come into the embrace of the nation . The nation and the armed forces derive from each other . " On the day of his hotnecoming , the ayatollah had been specific in naming the United States as the source of the foreign domination of the armed forces . Addressing the Army command , he said : " Do n't you want to be independent ? Do you want to be a mere lackey ? . . . You should voice support for your own independence . ... We want the country to have its own armed forces ? not a military organization run and commanded by foreigners . " There have been defections at the technician level in the Air Force to the ayatollah 's side . Some of the defectors have been brought to Tehran under military arrest . The ayatollah warned in his Feb. 1 speech that such men would " be protected in utmost dignity . " Meanwhile , if there is any tacit agreement between the Khomeini and Bakhtiar camps to stop short of irrevocable moves that could precipitate civil war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? is not a party to it . It has its headquarters in East Ber , - lin , and over the weekend it put out a statement in Europe saying leaders of " the democratic movement " ? in Iran " must not lose a single moment . . . and must summon the people to prepare and organize armed struggle . " The local Marxist underground guerrilla organization here , the Fedayeen e-Khalq , has also put out a statement calling for continuation of the revolution and for no abandoning of the struggle " until imperialism has been completely destroyed and full sovereignty of the masses has been established . "                     