@@734197

txt How can the United States help poor nations lift the living standards of their peoples and at the same time protect American jobs ? A fresh spotlight is thrown on this problem as rich and poor nations meet in Manila for the next round of the drawn-out dialogue between North and South . The US , White House trade officials stress , sells more manufactured goods to developing nations than to Japan , Western Europe , and communist countries combined . But the US limits the import of textiles , footwear , sugar , and some other products that earn money for developing nations in Asia , Africa , and Latin America . Such protectionism , says Robert S. McNamara , president of the World Bank , hurts developing countries in two ways : ? " By reducing their opportunity to earn foreign exchange , by increasing their unemployment , and by diminishing the rate of growth of their income . " * Indirectly , the World Bank chief told the Manila conference , protectionism discourages poor nations from adopting investment and trade policies that would broaden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens . Roughly 40 percent of all US exports of manufactures go to the nations of the third world , ranging from advanced developing countries like Taiwan , Mexico , and South Korea to struggling nations at the bottom of the economic heap . // From page 1 . US trade posture pondered at Manila On the agricultural side , developing countries buy 50 percent of US wheat exports , 60 percent of American cotton sold abroad , and 70 percent of rice exports . Whatever makes poor nations more prosperous , in other words , tends to boost US exports . Whatever restricts their growth , limits American sales abroad . This argument , however , cuts little ice among American workers whose jobs are threatened by cheaper imports of competing goods from overseas . The US , for example , to protect its own textile industry , restricts imports of textiles from 18 nations and now is negotiating limits on such goods from China . The scope of the problem widens , as some developing countries , climbing up from the bottom , upgrade job skills of their workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sets , CB radios , industrial fasteners ( nuts , bolts , and screws ) , shoes , and clothespins are among manufactured items on which , one way or the other , the US restricts imports . " Protectionism is a major worry , " Taiwan Deputy Economics Minister Wei Yung-ning told this reporter recently in Taipei , his country 's capital , " because , with few natural resources , Taiwan must export to pay for imports . " We make a conscious decision , " said Mr. Wei , " to diversify our manufactures sufficiently to get around quotas . If color TVs are restricted , we switch to electronics of different kinds . " This , from the US point of view , is precisely part of the problem . A congressional study concludes that in years ahead American manufactures across the board may run into stiff import competition , as more developing nations become industrial powers themselves . Mr. Wei suggested joint ventures as a partial solution , with Taiwan ? utilizing its cheaper labor ? making less complex parts of machinery and importing " high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in fact , already is common between US companies and firms in a number of advanced developing nations , including Taiwan . Mr. McNamara , speaking in Manila Nay 9 , finds a " new protectionism " on the rise in industrial lands , stemming from the " slow and erratic growth of their economies and their consequent high levels of unemployment . " He concedes that a flood of manufactured exports from developing countries could throw additional people out of work in Europe and the US . The solution , as Mr. McNamara sees it , is for industrial nations not to prop up " declining industries , " but to make " structural adjustments " ? including retraining of workers ? that would " cure the fundamental malaise . " The Manila meeting , latest in a long series of get-togethers among rich and poor nations , is held under the auspices of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development .                     