@@731613

txt When John McCarthy Jr . talks of trash and garbage ( 1,500 tons a day in this area ) he speaks in terms of the raw materials it will save ? glass , metals , and especially oil and coal . There is enough energy in the solid waste from homes , busin2sses , and industries in the U.S. " to light every home and office building in the country , " according to an Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) spokesman . Now , with the help of Mr. McCarthy , this industrial city and six surrounding towns are taking up garbage recycling ? a practice that is gathering momentum across the country . By 1980 at least 29 such plants should be operating , according to the EPA . This is a conservative estimate , for it includes only those communities that have made definite commitment ; many more are actively considering recycling their trash . Mr. McCarthy , president of the Interlocal Solid Waste Advisory Board , set up to develop Bridgeport 's recycling operation , says Connecticut is considering 10 more plants like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be built in Massachusetts , too . Dream comes true By 1985 when all 11 of Connecticut 's plants should be operating , says Mr. McCarthy , the state will recover each year enough steel to build 200,000 automobiles , enough glass to make 450 million bottles , enough aluminum for 23,000 tons of products , and enough fuel to generate 10 percent of the state 's total energy needs . Yet just three years ago , when this newspaper published a series on recycling , its widespread use seemed a distant dream . Some effective pilot plants were in operation , but economics weighed heavily against wide-scale use . Now the high cost of energy and of land for dumps plus growing raw materials shortages have changed the cost picture . With money now to be made from recycling , private industry has taken up the development of technology the EPA initiated . For instance , 40 companies bid on the construction of the Bridgeport operation , which will handle everything from junked refrigerators to stale bread rolls . Materials separated In most such recycling operations giant hammer mills first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a column of air lifts the lighter materials while the heavier pieces fall ) , magnetic attraction , and water flotation then separate waste into such components as glass , metals , and combustibles . Turning trash into fuel currently is in the recycling spotlight . Energy markets are the easiest to penetrate , and the bulk of the waste stream ? paper , plastics , wood , and yard waste , etc. ? is combustible . So Bridgeport plans to sell its waste ( minus glass and metals ) to Northeast Utilities for use as shredded fuel . East Bridgewater , Mass. , already provides such fuel . And St. Louis , where the EPA began it all with a pilot plant in 1972 , sells some 520 tons a day of this supplemental fuel , made from 650 tons of waste , to the Union Electric Company 's Meramec coal-burning plant . The trash fuel contains less sulphur and makes less ash while yielding as much heat per ton as low-sulphur western coal . Eastern coal burns somewhat hotter but emits too much sulphur to meet most clean air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ processed still further by treatment under extreme heat ( pyrolosis ) to produce a light oil which then fires oil burners . A similar pyrolosis process in Baltimore converts waste into gas which in turn , raises steam for heating and cooling the downtown Baltimore area . There are other options , too . Some communities are considering turning organic ( and therefore combustible ) waste into fertilizer . And in the more distant future , there is the possibility that microbes could convert it into supplemental feeds for livestock .                     