@@732112

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 40 Letters to the Editor Science : The Waning U.S. Leadership To the Editor : A news article by Walter Sullivan in the Aug. 27 Times relates the establishment of a large new Far East Science Center at Vladivostok , with a substantial number of institutes . These are devoted to both basic and applied research in such areas as volcanology , marine biology and environmental studies . The article further points out that this is but one of several such centers and that it is planned to continue the development of science centers and institutes throughout the Soviet Union . There can be no doubt that these centers will offer much to mankind in the coming years . We in the United States have not tended to emphasize science centers to the same extent as the Soviet Union . Rather , we have taken the view that scientific research and teaching are closely related and flourish in each other 's company . For this reason , much of the United States ' scientific effort has been developed in a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognition for their achievements . The quality and quantity of American research up until now seem to support the notion that teaching and research do exceedingly well in partnership . Unfortunately , in recent years the need for science , both pure and applied , and the capacity for science to tackle and solve problems of mankind , have come under suspicion in this country . This has expressed itself in such extensive budget-cutting at Federal and state levels that an impartial observer might conclude we no longer have a considered scientific policy . Indeed , our scientific enterprise , which has taken so much effort and The Case for a Freeze Of Emission Standards To the Editor : Adopting the tighter emission standards which the Clean Air Act of 1970 currently mandates for 1978 would improve air quality only slightly , if at all , and therefore can hardly be justified on the basis of human health . Quite to the contrary , the introduction of the catalytic converter to control ' pollution is recognized to have produced new and serious health hazards in the form of sulfates and sulfuric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject ignores ) . A proper cost-benefit analysis shows that the tighter standards are not worthwhile . Adopting these standards would only waste some $10 billion annually and preclude gasoline savings of from one-half to one million barrels per day ( about 50 per cent of our oil imports from insecure sources ) . The White House proposal for freezing the current ( 1975 ) standards for five years therefore makes eminent sense . It would save money and gasoline , without damaging human health . It would allow time to - take care of other major sources of air pollution , including also old cars , the socalled " stinkers " which dominate air quality and wo n't disappear overnight . It would also allow enough time to develop nonpolluting engines . S. FRED SINGER Prof. of Environmental Sciences University of Virginia Charlottesville , Va. , Aug. 22 , 1975 To the Editor : I think your recent editorial entitled " Tocks Island Victory " Aug. 3 should have been entitled " Tocks Island Defeat " ? defeat for the millions of Americans who reside in the Delaware River Basin and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Delaware must meet the water demands of perhaps the country 's heaviest concentration of population and industry . It simply can not continue to meet those ever-growing demands without proper development and management . It 's been estimated that New York City alone , during a drought similar to the one in the 1960 's , would have a deficit of 250 million gallons a day . The water deficiencies of the Delaware River Basin notwithstanding , we recognize the need to retain as much as possible of the river in its neutral state . For this reason we propose that a 75-mile stretch of the Delaware in upstate New York be incorporated into the National and Wild Scenic River System . This balanced approach would complement the lake and park atmosphere of the Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area . " Controversy " over the dam has not " raged for thirteen years , " as you stated . Until three years ago , the project had the unanimous support of the Governors of the four states involved , their Congressional delegations and the Interior Secretaries . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made so many valuable contributions , is being reduced to such a degree that recovery will be long , hard and expensive . Happily , science is international in its scope and effects , and the losses this country may sustain from the damage to its scientific world , especially its universities , may well be made up by the Soviet Union and other countries which are delighted to assume a leadership the United States is throwing in the discard . Nonetheless , just as the Soviet Union discovered that agricultural recovery from the absurd theories of Lysenko is an uphill struggle , so may we find that our recovery from our light-minded treatment of science will be extremely difficult . JOSEPH LANDIN Columbus , Ohio , Aug. 30 , 1975 Ozone-Layer Chemistry To the Editor : In an Aug. 28 Op-Ed article , Russel A. Bantham mentions in " Look Up and Live . ( The Ozone Is Still There. ) " that " fluorocarbons contain chlorine .. . " and makes other incorrect references to fluorocarbons . Halocarbons , a collective term referring to all carbonfluorine- , carbon-chlorine- , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compounds composed specifically of fluorine , carbon and hydrogen . The ozone layer question deals with ? halocarbons , in general , since chloride containing chloroform and methyl chloride are released into the atmosphere via natural sources and fluorocarbons are emitted from aerosols and coolants . STEPHAN A. ZAGER , GARY P. ZIENTARA Ithaca , N. Y. , Aug. 28 , 1975 ? To Help the City To the Editor : Suggestion for helping N.Y.C. : Outof-staters get no welfare or educational benefits from New York State . Therefore , subtract the percentage of their taxes this represents ( if they work in New York City ) and give it to the city . This will not only help the city but prevent the flight of revenueproducing business from the city . ANDREW T. WOLFSON Westport , Conn. , Aug. 31 , 1975 chosen , throughout the so-called " controversy , " to stress only the emotional side of that " controversy . " The supposed eutrophication problem is an example . Many Pennsylvania lakes are used for recreation and have a greater inflow of pollutants than that projected for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the users . Elsewhere you stated that the congressionally sponsored study indicated alternate ways to augment drinkingwater supply . However , you failed to mention that the consultant 's responsibility , with respect to the alternatives , was limited to the definition of technically feasible alternatives . You also neglected to mention that the study clearly proved that the Tocks Island Lake Project , weighed against any alternative , was still the best program to solve major portions of the basin 's water-supply , flood-control , power and recreational deficiencies . The alternatives may be technically feasible , but our analysis indicates they are not acceptable or viable . We believe that any attempt to implement them will precipitate severe resistance in the areas affected because of the environmental , social and economic impacts they will engender . I only hope a flood of the magnitude of Agnes or a drought like the one we experienced in the mid-60 's never occurs in the Delaware River Region in the future . MILToN J. SHAPP Governor of Pennsylvania Harrisburg , Pa. , Aug. 22 , 1975 How to Raise $1 Billion : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M.A.C . people have overlooked a rather obvious source of $1 billion or so to reduce the New York City debt . If the O.T.B. Corporation had been divided into twenty million shares , those shares would have shown the following earnings , based on figures quoted by the O.T.B. public relations department : 85 cents , $2.15 , $3.15 , $3.75 ( annualized , last four years ) . If New York City were to offer to sell shares in a corporation demonstrating such dramatic earnings growth . and coupled that offer with active consideration of broadening the scope of O.T.S. into sports betting , such shares could easily be priced at twenty times earnings , or $75 per share . Twenty million time $75 equals 51.5 billion . Since New York State shares in O.T.B. revenues to an extent of 20 per cent , the state would be entitled to retain 400,000 shares in the corporation , so it would suffer no loss of revenue , or it , too , could utilize the dollars it would receive to pay off some state indebtedness . The State Legislature should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York City indebtedness by more than a billion dollars without hurting the state . The $75 million in revenue that it would lose by the sale of this major asset would be compensated for by a much larger saving 9n the servicing of the debt . CALVIN PROBST Yonkers , Aug. 29 , 1975 ? On Imprisoning Youths To the Editor : Governor Carey , in vetoing the bill affecting juvenile release procedures , stated ( according to The Times ) : " In the absence of any showing that prolonged stays in juvenile facilities contribute to rehabilitation , I see no particular merit in this proposal . " B. M. Beck letter Sept. 2 supports Governor Carey 's action for the same reason , plus a preference for a superior bill . I readily concede Messrs . Carey and Beck 's point on the unreliability of prison rehabilitation , and I feel compassion for the disturbed youths whose liberties we are discussing . Yet I believe that habitual offenders , regardless of age , should be guaranteed a lengthy confinement . The chief advantage of this practice would be to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to deter some of those who are unperturbed by our present " revolving door " practices . J. Q. Wilson makes these points well in a recent book Times review Aug. 16 . Examples abound of the ineffectiveness of our present approach . For example , quoting from The Times of Aug. 21 : " . . . the dead boy age 14 , shot by police had a record of nine previous juvenile arrests . Alphonse Garvin older brother has a record of five juvenile delinquency arrests , and since turning 16 has been arrested on numerous- charges , including burglary , robbery and rape . . . . " A lengthy ? confinement for the Garvins early in their arrest cycle might have accomplished lade or no rehabilitation  --  perhaps it would have served only to protect them from themselves during part of their violent adolescent years . But it seems likely that a policy of lengthy confinement of such multiple offenders would dramatically decrease the city 's street crime . If Messrs . Carey and Beck agree , then I think they need to weigh the prospective benefits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experienced by habitual criminals . R. F. LOVE New York , Sept. 3 , 1975 ? Commuter Needs To the Editor : The commuter fare increases should bring to the forefront serious discussion on two matters . The first , tied to energy conservation , is that users of mass transportation he given some form of tax break . This would encourage use of these facilities and cushion the sizable costs imposed on the commuter . It is recognized we need more , not fewer , mass-transit users . This is one way to try and get them , or at least keep them . Second , the rider requires some form of consumer review to audit the operations of the commuter lines . A hearing held to discuss a fare increase to cover deficits can rarely lead to other than one copclusion . Needed , however , is knowledge and assurance that appropriate financial and operational controls are being exercised , with the fare increases not being required to cover management inadequacies . EUGENE P. FRIEDMAN Rockville Centre , L. I. , Aug. 26 , 1975 ? The Advent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " top scientists " can find time to issue statements regarding astrology news story Sept. 3 when their own house is in a state of scandalous disrepair . Napalm , nuclear weapons and ecologically suicidal insecticides were invented not by astrologers but by the dogmatic " Doctor Frankensteins " of the Western scientific mentality , which ignores all that it can not measure and weigh . Let these would-be wise men be cautioned that the " steady growth of interest in astrology , occultism and other nonrational topics " is but the plainly visible reaction of the population to the growing . influence of the coming Age of Aquarius and its planetary ruler , Uranus , the patron of astrology . MILTON D. JORDAN Fort Lee , N. J. , Sept. 3 , 1975 Tocks Island Lake Project : The Defeat                     