@@732722

txt Secretary of State Henry Kissinger emerged from seven hours of talks with Rhodesian Premier Ian Smith on Sunday and announced that Smith reacted " favorably " to a United States-British plan to bring black majority rule to Rhodesia within two rang ? Kissinger embarks on a visit to black African leaders Monday to ask for clarification on some points and to'report on his talks with Smith . - ' The full day of talks with Smith indicated progress toward a settlement of Rhodesia 's racial problems . But it was far too early to tell if they amounted to a breakthrough . SMITH HAS AGREED to conditions like this before , only to renege or be rebuffed by , his own ' party , The Rhodesian Front . And black African leaders must find Rhodesian concessions acceptable. , Lawrence . Eiglebiner , State Department spokesman , said Smith has made " considerable " concessions . What Sunday 's encounter did accomplish , without doubt , was to establish a direct ' channel between Kissinger and Smith , eliminating Premier John Vorster of South Africa as a middleman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Smith. , The U.S. has had no diplomatic ties , with Rhodesia since its unilateral declaration Of independence from Britain on Not , . 11 , 1965 . THE TWO MEN first met Sunday morning at the American ambassador 's residetfee on a ' hillside overlooking the city . Kissinger arrived 15 minutes before . Smith and went in without speaking . Smith 's entrance was wordless as well. ? They talked for four hours , far longer than had been predicted by the American press spokesman . Smith came out , posed for photographers , and went off to his hotel with several-of his ministers . Than Kissinger came ' out and said he had presented Smith with the Joint ** plan for Rhodesia . Asked to characterize the talks , Kissinger said , " At this stage I would have to consider it clarification . " THE RHODESIANS mulled over the propoial for three hours at their hotel , then drove to meet Kissinger at Vorster 's Official residence , " Libertas . " They met there for an additional three hours , and then Smith and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emerged a second time and made a statement to newsmen . " I am satisfied that Mr , Smith and his three close collaborators will report favorably to their other colleagues , " Kissinger said . He said they will present a plan to a Rhodesian Front Party caucus sometime this week . Asked if he is hopeful of a breakthrough , Kissinger replied , - " Obviously if progress had not been made , there would be nothing to report to the Rhodesian Cabinet . " AT NO TIME WERE Kissinger and Smith photographed together , a deliberate arrangement of Kissinger 's , sources said .. Such a picture could harm Kissinger with black Africans , who suspect that the U. S. will form an anti.Communist alliance with the whites of southern Afeino Kissinger flies to Lusaka , Zambia , Monday morning for meetings with President Kenneth Kaunda . On Tuesday , he will hold more talks with Tanzanian President Julius Nyerere in DEr Es Salaam . Those two are the key leaders Kissinger has counted on to reflect black African . sentiments . They are in touch with other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and with black political groups . BOTH KAUNDA AND Nyercre have said they thought a meeting between Kissinger and Smith would bo double-edged , granting an air of legitimacy to Smith 's rebel regime whlle at the same time soliciting his views and reactions . The announcement of the Kissinger-Smith meeting came early Sunday after a suspenseful several days as Smith publicly appealed for the meeting and Kissinger softened the conditions under Which he would agree to It .                     