@@732323

txt THE WORST ACCIDENT in the six-year history of the Kennedy Expressway rapid transit line injured 379 passengers Friday mornir.g and tied up motor traffir on the exnreSsWaV for hours . A freak combination ot faliure ot a safety system and the glare of sun and ice in a motorman 's eyes appeared to have caused the accident . The most seriously injured victims were riders in the sixth and last car of a standing " A " train at the Addison Street station of the CTA 's Milwaukee line and in the first car of a four-car " B " train that rammed it . POLICE AND firemen had extricated all the injured from the two trains within 45 minutes of the 8:07 a. m. collision , but traffic was impeded by rescue equipment and clean-up operations and by motorists who stopped to view the scene . Full operations on the inbound Milwaukee service resumed about 9:45 p. m. after the damaged cars were moved to the Jefferson Park terminal , according to a CTA spokesman . Squad cars were stationed at entrance ramps to the Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crash to reroute motorists . At one time , traffic on the expressway was backed up as far as Cumberland Road . Motorists on the Edens Expressway encountered similar backups and delays . MINUTES AFTER receiving the alarm at 8:08 a.m. , the fire department had 10 ambulances , a helicopter , two " flying squad " units with cutting tools , jacks , and torches , and two snorkels at work rescuing trapped passengers . The injured were taken to nine area hospitals . Brad Pedersen , 25 , of 4600 N. Pueblo Av. , a passenger in the last car of the " A " train that had made a regular stop at the station , said , " I looked up and I could see the train closing in on us . I knew that this was it . " The CTA announced that 379 persons were treated at hospitals for injuries and another 100 telephoned the CTA to report they would go to their own physicians or to hospitals later for examination or treatment . HUBERT II . JEWELL Jr. , railroad safety specialist with the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motorman of the " B " train , had been authorized by his supervisor at the Jefferson Park terminal to bypass the cab-signal safety system and operate the train manually . Ross told Jewell , who heads the combined investigation being made by the National Transportation Safety fiiiard and the Federal Railroad Administration , that at the Jefferson Park terminal his cab signal system emitted a steady beeping that indicated it was not working properly , and he requested that it be shut off . He followed the guidelines the CIA has to allow him to operate this train in bypass manually I , " Jewell said . " This ir ; not a desirable situation . They do it only under adverse conditions . They were running behind schedule and needed the equipment in service . " THE MOTORMAN , who escaped serious injury although his cab was described as " totally destroyed , " told Jewell and other investigators that as he approached the Addison Street station over a hill , he was blinded by the sun and glare from snow . He said he was about 303 feet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which had made a scheduled stop at an " A " station , and that he immediately applied the emergency brake . An examination of the tracks showed that all three braking systems  --  magnet , disk , and dynamic  --  were on emergency stop when the crash occurred . Ross was automatically suspended immediately after the accident pending the outcome of an investigation , CIA spokesman Tom Buck said . CIA regulations require a train to maintain a speed of 30 to 35 miles an hour while going thru a station . Ross said he was operating his " B " train , for which Addison Street was not a stop , atthat speed when he first sighted the other train stopped at the station . Blood and urine samples taken from Ross after the accident were tested and found to be free of alcohol and drugs , according to Dr. Stephen D. Mosny , manager of the CTA 's medical department . THE FEDERAL investigation is only one of several inquiries into the accident . The police department is conduct ? ing one . The CTA not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? nounced that three safety experts would Investigate at its request . William J. Ronan , hemd of the New York Port Authority and former transit chief in New York City , will head the panel . He selected the others : Richard Buck , board member of the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority in Boston , and H. Howard Patterson. retired executive of the Toronto Transp : cation Authority . Ronan is expected here Saturday morning to begin the inquiry . The CTA said it would make all its records available to all the investigators and also the records of all employes involved in the accident . TI1E KENNEDY Expressway rapid transit line has been beset by train accidents since it was put into service Feb. 1 , 1970 . Five hours after service was started . 4 ? persons were hurt in a train collision at the Belmont-Kimball station . Last year , two collisions on the line injured 12 persons .                     