@@729786

txt Premier Fidel Castro of Cuba arrived in Chile today on his first trip to Latin America in 11 years and received an enthusiastic welcome in the j ' streets of this capital . Mr. Castro stepped off the white Soviet jet airliner that had , brought him here nonstop from Havana and embraced ' his old friend and political admirer , President Salvador Allende Gossens of Chile . The Cuban leader was received with military honors and the 21-gun salute reserved for chiefs of state . Mr. Castro and Dr. Allende then rode for two hours in an open car through shantytown areas and central streets to the Cuban Embassy . Red Flags Along Route Where neighborhood cells of the Socialist and Communist parties had organized the crowd , there were red flags with hammer and sickle and posters saying , " Fidel Castro , Chile welcomes you . " The limousine was heavily guarded by motorcycle police and by plainclothes men . Mr. Castro waved constantly to the cheering crowds and a few persons were able to touch his olive-drab uniform . But the guards were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Chile is the second country after Cuba that is free of Yankee imperialism , " shouted one man from under a Communist party banner as foreign newsmen passed . " Oh , what a lovely , lovely reception , " said an elderly grayhaired woman , " Fidel must be very moved . " The most enthusiastic reception was at the " Che Guevara Encampment , " a shantytown organized by the Socialist party . The crowd poured through the restraining ropes and men held small children on their shoulders to see Mr. Castro . The crowd at the La Vega central market was also in good humor . An organizer shouted " Vivas " for Mr. Castro , for Dr. Allende , for the Communist party of Chile and for the Communist party of Cuba . Then someone in the crowd shouted " Viva Colocolo , " referring to the most popular soccer team in Chile . The thunder- ' ous reply of " Viva " from the crowd was mixed with laughter . At an improvised press conference at the Cuban Embassy , Mr. Castro spoke more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too many questions because he had a cold . Asked if his trip here signified that the isolation of Cuba in the hemisphere had been broken , he replied , " The isolation began to be broken when Comrade Allende was elected by the people last September . " Mr. Castro said that Cuba 's foreign policy had not changed as a result of his visit but that " exterior conditions are changing for Cuba . " Dr. Allende restored diplomatic relations with Cuba 10 days after taking office last November and a flourishing commercial and cultural exchange has developed between Havana and Santiago . All countries that maintain diplomatic relations with Cuba were represented by their ambassadors at the airport . Nathaniel Davis , the United States Ambassador , and the diplomatic representative of other countries that do not have relations with Cuba were not present . During his stay here of at least 10 days , Mr. Castro will tour the length of this narrow country , visiting recently nationalized copper mines , meeting with workers at the industrial center of ConcepciOn , talking with student assemblies , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Castro 's visit has been mixed in Chile , where conflict between the left-wing Popular Unity Government and the non-Marxist opposition has become increasingly sharp . In the Vitacura section , a residential neighborhood of expensive , high-walled and gardened homes , where Mr. Castro will be staying at the Cuban Embassy residence , slogans painted on the walls expressed the conflict . Near the embassy were signs that said " Welcome Fidel " and " Fidel , jackal of the Caribbean . " The Communist newspaper El Siglo and the Government newspaper La Nachin , in addition to editorials welcoming Mr. Castro , carried yard-long red fold-in posters of Mr. Castro to be hung from windows . Independent and opposition newspapers were less enthusiastic . Patrick , Alwyin , president of the Senate , which is controlled by the Opposition parties , refused to go to the airport to receive Mr. Castro .                     