@@730417

txt Noise , long tolerated around the world as an inevitable concomitant of accomplishment and progress , is reaching a historic peak of unpopularity . Belatedly recognized as the most ubiquitous and most annoying , if not the most deleterious , of all the pollutions , it is under new attack on many fronts . The current debate in New York City over a proposed new antinoise ordinance is symptomatic of the growing clamor against din  --  a movement now involving the United Nations , Federal , state and local governments , science , industry , the legal profession and citizens . Their common goal is to revitalize a public asset so fundamental that , ironically , it is cited in the first sentence of the Constitution : " . . . to insure domestic tranquility . . . "  --  a ref ; erence that courts have held covers noise . At stake in the effort are countless billions of dollars and possibly the mental and physical health of millions of people . Evidences of the mounting concern about noise include the following developments : COnly last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools near Los Angeles International Airport ran the chance of suffering permanent hearing damage and were threatened emotionally because of jet aircraft noise . ( The United Nations environ-I mental conference in June pinpointed noise as an important area for international study and control . ( Congress is now processing noise control legislation . ( The states have begun adopting comprehensive antinoise laws . ( Cities are abandoning ancient ineffectual " nuisance " laws on noise in favor of more enforceable scientific standards . ( Courts have been handing down an increasing number of rulings granting citizens physical or monetary relief from noise . ( The medical profession , long preoccupied with the specialized problem of noise within Industry , is giving more attention to the effects of noise on ordinary citizens . 41Industry is giving quietness new emphasis in the design of many kinds of machines . Start Being Made To date , no one has noted any marked increase in quietude across the nation . But many signs suggest that a start is being made on stemming the steady ominous increase in background noise in recent decades , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may not be far in the offing . At the same time , the conquest of noise gives indications of being the most intricate and difficult of all efforts against pollution . On the troublesome side are such considerations as the following : CA certain level of noise , probably in an objectionable degree , is inherent in present patterns of urban life  --  although these can be changed . 41Enforcement of antinoise laws is difficult because noise is intangible and so often fleeting . 41Amelioration of a major noise source , airplanes , is a legal mare 's nest that will be years in resolving . : ** persistent noise has irritated people to the point of murder , and there is evidence it can cause mental illness , noise 's long-term effects generally are inconspicuous and scientifically imprecise . 41Mobilizing public opinion against noise is difficult because people have become accustomed or even addicted to it ( subconsciously , for instance , equating the thud of car doors and the roar of vacuum cleaners with solidity and power ) . ? Measured in Decibels Noise is measured in decibels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from zero , the threshold of human hearing , to around 140 , in the area of loudness that causes pain and permanent ear damage . Each increase of 10 on the Scale represents a tenfold inCrease in sound intensity . ? Thus , while 30 decibels is approeimately the quietness of a library . 60 decibels repreSents a thousandfold increase in noise , and is about the point where it becomes objectionable . This is roughly the equivalent of big-city traffic noise Ninety decibels is the Federal limit for all-day exposure Of factory workers , and constant exposure to more than 90 decibels can cause permanent hearing impairment . The noise of jet planes is in the 90-to-120 decibel bracket . The volume of some rock coneerts has been measured at over 130 decibels , where even short-term exposure can cause ear damage . ? Measurements of environmental noise inevitably fluctuate from place to place and from moment to moment . therefore there is no ready yardstick of the " noise level " of a community . However , experts concur that the noise level in American cities has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Agency and other authoritative observers have estimated the increase at at least one decibel a year , equivalent to a tenfold increase in a decade . At this rate , they have said , by the year 2000 the general din would be deafening . Extent of Danger Debated ? How grave this danger s is a matter of debate among scientific observers . But most of the emerging evidence tends to eubstantiate concern about it . The Environmental Protection Agency 's latest figures are that about one out of 20 persons has some hearing impairment , and that in about 25 per cent of these cases , the impalement is " n oi se-associated . " " W F. , are becoming a nation of auditory cripples , " according to Dr. Moe Bergman of Hunter College in New York . " Environmental noise is one of the most serious public health problems , urgently requiring solutions and public controls . " Dr. Jack Westman , a University of Wisconsin Medical School psychiatrist , reported at a recent scientific meeting that housewives ' increasing complaints of headaches , stomach upsets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which brings to the surface submerged tensions and results in emotional outburst . " Study Made in England A recent two-year study of 124,000 persons in two communities in England disclosed a significantly higher rate of admissions to mental institutions from the group that lived near London 's Heathrcesr Airport , with recurrent exposure to 100 decibel noise . Dr. Lester Sontag of the Fels Research Institute at Yellow Springs , Ohio , reported in 1969 that his studies of unborn babies " justify our concern about the possibility of fetal damage from such violent sounds as sonic booms . " And Dr. William F. Geber , a pharmacologist at the Medical College of Georgia 25 times as many defective fetuses as animals kept in a quiet environment . Apart from bodily trauma , noise 's toll is extensive . The World Health Organization has reported that in the United States excessive noise cost : upward of $4-billion a year in compensation payments , accidents , inefficiency and absenteeism . Noise 's depreciation of real estate values also undoubtedly runs into the billions . School buildings in Los Angeles and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut down effective classroom time by as much as 30 per cent . In Mesa Verde , Colo. ; Bryce Canyon , Utah , and other national parks in the West , sonic booms have damaged ancient dwellings and caused landslides . The Air Force has had to pay out about $1-million in sonic-boom damage . The noise element was a big factor in the termination last year of the multibilliondollar supersonic transport development program . Two Types of Noise There are two kinds of environmental noise : the noise inherent in 20th-century machines , from kitchen blenders to airplanes ; and entirely untoward manmade racket , from the snorting hot rod to the wild neighborhood party . Four obvious avenues of noise abatement are available ( Making and enforcing laws against unnecessary manmade tumult . 4/Building quieter machines . 41Muffling noise , through better building construction , landscaping and use of soundabsorbers such as trees and shrubs . 41Through land use planning , segregating unavoidable community noise sources , such as industrial and commercial activity , heavy traffic and airports , from residential and recreational areas . Generalized laws against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greenwald , a Los Angeles legal expert on noise , has counted snore than 12,000 community noise codes in the United States . But until lately there has been little effective use of them . Enforcement Difficult Equipment that will scientifically measure sound and record it can now be obtained for about $1,000 . But catching of excessive-noise makers in the act , getting conclusive evidence and prosecuting them is a task most local law enforcement agencies have despaired of . The Los Angeles Police Department , when queried recently , could not produce statistical evidence of a single noise arrest last year despite a municipal antinoise ordinance . Public apathy has contributed to noise increase . A recent visitor to Stockholm , a city with heavy traffic , heard an automobile horn only three times in three weeks . Yet of all the cities in the United States , only Memphis has achieved a comparable reputation . Memphis . in 1938 simply banned unnecessary horn blowing and began issuing tickets for it . This reduced offenses to a current rate of only about 150 a year . This has won @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Memphis residents say that in other respects it is not notably quieter than other cities , Stress on Vehicle Noise Until recently the most explicit effort to abate din was the action of ? a number of states in limiting vehicle noise on highways to around 85 decibels . But here also enforcement has been sketchy . Federal officials say California has the most comprehensive vehicle noise law . Its state highway patrolmen handed out 18,000 tickets last year for noisy cars . But with only six two-man teams to cover 162,000 miles of highways , the level of enforcement is admittedly low . The first comprehensive state noise legislation was enacted by New Jersey last January . The law made excessive noise a state offense , with fines up to $3,000 , and directed the state 's Department of Environmental Protection to draw up antinoise regulations . The agency is now in the process of implementing that legislation . A 13-member citizen council provided for in the law to review regulations is just being appointed . " We 're trying to frame a model ordinance for communities , " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so the state wo n't be in the business of trying to deal with noisy neighborhood parties . " Airplanes we ca n't do anything about , because the Federal Government has pre-empted jurisdiction . But we 've got to formulate standards and enforcement methods for major noise areas like traffic and industry . A year from now we 'll be able to tell you whether we 're making any progress . " Illinois , Colorado , and some other states are in similar preliminary stages of noise regulation . Chicago Antinoise Program In July , 1971 , Chicago put into effect the most comprehensive program to curb noise of any American city . Its 3,000-word ordinance sets noise limits for a dozen categories of sources , from bulldozers to garden tools . The limits range from 94 decibels for heavy machinery down to 55 decibels as the maximum that may emanate from a residence . Progressive reductions bring the limits on vehicles and machinery down as low as 65 decibels by 1980 . The law carries a penalty of up to a $500 fine and a six-month jail term . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Enyironmental Control , under a novel technique designed to overcome the classic obstacle in noise law enforcement : the fact that police officers do not have the time or technical wherewithal to issue citations , while technical people generally do not have police power . In Chicago three-man teams comprising two noise inspectors and a police officer cruise the city . When violations are spotted , citations can be issued on the spot . Under this system , 1,649 cases were brought to court in the year ending last June . Of about 1,000 ? cases completed to date , convictions were obtained in 809 and compliance was obtained in most of the others . A $5,950 fine was imposed on the Grand Trunk Western Railroad for 40 violations at one of its loading docks . Since Chicago instituted its program , another group of cities has adopted or ' moved toward similar legislation . The group includes New York , Washington , Baltimore , Kansas City , Mo. , Dallas , St. Paul , Minneapolis and Grand Rapids , Mich . The proposed New York City ordinance , like Chicago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of noise source , including subway trains . It limits the blowing of auto horns to " emergency use " ar ' provides for the muting of horns starting in 1974 . A 76-decibel limit is set on car noise , as perceived at a distance of 25 feet , in the city , and this maximum is to be reduced to 70 decibels in 1978 . Enforcement of the ordinance is assigned to the Police Department , with criminal penalties ranging from a $50 fine ? to $2,000 , and 60-day jail terms . ? The proposed ordinance has been challenged by people in the construction industry as entailing undue increases in ' building costs . It is expected to come to a vote in the City Council around the end of September . Airplanes Cited as Source The most acute single source of noise is airplanes . About one out of every 10 persons in the country lives close enough to airports to ? be bothered by plane noise and-the number of airports and the amount of air traffic are expected to multiply in the years ahead . Abatement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and public Officials , as airport area residents , in a quandary . ' ' The Federal Aviation Administration has jurisdiction over all civilian air traffic and over many aspects , of airport design and operation . In 1968 Congress also gave the agency the authority to set noise limits on planes from a design standpoint . In November , 1968 , the F.A.A. promulgated limits of 102 to 108 decibels , as " perceived " from nearby points , for the new " generation " of jumbo passenger planes  --  the 747 's , DC-10 's and L-1011 's . I The older passenger jets produce from 110 to 120 decibels . Argument has been raging for two years about quieting aircraft engines , with the air transport industry saying " retrofitting " is impractical because it would cost a billion dollars . The F.A.A. is expected to issue some modification requirements within the next few months . Airplane Noise Continues Meanwhile , the F.A.A. 's design limits on plane noise do not necessarily match the amount of racket a plane may make flying over a community , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' noisemaking . This appeared to leave a jurisdictional gap in which communities could set noise limits for airplane operations . A number of communities have tried this . But the Federal courts have repeatedly invalidated such ordinances as an intrusion on a Federal regulatory area . A Burbank , Calif. , " curfew " banning jet traffic between 11 P.M. and 7 A.M. is before the United States Supreme Court and a contested Inglewood , Calif. , regulatory ordinance is headed there . ? The jurisdictional gap has left airport operators in the ' middle . California courts have awarded several million dollars in property devaluation damages to residents around the Los Angeles International Airport and the city of Los Angeles is faced with nearly $5-billion in additional suits . Hundreds of similar suits have been filed in other parts of the country . The jurisdictional bind was made particularly acute in May when a California court ruled in a case involving the city of Santa Monica that an airport was liable not only for property devaluation but also for compensation for personal annoyance . This ruling moved Los Angeles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to close down the Los Angeles airport , second busiest in the country , lest they incur astroInomical damage claims . The problem remains unresolved . ? Meanwhile , the state of California , which contends it can legally promulgate aviation regulations as long as they do not ' conflict with existing Federal lenactments , is preparing to put into effect in December flight restrictions aimed at reducing noise . The state fully expects its regulations will be challenged by the Federal Government and the airlines . The mounting concern about airplane noise convinced Congress it should do something about noise generally . In December , 1970 , it created an Office of Noise Abatement and Control in the Environmental Protection Agency , and directed it to study the problem . ? The agency turned in a massive report last January . The House of Representatives in February passed a noise control bill ( HR 11021 ) drafted by Representative Paul G. Rogers , Democrat of Florida . It directs the environmental agency to establish national noise emission limits for four kinds of machinery : transportation equipment , construction equipment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the agency to assess Icivil fines of up to $25,000 for Iviolation of these standards by manufacturers and distributors . In regard to airplanes the measure gives the environmental agency only an advisory role , leaving authority with the F.A.A. Tougher Bill in Senate The Senate has been considering a more stringent bill ( S 3342 ) sponsored by Senators Edmund S. Muskie of Maine and John V. Tunney of California , both Democrats . The chief difference in the Senate bill is that it would give the Environmental Protection Agency comprehensive jurisdiction over aircraft noise  --  even though the agency has demurred at accepting this responsibility on the ground it lacks technical expertise . The Senate has completed committee hearings and the next step will be to reconcile House and Senate versions of the ? legislation . ? Both bills give the states leeway to formulate their own noise control regulations as long as they do not conflict with Federal standards . The laws would also provide states with technical assistance from the Environmental Protection Agency in setting up organizations to administer noise-control regulations . ? . Efforts by Industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back , and doing something about it . The auto makers have been trying to make cars quieter . New York City last year com- ' pleted replacing its old fleet ofl 1,480 clanking refuse trucks1 with quieter hydraulic-compac- , tion trucks . Inspired by European progress , American manufacturers have been designing quieter air compressors , a major racketmaker on construction projects . Research is under way to tone down the noise of diesel trucks , whose snorting often reaches the noise level of jet planes . New York City is experimenting with such refinements as recorded siren noises for emergency vehicles , which can be focused at street level , rather than actual sirens , which project a needless barrage of sound in all directions . ? The " leisure time equipment " Industry , involving everything from snowmobiles to hedgeclippers , advanced last year through the National Industrial Pollution Control Council a noise-reduction program for Imachines . Under it , equipment noise now as high as 92 decibels at a distance of 50 feet would be reduced over the next decade to a maximum of 77 decibels . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lessen noise has ? been land use planning , because most of the nation 's communities are locked in , at least for the time being , to archaic layouts in which noise problems were not considered . Congress has before it several proposals for Federal-state lcollaboration in more rational land use , in which noise would be a factor . But the measures have been bogged down in debate , and there is no telling when , if ever , legislation will emerge . Meanwhile , the chief influence in this direction has been the Department of Housing and Urban Development , which can control many things through its construction financing . A year ago the agency set noise limits in construction specifications and in the location of buildings financed by H.U.D. As a result plans for a number of big projects have been altered . A planned residential development near the new DallasFort Worth airport in Texas was relocated . Noise-reduction features were superimposed on the design of a nursing home in New York City . H.U.D. is a party in the environmental-impact delay in construction of the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's most venerable antinoise campaigner , is Dr. Vern 0 . Knudsen , an internationally noted acoustics expert and chancellor emeritus of the University of California at Los Angeles . As far back as 1927 , in an era of relative silence , he said : " Americans today are paying in shortened tenure of life and reduced efficiency for the noise amid which they must work and live . " Dr. Knudsen is naturally pleased with the blossoming of public awareness of his favorite problem . But he does not think it 's any too soon or too fervent . " I always used to say , quoting Victor Gruen , that noise and smog are slow agents of death , " he said recently . " But in a few years we can change ' slow ' to ' sure ' if this continues . If everybody gives up , we 'll be like the dinosaur , "                     