@@728982

txt Angela Davis , 26 , the black revolu.tionist captured here and accused of flight to avoid murder and kidnap charges in California , was first held in $250,000 bail today , then released , by federal authorities , end , immediately rearrested by city police . The action was a prelude to legal moves to ' return her to California to face the murder and kidnap charges in connection with a courthouse breakout and gunfight In which four persons were killed . Miss DilViS , a Marxist scholar and a former assistant philosophy professor at the University of California at Los Angeles , has been accused of having bought the guns used in Ihn chnntriiil Ain ? 7 in thin Marin County Courthouse at San Rafael , Cal . Superior Court Judge Harold Haley , who was taken hostage , two convicts , and a youth who invaded the courtroom with the weapons all died in the shooting . Miss Davis bad been sought for nearly two months and had been on the Federal Bureau of Investigation 's 10 most wanted list . She and a male @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Quarter-Million Bail She was arraigned before a United States commissioner early in the day , the quartermillion-dollar bond was set , and she remained in the holding cells of the federal courthouse thru the afternoon . Then , shortly after 8 p. m. , bail was canceled and Miss Davis was formally discharged from federal custody . Detective Alfred C. Halikias of the New York police came ' MARTYR ' IN HANDCUFFS See the editorial page forward and announced : " Miss Davis . you 're under arrest . " On the authority of a phone call from the district attorney 's office , Miss Davis was booked at a police station in Chinatown , altho she was not present . Under tight security , she then was taken to Night Court for a private arraignment , a procedure ter m e d " exceptional " by a police spokesman , who added : " But then , again , she 's an exceptional lady . " Under Heavy Guard At least 50 plainclothesmen and , uniformed police guarded the courtroom while the arraignment was being conducted . Miss Davis seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calm detachment . No bail was set during the new arraignment and a court official said bail is never set for persons who are being held for extradition . Officials declined to disclose where Miss Davis was locked up after the proceedings were closed . Assistant U. S. Atty . John H. Doyle III hail moved for Miss Davis ' release , declaring that lie had received certified copies of a warrant from Mann County , Cal. , which he was turning over to city authorities , An extradition hearing will be held Friday in Criminal Court . Poindexter Hearing Separate David R. Poindexter Jr. , arrested by the FBI with Miss Davis , was arraigned separately on charges of harboring a fugitive and his bail set at $100,000 . His hearing was set for let . 20 . John Abt , longtime lawyer f o r American Communists , represented Miss Davis at her arraignment before Commissioner Earle N. Bishopp and charged that the bail was " outrageous and utterly fantastic . " Miss Davis , wearing a gray suede jacket over a navy blue dress , and with her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " yes " in an almost inaudible tone when asked if she were " Angela Yvonne Davis , also known as Tamu . " She was guarded on either side by a federal agent . About 50 newsmen and 15 supporters of the accused clustered about . Outside the courthouse , about 100 demonstrators marched shouting " Free Angela ! " and " Free Our F.-Atty . Doyle told the examiner ' that Miss Davis and Poindexter stayed in a Chicago apartment from Aug. 11 to Aug. 16 , then dropped from sight until spotted Sept. 28 in Fort Lauderdale , Fla . He said they then moved to New York where they took a $30-a-day motel room , registered as Mr. and Mrs. George Gilbert . Faces Capital Charge Doyle said the California accusation was a capit al charge  --  one calling for the death penalty  --  and added that there was " tangible and material evidence of her involvement in that offense . " Abt argued that Miss Davis was not accused of participating in the shootout ? " at most that the guns which supposedly she purchased were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the case of the so-called Soledad // Angela Davis in handcuffs after her capture . Brothers , three black convicts accused of murdering a Soledad Prison guard last Jan. 16 . A San Quentin Prison inmate was on trial in the assault of a guard there when the court break was attempted . He was among the slain . Trace 4 Guns to Iler Police traced all four guns used in the attempt to Miss Davis and said she had bought them over the last two years . Altho she was not seen near the court in San Rafael , she was charged under a California law making an accomplice equally guilty . The judge , seized as a hostage , two of the convicts , William A. Christmas and James D. McClain , and Jonathan Jackson , who brought the weapons into the courtroom , were killed while fleeing in a rented van .                     