@@729710

txt President Nixon 's decision to invoke the Taft-Hartley Act to halt the strikes that have shut down all Pacific Coast ports and nine Chicago grain elevators  --  while leaving unhalted the tie-up in Atlantic and Gulf ports ? represents at least a small step away from the elastic standards that have operated in the past to determine when an industrial dispute constitutes a national emergency . How big a part politics has played in such determinations was most graphically illustrated by President Truman 's actions in 1952 when the steel mills closed during the Korean war . Unwilling to use Taft-Hartley  --  passed over his veto five years before  --  Mr. Truman seized the mills on the ground that the wartime economy could not afford the loss of a single day 's steel production . When the Supreme Court held the seizure unconstitutional , the President let the strike go on nearly two months before calling union and company heads to the White House and demanding that they settle  --  or else . They settled . In the strikes that brought the first almost total paralysis in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three distinct situations . The West Coast tie-up , in its fourth month , is clearly impairing efforts to revive the ailing national economy . The five-week-old Chicago strike , though it involves only 250 workers , has throttled all grain movement through the St. Lawrence Seaway  --  to the vast distress of farmers . By contrast , the week-old Atlantic and Gulf stoppage , latest in an endless series of such shutdowns , was so expected that everyone rushed to beat the deadline , and little cargo is stalled . Despite the regularity with which Taft-Hartley injunctions were obtained in all past East Coast tie-ups , it is hard to argue that any semblance of an emergency yet exists here . For all that , political considerations were not absent from the Administration 's injunction strategy . If Mr. Nixon had not decided last Aug. 15 to switch from a hands-off to a hands-on policy in economic affairs , it is doubtful that he would have moved even now on any of the three fronts . Moreover , the political as well as the economic pressures differed in each dispute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could on the West Coast , in the face of insistent clamor from Governors and Congressmen , because it feared an injunction would tip the power balance inside the striking union in favor of ultramilitant foes of Harry Bridges  --  once an arch-demon to all conservatives but now an employer favorite . The farm lobby and all its supporters in the Agriculture Department and Congress agitated for intervention in the Chicago strike . On the East Coast , oddly , the union was eager for an injunction as a means of keeping alive ? under the law 's status quo provisions  --  wage guarantees which the employers here are eager to modify . The employers urged the President to stay out . On the waterfront , as in the railroads and other vital transportation industries , there is plainly a need for an overhaul of the machinery now available for dealing with national emergency strikes . The present checkerboard of injunctions should be all the spur Congress needs to come to life on the reforms the President proposed two years ago . Among the remedies that would then be available would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    