@@732356

txt Letters to the Editor EDWARD BELLERCHARLES S. KESSLERLAWRENCE I. GREENBERGPATRICIA ANN DIAZSHEILA B ... Letters to the Editor The U.F.T.-Education Board ' Alliance ' To the Editor : In 1968 the United Federation of Teachers crippled the city 's school system for three months over the transfer of nine teachers from one district to another . Now massive layoffs are about to begin , class sizes are almost uniformly in violation of contract agreement , supportive services to children are gutted , and in the schools there is the devastating sense that we who once tried gamely to cope with the very special problems of poor city kids have simply given up . The U.F.T. response has been an abortive five-day strike which saved enough money in salaries and fines to hire a few teachers ( who will probably be gone soon ) , some desultory noises about " hard times " and " the board is no longer in control of the situation , ' a hefty loan from the membership 's pension fund to the new controllers of the situation , and free directions to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1968 alliance between the Board of Education and the U.F.T. leadership against the children , the parents and the teachers has never been broken . I frankly suspect the motives of many community activist types , and some recent scandals have been no surprise . But the venality , incomNarrow Progress To the Editor : In defending his decision on Concorde , the Secretary of Transportation referred to the disappearance of the horse and buggy and the stagecoach and invoked the modern faith in technological progress . A person with a better grasp of history might have suggested a different sort of analogy : the disappearance of an efficient system of mass transportation that once connected intercity and suburban areas by means of electric streetcars and linked towns and villages by means of railroads that carried passengers as well as freight . For the automobile and oil industries it was " progress " ? but for , the public at large and the larger public good ? CHARLES S. KESSLER New PaItz , N.Y. , Feb. 5 , 1976 Monstrosities ' in the Square To the Editor : The authorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Natural History to erect various geological specimens in Theodore Roosevelt Park ( late Manhattan Square ) . These stones are quite out of keeping with the Victorian style of the rather small square and with the museum 's own very formal-looking buildings . To make matters worse , these erections have attracted the imbecilic efforts of the writers of graffiti . These valuable and interesting specimens should be removed at once to the interior of the museum , where they can better be guarded against vandals and where they will no longer deface the square they have never ornamented . If anyone wishes to beautify this neglected but important square , let To the Editor : Naomi Feigelson Chase 's worthwhile objectives do not justify using as rationale a confused and distorted analysis of child abuse . Beginning with a report of " an alarming increase " in child-abuse cases and predictions of a continued rite , she comments in a recent Op-Ed article that there is no evidence to indicate whether the increase is a result of stricter reporting laws , greater public and professional awareness or other factors . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase is real or only a matter of a larger number of reports . Similarly , her comments on child abuse in Britain , France and West Germany and Its apparent absence in Sweden and China reflect the loose thinking and misconceptions often attendant on discussions of this problem . First , there are no firm figures on the incidence of child abuse anywhere and there is no single definition that is accepted and applied uniformly in the fifty states , let alone crossnationally . Are we speaking of both child anus ? and child neglect or only the former ? Are we concerned with individual , parental or societal abuse ( or all ) ? With the physical , sexual or emotional abuse ( or all ) ? In some countries , child abuse is not identified as a major problem , not because it does not exist but because the petence and vast indifference of the board enrich the folklore of the trade . Why , then , fight the former so fiercely and ally with the latter ? Why deprive teachers , in the process , of potentially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.F.T. leadership must have sensed that to deal with a whole slew of community boards would have dispersed power throughout the autocratically run union , and ultimately have led to internal factions grasping for control , i.e. union democracy . The board 's interest in central control is a mere tautology . The leaders of large organizations like to settle dangerous ( to themselves ) matters with the leaders of the other large organizations involved quietly , preferably secretly , and in such a way that they all remain leaders . The board and the U.F.T. are no less capable of a pragmatic " d  --  tente " than Russia and the United States . Since the vicious cuts into the marrow of the school system do n't threaten the powers and tenure of union leadership , the membership and the children can be asked to grin , bear and suffer them . EDWARD BELLER John F. Kennedy High School Bronx , N. Y. , Jan. 29 , 1976 him fill the gaps of unconscionably long standing in the fine avenues of plane trees which shade its peripheral sidewalks . Let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left instead of erecting new , unmaintainable monstrosities which look cheap and will never inspire reverence or affection . The latter truly memorialize only our vanity and the poverty of our civilization and its capacity to design public art . Every day the Victorians look better . LAWRENCE I. GREENBERG New York , Jan. 30 , 1976 Save a Theater To the Editor : I am a sixth-grade student at Stewart School in Garden City , L. I. Just recently I heard of the closing of the American Shakespeare Theater in Stratford , Conn , and am very distressed by it . My class had planned going to the theater , but that is not the only reason for my concern . It happens to be the only theater around my location that has Shakespearean plays at a reasonable cost . If this theater closes down , there goes the chance for students like me to be able to see the works of this great writer . It 's a shame , for just when I get to the age where I can enjoy Shakespearean plays , which will add greatly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see them . I am shocked at the way most people do n't even care about these things . If we all just chipped in we might be able to save this theater and many more theaters like it , for this is going on all around the country . We can do it if we try , and let 's try ! It 's worth it . PATRICIA ANN InAz Garden City , LI. , Feb. 1 , 1976 behavior may be defined differently . Second , there is no way to be sure that any rise in reported abuse cases means an increase in actual occurrence . Third , concern with apparent increases in incidence IS expressed throughout Europe at present , with special reports being prepared in several places , including Sweden . There are some who relate the apparent rise to the level of industrialization ( regardless of capitalist or socialist economies ) . Others suggest cultural diffusion of a new American concept rather than any real rise in abusive behavior by parents . Still others suggest that only affluent societies can afford to take note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correlating G.N.P. , standard of living or type of economy with abusive behavior of parents toward children is inconclusive ( or leads to spurious conclusions ) . The number of kildren who are physically abused by parents or caretakers is small . Unquestionably , they require attention . However , exaggeration or distortion of the extent or severity of this phenomenon may deflect us from the larger problems . SHEILA B. KAMERMAN New York , Jan. 20 , 1976 The writer is associate director , Crossnational Studies of Social Service Systems and Family Policy , Columbia U. To Utilize a Volunteer To the Editor : The renaissance of volunteerism in answer to the city 's fiscal crisis is dramatic and full of promise , but the greater the response to eloquent pleas for volunteers , the greater the potential for failure . Volunteerism succeeds in direct proportion to its ability to encourage , train and supervise its participants . From the first telephone inquiry , the volunteer must have knowledgeable and enthusiastic guidance . Even more important is the supervision he receives after he is assigned to his task . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the entire volunteer service . The city can implore us to help in its time of need , but if there is no one at the other end of the telephone , - , no interviewer , trainer or supervisor , or if the people who are performing these jobs are mediocre or too busy , then the fanfare of recruitment is not only ludicrous but a disillusioning facade for the cause of volunteerism in general . o A tragic example of this is the extraordinary response the Citizens Committee for New York received from its full-page recruitment ad in The Times last November . It is reported that 4,000 people respondecbto the committee and were then referred to the understaffed Mayor 's Voluntary Action Center . Seventy-five called the center . What happened to the other 3,025 ? .. t By and large the optimum effectiveness of a volunteer service depends - hpon professional staff . In the superbly organized School Volunteer Program , to cite one example , there are some excellent volunteer ( unpaid ) supervisors , but they are rare , and for the most part the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Professionals cost money , but one school volunteer coordinator can provide services and support for volunteers in as many as fifteen schools . It is hard to think of a better use , of the taxpayer 's or philanthropist 's dollar . By the same token , it is Impossible to understand why over half of the Mayor 's V.A.C . staff has been cut  --  including those voices on the other end of the telephone that can lure or lose a potential volunteer . Each volunteer is a precious gift to this city ; he is also fragile . Let 's not lose him and our chance to involve hundreds like him through ignorande and improvidence . MARY W. HELLER New York , Feb. 9 , 19Z6 The writer was chairman of the New York City School Volunteer Program 's board of trustees from 1967 to 1972 . Public-Fund Deposits : An Inequitable Barrier To the Editor : A recent investigation by the New York State Assembly Office of Legislative Oversight and Analysis disclosed that state agencies have tens of millions of dollars on deposit in commercial banks without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revenue to a state struggling to end a fiscal crisis and regain access to the credit markets should be a matter of concern to everyone , but no more so than tile long-standing inequity which has P  --  evented the savings and loan associations of this state from accepting public accounts and giving the taxpayers a fair return on their dollars . New York is one of only six states in which savings and loans are barred from accepting deposits from the state and its municipalities . The prohibition has arisen from rulings by the Attorney General and the Comptroher that savings and loans are not banks or trust companies under state law , and that the State Constitution prohibits the state and its localities from ow/ring " shares " in a corporation or association . These legal barriers can and should be removed . Banking institutions should be permitted to compete equally for public fund accounts , which not carry Federal insurance up to $100,000 per account . Savings and loans not only have a tradition of paying tint highest interest rate on savings , they have provided the financing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Their ability to continue . to support our housing needs depends on a strong deposit base , and the state and its localities can contribute tothat by removing all legal obstacles to the , establishment of savings and loans as public fund depositories . Legislation to accomplish this has been introduced in the State Legislature . Its passage : would not result in special privilege , but in basic economic equity  --  for the thrift business , the housing industry . and the taxpayers of New York . PAUL A. SCHOSBERP President , Savings Association League of New York State Scarsdale , N. Y. , Jan. 21 , 1976 ' Child Abuse : The Questionable Analysis                     