@@731534

txt A 6-year-old boy whose mother and sister were found strangled in the family 's Crystal Lake apartment will be questioned Tuesday to learn if . he can provide police with clues to the identity of the murderer . The boy , Robert , is the son of Miss Nancy C. Lossman , 27 , whose naked body was found with a nylon cord knotted around her neck in the bedroom of a first floor apartment she occupied in the Crystal Terrace Apartments at 210 Elmhurst St. in the suburb , The body of Robert 's sister , Lisa , 3 , was found in the bathroom , clad in a bathrobe . She had been strangled with her mother 's brassiere and her head had been pushed into the water in the toilet . POLICE BELIEVE a fire , which led to the discovery of the bodies , had been set by the killer to cover up the crime . During that fire , Robert was rescued by an uncle , Richard Lossman , from another bedroom where the boy had been overcome by smoke . Richard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threestory building . Richard Lossman told Police Chief Sam Johns that he smelled smoke and saw flames coming from a window of the apartment occupied by his sister and her two children . He entered thru a window , found Robert unconscious in bed , and took him out thru the same window . Chief Johns said the fire appeared to have been set in a hall closet outside the three bedrooms in the apartment and had caused extensive damage before the fire department received an alarm at 5:50 a. m . ACCORDING TO Johns , who said Miss Lossman 's recent boy friend already has been questioned about the murders , Robert may know the identity of the murderer . Theron Ehorn , County coroner , said that an autopsy showed that both victimshad been strangled . Miss Lossman also ' had suffered a fractured skull and teeth marks and cuts were found on her right breast . Robert Lossman was taken to Hospital , treated for smoke inhalation , and released to . his grandparents , Elmo and Shirley Lossman of . Relatives told police that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had attended Northern Illinois University in De Kalb for two years , had been the manager : of the apartment building for . three or four years . She had . never married , they said . THE DRESSER drawers in , the bedroom where Miss Lossman 's body was found had been pulled out and apparently ransacked . Chief Johns said it was not determined if anything had been taken or if . it was an attempt to make it appear the killings were the work of at robber.                     