@@734424

txt The 1979 Nobel Prize for Literature was awarded here today to Odysseus Elytis , a 68-yearold Greek poet noted for lyric and often mythical evocations of his native land . He was selected , the Swedish Academy declared , " for his poetry , which , against the background of Greek tradition , depicts with sensuous strength and intellectual clearsightedness modern man 's struggle for freedom and creativeness . " Mr. Elytis is the second Greek poet to be cited by the academy , which makes the award ? 5190,000 this year ? under the will of Alfred Nobel . The first Greek , in 1963 , was George Seferis . It is rare but not unprecedented for two contemporary poets from the same country to be so honored . The Greeks followed an Italian example , set by the poets Eugenio Montale , the laureate in 1975 , and Salvatore Quasimodo , cited in 1959 . Decision ' an Honor for Me ' Mr. Elytis , receiving congratulations in his sparsely furnished two-room apartment in downtown Athens , said : " The Swedish Academy 's decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its history through the ages . I believe that it was a decision to bring international attention to the most ancient tradition in Europe , since from Homer 's time to the present there has not been a single century during which poetry has not been written in the Greek language . " The poet , a bachelor and something of a recluse , also declared that he was not going to allow either the honor or the prize money to change his simple way of life , based , he said , on the same laws as those that apply to poetry ? " concentration on the basics , elimination of all superfluous things and of all falsehoods . " The award was the last Nobel Prize to be announced this year . The others , in physiology or medicine , physics , chemistry , peace and the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science , went to five Americans , two Britons , a Pakistani , a West German and a citizen of India who is of Albanian heritage . The , literature prize // last year went to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Elytis was born to an industrial family named Alepoudhelis on the island of Crete in 1911 while it was still under Turkish rule . He changed his name to Elytis when he began writing poetry in his early 20 's to avoid association with his family 's soap-manufacturing business . He has said that the pen name is a composite made up of elements of Elias , the Greek word for Greece ; elpidha , the word for hope ; eleftheria , the word for freedom , and Eleni , the name of the figure that , in Greek mythology , personifies beauty and sensuality . He became prominent as a poet in Greece during the early 40 's when he took part in the war against the Italian Fascists in Albania . His poem " Heroic and Elegiac Song for the Lost Second Lieutenant of the Albanian Campaign , " written at that time , became a kind of talisman for the wartime youth of Greece . Moreover , the poem and the war were a turning point for Mr. Elytis , who had studied law at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paul Eluard , the French surrealist , he had published verse in the middle 30 's in Nea Ghrammata , a magazine that was then a showcase for young writers . With the publication of " Heroic and Elegiac Song , " he moved from youthful sensual poetry to works of complexity and subtlety , of tragedy and heroism . The Swedish Academy especially praised him for his " To Axion Esti " ? a phrase from the Greek Orthodox liturgy meaning " Worthy It Is " ? which it described as " one of 20th-century literature 's most concentrated and ritually faceted poems . " Published in 1959 , it is a cycle of poems filled with Greek history and mythology and their present-day parallels , expressing what its author has described as " emotions and ideas intended for all people . " Mr. Elytis once said of his own work : " I consider poetry a source of innocence full of revolutionary forces . It is my mission to direct those forces against a world my conscience can not accept . " The prize for literature has often been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the guessing game was the British novelist Graham Greene , a perennial favorite of those who try to outguess the judges . Others included Jorge Luis Borges , Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Simone de Beauvoir . The choice of Mr. Elytis was predicted by reporters in Greece several days ago and by Swedish television 28 hours before the award was announced . Like most of the other laureates , Mr. Elytis will receive his prize here Dec. 10 , the anniversary of Nobel 's death . The exception is Mother Teresa , the nun from Calcutta who won the peace prize . Her award is to be presented the same day in Oslo .                     