@@728514

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Procedure of Liberals To the Editor : In answer to The Times editorial of April 6 : I presided as State Chairman at the meeting of the Liberal party State Committee on April 4 . The meeting was conducted democratically , as was the party 's Statewide Delegate Conference on April 3 at which from 25 to 30 delegates spoke . Equal time and equal numbers of speakers were recognized in the nomination and debate of candidates . Nominations were sought from the floor . Some were nominated without their consent , and withdrew . No nominations were refused consideration . In the ' two contests , for Governor and Attorney General , there was a roll-call in which every State Committeeman was polled . As candidate for Governor I received 83 per cent of the vote and Basil Kyriakakis 17 per cent . Attorney General candidates Louis Lefkowitz received 77 per cent , Adam Walinsky 22 per cent and Boris Schneeberg 1 per cent . Basil Paterson was nominated unanimously , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Open Primary The question of an open Liberal party primary was discussed at the Delegate Conference with an equal number of speakers for each point of view . By a vote of 279 to 79 the Conference decided to adhere to past Liberal party policy of an open primary for Liberal enrollees only , as in the Republican and Democratic parties . When the question was brought before the State Committee , the Chairman pointed out that the Constitution provided for decisions in this area by the State Executive Committee . The chair was overwhelmingly supported in an appeal against his ruling . Adam Walinsky came to the Liberal party State Committee without invitation . To have granted him the right to speak in the absence of his opponent , Louis Lefkowitz , would have been undemocratic . Two State Committeemen spoke for each candidate . In some assertions The Times 's editorial was in error . No appeal from the ruling of the chair was declared out of order . No request for a roll-call was declared out of order . The information to the editor was inaccurate . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman , were most unfair . There was full , democratic discussion in the Policy Committee meeting April 3 , the representative Statewide Conference and State Committee . I can only remind The Times of its own editorial of Nov. 6 , 1969 , praising " the skillful leadership of Alex Rose " and the " forward-looking principles " of the Liberal party . DONALD SZANTHO HARRINGTON Liberal Party State Chairman New York , April 7 , 1970 ? Nixon 's ' 68 Promises To the Editor : President Nixon , I am confident , knew perfectly well on March 6 , when he " appealed " to the Soviet Union and the United Kingdom to help him out of his Laotian involvement that the former could not support U. S. aggression in Laos any more than it could U. S. aggression in Vietnam . Therefore it should be obvious to all informed people that the President intended this " appeal " as a political ploy to further confuse and deceive the American people . Millions of us , who opposed the Johnson war of aggression in Southeast Asia supported Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hawkish record , either because we believed him when he promised to end the war and abolish military conscription , or because we thought he would at least have the Wisdom to avoid the errors of his predecessor . We were wrong on both counts . The President 's " Vietnamization " plan will not end the war . Even if this made possible the withdrawal of all U. S. military forces , it would not end or reduce U. S. responsibility for the war . The U. S. Government would then be fighting the war by proxy . This is even more criminal and immoral , it seems to me , than killing , maiming and wounding men , women and children by direct action . Mr. Nixon must fulfill his campaign pledges to end the war in Southeast Asia and abolish military conscription . He can end the war any day he chooses by announcing his acceptance of the basic principles of the Geneva Agreements , 1954 . And he can abolish military conscription by failing to call up any more draftees . Only by honoring these pledges can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself , restore the moral character of our beloved country , or achieve the magnificent society he promises almost daily . Accordingly , all concerned and informed people must put and keep maximum pressure upon the President to honor his campaign pledges . HUGH B. HESTER Brig . Gen. U. S. Army ( Ret . ) St. Petersburg , Fla . March 26 , 1970 ? S.D.S. : Students ? To the Editor : Has anyone ever stopped to wonder what the Students for a Democratic Society study ? ROBERT RUSSELL BENNETT New York , April 4 , 1970 ? Mail Censorship To the Editor : The Times recently reported that U. S. Post Offices , in the name of pornography , can open any letter coming from a foreign country . Is there no protest against this further invasion of privacy ? Has it already come to pass that citizens apathetically accept such invasion as a way of life ? Better pornography ? which is available always ? than having our private letters read by any snooping postal clerk . If we permit this , why not domestic first-class mail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Our personal mail should be just that . Why have n't the President and Congress raised a protesting cry ? Or for that matter , the newspapers which not long ago railed against the Government 's efforts to get at reporters ' personal files ? JANE A. WOODS Washington , March 18 , 1970 ? Desegregation Program To the Editor : President Nixon 's statement on school desegration is the first completely sound policy , to be voiced in many months . The President has substituted common sense and good judgment for what has become hysterical nonsense in many cases . The busing of students , the tearing apart of school boundaries has proven to be an expensive and most ineffective way of searching for school integration . Many black leaders and liberals are said to be skeptical about the Nixon proposal . Some are saying that the alienation between the President and the black community will be wider as a result of the policy . President Nixon 's plan should be given a fair hearing before the radicals from all sides begin tearing it apart . W. J. KIERSTEAD @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ervin for High Court To the Editor : If President Nixon is serious in his expressed desire to appoint a strict constructionist to the Supreme Court , and to restore the public 's faith in the Court , he should nominate Sen. ator Sam J. Ervin Jr . instead . JOEL MARGOLIS Washington , March 29 , 1970 Further reproduction prohibited without permission .                     