@@730152

txt WASHINGTON , May ** biggest problem facing us today is not Communism but garbage disposal . The Government has been too slow to grasp this reality . Governments , maybe because they are so often dominated by military men , are almost always slow to leave the comfortable unreality of the past for the uncertainty , of the present . The futility of the American war policy in Vietnam results from the reluctance of a series of Presidents to look upon Southeast Asia in realistic , contemporary terms ; that is , not as a problem in the suppression of Communism , but as an opportunity for the disposal of garbage . This last week ; for example , while garbage levels continued to rise all over the United States and in the adjacent waters and air , President Nixon concentrated on the question whether Communism could be successfully opposed by dropping more bombs on Southeast Asia . The history of bombing that part of the world strongly suggests that it is futile . Since becoming President , Mr. Nixon has bombed it at the rate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are now staging their most effective attack of the past four years . Mr. Nixon must feel intensely frustrated as he contemplates the wasted years , wasted money and wasted bombs . It is an unhappy world that contains an American President with a case of intense frustration . American Presidents have such large volumes of explosive forces at their disposal ; intense frustration may provoke them to seek relief by using it . This can do no one any good . There can be little relief for the President 's frustration , however , as long as he adheres to the outmoded view that the war exists to defeat Communism . The sensible modern way to think of war is as a garbage-disposal system . War as a device for defeating this or that doctrine has rarely , if ever , worked . Fascism survives despite World War II ; autocracy despite the Russian revolution ; the Protestant heresy despite several hundred years of European bloodletting on God 's behalf . No wonder , war has become intellectually indefensible . Once we grasp the new reality , however , war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to dispose of garbage . It may conceivably become the only way to dispose of garbage . It may become as respectable to attack remote foreign states in order to dump garbage on them as it once was to attack them in order to rob them . Consider the advantages of giving OBSERVER up the Vietnam war as a fight to defeat a political doctrine and using it instead as a solution to our garbagedisposal problem . We should instantly enjoy great monetary savings , for those immensely expensive bombs now being wasted in the futile attempt to blow up an idea would no longer be required . Instead , the ** would be loaded with all the garbage American knowhow could put aboard them . Navy warships would have their magazines packed with the effluvium of the mightiest garbage-producing power the world has ever known . Our bombing may , as some reports have it , actually improve fighting morale among our bombed enemy . It is doubtful that they would feel quite so chipper about carrying on after a year or two of having our garbage dumped on them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have to give them fair warning , of course , give them half a chance to surrender first . Then we would have to escalate carefully to keep the respect of mankind . The first attacks might be confined to naval dumpings of empty beer cans , plastic bleach bottles and broken glass along Vietnamese beaches . From the air B-52 's might start dumping thirty-ton loads of frozen TV dinners that nobody back home could stand to eat . In the next phase , whole auto junk yards would be dumped on the out , skirts of Hanoi until  --  if they refused to surrender  --  Hanoi looked just like ' Chicago . Tons of old newspapers could be splattered along the Ho Chi Minh Trail , The DMZ could be blasted indiscriminately , day and night , with thousands of tons of Lyndon Johnson 's memoirs , Nixon campaign speeches , books about Kennedys , broken records by Beatles imitators , no-return bottled , disposable diapers , throwaway pens , aerosol cans . As the ultimate threat  --  the unthinkable nuclear bomb of our refuse arsenal  --  we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hartke . Sam Yorty . Edmund Muskie . Later perhaps , George Wallace and . Hubert Humphrey . What a drop ! Would it stop Communism ? Certainly not , It has n't stopped capitalism , has it ? Would it be immoral ? Perhaps , although it is certainly no more immoral to dump a rusted set ? of York bar bells from 35,000 feet than it is to dump thirty tons of exploding metal . The President  --  and this is the best part  --  would feel better immediately . America would be solving a problem .                     