@@729116

txt Trying to break an end-of-session impasse , the Senate met ? for an hour and a half behind closeddoors tonight without resolving any of the tangled issues that plague it . Leaders of both parties said ' after the executive session that ) the Senators had agreed . to break up into smaller groups and begin informal meetingi tomorrow in an effort to reach compromises on a half-dozen pieces of legislation . But the leaders were ? not optimistic I about the over-all prospect . Senator Mike Mansfield , the Democratic floor leader , said that " the spirit - was good " in the conference and that he was " feeling ' a little better " as al result . His Republican counterpart , I Senator Hugh Scott , called the ' meeting " very constructive , " but neither man could point to any substantive progress . Compromises Sought Among the controversies that the informal Senate groups will attempt to resolve are those involving Social Security , trade , welfare reform , the supersonic transport and foreign aid . In each instance , leaders of opposing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compromise . The Senate is now locked in a filibuster over providing funds for'the SST and is on the brink of " ' i- second'river setting ; neiV import quotas ' and generally restricting Is almost certain to materialize , would tie up the 456-page omnibizs bill that raises Social Security benefits , revises the welfare-laws and creates a new national health insurance system , Mansfield Disturbed Senator Mansfield called the closed meeting because , he said on the floor , " I am disturbed at the ( image which this house is showing to the American people .. But I am more disturbed at the image we are showing ourselves . " Senator ? Scott questioned whether or not " it is possible for the Senate to begin to make sense this ' late in the day " and " get away from this charade ? ' The House , meanwhile , was having trouble of its own . There , when opponents used delaying tactics , leaders were forced to lay aside a bill appropriating $1.5-billion to help ' school districts desegregate . Unlimited debate is not permitted ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the reading of documents can serve the - same purpose . This afternoon , the so-called clean air bill that would strengthen Federal controls over . auto exhaust emissions // . and other sources of atnidspheric pollution was passed by Congress and sent to President Nixon for his signature . , The bill , a compromise version of measures previously approved by both houses , was passed by the Senate and then by the House on voice votes : Before the Senate went into closed session , it took a preliminary test vote on foreign trade legislation , Then , following some parliamentary manipulation , it moved into the first stages of debate on the latest verson of the President 's welfare reform program . In the first floor decision involving the trade proposal , the Senators voted 58 to 31 against tabling a proposal by Senator John J. Williams , Republican of Delaware , to insert three basic sections of the trade measure into the opening section of the Omnibus Social Security bill . Although it was far from a clear-cut vote on the issue , the refusal to table @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the protectionist supporters of the full measure were in control and could be blocked only by a filibuster by free trade advocates . Practical Effect Slight It made little practical difference whether or not , the Williams amendment was tabled . The same language appears elsewhere in the omnibus bill , together with numerous other trade provisions , and there is little likelihood that the House will agree to any version of the trade bill that is likely to win Senate approval . Backers ' of welfare reform won a small but significant parliamentary ' victory when they managed to get the current version of the . Family Assistance Plan as the pending bust , ness before the Senate . It consists of a 139-page amendment sponsored by Senators Abraham A. Ribicoff , Democrat of Connecticut , and Wallace ' F. Bennett , Republican of Utah . As soon as this happened , however , Senator Jack Miller , Republican of Iowa , objected to dispensing with the reading of the amendment , and the Senate clerks droned on for an hour before an empty chamber , stopping only when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full Congressional agreement on a welfare plan can be achieved in the remaining days of the session , nine or ten at the most , perhaps only three . Representative Wilbur D. Mills , ' chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee , has said flatly that the House will not compromise on the welfare and trade issues if they are presented to a Senate7 House conference as parts of an unwieldly omnibus bill on a take-it-or-leave-it ? basis . The House has passed welfare and trade bills of . own . If the Senate versios go to conference as part of the Social Security measure , under the rules of Congress the provisions of the House trade and welfare bills would not be taken into consideration in the negotiations . The welfare backers maneuvered their amendment into Senate consideration this way : Senator Hugh Scott , the Republican floor leader , proposed a minor amendment to the Social Security tables that open the omnibus bill . Because Senator Williams 's amendment , still the pending business after the motion to , table failed , involved a later section of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Then , by prearrangement , Senator Ribicoff proposed the entire Family Assistance Plan as an amendment to the Scott amendment , and this was declared the pending business . The most its backers now expect is a favorable Senate vote that could set an influential precedent when welfare reform comes up again in the next Congress .                     