@@733271

txt SAN FRANCISCO IAPI -- Three masked pitmen invaded a Chinatown restaurant crowded with about 100 diners early Sunday , assassinated a reputed gang member , and then opened fire at random on the screaming patrons , killing 4 and wounding 1G. police said . The gunmen  --  two with automatic rifles am the town carrying a o'nuigun  --  cscaged after firing at least 20 shots ; n less than a minute inside the Golden Dragon Restaurant on narrow Washington Street in the heart of Chinatown . Police Chief Charles R. Gain said the shootings are part of " a war going on between Chinese gangs " and said the investigation is being hampered by reluctance of witnesses to talk . LT . VICTOR MACIO SAID officers arriving at the scene found people screaming , bodies on the floor , and the dining room  --  on two levels separated by a short flight of stairs  --  awash with blood . " Honest to God , it was terrible , " said Francine Novak , of San . Francisco , who was in the restaurant but escaped injury . " Just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crawled under a table as the people behind her were sprayed with bullets . Many of the other diners also dived under tables as bullets went ripping into furniture , dishes , and trans . " I saw the fire coming out of the end of the gun and I knew this was not a joke , " silo said . NONE OF TIIF . VICTIMS was homediately identified . However , Maeio said four of the dead were men and one was a woman . At least one of the injured was a restaurant employe , he said . " We have natives , tourists , whites , and Orientals , " said police station officer Denise Kelly of the victims . Police said witnesses reported that as soon as the gunmen entered , one of them approached a male patron sitting at a table and fired a rifle shot into his head . After the man fell to the floor , the gunman fired two more shots at Lim , police said , then all three gunmen began firing at random . Although the men wore masks , police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a description by one witness . OFFICER TERRENCE COLLIN &; at the scene of the shootings , said the mall Wil0 was the apparent target of the attack " was known to be with one of the Chinese gangs in San Francisco . " Macio said robbery has been ruled out as a motive . " It looks simply like gang play , 011e against the other . " Police are not sure how the gunmen got away . One was wearing a Halloween mask and two were wearing stocking masks .                     