@@731762

txt The people of Thailand voted yesterday in an election unusually free not only for Thailand but for much of , the rest of Asia . Early returns showed the middle  --  of-the road Democrats won 23 out of 26 scats in Bangkok for the new House of Representatives and were scoring unexpectedly strong gains in the provinces . In major upsets , the leader of the conservative Social Justice party , Dewitt Klinprathurn , and the deputy leader of the conservative Thai Nation party , former General Siri Sirivothin , were defeated . Mr. Dewitt had been considered a possible choice for premier , since his party was expected to win the largest number of seats . 2,193 Candidates Voter turnout in Bangkok was low , though many voters stayed by the open-sided sidewalk polling booths last night to watch while the ballots were being counted aloud . A total of 2,193 candidates from 42 parties were vying for 269 seats in the new House of Representatives . It will select a new premier . The outgoing Premier , Sanya Dharmasakti , yesterday named 100 members to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Sanya 's interim Government , which was appointed by King Phumiphol Aduldet after stu- dent demonstrators toppled the old military Government in October , 1973 . Before then Thai politics had been dominated by the military since the end of absolute monarchy in 1932 . Despite this background of military rule and the trend elsewhere in Asia toward authoritarian regimes of the left or right , Mr. Sanya 's Government has sought only to get itself out of power . It confined itself to publicizing the election and helping set up the voting booths . Mr. Sanya 's self-imposed restrictions are all the more surprising because under his leadership the outgoing National Assembly has enacted significant if limited progressive legislation . The measures include a land-reform act , a big increase in the minimum wage and a law to make holding civil service jobs contingent on merit . Moreover , Mr. Sanya 's ' Government has tolerated continuing protests , often violent , from farmers , workers and students . Many Thais who still have a ' traditional hierarchical view of society fear that these protests amount to virtual anarchy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students here shot the Bangkok police commissioner , killed a newsman and bombed a series of buses , while angry farmers in the south burned down the house of a provincial governor . Two candidates were killed during the election campaign . The Government has been reluctant to intervene because of the strong Thai prohibition , derived from Buddhism , against bloodshed . In addition , many Thais still harbor memories of the error made by the former government of Field Marshal Thanom Kittikachorn when it ordered its troops to fire on students in October , 1973 , leaving 70 dead and enraging the populace . Since those days , however , the students have become dis ? pirited and disorganized , and their influence has waned . In fact , the biggest gainers in the election are expected to be the four major conservative parties representing the old business , military and bureaucratic elite . These partIes  --  the Social Justice party , the Thai Nation party , the Social Nationalists and the Social Agrarians  --  are largely made up of those who belonged to the old front grout of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are heavily financed , and most of their candidates have long ties with the villages where they are running . Because of the multiplicity of parties , no single party or even two parties are expected to win a majority of seats in the lower house . But the conservatives are believed ready to put together a coalition . Another possible coalition might be formed by the three moderate parties of the center , the Democrats , the Social Action party and the New Force , which tend to appeal to urban and educated voters . The small left-wing parties , a which are largely new , have been given little chance to win more than 20 seats . But public-opinion polls are new in Thailand , and no one is really sure of the outcome . Even if the conservatives do win , most Thais regard the election as a watershed in their history and as a definite advance . " It is a start  --  you have to begin somewhere , " said Narong Ketudat , the editor and publisher of the respected leftwing daily Prachathipatai . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government has really been elected by the people . " At a polling station in front of a girls ' school on the northern outskirts of Bangkok , a secretary ? in a miniskirt , Sumalee Puripat , expressed concern after emerging from the voting booth when she discovered she had accidentally voted for the wrong candidate . Because of the number of illiterate voters and the many candidates , the Government used a ballot listing only the number of each candidate . A voter had to memorize the assigned number of his choice before entering the booth . The military itself has remained officially neutral in the election , under orders from the commander of the armed forces , Gen. Kris Srivara . Many soldiers , however , appeared to be voting for the Thai National party , which is headed by three former generals .                     