@@728331

txt Gov . John N. Dempsey announced in a surprise move today that he would not seek re-election to a third term . , " I feel strongly that . the tin ( has come for me to step aside so that I can devote more time to my family than has beer available to me for many years , " the Governor said . " II is my belief that 10 years h long enough for one man to serve as the state 's chief execu ? tive . " Mr. Dempsey 's term will enc Jan. 6 , 1971 . He read his statement at a news conference ' in his office in the almost-deserted State Capitol . With him was his wife , Mary , who was occasionally tearful ; his four children , and a son-in-law and daughter-in-law . Would Refuse Draft The .55-year-old Governor , who was born in Ireland , said he . would not accept a draft . His decision was made , he said , during the last several months , but was conveyed to State Democratic Party Chairman John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to convince him otherwise , " Mr. Bailey said in a statement released today , " but I respect his judgment and the personal factors which entered into his decision . " These ' actors reportedly included pressure from his family , particularly his wife , to go into private life after 35 years in public office : Mr. Dempsey said he had no definite plans after leaving office but was not interested in a Senate seat . He refused to single out anyone as a possible successor or . Senate nominee , but said he hoped to play an important , role at the party 's June convention . Occasional Rumors Although there had been occasional rumors that the Governor might not seek re-election , most Democratic leaders assumed that Mr. Dempsey , a genial politician who is an effective campaigner and votegetter would once again lead his party 's ticket in the state this year . His unexpected withdrawal is expected to produce some lively political in-fighting . The leading contender for the gubernatorial nomination is generally thought to be Representative Emilio Q. Daddario , who represents the Hartford-area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hugh C. Curran of Bridgeport , who deleted 22 lines shifts in the party . " But he said : ; " I believe that fairness to the Teople of Connecticut , to my arty and to candidates who re , or will b ; seeking office , requires me to speak now while any party 's nominating convenltion is still some five months *way . " The Democrats were already lacing the prospect of a brisk . battle over the party 's noraination for the Senate seat now ' field by Thomas J. Dodd . Mr. Dodd , who was censured by the Senate in 1967 for having made personal use of campaign funds , this week announced formally his intention of seeking the nomination and a third term . Two Democrats have already announced that they would seek to oppose Mr. Dodd in the general election . They are the Rev. Joseph D. Duffy , the national chairman of Americans for Democratic Action , and State Senator Edward L. Marcus , the Democratic majority leader . Holds Vote Record Mr. Dempsey was elected to his present second full term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote margin in the state 's history . His Republican opponent was E. Clayton Gengras , a Hartford insurance executive . The Governor was able to carry enough Democratic legislators with him to give the party 2-1 control of both houses of the General Assembly . During the recent session of the Legislature , however , Mr. Dempsey was frequently . at odds with Democratic legislative leaders on fiscal matters . His budget proposals , which called for the largest tax increases in the state 's history , were thought to have reduced his popularity with voters Mr. Dempsey has been Governor since 1961 , when as Lieutenant Governor he succeeded Abraham A. Ribicoff , who resigned to join the administration of the late President John F. Kennedy as Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare . Governor Dempsey won his full term , in 1962 by 66,175 votes . Mr. Ribicoff is now a Senator from Connecticut . Before becoming Lieutenant Governor , Mr. Dempsey had served six terms as Mayor of Putnam , a small manufacturing city in the northeastern part of the state . Mr. Dempsey said he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of staying in politics , even in an appointive post : " I think when you make a break , you ought to make it clean , " he said . Despite his stated lack of firm plans , Mr. Dempsey did say , In response to a question , that he hoped to stay in Connecticut : " It 's the only state I 've ever known since I landed off that boat from Ireland in 1925. " he said .                     