@@734469

txt The crisis in Iran may mark a turning point toward a " tougher " American foreign policy . Thanks partly to Iran , partly to the Cuban minicrisis of September and October , and partly to turmoil in other develOping countries of the world , US experts who proclaim a more assertive , hard-nosed outlook on foreign affairs are in the ascendancy . The public mood tends increasingly to support their outlook . Those who favored more of a " third world " outlook , with a new emphasis on the understanding of local conditions and nationalism in the developing world , are on the defensive . But those who advocate what Secretary of State Cyrus Vance has called a " positive , long-term strategy toward the third world " have not given up . They still believe one of the lessons of Vietnam is that the United States must deal flexibly and in a variety of ways with many of the world 's new nations . In Mr. Vance 's view , most developing nations are much less subject to the traditional influence of the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were just two decades ago . Vietnam , in this view , resulted from an overly rigid interpretation of the US doctrine of " containment " aimed at the Soviet Union . Conditions inside Vietnam itself were not adequately taken into account . State Department officials say that within the next few weeks , Secretary Vance will reassert his view on the developing countries in a major speech . Mr. Vance believes that what has happened in Iran ? starting with the overthrow of the Shah ? was largely outside the ability of the US to control . The harshest critics of this view , who seem to be increasingly represented by former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger , argue that the Carter administration did not do enough to support the Shah and contributed to his downfall . They contend that the US is failing to respond effectively to a Soviet-inspired design ? often implemented by Cuban proxies ? that extends all the way from Central America to South Yemen . Both sides , in what is becoming an increasingly bitter debate among foreign policy specialists on how to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an example to prove their points ; one side to show how little control over events the superpowers have , the other side to show that it is time to forget Vietnam and get down to the business of projecting American power in a more assertive way . " If there 's a silver lining in the Iran situation , it will be that it 's finally going to cleanse this country of the Vietnam syndrome , " said Joseph Sisco , a former high-level official under Dr. Kissinger in the State Department and now president of American University here . Dr. Sisco says that once the question of the remaining American hostages in Iran is resolved , the US must // From page , 1 Iran crisis : start of tougher foreign policy ? strengthen its presence , its military capabilities ? and its options ? in the gulf , on the Arabian peninsula , and in the Indian Ocean . Leslie Gelb , who resigned this year as director of the Bureau of Politico-Military Affairs at the State Department and now is with the Carnegie Foundation for International Peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of oversimplifying that approach in their attempt to discredit it . " I have never advocated human rights as the main basis for foreign policy , " said Mr. Gelb . " But many of those who are criticizing the State Department seem to think you have to respond with force to any challenge . . . . In some cases you do , and in some cases you do n't . " " People wish we could go back to the Hopalong Cassidy days , " Mr. Gelb continued . " But that 's an age gone by . . . . That kind of nostaligia ? call it hysteria when it comes to Iran ? is a dangerous basis for foreign policy making . " Mr. Gelb may have a valid point about oversimplification : Many of those who are critical of Secretary Vance call what the Secretary describes as a more positive policy toward the third world a policy of " appeasement . " Yet it was Mr. Vance himself who insisted early in the Carter administration on placing human rights considerations in second or third place in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at stake ? such as South Korea , and , for that matter , Iran . President Carter 's National Security Adviser , Zbigniew Brzezinski , an official who is often viewed as having a more hard-nosed approach to the Soviets and to foreign policy in general than Mr. Vance , actually had much more to do with laying the philosophical foundation for a more positive , optimistic outlook toward the third world on the part of the Carter administration than did Mr. Vance . Defenders of Secretary Vance think the emerging accord on Zimbabwe-Rhodesia is at least partial vindication for a foreign policy that is not fixed entirely on the US-Soviet relationship . They argue that while Britain deserves the major credit for sealing the accord , the US some time ago helped lay the foundation for a resolution of the Rhodesian conflict based on compromise rather than on the backing of one side against the other out of a fear of Soviet or Cuban intervention . " Our ability to work with the front-line states and with the Patriotic Front , and their sense that we had something in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the outcome , " said a senior State Department official . State Department officials think the next test for the Vance appioach may come in Central America and the Caribbean . The administration is proposing a major emergency aid package for the revolutionary regime in Nicaragua . But partly because of their advocacy of a hard-line foreign policy based on events in Iran and elsewhere , and partly because of a fear of Cuban influence in Nicaragua , there are those in Congress who will oppose this aid . The State Department argues that while the aid program may not succeed in helping create a pluralistic society rather than a Marxist society in Nicaragua , it is worth giving the aid a try . Otherwiie , officials say , the chances that things will turn out adversely for the US in Central America will be even greater than they are now .                     