@@728754

txt The shadow of growing Soviet military intervention on the Egyptian front looms over Israel . In spite of it . Israel 's Foreign Minister Abba Eban adhered meticulously to a low key in his policy statement in the Knesset ( Parliament ) July 13 . " The news about the Israeli proposals is that there is nothing new in them . " This is how a Western diplomat commented on what Mr. Eban had to say . Mr. Eban proposed that Egypt and Israel send authorized representatives to meet in a most informal way . The purpose of such a meeting would be to prepare the ground for conducting effective and realistic negotiations . Go-between envisioned The Israeli Foreign Minister reiterated his government 's readiness to use the good offices of United Nations Middle East representative Gunnar Jarring for preparing a peace conference according to the " Rhodes procedure . " He stressed that any question without exception could be discussed at such a peace conference . ( The " Rhodes procedure " was that used for the negotiations in Rhodes in 1948.49 , out of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over Palestine after the establishment of the state of Israel . Most of the talking between the disputants was then done through a third party ? Ralph Bunche of the United Nations secretariat . Presumably in today 's scenario , Mr. Jarring would be the go-between . ) Rejection buttressed Some Israelis may have been disappointed that Israel 's principal spokesman in the international arena failed to put forward new proposals and merely reiterated Israel 's previously stated positions . These critics felt that following United States Secretary of State William P. Rogers 's initiative and the Soviet peace plan some new feature in Israel 's peace formula would have been timely . This the more so since two of the country 's most senior soldiers ? the Army Chief of Staff Gen. Haim Bar-Lev and the Air Force Commander Gen. Mordechai Hod ? drew a dramatic picture of Russia 's creeping forward along the Suez front . The Israeli Government , however , feels that it can not afford new peace formulas for the following reasons : ? The Israelis are convinced that , as stated by Mr. Eban , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states and Israel offers the opportunity of an acceptable future . No ambiguous formula such as a cessation of belligerence , suggested by Moscow and considered a step forward by Mr. Rogers , can lead to peace ? as Israelis see it . ? Israel 's position was summed up by Prime Minister Golda Meir in an interview to the Paris weekly L'Express July 10 : " I think that we will get peace if we do not give in . The Arab peoples are not less intelligent than othdrs , " Mrs. Meir said . " They will get tired of leaders who , instead of trying to improve their condition of life , offer them only war and hatred . " ? Any concession made by Israel today ? so Israelis believe  --  when Soviet missiles are on the Suez front , would only enhance the prospect of an acceptance by Washington of Moscow 's peace proposals . Peace plan ' scored And what Jerusalem thinks of these proposals was indicated by Mr. Eban in the Knesset : " The Soviet plan is not a peace plan but a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuous tension in the Middle East . " This , Mr. Eban added , could be perceived by an accurate reconstruction of the situation which produced the 1967 war . " This , " he said , " is nothing but a recipe for the renewal of aggression . " Nevertheless , the somewhat grim mood here has been partially eased following reports reaching Israel about United States Assistant Secretary of State Joseph Sisco 's statement that the United States Government now shares the Israeli Government 's view of a shift in the power balance in favor of the Russian-Egyptian lineup .                     