@@729773

txt The World U. S. and India : Divided Attention From Mrs. Gandhi 's Hosts WASHINGTON  --  One hour after leaving a White House session with President Nixon , who had asked his entire Cabinet to sit in , India 's Prime Minister , Indira Gandhi , was telling a packed National Press Club lunch Friday about a " reign of terror " in East Pakistan . , " What is taking place is not a civil war , " said the slender , sari-clad head of the world 's largest democracy . " It is punishment of civilians . . . it is ' a cynical way of getting rid of one 's opponents . " Mrs. Gandhi conspicuoulsy avoided referring to " East . Pakistan . " Instead , in her slightly accented meticulous English , she used the term " East Bengal . " To many , she seemed to be implying that the eastern wing of Pakistan , with its 70 million people of Bengali stock ? minus nearly 10 million refugees now in India  --  never again would willingly accept the rule of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This also is the opinion increasingly discernible here among junior and middle-grade officials in close touch with the continuing campaign of repression that the Pakistan Army has been waging for . seven months against all in East Pakistan  --  Moslems and Hindus alike  --  who are suspected of favoring Bangla Desh , or East Bengali independence . If senior policymakers ? President Nixon , Henry A. Kissinger , his National Security assistant ; Secretary of State William P. Rogers and Joseph J. Sisco , Assistant Secretary for Near East and South Asian Affairs  --  share this appreciation , however , it is not evident . " Our policy , " Mr. Sisco insisted to a senior Indian diplomat not long ago , ' " is to preserve the territorial integrity of Pakistan . " The reasons , as United States officials explain them , are both complex  --  and slightly reminiscent of cold war ideology . Basically , Washington fears that a break-up of Pakistan might spark an Indo-Pakistani war or at least throw President Yahya into the arms of Peking , which , they say , has long been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India . The United States itself began arming and subsidizing Pakistan in 1954 ? at the height of the cold war  --  to bol. ster the subcontinent Against Soviet aggression . It embargoed most arms after the Indo-Pakistan war of 1965 . Now , after 17 years and the expenditure of $4-billion in arms , food and other aid , the bureaucratic momentum is still rolling inexorably forward . Pakistan is a favorite aid target . Mr. Nixon and his officials , others say , " like " the Pakistanis  --  especially the tall , English-speaking martial Punjabis such as President Yahya and other military leaders . The Americans find them , uncomplicated , reliable , grateful for United States help and easy to deal with . By contrast , many American officials ' privately describe the Indians as uncooperative and given more to talking about " democracy " than to standing up to the Russians . In fact , the recent Indo-Soviet 20-year agreement ? after successive United States , governments had furnished $9-billion in aid to India since World War II  --  irritated and puzzled the NixonAdministration . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Administration here . President Yahya 's bloodletting in East Pakistan has been viewed , here more in sorrow than in anger . There is virtually no moral indignation evident among policymakers . Rather , they tend to agree that President Yahya has been clumsy , that he should have defused the Awami League 's drive for autonomy ( and subsequently for independence ) with less adverse publicity . They complain that United States plans for economic development in Pakistan have been set back . , Administration policymakers deny Indian assertions that American diplomatic . and military backing for the . Yahya regime is bolstering its repressive campaign . The United States , they say , has stopped issuing new arms licenses since March 25 , though they concede there is still more than $2-million in spare parts and ammunition in the " pipeline . " The United States has also , they say , ceased economic development aid , to Pakistan until the situation clears up , and has , repeatedly warned President Yahya " privately " about the bad image his actions are creating around the world and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't have much leverage with Yahya , " said a State Department source . " But we 'd have none at all if we were to come out openly and blast him . " . So far , officials note , the United States has prevailed on him to accept a United Nations presence in East Pakistan , to which Washington has so far contributed $154 ? million for relief and rehabilitation . ( It has given $80-million for refugees in India ) . Bangla Desh sympathizers charge that the Pakistan Army is commandeering chartered United Nations river boats and trucks to move and help supply Its own forces . United States officials also claim ; that President Yaliya 's ? gestures toward restoring civilian rule in East Pakistan  --  gestures that the Bangla Dash adherents . term " cosmetic " ? are belated , but better than nothing . In two days of talks here with Mr. Nixon , Prime Minister Gandhi probably has not changed the Administration 's predilection for Pakistan . However , she appears mot to have minced her . words . In his welcoming remarks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typhoons and floods . " Quietly , but with deep conviction , Mrs. Gandhi reminded the President  --  and the Government  --  that the " worst tragedy is a man-made tragedy of vast proportions , " namely the flight of nearly 10 million refugees into India , with more streaming in each day . " I came here , " she said , " in search of some wise impulse that has sometimes worked to save humanity from despair . " . As she prepared to return to . India and as Mr. Nixon flew to his weekend mum at Key Biscayne , . Fla .. , it was . unclear whether Mrs. Gandhi 's warning would evoke a " wise impulse " in time to avert further tragedy . ? BENJAMIN INIEX-7 ? ? S Associated Press Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and President Nixon on the South Lawn of the White House last week . On the IndiaPakistan crisis they were less close .                     