@@732485

txt column missing accepted because , as one staff aide put it . " he know something we did n't . " CLaws that have turned the tables . on Presidential power , altering the situation where Presidents could override Congressional objections with a veto and one - third - plus - one support to sustain it , to a situation in which Congress can now veto specific Presidential policies by a majority vote . Almost all of those interviewed maintained that Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger 's style of peration , if not his policies , had contributed heavily to the deterioration of Congressional - executive relations . Most said , however , that the causes were much deeper . ' Congress and the people lost a lot of respect tor the executive branch , " said Senator Sam Nunn , Democrat of Georgia , citing Vietnam and the Watergate scandal , " The trend toward more Congressional involvement is irreversible , at least in the shortrun , and barring crimes , near-wars and wars . " Representative Clement . T.1 Zablocki , Democrat of Wisconsin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House International Relations Committee , said : " I do n't think our attitude will be dependent on the political coloration of the President . so , even if it 's a Democrat next time , we 're not going to lie down and play dead . " A number of those interviewed added a caveat , as did Representative Donald M. Fraser , Democrat of Minnesota . " If the President is a Democrat , we are bound to try to be more cooperative , so the tensions would ease , but I hope not completely , " he said . " But this would be a slow process . " Mr. Zablocki , who entered the House in 1948 , and Senator Clifford P. Case , the New Jersey Republican whose Congressional tenure goes back to 1945 , were among those who spoke of Congressional behavior in , recent years as a re-emergence rather than a revolution . Postwar Era Called Unusual They attributed what they called the unusual post-World War II period to the general desire to avoid another interval of isolationism and a wide consensus on stopping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passage by Henry Adams written at the turn of the century that supported their view . " Required to look far ahead and round him , " Adams wrote of the Secretary of State , " he measures forces unknown to party managers , and has found Congress more or less hostile ever since Congress first sat . The Secretary of State exists only to ? recoanize the existence of a world which Congress would rather ignore ; of obligations which Congress repudiates whenever it can ; of bargains which Congress distrusts and tries to turn to its advantage or to reject . " " Since the first day the Senate existed , " Adams continued , " it has always intrigued against the Secretary of State whenever the Secretary has been obliged to extend his functions beyond the appointment of consuls in the Senators ' service . " All of those interviewed acknowledged other relatively brief periods of Presidential dominance in foreign affairs , but many noted new conditions on Capitol Hill that would make such dominance more difficult for future Presidents to achieve . Adams , in his observation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the treatyapproval and confirmation ' powers of the Senate produced ' almost two centuries of Senatorial dominance in Congress . ' Since 1972 , however . the ' House has been almost as active as the Senate on legislation relating to Vietnam and matters like the War Powers Act , and it has taken the initiative in rhanging noliries through the Foreign Aid Bill , The passage of a law in 1972 renuiring the President to submit all executive agreements with other nations to both houses of Congress also made the House a direct narticinant . Until then , Congress got involved only through the Senate 's treaty power , The 1972 agreement between the United States and the Soviet Union limiting stratgic nuclear missiles , for example , was approved by both houses . The enormous costs of the Vietnam war , the American dependence on grain exports , the Arab oil embargo , the increasing proportion of American exports in the gross national product , all contributed to a growing interest in foreign affairs and a sense of world interdependence . " Everyone could now see that what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line at the gas station or that the ' grain bought by Russia could mean higher bread prices at home , " one House staff member explained . Together with the traditional interest of American ethnic groups in policies toward such countries as Israel or Greece , this meant more involvement by more legislators than ever before . This , in turn , was a major contributing factor to the relative decline in power of the two key committees  --  The Senate Foreign Relations Commit . tee and its House counterpart . Action Taken on Floor No longer were the members satisfied that the two committees could deal with all their interests . In each year recently members have introduced amendments to committee legislation on the floor and have passed them . Two recent examples are the amendment by Senator John V. Tunney , Democrat of California , stop- ' ping covert aid for Angola , and the amendment by Representative Tom Harkin , Democrat of Iowa , allowing Congress to terminate aid to governments that violate human rights . This division of power within Congress has also had profound consequences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress simply by influencing two committees , or four if the Armed Services Committees are counted . " We were put in the position where we could never touch all the bases or anticipate all the legislative moves , " one high State Department official said . Senator Case explained : " This is not a tidy situation , but I 'm not sure it can be tidy . " In most instances , the legislators had new power in their staffs to enable them to compete with the information and arguments of the executive branch . As late as 1967 , only a handful of Senators had ex. perts on foreign policy or defense or international economic affairs on their staffs . Now , most Senators and many Representatives do . Moreover , the two foreign affairs and two armed services committees have more than doubled their staffs in the last five years . Exodus From Executive Branch These staff members include many who left careers in the executive branch Out of disillusion with Mr. Kissinger and want to return in a Democratic administration . If they do have opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of power. , All these changes led to changes in the laws as well . particularly the introduction of what is known as the " legislative veto " over specific Presidential actions . By the War Powers Act , for example , the President is permitted to use military forces for 60 days on his own authority , but he can not continue beyond that period without an affirmative vote of Congress . Congress is also empowered to terminate the use of force before that time subject to veto . Congress has also reversed veto roles with the President in many areas covered by foreign aid bills . It can by majority vote prohibit any proposed sale of military equipment or stop aid to nations that violate human rights ? without having to face a Presidential veto . The President has complied with these provisions . Behind these laws was the attitude pervading Congress that it should be involved . " If we remain cynical and suspicious  --  and sometimes we 've gone too far in this direction ? that 's more important than laws , " Representative Fraser said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 