@@734395

txt The House approved by a comfortable margin today a compromise bill that allows the terms of the Panama Canal Treaty to be put into effect on schedule next Monday . After fervent conservative opposition , the House accepted legislation only slightly different from that unexpectedly defeated by 11 votes last Thursday . The vote today was 232 to 188 . Yesterday the Senate voted 63 to 32 to approve the bill , which was worked out in two months of tough negotiations between the two houses of Congress . Panama to Take Over Zone Today 's action brings to a close the tumultuous history of the treaty negotiations , which began 15 years ago . The treaty was approved last year and will go into effect Monday with Panama 's assumption of jurisdiction over the 533-square-mile Canal Zone . A companion treaty guarantees the canal 's neutrality . Under the main treaty , Panama will take full control of the canal on Dec. 31 , 1999 . Fear that the canal would be turned over to Panama before that date was one reason for the earlier defeat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevents this . Presidential consent to the legislation and passage of a final bill authorizing $467 million for running the canal next year are expected shortly . ' Time Bomb Is Ticking ' " A time bomb is ticking away and the hour is short , " Representative John M. Murphy , the Staten Island Democrat who managed the bill , warned the House . " We have a duty and an obligation to perform in the best interests of the United States . " He and a number of other members , including Representative Jim Wright of Texas , the House majority leader , and Thomas P. O'Neill Jr . of Massachusetts , the Speaker , hammered at the point that regardless of what action the House took the treaties would go into effect on Oct. 1 . The legislation approved today sets up the administrative structure under which the canal will operate and establishes facilities and working conditions for American personnel who will continue to work on the canal or contribute to its defense . From the start the House , which generally opposed the treaties , has tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the joint United States-Panamanian body that will run the canal until the year 2000 . At the House 's insistence , this commission will undergo annual budget review by Congress . Conservatives mounted a last-ditch effort to stop the legislation . An organization called the Conservative Caucus threatened to spend $1 million to defeat members of Congress who switched their vote in favor of the legislation . " The real issue is the giveaway of the Panama Canal , " Representative George Hansen , Republican of Idaho , told the House today , addressing an issue that was a major cause of the earlier defeat . " With thousands of Russian combat . troops in Cuba , do we dare give away the Panama Canal ? Those Russian troops are training Marxist terrorists all over the Caribbean . " This provoked Representative Murphy to remind the members that they were not voting on the treaties but only on the legislation to carry them out . This legislation was needed , he said , to insure any United States presence at all . Later , Representative Hansen said that he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground that the transfer of United States property needed to be approved by both houses of Congress , and not just the Senate , which gave its approval when it voted in favor of the treaty . Such a court case has already been fought , and lost , by conservatives . The State Department praised the passage of the bill , saying it enabled " the United States to protect its rights and interests in the Panama Canal and to meet our international obligations . " The Carter Administration , caught unawares by last week 's defeat , lobbied strongly for approval of the bill . President Carter was among those who called key representatives to ask for support . U.S. Denies Reports on Castro Special to The New York Times WASHINGTON , Sept. 26 ? White House and State Department officials tonight denied news reports that Brig . Gen. Omar Torrijos Herrera of Panama had invited President Fidel Castro of Cuba to next week 's treaty-signing ceremonies in Panama . Two representatives who had opposed the treaty , Mr. Murphy and Robert E. Bauman , Republican of Maryland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Monday , which will be attended by Vice President Mondale . A State Department official said , " Our embassy has been in touch with the Panamanian Government and there has been no invitation extended to the Cuban Government to attend the ceremony . "                     