@@733886

txt deleted page strike have apparently weakened the Shah 's ability to weather the mounting opposition from the conservative Islamic clergy , leftists , students , workers and merchants . . Insecurity and-the feeling of isolation among foreigners is high here .. A foreign ' construction engineer for housing packed his family:into a taxi for the 15-hour drive to Teheran rathe4 than wait for an airline strike to end or for vacancies on the crowded trains. - Even at a - " military base . under construction at Marjed Soleyman , northeast of Ahwaz , a number of foreign engineers and technicians directing the project have fled during recent days . " We are building the base for the soldiers , and they wo n't protect us ? they do n't want to get involved , " said a foreign mechanic who left after more than a year at the site . He said a request for a night guard had been refused despite many death threats from laborers working at the site . Dutch Couple Leaving " This is like what my mother went through in Indonesia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ husband works in the oil operation . They are planning to leave because their house was stoned and they found notes on the car windshield threatening them if they did not leave by Dec. 1 . More than 100,000 foreigners have flocked to Iran since the 1973 increase in oil prices and the accelerating development  --  plans that followed . In addition to businessmen , administrative personnel , technicians and military advisers , there are many thousands of foreigners from neighboring countries filling low-paying construction jobs that did not attract enough Iranians . The Labor Ministry lists 93,000 job vacancies in the country , but the popular feeling Is that there are too many foreigners and that they have taken jobs that Iranians could fill . " Many of us feel that we could take over the jobs that Americans and Europeans have in the administration of the oil production , " said a striking ' white-collar employee at the National Iranian Oil Company here in Ahwaz . " We 're not saying that all foreigners should leave ? there are many technicians who are needed . But there is resentment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't teach us anything . They just hold oh to their lobs as long as they can . " Another Explanation Is Offered Another Iranian , who works for the company 's distribution department in Ahwaz and is not on strike , discounted these arguments . " Of course we need the foreigners , " he said . " But a lot of people at NIOC see the opportunity to get out of the sun and into an air-conditioned office . The antiforeignism has always existed . But they see that the Shah looks weak and that the foreigners are not popular with the people . So they are pressing their demands and taking advantage of the political situation . " The Government has offered the oil workers a 22 percent raise and higher housing allowances . However , the strikers are asking for an end to martial law and the release of all political prison .. ers ? demands made by the Shah 's opponents elsewhere ? and they have been intransigent on the issue of jobs held by foreigners . " We can always leave and find jobs elsewhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Far East , even Libya , " said an American engineer who arrived four weeks ago and has lounged around his hotel unable to begin work until the strike ends . " It 's the same with most of the expatriates here . " Ile said the oil companies and the Iranian Government knew this and " have to be worried that if people start leaving , they 'll have a lot of trouble getting them back . "                     