@@731037

txt Syria today made her first significant diplomatic contact with the United States in a year as Secretary of State Kissinger widened his efforts to overcome Middle East cease-fire problems and open the way to full-scale peace negotiations . IVIoham Z. Ismail , the Syrian Deputy Foreign Minister , flew from New York to Washington for an early evening meeting with Mr. Kissinger . " An important round of diplomatic discussions is under way , " said Robert J. McCloskey , the State Department spokesnian , in announcing that Mr. Kissinger was now  --  for the first time ? in direct contact with high officials of the three main warring parties  --  Egypt , Syria and Israel . Mr. Kissinger , who is scheduled to leave on a trip to the Middle East and China on Monday , was already holding discussions with the Egyptian Foreign Minister , Ismail Fahmy , and Premier Golda Meir of Israel , both of whom arrived in Washington in recent days . " We 're in a three-ring circus , " one official said . " The Secretary sees Fahmy , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'll be seeing the Syrian , " The intensified pace of the talks tended to create an atmosphere of anticipation in Washington that some major breakthrough concerning either the cease-fire dispute or the longer-range issues of peace negotiations was imminent . But a senior State Department official cautioned against expecting such developments before Mr. Kissinger starts his trip . The Administration , however , was pleased by the fact that both the Arabs and the Israelis seemed willing to accept Washington 's good offices in the search for a Middle East settlement . State Department officials reminded newsmen that whereas most Arab nations broke diplomatic relations with Washington after the June , 1967 , ArabIsraeli War , the Arabs now seemed interested in strengthening contacts . Not only has Syria decided to end her isolation from the United States , but President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt has invited ' nextKissinger to Cairo for talks ' next week . The officials assert that the diplomatic activity seems to hold the promise of fruitful negotiations , if the Israelis and Arabs can overcome the immediate on-the-ground problems arising from the disputed Oct. 22 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and talked several times with Mr. Kissinger since she arrived here Wednesday evening , has stressed that Israel would not move actively on the diplomatic front until Egypt and Syria returned Israeli prisoners of war and Egypt ended a blockade at the entrance to the Red Sea . Cairo Charges Violation The Egyptians , in turn , have accused Israel of having violated the Oct. 22 cease-fire by completing the encirclement of the Egyptian III Corps on the eastern side of the Suez Canal after the truce was supposed to have gone into effect . Mr. Sadat has refused a prisoner exchange until Israel " withdrew " to her Oct. 22 lines . Syria has shown no interest in an exchange pending a final political settlement . In the last two days Mrs. Meir has repeated Israel 's contention that no one could tell with accuracy where the Oct. 22 lines were , and that Israel preferred to negotiate a " more coherent " cease-fire line directly with the Egyptians . Her plan is to have all Israeli forces return to the eastern bank and all Egyptians to the western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yield the territory on the eastern bank that they gained at great cost . The United States has been seeking to work out a compromise formula to end the ceasefire line dispute and clear the way for formal peace negotiations . To resolve the cease-fire dispute , the United States has come up with various proposals , one official said , including establishment of a corridor to the beleaguered HI Corps . The corridor would be policed by United Nations personnel to insure that no military supplies were shipped in . Egypt and Syria were among the Arab nations that broke diplomatic relations with the United States after the 1967 war because of American aid to Israel . But while Egypt and the United States have maintained regular diplomatic contact through " interest sections " in each other 's capital , Syria has refused to exchange any diplomats . The only high-level meeting since 1967 occurred at the United Nations last year when Joseph J. Sisco , Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs , met with the Syrian Foreign Minister , Abdel Halim Khaddam . Mrs. Meir had a busy day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later with American Jewish leaders , urging their support for Israel 's needs ? primarily the military equipment she seeks to maintain a military ' edge over the Arabs . She also met with Defense Secretary James R. Schlesinger and with Mr. Kissinger again . Mr. Kissinger also held a long briefing session this afternoon with representatives of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . Among the matters discussed were the events last week that led to the one-day military-alert crisis with the Soviet Union . The meeting was an effort to smooth relations betwen the United States and its European allies that have been strained during the Middle East crisis .                     