@@733469

txt The House of Representatives will have an opportunity this week to help resolve an issue It has ducked for too long  --  the regulation of oil and gas development in the waters off shore . In the absence of Congressional direction , the coastal states and environmentalists have been pitted against the oil companies in repeated skirmishes over protection of the environment . Last year a . Federal judge canceled oil . leases in the Baltimore Canyon area off the midAtlantic coast on the ground that environmental protections were a " charade " ; he was later overruled on appeal . Now ' the State of Massachusetts and environmental groups have filed suit to block the sale of oil and gas leases in the Georges Bank area off New England until adequate environmental safeguards are established . Massachusetts wants the oil but is justifiably concerned with protecting two other important industries  --  fishing and totirism  --  that could be destroyed by a major oil spill . The . House could go a long way toward easing these fears by finally enacting new controls over energy development on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oceans could . help lessen dependence on imported oil , particularly in the energyshort Northeastern states . But development of new fields has been slowed by legitimate concerns over environmental hazards . The 1953 law now governing the Outer Continental ' Shelf is " outmoded , " according to a report issued last week by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation ; it shows " little consciousness of the need for protection of the environment . " Reform legislation has been pending in Congress for at least two years but has been blocked by parliamentary maneuvers . Last year the Senate approved a reform bill by a wide margin but the House Rules Committee , strongly lobbied by the oil industry , refused to allow floor debate in the . House . Now the Rules Committee is scheduled to ? recansider the issue , perhaps today , and Speaker O'Neill , from the ' concerned state of Massachusetts , has tentatively scheduled a floor vote for later this week . Prompt passage would enable safeguards to be in place by the'Jan. 31 date for the leasing of tracts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation seem reasonable . They would authorize the Interior Secretary to suspend drilling operations that threaten serious harm to the environment , set strict structural standards for tankers , and establish funds to compensate for losses caused by oil spills and drilling debris . States and communities would be given a significant voice in planning . The oil companies contend that these procedures would add unnecessary years to the already lengthy process of developing offshore areas , thus driving up costs . But the new law might actually speed the process by reducing the likelihood of lawsuits and environmentalist opposition . The legislation also seeks to assure the Government of an adequate return for the resources being leased away . It authorizes the Interior Department to experiment with new bidding procedures to increase competition for ? and , presumably , . revenues from-the leases . The - oil companies contend that the current bidding system , though it requires a substantial cash investment upfront , has not frozen out smaller companies . But figures from recent lease sales suggest that the major companies take most of the tracts . The Senate version @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help it estimate what.its holdings are really ' worth before putting them out for bids . The industry fears this may be a first step toward putting the Government in the oil busi7 ness . Those fears are largely speculative . The more knowledge the Government has before leasing , the better . If the legislation emerges from the Rules Committee , there will be a major floor fight over an industry-backed substitute bill and numerous amendments . Whatever the outcome on individual issues , we believe it imperative that strong environmental safeguards be put in place before pressing ahead with energy development that could devastate the productive fisheries and beaches of our coastal areas .                     