@@731358

txt House impeachment probers have presented evidence showing that President Nixon knew in advance about the political spying plans which led to the break-in of the Democratic National Committee headquarters on June 17 , 1972 . This was revealed in a legal brief which Nixon 's lawyer , James D. St. Clair , tried to file with the Judiciary Committee today . The brief argues that the staff is incorrect , and that there is no evidence to support the view that Nixon had any advance knowledge of the bugging and break-in . " During the special staff presentation of the House Committee on the Judiciary on May 9 , 1974 , " St. Clair wrote , " it Was suggested that the President was informed of the so-called Liddy plan at a meeting with H. R. Haldeman and former Atty . Gen. John N. Mitchell on April 4 , 1972 . " ONE RELIABLE committee source said the staff was " trying to show how much Haldeman and John Ehrlichman knew about the intelligence plan in order to show that if they knew , the President had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confidential information , Chairman Peter W. Rodin() Jr . D. , , N. J. refused to accept it , and he directed committee members to turn back their copies ' to SL Clair . A COPY WAS shown to The Chicago Tribune , St. Clair 's brief was designed to argue against the committee 's plan to subpena the tape of a White House conversation of April 4 , 1972 . On that day , committee investigators believ e , former Nixon aide II . R. Haldeman may have briefed the President about Liddy 's plans . Gordon Strachan , then Haldeman 's assistant , had prepared a memo for Haldeman about the ' $300,000 Intelligence gathering plan . BUT Kr . CLAIR 'S five-page letter to the committee argues that it is clear that the " talk . ing paper " referred to general intelligence gathering , not the Liddy plan . St. Clair also argued that the talking paper did not bear the notation " P " next to the sections about intelligence-gather. ing , and that all subjects discussed with Nixon were so marked . St. Clair said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge of the break-in . But the President 's lawyer contended that the available evidence makes it clear that Nixon had no advance knowledge , so no further exidence is needed . The President had maintained from the start of the Watergate scandal that Ile knew absolutely nothing of the plans for the break-in . No one has ever accused him of knowing anything about the bugging or break-in before the burglars were caught in the Watergate Building on June 17 , 1972 . So far , all accusations against the President have concerned his alleged awareness of the plot to cover up the involvement of high officials in the break-in . ST . CLAIR 'S BRIEF was revealed at the end of a long day of closed hearings in which the committee members heard their first subpenaed recording , a dictating belt of Nixon 's own version of his actions on June 20 , 1972 , just a few days after the break-in . According to one Congressman , the segment , only about 30 seconds long , concerned a telephone conversation Nixon had had earlier in the day with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President , which employed the Watergate burglars . June 20 , 1972 , also is the date of the tape conversation with the 11111 : minute gap . The committee has a copy of this tape , but the members did not hear it today . According t o committee members , the staff has been presenting a " laborious " chronology of the June 17 to June 28 period , working from three large Indexed ' volumes which contain the various testimony of key Watergate figures before the Senate Watergate committee and the special grand jury . MOST OF THE materials arc from the public record , several of the Congressmen said . Other sources said the investigators plan to call witnesses who can pin down the date and details of the " hush money " payment to H , Howard Hunt on March 21 , 1973 , including a " mystery man " who helped the special prosecutor establish the date . The payoff allegedly was made to Hunt 's lawyer about 12 hours after Nixon and his top aides talked about paying cash to the convicted Watergate conspirator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hush money payment was made Oct. 20 . The special prosecutor 's office reportedly has determined that the money was given to William 0 . Bittman , Hunt 's lawyer , by Manyon M. Millican , a former Nixon campaign aide , who delivered a plain envelope , not knowing what was inside . THE ENVELOPE containing $75,000 in cash was given to Millican , according to this account , by former campaign official Frederick R. LaRue , who has been cooperating with investigators . LaRue did not remember the exact date of the transaction , but he did remember it was the day a personal friend from out of town paid him a one-day visit . Using credit card records , investigators reportedly determined that LaRue 's friend , whose name has not been made public , was in Washington only on March 21.                     