@@728999

txt The United Arab Republic called on the United Nations today to use its powers under the Charter to bring about the withdrawal of Israeli forces from occupied Arab territory and restore peace in the Middle East . Opening the General Assembly 's first debate on the Middle East since 1967 , Foreign Minister Mahmoud Riad accused Israel of having pursued a systematic policy of territorial expansion since her inception in 1948 . He charged that the United States , by sending weapons to Israel while her troops continued to occupy Arab territory , had become an accomplice in " aggression . " The debate , which was called at Egypt 's request and which is expected to be long and bitter , is part of an attempt to mobilize the General Assembly to bring pressure on Israel to accept , without conditions , the resumption of Arab-Israeli peace talks through Dr. Gunnar V. Jarring of the United Nations . Broken Off Quickly Israel has said that she will not return to the talks , which began Aug. 25 and were broken off by Israel after two meetings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt placed in the Suez Canal area in violation of the agreement for -a standstill cease-fire . Mr. Riad explained his request for a public debate in the Assembly by saying ? that " quiet diplomacy " had failed in three years to bring about the Israeli ? withdrawal from territories seized in the war of 1967 . Between the fall of 1967 and today , the Assembly had left it to the Security Council , Dr. Jarring and the big powers to deal with the Middle Eastern problem . Foreign Minister Abba Eban of Israel , speaking at a news conference called immediately after Mr. Riad 's speech , strongly reaffirmed Israel 's position that the talks under Dr. Jarring , Secretary General Thant 's representative for the Middle East , could be resumed only if the Russian-built missiles were removed . He called Mr. Riad 's speech a " dishonorable tirade " and rejected any thought that Israel was appearing before the Assembly as the accused party . Mr. Eban said he had come not to ward off charges , but to make charges . He is scheduled to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israeli accusations that Egypt had built up a formidable missile system in the standstill zone . Under terms of the cease-fire , which began Aug. 7-8 and is to run until Nov. 5 , build-ups were prohibited in a zone 32 miles wide on each side of the canal . As a result of the debate , Egypt is understood to hope that the Assembly , where the so-called third-world countries have a majority , will go on record for immediate and unconditional resumption of the Jarring talks without mentioning the reported Egyptian cease-fire violations . An Undesired Role United Nations powers to bring about a withdrawal could range from condemnation to a call for economic sanctions to the use of force . The Israelis appear apprehensive , as Mr. Eban 's remarks seemed to indicate , that Israel will be cast in the role of the defendant while the reported violations are forgotten . This in turn would be expected to make it more difficult for the United States to withstand pressure in the meetings of the Big Four  --  the Soviet Union , Britain and France in addition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The United States has been alone among the Big Four to insist on " rectification " of the military situation created by the reported violations . In addition , the Assembly debate is an occasion for a test , of strength between Egypt and her moderate Arab allies on one side and the Arab radicals led by Algeria and the Palestinian , commandos on the other . The conflicting hopes and ) fears were reflected in the text of a draft resolution circulated behind the scenes today by moderate African countries at the request of Egypt . The draft deplored continued Israeli occupation of Arab lands . It termed any acquisition of territory by force as inadmissible and called for an immediate resumption of the Jarring talks . The draft additionally said that the " inalienable rights of the Arab people of Palestine " had to be taken into consideration . New Context Feared This document was rejected by Israel and her allies on the ground that it would put the United Nations peace efforts through Dr. Jarring into an entirely new  --  and for Israel vastly less favorable  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not accept any change in the Security Council resolution of Nov. 22 , 1967 , which has been the foundation for Dr. Jarring 's efforts . That resolution speaks about " safe and recognized boundaries " in addition to Israeli withdrawal . It allows leeway for negotia makes no reference to the Palestinians . The draft resolution was also rejected ? as too weak ? by Algerian and Palestinian officials . The Algerians and Palestinians want peace efforts to be on the basis of recognition of the Palestinians ' right to return to their homeland , much of which is now Israel .                     