@@733073

txt President Carter declared today that the nation 's present welfare system " should be scrapped and a totally new system implemented . " But the President , at a briefing for reporters , offered few details of what he Text of the Carter statement , page 34. believed a new system should entail , and he said that it could not go into effect for four years or more . At a breakfast meeting with Congressional leaders , the President said that his top priority was a balanced budget by 1981 , and he suggested that new legislative programs be subordinated to the need for fiscal restraint . Page 343 Although Administration officials have been studying the welfare issue intensely for more than three months , Mr. Carter proposed little more today in the way of specifics than he did in his campaign . Complexity Underestimated According to officials who worked on welfare policy in the White House and Cabinet departments , the President origi nally hoped to provide the public with more today than a broad statement of principles . However , they said , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The main reason that the President came forward at all today , the officials said , was to meet his self-imposed deadline , repeated often in recent months , of having a policy before the public by the first of May . Mr. Carter said that several existing and often overlapping welfare programs should be abolished and replaced by " a simple cash payment , varying in amount only to accommodate differences in the cost of living from one area to another . " A Ceiling on Costs He also said that the Government would provide incentives for the poor to work and public jobs for those who could not find private employment . The first goal , the President said , was that the new system would cost no more initially than the current one does . In one respect , one that could be especially important to the residents of New York City , Mr. Carter seemed to pull back somewhat from a campaign pledge . In his race for the Presidency , he said that he believed that the Federal Government should assume the total cost of welfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the payments made by the states . Today , Mr. Carter said only that " the // unpredictable and growing financial burden on state and local governments should he reduced as rapidly as Federal resources permit . " Analysts agree that if Washington assumes any of the welfare costs now borne by states and localities , the President 's aim of not increasing the overall cost to the Federal Government would be seriously jeopardized . New York City picks up 25 percent of the total payment to the city 's poor families with dependent children . It is one of the few places where the local government does have a significant expenditure for welfare . Mayor Beame and other city officials have said that a Federal assumption of that expenditure is essential if the city is to get back on a sound footing financially . Mr. Carter said that the existing welfare structure was " worse than we thought . " The " many separate programs , taken together , still do not constitute a rational , coherent system that is adequate and fair for all the poor , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and subject to fraud . They violate many desirable and necessary principles . " Mr. Carter said that he would send Congress specific welfare legislation the first week in August . Even if the measure can be enacted early next year , he said , " an additional three years will be required to implement the program . " The President implied , however , that it might be impossible for Congress to act next year . He said that energy legislation was his " first priority for Congress , " and other forthcoming proposals , including those that would revise the tax and Social Security laws , would have to he considered by the House Ways and Means and Senate Finance Committees , the same panels that have jurisdiction over welfare measures and most of the energy package . " I 'll have to depend on Congressional leaders to decide in which order they will address these measures , " the President said . He said that the welfare bill to be proposed in August would meet the following 12 goals : CNo higher initial cost than the present system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of every family with children where there is a person able to work . ( lIncentives for those on welfare to take jobs in the private sector . ( Public training and employment for those able to work who can not find private jobs . CA higher income for families who work than for those who do not . ( JIncentives for families to stay together . ( IA continuation of tax credits to the working poor . CIA single cash payment to replace existing welfare programs . cEasier and simpler administration . gElimination of fraud . CReduction of the financial burden on states and localities as rapidly as Federal resources permit . CILocal administration of public jobs , programs . To illustrate the illogical nature of the current welfare structure , Mr , Carter produced a series of multicolored charts . Using a wooden pointer , he showed , for instance , how the current system encouraged fathers to leave home and discouraged welfare recipients from working . Officials Answer Questions " The complexity of the system , " the President said , " is almost incomprehensible . " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Old Executive Office Building , and Joseph A. Califano Jr. , Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , and Ray Marshall , Secretary of Labor , remained to answer reporters ' questions . It was clear from their responses that , despite their efforts in recent weeks to arrive at a comprehensive policy , many crucial decisions had not been made . For instance , they said that they had not decided what level of the minimum income would he guaranteed every family , the extent to which mothers with children would he offered jobs and the degree to which welfare benefits would he reduced as earned income increased . In calculating the total cost of current welfare programs , which can not be exceeded under the President 's guidelines , the Cabinet Secretaries said that they were counting the $5.4 billion to he spent in the next fiscal year for public jobs and training and the $16 billion to he spent on aid to families with dependent children , special supplementary income and the aged , blind and disabled and food stamps . It was not clear , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such programs as unemployment compensa- , tion , Social Security , housing assistance or child care . Mr. Marshall said that the Administration would make available two million public jobs in schools , parks , hospitals and other facilities at an average cost to the Government of $5,000 per job . Unable to Work But Mr. Califano acknowledged what experts on welfare policy have maintained for years , that most people receiving Federal assistance are simply unable to work even if jobs are available . He said that , of the 11.2 million Americans now receiving basic welfare payments , all hut 700,000 were children or their mothers , and the vast majority of the 700,000 were either old or disabled . One of the critical decisions still to be made , Mr. Califano said , is how old children should be before their mothers are encouraged to work and what type of child care facilities are to be provided to working mothers . The idea of replacing food stamps , Aid to Families with Dependent Children and assistance to the aged , blind and disabled with a single cash payment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new one . President Nixon proposd such a plan in 1969 , but it faltered in Congress and was finally abandoned by the Republican Administration . Mr. Carter 's plan will differ from the Nixon Administration 's proposal , Mr. Califano said , in that the Carter system will rely to some extent on providing public jobs for the needy . The President and his Cabinet Secretaries conceded that the legislation they will send to Congress in August would be politically controversial . " Welfare reform is the Middle East of domestic politics , " Mr. Califano said .                     