@@729054

txt In completing the Polish-West German treaty . which affirms the Oder-Neisse line as Poland 's western border , Bonn has taken another long step toward the Central European settlement . The importance of the new pact is almost as great as that of the Soviet-West German treaty which preceded it . Reconciliation with Poland promises to play a catalytic role in West Germany 's projected d ? tente with the East , similar to the role that was played by reconciliation with France in Bonn 's acceptance by the West . No other country has suffered so much at Germany 's hands as Poland ? not only in World War II , but in centuries of conflict . Now that Poland has praised Chancellor Willy Brandt as an anti-Nazi and is preparing to open full-scale diplomatic relations with Bonn other Communist countries can no longer credibly invoke the West German " menace . " The opening of diplomatic relations with Czechoslovakia , after resolving differences over the Munich Pact , undoubtedly will be negotiated this winter , followed by similar talks with Hungary and Bulgaria . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and under increasing pressure to follow the rest of East Europe into improved contacts with Bonn . The Brezhnev Doctrine , proclaiming Russia 's right to intervene in neighboring Communist countries , will lose its alleged justification when the German " danger " has disappeared . Increased West German credits , trade and technology should give East Europe greater independence vis- ? - vis the Soviet Union . An obstacle to West Europe 's political union will be removed . Germany 's western neighbors have never been willing to support German irredentism or to contemplate , through political union , making West Germany 's territorial claims their own . Bonn 's new realism in calling a border a border eliminates most of this concern . Once the Soviet , Polish and other East European treaties have been ratified by the Bundestag , the way would be open for a European Security Conference that would further consolidate the territorial status quo . Negotiation of mutual and balanced force reductions by NATO and the Warsaw Pact would become a possibility . German ratification of the Polish treaty depends on how rapidly the Poles move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of ethnic Germans they have agreed could emigrate to Germany . The Polish treaty , in turn , could help Mr. Brandt obtain ratification of his treaty with the Soviet Union . There has always been more support for the Polish treaty among opposition Christian Democratic deputies than for the Soviet pact . That support is likely to be increased by the favorable terms Mr. Brandt has obtained on the ethnic German issue and in accepting the Oder-Neisse border without yielding on the Potsdam accords , the rights of the Western allies and the possibility of a peace treaty with a reunited Germany . The Brandt government has indicated that the Polish and Soviet treaties will be submitted for ratification together as a package , and perhaps the treaties with Czechoslovakia , Hungary and Bulgaria as well , if they can be negotiated in time . The timetable depends on how soon Four Power agreement can be reached on Berlin . For , unless access is improved and West Berlin 's links with West Germany accepted , the Soviet treaty  --  and perhaps all the others  --  will remain a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              