@@729204

txt The Nation Civil Rights : Dan GuravIch As in many a town , North and South , the white section of Shaw , Miss. , top , boasts storm sewers and paved streets ; the night Is turned back by new mercury vapor lamps . In the black section ( bottom ) , only a few blocks away , the streets are gravel , there are no sewers and only a single bare bulb flickers in the dark . Last week a Federal court ordered the services equalized , a decision that could have a nationwide impact . An Effort To Banish The Other Side of The Tracks ' WASHINGTON  --  Even in win . ter , there is a sense of charm and order along Porter 's Bayou in the Mississippi cotton country town of Shaw . The big homes are set off by broad lawns and shade trees . When it rains , storm sewers quickly drain off the puddles , and darkness is held at bay by a chain of new mercury vapor streetlights . Five blocks away , at -. the small home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his family , there are no trees or lawns . His street is a mosaic of gravel , mud , ruts and puddles . There is no indoor plumbing ; there are no sewers . And the night overwhelms the single bare bulb hanging from a post a quarter mile away . Almost all the homes of whites in Shaw are on paved streets . Less than halt the black homes are . All the drainage , all the traffic controls are in white areas . But now , because of a pioneering law- suit filed by Mr. Hawkins and lawyers of the N.A.A.C.P. Legal Defense and Educational Fund , Inc. , such gross disparities may be about to change . In a decision that throws open a broad new field of civil rights law , the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ruled 10 days ago that the town of Shaw must provide services on a racially equal basis to its 1,500 black and 1,000 white residents . There are many Shaws in America , North and South , in city ghettos and rural slums alike , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all of them . If it is appealed and heard by the Supreme Court , it could produce a national rule . And evert if it is not , it is certain to serve as an important precedent for similar cases elsewhere . " It could have the same importance for reforming inequalities in public services as the 1954 Brown case did in the field of education , " says Charles M. Haar , a leading land law expert who filed a brief in the case for the Harvard - M.I.T. Joint Center for Urban Studies . Even those on the other side of the issue were quick to realize the importance of the decision . William A. Allain , an Assistant Attorney General of Mississippi , said , " The rationale of this case could apply to New York , Chicago  --  any place where a municipality has not given the same services to some parts of town that it has to others , and that 's so even when there was no intent to discriminate . " Civil rights lawyers concede they have been tardy in trying to bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil rights . But in recent months their efforts have accelerated . A Federal District Court has ordered Prattville , Ala. , to equalize park and recreation facilities . A Federal Appeals Court has sternly forbidden the city of Lackawanna , N. Y. , to refuse to supply sewer and water facilities to a proposed black housing development . It found " specific authorization and continuous encouragement of racial discrimination , if not almost complete racial segregation . " And in the nation 's capital last week came perhaps the most comprehensive legal action of all , a massive suit charging that city and Federal officials have provided significantly inferior services to the large section of Washington called Anacostia . The Prattville and Lackawanna cases applied to specific issues and even the broad Shaw decision applied only to physical facilities . The Anacostia case , filed by the Urban Law Institute , a public interest law body , seeks still broader relief ? against assertedly unfair zoning , concentration of public housing , inadequate schools , trash collection , paving , police and fire protection , recreation and bus routes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collected only 4,000 cubic feet of leaves in Anacostia while collecting 28,000 in an equivalent , well-to-do area . Federal and private civil rights lawyers raise a host of questions now about still-broader extensions of the principle of equality in municipal functions . Does not Northern housing segregation fin ? , in large part , from municipal zoning policies , such as those restricting come areas to , say , one-family homes on one-acre lots ? Where neighborhoods are thus segregated , are not the inevitably segregated schools the product of municipal action ? If cities may not discriminate concerning services on the basis of race , should they not also be forbidden to discriminate on the basis of the income-level of a neighborhood ? The Anacostia case alone is likely to take long months to decide . The answers to such broader questions lie considerably further in the future . But for the moment , civil rights advocates find satisfaction in the decisive Appeals Court answer to the initial question : " Referring to a portion of town or a segment of society as being ' on the other side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ familiar expression to most Americans . ... While there may be many reasons why such areas exist in nearly all of our cities , one reason that can not be accepted is the discriminatory provision of municipal services based on ? JACK ROSENTHAL highest population density ; the second highest birth rate and the seventh highest confirmed number of narcotic addicts . Newark has a higher black population ratio ? about 55 per cent  --  than any other major Northern city . And after Mr. Gibson 's election victory last June over Hugh Addonizio , who went down under a wave of black votes and the weight of a Federal extortion conspiracy indictment , many blacks here expected to increase their political power in the city . They wanted , among other things , a controlling voice in the setting of school policies . Forty per cent of the teachers union membership is black , but to black leaders here ? such as playwright LeRoi Jones  --  the union is a major stumbling block toward achieving that goal . By week 's end , negotiations with the teachers had reached an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could break it . Mr. Gibson won election with support from both the union and from the militant blacks . How he can resolve this latest of Newark 's problems without antagonizing one or the other group remains to be seen . ? RONALD SULLIVAN                     