@@728794

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Fires in Skyscrapers To the Editor : In regard , to the Aug. 4 skyscraper blaze , it seems that there are some answers and questions on the problem of this type of fire . A fire alarm and smoke detection system should be able to signal and ? shut the fire dampers and turn off the air conditioning as well as the elevators after they have reached a floor and allowed passengers to get off . . The old building code provided for a fire tower shaft in the vestibule of one fireproof stair . This enabled a safe exit for all building occupants . Other required building stairs were , and are , fireproof in this type of building and should be the only exit from hazardous areas . Firemen should use the stairs as well . The question is , however , how does one get to and from an upper story ? All shafts and elevator shafts and doors have required fire ratings , but the elevator shafts ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which can cause a flue action if elevator doors are opened below . The fire alarm system should also signal the building engineer , who with other building personnel , should guide the evacuation of the building and insure that the air conditioning and elevators are shut off . Providing ventilation sash with handles on the exterior walls is an obvious way to get rid of smoke . With the air conditioning off , the elevators shut down and the sash strategically opened to avoid fanning the flames of the . fire , a fire could be brought under control more easily . Ventilating sash would also eliminate the need for windowwashing rigs that have in the past failed , , since all such cleaning could ' be done in ' the interior . STEPHEN . J. KAGEL Amer . Institute of Architects Chappaqua , N. Y. , Aug. 10 , 1970 ? ABM 's Deployment To the Editor : The Senate Armed , Services Committee has , paradoxically , clarified the case against ABM by refusing to approve preparations for an area defense . Without support from rationales such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suppose an area defense  --  Safeguard must stand or fall on its ability to defend Minuteman missiles . But a member of the O'Neill panel on Safeguard , Prof. Sidney Drell of the Stanford Linear Accelerator , has testified that " all analyses of which I am aware make it clear that if defense of Minuteman is the principal or sole mission of Safeguard , its further deployment can not he justified . " Indeed , five leading defense scientists ? Jerome Wiesner , Herbert York , Wolfgang Panofsky , Herbert Scoville Jr. , and Marvin Goldberger ? have all agreed that Safeguard would offer " negligible " protection even if it " functions perfectly . " It is doubtful that the Defense Department possesses a study supporting Safeguard if its sole purpose is defense of Minuteman . The Administration has thus been reduced to an interim argument for ABM as a " bargaining chip " in the SALT talks . But Safeguard was sold in 1969 and 1970 as nonprovocative . The Armed Services Committee deleted the threatening area defense components . And the United States always retains the threat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this debate upon the Senate , one year after a bruising ? tie vote , are wasting the credibility of the Administration and Defense Department . Lurching annually from one stopgap argument to another , they succeed only in perpetuating the centerpiece of the attack on the military industrial complex . The Administration would be wise not to project this perennial controversy into the SALT ? talks by calling , for an ABM around Washington . ' Unnecessary and dangerous , this ' last refuge for the ABM will not save it from the eventual defeat it so richly deserves . JEREMY J. STONE Director Federation of American Scientists Washington , Aug. 4 , 1970 ? Early Transit Pensions To the Editor : I have been an employe of the New York City Transit Authority for almost thirty years . I have been reading the statements of Richard Ottinger , Eugene Nickerson and those of some of our lesser political figures , who seemingly feel that by castigating William Ronan and the T. A. they can enhance their political future . These are the same political people who oppose the Taylor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to strike ) , and any other measure which would protect the public against the stopping of essential services by striking civil service employes . Had the administration and the Transit Authority been in a position to bargain honestly , they would never have signed the clause in the last contract which included overtime pay in figuring a man 's retirement . Because of this , many motormen , conductors , and top maintenance employes have been able to retire at the end of twenty years with almost $10 , - 000 a year and more . One can not blame them for retiring early and leaving the Transit Authority with unqualified men to run and maintain the system  --  the main reason , in my opinion , for every one of our unfortunate accidents . Employes can not be blamed for retiring after twenty years of service , in view of the generous pension benefits . This will make the present situation even worse . WILLIAM MAZOFF Elmont , L. I. , Aug. 4 , 1970 ? Pets in Projects To the Editor : The Bide-A-Wee Home Association , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has long been concerned over the prohibition on pets in New York City housing projects . However , over the years there has been some relaxing of this regulation . Many individuals and families have adopted pets from Bide-A-Wee Home on individual understandings with Housing Authority superintendents that they would be allowed to keep the animals . In Many instances , dogs were adopted by elderly or single persons as watchdogs to prevent recurring burglaries . It has now been brought to our attention by the Pet Owners ' Protective Association that the New York City Housing Authority intends to enforce this prohibition without exception . This not only means.that families will be separated from cherished pets on pain of eviction , but it also means that the surplus animal population of New York will further swell . For nearly seventy years Bide-A-Wee has operated on the principle , " We never destroy an animal unless incurably ill . " With our limited facilities and with the ratio of the surplus animal population in New York City to all existing animal care facilities , this action on the part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alleviate a significant citywide problem . We think it would behoove the New York City Housing Authority to review all aspects of this anti-pet regulation  --  morale of the tenant , the good of the animal and the city 's problem of stray animals . ? RICHARD F. L. CARLSON Acting Executive Director New York , July 31 , 1970 ? States ' Road Programs To the Editor : When the United States embarked on construction of the Interstate Highway System in 1956 the Highway Trust Fund was established to assure an orderly flow of funds to meet the substantial Federal commitment to this huge project and to the regular Federal aid ' highway program . I believe there is general agreement that the fund has performed this function well . With the interstate system now more than 70 per cent complete , there is considerable discussion about future Federal highway programs and what will become of the trust fund . In hearings before the Senate roads subcommittee there were varying suggestions , ranging from abandonment of the trust fund to retaining it essentially in its present form . The most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transportation trust fund . Experience with interstate construction over the past fourteen years shows that the 90 per cent Federal participation has been a strong lure for state highway departments , and there has been a corresponding neglect of other highway needs in the nation . For this reason I believe that in the post-interstate period we should adopt a single matching ratio for all types of LEGACY Tarquinia These stilled dancers do not lie . Flat on stucco , under cypress , Sunk beneath a casual sky , You would not think that they could Offer anything that still holds good , Not now  --  remote from this mad race Of abstracts we are governed by . And yet behind the cracked facades , In scrupulous delight , Surviving dust , the bones and sherds , They dance the moment 's truth , As if still just beginning , Caught in rapt immediacy , Offering the gifts of youth . And though our rabid abstracts Teach us to despise their sense ? Naive to the mind 's cold Triumph over singleness ? These telling witnesses Persist in their impulsive Gestures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Homage to the essence , To the truths of sense . CHRISTOPHER HAMPTON highway construction and give the states considerable freedom in deciding ? for themselves where to spend their money . I have never maintained ' ari inflexible attitude toward the . Highway Trust Fund . I do not believe , however , that it can be altered substantially until the existing commitment to complete the interstate system is met . This is now expected by 1977 , and I intend to propose legislation establishing a firm cut-off date for 90 per cent Federal funds for interstate roads . I am also exploring with " Transportation Secretary John A. Volpe the possibility that several high-cost urban free- ' ways that are in controversy can be dropped from the inter- : , state system at an estimated saving of about $4 billion . Secretary Volpe , incidentally , ' was unfairly criticized in your ; July 29 editorial which accused , him of being timid in promoting change in transportation financ- , ing . He has been one of the leading advocates of a transportation trust fund in addition to providing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The uses of the Highwdy : Trust Fund already have been ? broadened beyond what they , were in. 1956 . Some of these changes resulted from changing philosophies in ' highway transportation . I anticipate that there will be further proposals this year to finance other activities . front the trust fund , including what you call my " modest meas. , ure " to help support public transportation systems . JENNINGS RANDOLPH Washington , July 30 , 1970 The writer , U.S. Senator front . West Virginia , is chairman , of , the Committee on Public Works : : ? Capital Confusion To the Editor : C. L. Sulzberger 's " conversation " with " Senator Jefferson ? ' . in Paris in The Times , July 22 , revealed certain confusions quite . apparent in Washington recently . The doves of Vietnam , are indeed the hawks of Israel , loudly berating those who prat-f tice caution in the Mideast . Those Senators who call loud- : est for aid to Israel simultaneously insist on massive redUc2 tions in defense spending , elimination of ABM , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bleed for . the Greek . exile and the CaM- : bodian peasant are noticeably quiet about the Czechoslovak , student and the North Vietnamese refugee . Maybe more such " conversa-. : tions " as Mr. Sulzberger 's are . necessary to erase some of Washington 's " confusion . " ' ? . " TALIVALDIS I. SMITS ' Hyattsville , Md , July 24 , 1970 ' ? Police on Grass To the Editor : " -I . Is there a special dispensa'z ' tion granted members of the ; Police Department wantonly .. tht ? cruise across lawns in public " parks ? This is being done tong - tinuously in Central Park to the detriment of the lawns . The average motorist is heavily fined for far less serious infractions against the law . - ALICE BRADFORD " New York , Aug. 5 , 1970                     