@@733646

txt President Carter has sent his second strong signal to the Russians in two weeks that if they want a strategic arms limitation treaty they had better stop roiling international waters . The Soviets ' involvement in Africa with Cuban troops is " a major obstacle to trust on the part of the American people that the Soviets want peace and want to have a successful d ? - tente effort , " Mr. Carter told editors from the Hispanic media here May 12 in comment released the next day . In Spokane , Washington , May 5 , President Carter had harshly condemned Soviet intervention in Africa as a " danger to nurturing U.S.-Soviet relations , " adding that Secretary of State Cyrus Vance had so informed them when he was in Moscow last month . Mr. Vance is believed to have brought back word from Moscow that the two superpowers are nearing a new SALT agreement ? a critical effort to put a limit on the global nuclear arms race . But the agreement , in the form of a treaty , must get a two-thirds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next year , it is believed , after the election . Ratification looks difficult ; and failure of ratification might have devastating effect on U.S.-Soviet relations . Back in February the Communist newspaper Pravda said SALT talks were stalled on important points including a new American cruise missile and weapons modernization . It warned the Carter administration against trying to use the threat of Senate rejection of a treaty to obtain concessions from Moscow . Since then , Panama Canal treaty ratification barely squeaked through the suspicious Senate , with only one extra vote over the constitutional two-thirds majority ratification requirement . A SALT three-year weapons moratorium with technical terms would require something close to an act of faith by the man in the street . it is noted here . Whether President Carter could evoke enough of that faith from the public to push through a vote of two-thirds of the Senate remains to be seen . Mr. Carter has increasingly warned Moscow of the adverse effect on public opinion of its use of Cuban troops in Africa , particularly in what seems to be an effort to outflank the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 Carter to Moscow : stop Cuban moves The Soviets got a nudge from the other side of the three-way big power triangle when spokesmen in Communist China said they were not satisfied with Moscow 's apology for an incursion over the long Soviet-Chinese border . China indicated it would let the matter rest for the moment , but a Chinese newspaper was allowed to print the opinion that war was ultimately inevitable . How badly Moscow wants a SALT agreement is in dispute here . Mr. Carter in any event is taking a sharper line in warning against provocation acts in Africa . There are presently around 40,000 Cuban troops in Angola and Ethiopia , Defense and State Department officials estimate . More recently , attention has turned to South Yemen , which sits at the mouth of the Red Sea and the Suez Canal-Indian Ocean oil route . Several hundred Cuban military " advisers " are there , it is reported . Here is what President Carter is saying about Cuban troops : To representatives of the Hispanic media : " Cuban troops are completely aligned with the Soviets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlement of disputes that are inevitable in Africa , and that is an obstacle to any further progress between us and Cuba . " The Soviet involvement in Africa , he said , is " a major obstacle to trust on the part of the American people that the Soviets want peace , and want to have a successful d  --  tente effort . " In his Spokane speech , Mr. Carter lashed out at Moscow 's use of Cuban mercenaries and its intervention in Africa . He said the Soviet Union would never achieve permanent Communist influence in Africa because of its " innate racism toward black people . " He stopped short of direct linkage of SALT talks with Soviet adventurism , but expressed resentment and told a crowd " the Soviets know how deeply I feel about this . "                     