@@730246

txt President Nikolai V. Podgorny of the Soviet Union arrived in Calcutta today on an undisclosed mission to . Hanoi . North Viet Nam 's capital . Diplomatic sources in Moscow speculated the journey was part of a Russian move to achieve a Viet Nam peace settlement , a followup to President Nixon 's Moscow summit talks last month . The sources conceded they had no hard facts , United Press International reported from Moscow that sources there said " the trip may be an attempt to counter Chinese action and seek men ? sures " to bring an end to_the the Viet Nam conflict . ) " The Viet Nam problem should be immediately solved , " Podgorny said thru an interpreter at Calcutta 's airport . " America should cease bombing . The United States should leave Viet Nam . " Moscow made no advance announcement of his travel plans . The first confirmation came when Podgorny debarked from a Soviet aircraft in Calcutta for Nikolai Podgorny what was announced as a onehour stopover . A Soviet Embassy spokesman said ? later Podgorny delayed his departure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common interest . " Ziegler said he expected no major announcements at the end of Kissinger 's discussions . However , he said , Kissinger " does n't go there to discuss routine matters . " The press secretary declined to list what subjects Kissinger would bring up , but indicated Viet Nam would be a principal topic . The date of the Kissinger trip was decided upon in the last 10 days , Ziegler said . He denied that the timing of the visit was prompted by a statement this week by the Chinese foreign ministry that American bombing raids near the Chinese border constituted a threat to China 's security . Ziegler also denied any connection between the trip and the present visit by Soviet President . Mole ' Podgorny to Hanoi . Kissinger discussed the trip with Japanese leaders on his visit to Tokyo last week . The Japanese were offended last year with what they described as the " Nixon shocks "  --  the announcements without prior consultation of Nixon 's China trip and new economic policies . First Stop In Hawaii Kissinger will leave Washington : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Hawaii . He will leave Hawaii Sunday , make a refueling stop in Guam , and arrive In Shanghai at 5 p. m. local time next Monday . He will fly directly back to Washington June 23 . Alfred Jenkins , the State Department 's China desk officer , will accompany . Kissinger . Jenkins was on the Presidential trip to China . Kissinger will take five of his staff members : John Holdridge and Winston Lord , China experts ; Navy Comdr . Jonathan Howe ; John N. Negroponte ; and Richard H. Solomon . Zeigler said Kissinger will meet with Premier Chou En-lai and members of the foreign ministry . He said he did not know whether Kissinger might also meet with Chairman Mao Tse-tung . Rumors that Mao is ill have circulated recently . 4th Trip to China This will be Kissinger 's fourth visit to mainland China . He made a secret trip to Peking last July to complete arrangements for the President 's visit in February . Kissinger returned , to China last October as head of the American advance team , and accompanied Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of State William Rogers discussed the forthcoming China trip today at a White House meeting . ' The meeting centered on the Strategic Arms Limitations Treaty with Russia , now before Congress . The White House announced that Rogers will attend the South-East Asia Treaty Organization meeting in Canberra , Mistral 's , June 27 and 28 . Ziegler said Rogers will brief American allies on the China and Moscow summit talks .                     