@@731712

txt New and conspicuous diplomatic tension seems to be building between the United States and Israel in advance of the next round of negotiations with Egypt over the Sinai Peninsula . The tension has been reflected in the public and private remarks of officials in both countries . It is a result more of anticipated conflicts between the two countries than of any specific problem that has developed so far . But even this anticipation is being taken seriously by both sides . In background conversations in the last two weeks , senior officials in Washington and Jerusalem expressed concern that a serious collision of interests might emerge between the United States and Israel when hard bargaining over Sinai gets under way with Egypt . Preliminary contacts toward a new Sinai agreement have already begun through Secretary of State Kissinger . Detailed negotiations are expected to start next month or in February . An initial Sinai agreement was reached between Israel and Egypt early this year and resulted in a disengagement of forces on the Suez front . A second-stage agreement is under consideration now . Reduced to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials is as follows : Th6 United States , concerned about the possibility of renewed fighting in the Middle East , the imposition of another oil embargo and resulting economic chaos , is expected to press Israel to agree to significant territorial and political concessions . In a White House meeting two weeks ago , President Ford reportedly warned the Israeli Deputy Premier and Foreign Minister , Yigal Allon , that another oil embargo would be a " disaster " for the West . He is also quoted by officials here as having tol ? l Mr. Alton flatly that Israeli 's opening proposal for the negotiations is " unattainable " and that she would have to settle for considerably less . Finally , according to officials here , Mr. Ford stressed that in the American view , political movement was crucial to peace in the Middle East and Israel would have to help achieve it . Israel , by contrast , is said to feel that major concessions to Egypt at this point would serve only to whet the Arab appetite for further Israeli withdrawals and hasten war rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buy time in the upcoming negotiations . Premier Yitzhak Rabin has conceded this publicly , explaining that Israel " needs time to recuperate . " Specifically , the Israelis want time to complete rebuilding and retraining their army , which suffered major losses in equipment and manpower in the war with the Arabs last year . The first and most crucial phase of this process is expected to end by April , when emergency arms deliveries from the United States will be completed . In the longer term , Israel is eager to buy time until the world energy situation stabilizes and oil becomes less use- , ful as a weapon for the Arab states . In addition , the Israelis are aware that the United States will hold a Presidential election in 1976 , and that at such times their political strength In Washington is usually enhanced . For all these reasons , the Israeli strategy is to use the negotiations to buy breathing space . They are prepared to make concessions to achieve this , but it Is doubtful that the concessions they have in mind would be adequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the negotiations offered an Israeli withdrawal of up to 30 miles from the present ceasefire line , except from the strategically important Mitla and Gidi Passes and the captured Egyptian oil wells at Abu Rudeis . Israel asked for a variety of political concessions from Egypt in exchange , including pledges to end the economic and political boycott of Israel and a longterm undertaking to stay out of any war started by another state in the area . ' Egypt promptly rejected these conditions . American officials said privately in Washington last week that they were the United States will urge Israel to offer presumably more palatable proposals to the Egyptians before the scheduled arrival in Cairo next month of Leonid I. Brezhnev , the Soviet first visit to liminary , Israeli-Egyptian negotiations by then to persuade the Egyptian President , Anwar elSadat , that it would be in his best interest to continue with the step-by-step approach of Secretary Kissinger . The alternative would be a return to the suspended Arab-1 Israeli peace conference at ! Geneva , where the United States and the Soviet Union are cochairmen . Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American negOtiating effort , if not kill it altogether . Officials say it also would erode the new prestige of the United States in the Arab world and would enhance that of the Soviet Union . Mr. Allon is scheduled to visit Washington again on Jan. 11 . One possible area of compromise , in the opinion of observers here , involves the oil wells at Abu Rudeis . It is felt that Israel may be willing to give them up in return for financial assistance from the United States and assurances of continued oil supplies from other sources . In a lecture he delivered at . Tel Aviv University tonight . Mr .. Allon outlined the principles that he said Israel would seek to have included in a secand stage agreement with Egypt . The agreement must , he said , constitute " an additional and meaningful step toward peace , " and Israeli forces must retain " strong strategic lines " in Sinai . The agreement must be accompanied , he said , by " mutual and international security arrangements based on stable and effective demilitarization . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are important to Egypt as an incentive to Cairo to continue along the path of negotiations toward peace , " and that the agreement should be succeeded by a " controlled cease-fire " until a new agreement can be concluded : , It was the first time any Israeli official had specifically listed ingredients that Israel would require in a new agreement . Nonetheless , the formula that Mr. Allon proposed tonight still left open the crucial territorial issue . Communist leader , his party Egypt . The officials interviewed in Washington made it clear that they regarded the Brezhnev visit as crucial in the negotiatunrealistic. ing process . They said they hoped that enough progress It seems likely , therefore , that would be achieved in the pre-                     