@@732833

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 17 Letters to the Editor Of Utilities Earnings and Rate Hikes The Young Debtors To the Editor : I was disturbed by the linked editorials in The Times for Nov. 20 relating to rate-increase applications by both the New York Telephone and Consolidated Edison Companies . The earnings level of A.T . &T.,; " sole stockholders of New York Telephone , " is hardly an indicator of the adequacy of the rate of return of the latter company . To say that customers of other subsidiaries in different states should make up for deficiencies in New York earnings is manifestly unfair . Similarly , to refer to the earnings of the parent company in absolute terms is unrealistic since this ignores the need for the parent A.T . &T.; to increase its capitalization to make funds available for investment in its operating subsidiaries . Balanced capitalization and adequate earnings are essential to preserve the quality ratings of New York Telephone bonds to minimize interest costs , which affect rates . With regard to Consolidated Edison , I query the statement that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place for profitability among the twelve largest electric utilities . A highly regarded tabulation of utility rates of return shows Con Ed as having ( at 7.9 percent ) the next-to-lowest rate of return on capitalization of these companies . The two companies with a lower rate of return have both recently received massive rate increases . I am also concerned about encouraging the New Jersey concept of Needless Trapping To the Editor : The editorial in your Nov. 27 edition called a trap a trap . The torture of the leghold trap has been aptly compared to having a car door slammed on one 's hand and remaining closed , possibly for several days . A less-known side effect of trapping is that two " trash " animals are killed for every fur bearer . " Trash " animals consist of such species as fawns , squirrels , owls , eagles and household pets . I have personally released two dogs from traps on separate occasions . I have also seen at the Pleasant Valley Sanctuary in Lenox , Mass. , a beaver who had amputated both his front legs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representative Glenn Anderson 's bill to prevent interstate shipment of inhumane traps because it would improve existing conditions . 1 disagree , however , that there can be such a thing as a humane trap when the object is to catch and kill an animal for its fur . I have never heard of trappers eating their mink , skunks , foxes or muskrats , and we certainly do not need Affirmative Action : To the Editor : In supporting affirmative action in employment , Theodore St. Antoine reminds us ( Op-Ed Nov. 26 that the Constitution nowhere requires a colorblind approach but does guarantee " equal protection of the laws " for all American citizens . Moreover , " The mandate of equal treatment . . . presupposes equal status of circumstances . " Accordingly , it may be both necessary and constitutional to require " specified numerical goals in hiring minority group members and women , " depending " upon a comparative assessment of the current status of minorities , women and white males . " These views not only apply to employment but to higher education as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association for Equal Opportunity in Higher Education ( black college presidents ) , which holds that far from banning special efforts for the higher education of minorities , the Civil Rights Act of 1964 actually requires such special efforts in order to secure the constitutional rights of minorities . They thus strike at the heart of the case against affirmative action which has been made so eloquently by Professors Glazer , Moynihan and Dunlop of Harvard , and others . In holding to the so-called color-blind and singlestandard doctrines , these scholars are advocating the continued exclusion and under-representation of minorities and women . As Harvard Professor Kenneth Galbraith has pointed out in another connection , this position " is not in the slightest measure ameliorated by its being advanced by men who , once liberal , have ... been made conservatives by retaining a fixed position in the face of the ineluctable march of evidence and events . " Finally , it must be observed that the problem of scarcity considerably exacerbates the struggle for equality , justice and fairness . There are not using a subvention from a utility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the duty of the staff of a state Public Utilities Commission to analyze for the commission members the justification for a utility rare increase . Certainly . there should be no objection to a P.U.C. 's hiring outside experts to fill out any deficiencies in its staff , and a case might be made for reimbursement of such expenses by the utility . However . I shudder at the thought of inviting zealots into the decisionmaking process by creating an independent " Public Advocate " to hire staff , with the concomitant empirebuilding . It would place a premium on generating funds by forcing a utility to come back time and again to secure relief  --  and paying a toll to the " Public Advocate " each time . And , lastly , for those who would encourage Government involvement , I would draw attention to the situation in New York City in the 1930 's when the subway fare was 5 cents and the B.M.T. paid dividends out of profits . Today the fare is 50 cents , and the subways do not even make out-ofpocket expenses . I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both New York Telephone and Consolidated Edison in holding down rates provides a rather sterling comparison . DWIGHT C. BAUM Senior Vice President Blyth Eastman Dillon and Co . Los Angeles , Dec. 1 , 1976 their fur . Modern insulated clothing is warmer , lighter in weight , more durable and less expensive . People who wear real fur remind me of the warder in a World War II concentration camp who made lamp shades from the skin of her victims . BINA Rocixsox Swain , N. Y. , Nov. 29 , 1976 The Modern Hunt To the Editor : It is difficult for me to reconcile Donald P. Cande 's quasi-metaphysical concept of hunting and the hunter as expressed in his Nov. 29 Op-Ed article with the substance of a news item that appeared in The Times of the previous day : " The modern fox hunt takes place from an aircraft cockpit instead of a saddle . With ski-equipped light planes , hunters in South Dakota , it is estimated , killed 20.000 foxes in the winter of 1971-72 . Many farmers objected that the slaughter was upsetting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rodents . " Just another thought to increase the richness of Mr. Cande 's grandson . RAY STRUGLIA New York , Nov. 29 , 1976 The Fair Share enough jobs for everyone . There are not enough places in professional schools for everyone who wishes to attend . But as Roy Wilkins has said , " All we want is our fair share . " And fairness requires that neither scarcity nor the preferences of white males nor constitutional legal doctrine should abrogate the rights of women and minorities in fields where there has been a practice and pattern of discrimination against them . ANDREW BILLINGSLEY President , Morgan State University Baltimore , Dec. 6 , 1976 To the Editor : After having pondered just how to respond to Mr. St. Antoine 's Nov. 26 Op-Ed article concerning the " heroism " of affirmative action , I decided reason should prevail in my response rather than the hostility that this so-called " heroism " calls forth . Being a white male and having been discriminated against , I find Mr. St. Antoine 's cavalier attitude irksome . There is no heroism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or any other white male . These bureaucrats who have decided ex post facto justice will purge the national conscience do n't have to make the sacrifice . If these same " heroes " had to give up 20 to 30 percent of their votes to their opposing minority candidates they might see what I mean . This also holds true for Dean St. Antoine , who is beyond the grasp of affirmative action . There is something very wrong when one 's individual liberty and ambition are so easily wrested from hint To suggest that color or sex be considered a qualifier is absurd . I do n't mind biting the bullet but the speed of this one makes it difficult . THOMAS J. CARMODY Mahopac , N. Y. , Nov. 29 , 1976 To the Editor : John Vogel 's Dec. 2 letter fails to focus on the causes of increasing bankruptcies among students  --  namely , their inability to find suitable work for which they have been trained in order to be able to discharge their financial obligations ( which are , in many cases , guaranteed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the field of bankruptcy and corporate reorganization , I am not surprised at the increasS . Harmon ing number of student bankruptcies . Are they any different from consumer or corporate bankruptcies , which have increased as the economic times have worsened ? Is the student who borrows money for his education under a greater obligation than the corporation that borrows money for expansion and then can not survive ? I do not condone what Mr. Vogel characterizes as an " evasion " of one 's obligations , but I would not characterize the unemployed student with a heavy debt as one who is " trying to rip off the so-called Establishment . " Instead , he is in all likelihood honest but unemployed and unable to find work . If at all possible , repayment plans should be worked out . The Bankruptcy Act , however , was designed to aid honest debtors faced with heavy burdens . Provisions exist in the act to deal with fraudulent and dishonest debtors . In the meantime . when our country can not provide employment for all those who seek it ( and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find work and who are nut even counted in the unemployment statistics ) , Mr. Vogel should heed the words of Circuit Judge Goldberg , who said : " The Bankruptcy Act was intended to be a sturdy bridge over financially troubled waters by means of which the honest but unfortunate debtor may reach a new opportunity in life and a clear field for future effort , unhampered by the pressure and discouragement of pre-existing debt . " MARTIN I. KLEIN New York , Dec. 3 , 1976 Unwanted Babies To the Editor : May we congratulate The Times for its front-page article on Nov. 26 regarding the plight of babies and young children who should not be in the city hospitals . The sad fact of the matter , not expressly stated in the article , is that one of the major departments dealing with residential services for handicapped children , the Department of Mental Hygiene , has renounced its responsibility with regard to such children . Its non-expressed policy is not to accept mentally retarded babies . By some impossible stretch of logic , this is attached to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mental Hygiene would assume its rightful responsibility with regard to mentally retarded children now in the city hospitals , most of them would not be where they can not get developmental services . This is but another indication of the paralysis of the huge bureaucracy of the Department of Mental Hygiene , chained to a system of decision-making where the buck stops nowhere . Each director of a Developmental Center can decide for himself whom he will accept and whom he will not . Certainly it is more difficult to deal with severely mentally retarded babies and young children , but what hope is there for them if the one state agency set up for that purpose does not carry out its responsibility ? Editorial Dec. 7 . JOSEPH T. WEINGOLD Executive Director , New York State Association for Retarded Children New York , Nov. 30 , 1976 ? Low-Rate ' Taxi Ride To the Editor : Last night my guest from Japan experienced an outrage that has been all too frequently recorded in your columns : the rip-off by taxi drivers . ' I have a solution to suggest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the East Side Terminal to go to Gramercy Park . Upon arrival , the cab driver asked him for $10 . Fortunately , I was there and asked the driver what his meter read . He said he had not put down his meter flag because he wanted " to give this visitor from overseas the benefit of a low rate , " I threatened to call the police . He settled for a total of . $2 , which is more than the usual amount . Now for the solution : All air lines should be obliged to have their stewardesses announce over the loudspeaker just before each plane approaches New York airports that " all taxis have meters , and the amount the passenger is to pay must not be more than the meter registers plus a tip of approximately 15 percent . " DAVID S. LIPSON New York , Nov. 30 , 197e                     