@@734252

txt Top White House officials are taking three new steps aimed at increasing supplies of diesel fuel and thus averting a nationwide work stoppage by independent truckers scheduled for midnight , June 20 , the Monitor has learned . These measures , however , could result in tighter gasoline supplies in the " trade-off " for more diesel , a top White House official said . This official said the Carter administration most likely will not give truckers higher priority in allocating diesel fuel . Thus , truckers would not receive the same allocation priority as farmers , who have first priority to dwindled supplies of diesel . Some independent truckers have demanded this move . White House sources say these are the steps that will be taken to increase diesel : // 1 ? 1 1 From page 1 Diesel for truckers could pinch gas supply ? Increasing direct imports of " middle distillate " diesel , some of which comes from Caribbean-based refiners . ? " Trying as an overall measure to increase the amount of refinery runs , " one White House official said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now , he said , and the Carter administration is bringing pressure to bear on the oil companies to achieve a higher percentage of operating capacity . ? Seeing that , " of these refinery runs , a larger fraction of middle distillates is refined . " It is this step that will mean " there may be some trade-offs " ? that more diesel will be refined at the expense of less gasoline . In the past week , work stoppages by as many as half of the nation 's roughly 100,000 independent truckers have resulted in more and more shipments of fresh food and other commodities not reaching market , according to estimates by Mac Vernon , spokesman for the30,000-member Independent Truckers Association ( ITA ) . Now , another group representing a segment of independents , the Fraternal Association of Steel Haulers , says it will order its members to go off the job midnight June 20 unless more diesel fuel becomes available at a price that will not bankrupt truckers . Asked specifically if the new measures by the Carter administration to increase the availability of diesel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be enough to curtail the work stoppages and avert further ones , Mr. Vernon said : " If they sweeten that to make sure the fuel cost problem is taken care of . . . . " Independent truckers recently flatly rejected as too small a 5.6 percent surcharge that the Interstate Commerce Commission ordered trucking firms to pay independent " owner operators " who work for them .                     