@@731970

txt For nearly 15 years , the Navy has been using specially equipped electronic submarines to spy at times inside the three-mile limit of the Soviet Union and other nations . The highly classified missions  --  codenamed Holystone  --  have been credited by supporters with supplying vital information on the configuration , capabilities , noise patterns , and missile-firing abilities of the Soviet submarine fleet . It is not known how many men and submarines have been involved in the underseas spying , but at one paint in the early 1970s , at . least four such ships were known to be In operation . CRITICS OF the program ? who include past and present members of the National Security Council , State Department , Navy and Central Intelligence Agency  --  argue that much of the intelligence gathered by the submarines can be obtained thru other means such as satellites , which are far less provocative and less vulnerable to Soviet interception . The . critics also question whether such intelligence operations have any place in the current atmosphere of detente between the United States and the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed to discuss the operation in the hope of forcing changes in how intelligence was collected and used by the government . ALL THE sources agreed that the Soviet Union was aware of the Holy-stone program , altho perhaps not specifically of Ivhen and where the boats were on patrol . Adding to the objections to the missions raised by the critics according to many former high-level government officials interviewed , has been the number of accidents and near-misses involving the submarines . Examples : ? Two known collisions with Soviet submarines . ? The grounding , and eventual escape , of a Holystone submarine within the three-mile limit off the east coast of the Soviet Union , ? The accidental sinking of a North Vietnamese minesweeper by a submarine on patrol in the Gulf of Tonkin during the Viet Nam War . ? The damaging of Holystone submarine that surfaced underneath a Soviet ship in the midst of a Soviet fleet naval exercise . Despite a search by the Soviet vessels , the submarine , which suffered damage to its conning tower , escaped . FURTHERMORE , many former officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's overall intelligence reconnaissance programs and their control . Thus far these do not seem to be a major factor in the congressional select committees ' investigation of intelligence operations . It could not be learned how often penetration inside the three-mile limit was made , nor could it be learned whether such penetration needed special clearance . All the sources agreed , however , that Holystone missions had repeatedly violated the territorial waters of the Soviet Union and other nations . ONE SOURCE said that the submarines were able to plug into Soviet land communication cables strewn across the ocean bottom and thus were able to intercept high-level military messages . As outlined by the sources , Holystone was authorized in the early 1960s , and its reconnaissance operations were placed by Secretary of Defense Robert S. under the direct control of the chief of naval operations , the four-star admiral who heads the Navy . Control over the program apparently was tightened after North Korea seized the U.S. spy ship Pueblo in 1998 , sources said . Now , the schedule of Holystone missions must be approved every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ panel headed by Secretary of State Henry Kissinger . NAVY SOURCES familiar with the program said that Holystone involved a minimum of cost because the Navy used nuclear-powered basic attack submarines of the Sturgeon , or 637 Class , and simply added more electronic gear and a special unit from the National Security Agency to turn the attack submarine into a reconnaissance vessel . TILE NATIONAL Security Agency , with headquarters at Fort Meade ; Md. , near Washington , is the major source for intelligence and interception communications . It also is in charge of developing unbreakable codes for electronic transmission and breaking the codes of other nations . A highly secret NSA unit was abroad the Pueblo when it was captured . The program still is under the direct control of the Naval Intelligence Command . There is no sign of that office in the published Pentagon phone directory , nor is its chief operational officer , Capt . Jack B. Richard , listed . The Navy has set up a sepa ? rate channel for recruiting the seamen for the Holystone missions , according to men involved in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an intelligence summary of the program was made available every Thursday in the chief of n a v a I operations briefing theater on the fourth floor of the Pentagon . One participant recalled that the Holystone missions were discussed after the regular Wet ligence briefing for high-ranking admirals and the top Navy civilian officials . The lights were dimmed and slides were used to show where the missions were on station , the source said . The participant recalled seeing close-up photos of Soviet submarines that had been talc-'in by a HolystOne vessel . One former government intelligence official recalled a Holystone briefing in the mid-1960s in which he and others were shown photos of the underside of an E-Class Soviet submarine that appeared to be taken inside Vladisvostok harbor , a main Soviet submarine port . " ON THAT same mission , " the official recalled , " the Holy lystonel submarine scraped the bottom of one of the E-Class submarines and knocked off some of its equipment . " He recalled that someone asked during the briefing whether that had been the only such incident , and was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other times . " On March 31 , 1971 , according to a copy of a CIA memorandum made available to The New York Times , another Holy stone collision involving a Soviet sub took place .                     