@@734299

txt Defense Secretary Harold Brown has emerged as a highly effective witness for the new SALT treaty , holding his own at a time when many expected the momentum to shift in favor of critics of the pact . Mr. Brown 's finest accomplishment to date , in the view of his supporters , has been to fly virtually unscathed through a barrage of questions fired at him like high-explosive missiles by SALT critics on the Senate Armed Services Committee . The Defense Secretary was the lead witness before the committee when it opened its hearings on SALT July 23 and returned for a second day of testimony July 24 . The Armed Services Committee has been much more critical of the new treaty on strategic arms than was the Senate Foreign Relations Committee before which Mr. Brown testified last week . One leading SALT critic , former arms-control official John Lehman , acknowledged toward the end of the Armed Services Committee 's first day of hearings that Mr. Brown is " probably the best , most credible witness the administration has . " // From page 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SALT treaty did not appear to score many points on substantive issues , and a request by one of the leading critics ; Sen. Henry M. Jackson ( D ) of Washington , for secret , high-level military memos on the treaty has so far failed to shake or embarrass the administration . Air . Force Gen. David Jones , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , said he would recommend against complying with such a request on the grounds that it would set a precedent ' which might hamper future strategic planning . Senator Jackson has been seeking to show that the private recommendations of the - chiefs of staff will reveal that the Carter administration 's moves in negotiating the SALT treaty ran counter . to the advice of the country 's highest military officers . In testimony before the Armed Services Committee , however , the chiefs continued to maintain that the treaty amounted to a modest but useful step . " ... I can assure you that no one has directed us what to say , " General Jones told the committee . " I 've received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the current concern being expressed by other members of the Armed Services Committee seems to be aimed at determining the strength of President Carter 's commitment to new weapons programs . Some members are giving the impression that if that commitment is strong then they will vote for the SALT treaty . This has been the impression created by the chairman of thecommittee , the influential Sen. John C. Stennis ( D ) of Mississippi . In response to questions from the Armed ? Services Committee , Secretary Brown said on July 24 that the administration will make the key decision on how to base the new MX missile within a matter of weeks . Some critics have been maintaining , even at this late stage , that President Carter is not really committed to building and deploying the new missile . There were other favorable developments for the administration as it enterec  --  its second week of congressional hearings on SALT : First there was the attitude of Sen. Barry M. Goldwater ( R ) of Arizona . The Senator said secret testimony on the administration 's capability to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty had satisfied some of his doubts on this issue . ? In a breakfast meeting with reporters on July 24 , however , Senator Jackson said this " verification " issue was still one of great concern to the general public . Also on the positive side for the administration was the attitude being taken by Malcolm Toon , the outgoing US Ambassador - in Moscow . Mr. Toon , whose position on SALT had been cast in doubt by reports that he was critical of the treaty , has begun setting the record straight . He is currently in the United States giving lectures to promote the treaty . " I 'm satisfied that the treaty is verifiable , " Mr. Toon told a reporter for the ABC television network .                     