@@729616

txt Two Canadian cabinet ministers hurried to Washington and spent two hours with their American counterparts today in an urgent but unsuccessful effort to gain an exemption from the 10 per cent surtax on imports imposed Sunday by President Nixon . Finance Minister Edgar J. Benson told newsmen after the session that Treasury Secretary John Connally had given no promise except to consider the arguments put forward by the Canadians . Bensen and five other Canadian officials  --  I n eluding Jean-Luc Pepin , minister of industry , trade and commerce ? met with four Americans including , in addition to Connally , Commerce Secretary Maurice Stens ; Paul Volcker , undersecretary of treasury for monetary affairs ; and Nathaniel Samuel s , undersecretary of state for economic affairs . Benson said Canada will stay In touch with the United States because a decision is needed very soon . " The situation is very acute , " he said . He would not place a deadline on the decision nor had he discussed retaliatory measures , he said . The Canadians argued , Benson said , that 70 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that Canada is America 's biggest customer , that the two economies are highly integrated , and that the surtax would , in effect , retard growth of Canada 's secondary industry thus depriving the U. S. of markets in that industry 's development . Argues Against Penalty He also argued , Benson said , that Canada had already taken the steps Nixon 's internationally oriented measures had intended to stimulate and that therefore Canada should not be penalized . These included a Canadian dollar whose Value had floated since last year , the absence of currency barriers with the U. S. , and the speeding up of tariff reductions envisaged by the Kennedy round . The results of the talks were foreshadowed by Connally this morning in a television interview where he had indicated little sympathy for the Canadian position , noting that when Canada had imposed such a tax in 1902 it had refused a U. S. request for exemption . Benson today said the U. S. did not request one . Autos Not a Problem Connally indicated during the talks , Benson said , that the 1965 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufactured just above the border would not be allowed to become a problem between the two nations . ' Ike Canadians were preceded by a Mexican delegation headed by Minister of Industry and Commerce Carlos Torres-Manzo , who saw State Department officials , and also intended to see Connally in order to seek an exemption .                     