@@732648

txt Thomas A. Payne 's doctor says Payne was near death . Payne puts it another way . " The Grim Reaper was cutting the grasi ? at my feet the rather night , " he said , reflecting on how he barely escaped dying from a baffling illness ' that has killed 22 of his fellow American Legionnaires . , ? It will be several days before Payne , 47 , a telephone cotnpimy employe , can . leave his fourth-floor room in the Chambersburg Hospital , 45 miles southwest of Harrisburg , the state capital . A sign remains on the door of Payne 's room warning " Strict Isolation  --  Visitors Report to . Nurse 's Station Before Entering Room . " ' LIKE MOST of the victims . Payne felt fine when he left Chambersburg July 21 to attend the Legion 's annual convention in Philadelphia . " I was caught up in the excitement and spirit at the convention , " he told a small group of masked and gowned reporters around his bed Wednesday . Not until July 25 , the clay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symptoms . " I just felt Huey . Every joint was aching  --  my - knees , my wrists , my shoul-. ders . " BUT PAYNE went to work Monday . " I made the day ; " he said . Tuesday he was admitted to the six-story community hospital complaining of chills , fever , and diarrhea . By Saturday Payne 's fever had begun . a steep climb and reached 107.4 degrees by midnight as doctors administered massive doses of antibiotics and fought the fever by wrapping Payne in a refrigerated blanket . " I never saw anything like it before , and I 've been practicing family medicine since 1937 , " said Payne 's physician , Dr. Stuart W. Dittmar . As one of the near-dead , Payne especially-interested a task force of disease investigators Who had fanned . out across Pennsylvania in an intensive . search for . clues to the cause of the explosive . ONE OF THEM , Dr. Stephen Thacker , was at Payne 's bedside Wednesday . " I 've been to see five victims today , " said Thacker , 28 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Control 's elite corps of epidemiologists last week and found himself five days later in the midst of one of the most mysterious disease outbreaks in recent American hiktory . " These patients have been for the most part very ill , " Thacker said . " Those who are ill naturally are quite scared . - They know people and have friends , some of whom have died . " " Some good friends of mine have died , I understand , " Payne.said as he lay on his hospital bed , one arm behind his head , an intravenous tube connected to the other arm , PAYNE SMILED wanly as he answered Thacker 's questions . Where had he dined ? What did he eat ? Which hospitality suite had he attended ? When did he arrive ? When did he leave ? The same questions were being asked of scores of patients across the state in a canvassing blitz that federal and state health officials hope will lead them to the cause of the mystery epidemic before it can spread . Payne said he lives on the outskirts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foothills . Thacker asked him if he has had any contact with pigs . This question reflects the haunting concern that swine-type influenza  --  which broke out earlier this year at Ft . Dix . NA  --  could be implicated , though it . will not be known whether any type of influenza is involved until laboratory test results become available , possibly on Thursday . PAYNE 's CONDITION was listed as fair Wednesday . and his doctors believe he is out of danger . Mother survivor of the Legion mystery illness , Donald W Newman . 57. of Chambersburg , is recovering in the room next to Payne 's . Charles Chamberlain . 48 , a fellow Legionnaire admitted to the hospital jhe day after Payne . died Friday . Reflecting on his survival and the crowd of visitors Wednesday , Payne said he hopes the attention given his case will ' bring more light on what is happening . " For Thacker . the day was far from over . lc was up at 6 a.m. after only four hours of steep to join other investigators in . the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harrisburg only 24 hours earlier , and spent Tuesday on the telephone gathering names of victims on a large ruled sheet  --  the " line Thomas Payne talks to Dr. Stephen listing , " in epidemiology parlance  --  to guide him and other investigators in the Wednesday survey . It was a baptism of fire for the young physician . An epidemic this mysterious and of these proportions is unlikely to recur during the remainder of Thacker 's two-year tour of- duty with the federal Center for Disease Control . " This is , I think , a fortunate way to start , " Thacker said . Then he qualified his statement : " I do n't want to seem glib about the seriousness of this disease , though . "                     