@@731488

txt With events rapidly undercutting his stated determination to spend the early days of his Presidency on domestic matters , President Ford found himself mired in sticky foreign problems today , ranging from the fighting on Cyprus and maintaining peace in the middle East to assuring the Soviets of continued friendship . His schedule was suddenly so top-heavy with foreign affairs that White House press secretary Jerald F. terHorst told reporters that the promise to name a Vice President by the end of the week might not be kept . " There might possibly be a change in plans for the Vice Presidential announcement , " said terHorst , " brought about by the time he is having to spend on the Cyprus situation . " HE HAS indicated that the time he had hoped to spend today on reflecting on the matter has been preempted by the time he is spending on Cyprus . " He refused to rule out an announcement by the end of the week , however . Ford met this morning with Secretary of State Henry Kissinger , who kept him up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the situation by phone with the Br it i s h foreign minister . James Callaghan , and later , in a separate call , discussed it with British Prime Minister Harold Wilson . Ford 's advisers are pushing NATO Ambassador Donald Rumsfeld as replacement for White House Chief of Staff Alexander Haig . Page 2 . It will take from two to five years to drive inflation down to acceptable levels , TreasurySecretary William E. Simon says . Page 2 . He also held his first meeting as President with Soviet Ambassador Anatoly Dobrynin , who delivered a personal note from Soviet General Secretary Leonid Brezhnev . Ford hosted a small " working lunch " in the White House residence for Egyptian Foreign Minister Ismail Fahmi . At mid-morning , in a joint communique also released in Tokyo , the White House announced that Ford has accept . ed an invitation to visit Japan later this year . THE VISIT , which would be the first ever made by an American President to Japan , is not expected before late November or early December . Despite the heavy ' emphasis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did meet with Sen. Russell Long ID. , La.1 , chairman of the Senate Finance Committee , who promised he would try to have a trade bill and a health bill at the White House for Ford 's signature before the end of this Congress . THE NEW President also met several times with Donald Rumsfeld , the coordinator of his transition team . Runisfeld is exnected to return to his post as NATO ambassador within the next few weeks , terHorst said . Representatives of the nation 's governors and the nation 's mayors met separately with Ford late today , with both groups telling reporters how pleased they were with the sessions . Mayor Tom Bradley of Los Angeles said that Ford not only expressed an understanding of the problems of the cities but a desire to do something about them . " We said we wanted to talk lo someone high in his administration and he said . ' Start with nor . " ' reported Bradley . MAYOR Joseph Allot ? of San Francisco said Ford prene. , cd there would be a representative of the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told Ford that they were so concerned about inflation that they would agree to forego some federal funds if given an opportunity to help structure the federal budget .                     