@@730628

txt Although last-minute work on the immensely complicated Vietnam peace agreement continues , the agreement is likely to be initialed and thus to come into force some time next week , and in any case by Feb. 3 , the annual festival known as Tet of the lunar new year . Not all of Saigon 's objections have been ironed out , according to informed sources here . But President Thieu appears to have basically given his assent to the peace agreement , the text of which constitutes the size of a thick book , including a large number of implementing protocols . ( One source says 25 protocols , another says 15 to 17 . ) The initialing of the agreement , which in October was scheduled to take place in Hanoi , will now probably take place between presidential adviser Henry A. Kissinger and Hanoi 's Politburo member Le Duc Tho here in Paris , informed sources state . The formal signature , by all four parties to the conflict  --  Washington and Hanoi , Saigon and the Viet Cong ? can take place later , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war , and other provisions of the agreement will come into effect with the initialing of the agreement . The two South Vietnamese sides , Saigon and the Viet Cong , are understood to be still haggling over the exact location of the zones of control each administration is to exercise and of the military teams ensuring observance of the cease-fire . Exchanges relayed Since neither side will talk directly with the other before the cease-fire comes into effect , Hanoi speaks for the Viet Cong and Washington for Saigon . But this is a laborious and time-consuming procedure , since even small matters , such as how to notify local commanders of the cease-fire , have to be referred back and forth through the experts meeting here on these questions to Saigon or Viet Cong representatives here and thence to the military commands of both sides . Saigon is understood to have agreed to make certain ports available for the resupply of Viet Cong-administered areas , but it has insisted on taking out any language in the agreement or protocols which could be construed to mean that the Viet Cong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the regions will be referred to as " zones of stationing . " // *A peace pact by Feb. 3 ? // The agreement provides for free movement of people throughout South Vietnam , but Saigon is said to be resisting suggestions that goods destined for Viet Cong-controlled areas be allowed to move through Saigon-controlled territory . There appears to be an argument in Saigon itself as to whether an economic blockade of Viet-Cong-controlled areas is desirable ? opponents of the blockade arguing that this will simply cause the Viet Cong to continue to rely on clandestine methods of resupply across porous frontiers instead of operating recognized and verifiable points of entry and lines of communication . There is general recognition that control of the cease-fire can not be perfect and that both sides will continually be charging violation of one article or another by the other side . Role for council In this situation , the functioning of the tripartite National Council of Reconciliation and Concord ( which is to conduct nationwide elections and to watch over the implementation of the peace agreement ) could play a crucial role . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one-third of Viet Cong representatives , and the remaining third to be chosen by both sides . If the members of this third group simply split up into pro-Saigon and pro-Viet Cong groups , as appears to be Saigon 's present hope , the council as a whole will be deadlocked and useless . But it the third group finds it is possible to exert some real influence on the situation by acting as a genuine third force , it could conceivably sway public opinion in South Vietnam and world opinion outside sufficiently to cause both Saigon and the Viet Cong to give a heed . This is the hope of a number of highly competent and well-regarded Vietnamese who identify themselves neither with Saigon nor with the Viet Cong , and it remains to be proved .                     