@@732470

txt Surrounded by phalanxes of bodyguards and a mixed force of security troops , 90 members of the Lebanese Parliament met today in a makeshift session and in 20 minutes unanimously approved an amendment to the Constitution to make possible the selection - of a successor to President Suleiman Franjieh before his term ends in September . The deputies met under the looming shadow of the Syrian Army , which early yesterday moved a force of tanks three miles into Lebanese territory in an apparent step to reinforce its demands for a political resolution of the year-old civil war that has pitted leftist Moslems and Christians against rightist Christians . Franjieh Allies Attend In a surprise move , Mr. Franjieh , a crusty 65-year-old Christian chieftain , sent a handful of his own Parliamentary allies to the special session . Mr. Franjieh has a month to sign the amendment before it automatically becomes law . but Interior Minister Camille Chamoun , a leading right-wing Christian , predicted that the head of state would affix his signature to the amendment in five days . The 10-day cease-fire that was called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the key demands of Moslem leftists  --  will expire Monday , but it is expected to be continued to allow Parliament to select a new president in a relatively calm atmosphere . President a Christian In the tradition of Lebanon 's distribution of power among the country 's many religions and sects , the President must be a Christian . The Prime Minister is a Moslem . The atmosphere at the Versailles-style Esseily mansion , situated in no man 's land between Christian and Moslem quarters of this divided city , was evocative of a gathering of mutually suspicious gangland chiefs . Jittery Christian and Moslem leaders drew up to the yellowish two-story structure , framed with wilted bougainvillea , in sleek Cadillacs , Buicks and Mercedes-Benzes , accompanied or followed by gunmen toting assault rifles , submachine guns and grenade launchers . At the end of the hurried session a single shot fired in the air nearly resulted in a shootout between the two sides and several fracases erupted as deputies ' cars screeched away from the building , but the fact that the session actually took place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it 's the first step in the 100-mile journey , " declared Saeb Salam , a former Prime Minister who was one of the few deputies who took time to speak to reporters before leaving the scene . " Its good companionship shows that the Lebanese will refuse partition , division or anything of that kind . " Brig . Gen. Abdel Aziz al-Ahdab , the Beirut garrison commander who on March 11 proclaimed a " coup " against Mr. Franjieh , was nominally in charge of the security detail around the mansion , and appeared briefly with a grenade on one hip , a Colt pistol on the other and a rhinoceros-tail swagger stick under one armpit . Two World War II Panhard armored cars and a British Staghound light tank guarded the hurried passage of the deputies from their heavily protected automobiles past a sniper 's zone and into the highceiling mansion , erected early this century by a Greek Orthodox cotton magnate . Armed Men Protect Deputies Pierre Gemayel , the ramrodstiff leader of the right-wing Phalangist Party , arrived in a red Range-Rover bearing British license plates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A leftist deputy from Tripoli was virtually covered by gunmen , and when his Citroen sped away two men carrying grenade launchers leaped on the back of the car and obtained footholds through open windows . Only 75 chairs had been put out in the main room of the mansion , and the surprise appearance of 90 of the 98 living deputies obliged some to stand while voting for the amendment to Article 73 of the Constitution , which stipulates that the 99 member body elect a President one to two months before the end of his term . Following General Ahdab 's so-called coup on March 11 , 66 deputies signed a petition demanding Mr. Franiieh 's resignation , but the President . supported by Syria , insisted that his departure take place in a Constitutional manner . Kemal Jumblat , the leftist leader who hopes to emerge as a presidential kingmaker , did not attend the session , but he was widely expected to extend a shaky 10-day truce that expires Monday to permit the electoral campaign to unfold in a fairly calm atmosphere . In addition to Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edde , a moderate Christian leader who aspires to succeed Mr. Franjieh but who has irritated Damascus in the past by criticizing what he once called Syria 's " mandate " over Lebanon . The Syrians are reported to favor the candidacy of Elias Sarkis , the discreet head of the Central Bank , who lost to Mr. Franjieh in 1970 by a 50 to 49 vote . Syria has subjected Mr. Jumblat and his Palestinian allies to considerable pressure to abandon military attacks against the faltering forces of the Christian right , and yesterday regular Syrian forces seized the Lebanese border post at Masnaa as a warning to both leftists and rightists that continued political bickering could lead to a military takeover of Lebanon . Syrian Tanks on Border Today , about 40 Soviet-de-1 signed T-54 tanks of the Syrian Army were seen dug into posi tions in the sloping hills around the Masnaa crossing , which lies three miles inside Lebanese territory . Firsthand accounts said Syrian officers made no effort to disguise the fact that they had entered Lebanese territory , but they did not permit photographs to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Masnaa crossing point , according to one visitor . In the nearby village of Qab Elias , where the renegade deserter force known as the Lebanese Arab Army has its headquarters , one tank reportedly stood guard , but there was no atmosphere of tension . ' There is little doubt but that the battle - hardened Syrian Army could push through the Bekaa Valley , which is occupied by the deserter force , Palestinian guerrillas and soldiers of the Palestine Liberation and munitions to leftist and Palestinian forces . Guerrillas in the uniforms of the Damascus-run As Saiqa organization appear to have firm control of Beirut 's airport . Others are dug in at a key crossroads south of the airport and there have been reports that still others are policing the leftist-dominated port towns of Saida and Tripoli . A highly placed Arab informant reported that the Syrian military high command had met earlier this week and decided that the Syrian Army had to move into Lebanon in a show of force or else abandon the political quagmire here altogether . Failure to bring real peace to Lebanon would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Arab world and , as the taking of Masnaa demonstrated , he appeared willing to risk a conceivable Israeli response in order to succeed here . So far , however , neither Israel nor the United States has displayed much concern over Syria 's mounting presence in Lebanon . Many Lebanese believe that the United States tacitly approves Mr. Assad 's moves here . Syria Said to Back Talks Though Syria is widely labeled as a " leftist " Arab state , many American analysts privately consider Mr. Assad 's Government to be interested in a negotiated settlement of the Middle East conflict . Mr. Assad has pointedly not joined ranks with the so-called , " rejection front of Palestinian organizations , which are backed by Iraq and Libya in opposing a negotiated settlement with Israel . In Lebanon , the As Saia. q guerrillas have clashed with leftist guerrillas . Today , L. Dean Brown , the special American envoy , lunched with  --  a recently arrived French mediator , Georges Gorse , and an informed Western diplomat said they had agreed . on . the situation here . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered to be supporting Mr. Assad 's position here . The French and American mediators are reported to have put some pressure on the Christian leadership to get in line with the so-called " Syrian initiative , " underscoring the point that they can expect no rescue from the West . At the same time , Mr. Brown , who appears to have established a good relationship with Mr. Jumblat , ls , thought to have made it clear to the leftiat'thatj pursuit of a military solution in Lebanon would be , as one informant put it " full of all sorts of possible consequences . " Syria 's steadily growing weight in Lebanon is expected to have considerable influence on the outcome of the presidential race , which will begin as soon as President Franjieh signs the amendment adopted by Parliament . Gunmen roamed the streets of Beirut in strength today , and there was occasional sniping along the capital 's confrontation line . The only major clash was an apparent attack by Christian Phalangist gunmen on a truck belonging to the Palestine Liberation Army , which drove into territory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ source , a Palestinian major and a private were killed , and six Palestinians were wounded . Army , and be in Beirut short order . But the taking of the Masnaa crossing appeared to be largely psychological pressure or , as one Palestinian put it , " blackmail . " The Government of President Hafez-al Assad has deeply committed itself to resolving the Lebanese civil war and , though Syria has armed a variety of factions in the struggle it has reportedly imposed an embargo now on shipments of weapons ,                     