@@731255

txt MAYOR DALEY yesterday told Gov . Walker , without naming him , to keep his nose out of the primary races in Cook County legislative districts and criticized Walker for ignoring Lt. Gov . Neil Hartigan for more than a year . Ald. Thomas Keane 31st ) , Daley 's City Council floor leader , echoed the mayor 's sentiments as the Daley-Walker feud continued to sizzle at a pep meeting for ward and township Democratic leaders in the La Salle Hotel . Daley , after receiving an ovation lasting 4 to 5 minutes , said Tuesday 's primary elections would see the nomination of the Democratic legislative incumbents from the county and " we wo n't allow anyone to come in and tell us who we should elect to those offices . " " VIE PEOPLE In the legislative districts know their representatives and have the right to select them , " Daley said . Both statements were obvious references to Walker 's cam , paign to elect " a second Democrat " in numerous districts , a drive seen by the organization as an attempted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the meeting , is backing candidates for state central committeemen in Tuesday 's election over organization candidates but " not on their records but there again on the various personalities . " , Keane said the headlines on Wednesday should say , " Walker and his policies rejected , " because the governor 's slate of 32 independent candidates ( it also has five organization candidates on it will be soundly defeated . SEN . STEVENSON D. , Ill. , the object of some sharp gibes , last week at the first of the meetings , which he did not attend , was booed by some persons when he rose to talk yesterday . A recent newspaper article quoted him as saying he did n't think Daley would seek a sixth term next year . WALKER AND Hartigan have been at odds since they won the 1972 primary as survivors of separate governor-lieutenant governor slates . Daley said that when Hartigan and Walker were elected in November of hat year , " we all thought he 'd be a lieutenant governor .. . but he 's had to carry on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lieutenant governor has no duties except those provided by the governor and legislature and Walker has not taken Hartigan into his counsel or given him much to do . Daley , introducing Keane as a man who has been hit hard by the news media , like himself , did not mention the current controversy involving real estate and insurance tests taken by two of his sons . But the mayor wondered aloud whether Walker is really a member , of the Democratic Party , indicating continued apparent bitterness over the leaking of details involving the sons ' state tests and the primary challenges .                     