@@732575

txt The Supreme Court refused without comment today to review the court-ordered plan for desegregating Boston 's public schools ? a ' - plan that requires substantial busing and that President Ford has repeatedly criticized . No Justice recorded a dissent . The action means that the plan ordered by Federal Judge W. Arthur Garrity Jr . just over a year ago remains in effect . It also means that the final legal judgment in the case ? technically , the judgment that the court declined today to review ? is the decision of last Jan. 14 in which the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit unanimously endorsed the ruling of Judge Garrity . Political Implications It may have political implications as well , particularly for Mr. Ford . The Boston school case took on national significance , in part because of the violence that accompanied it and the open resistance by whites to court orders , a reaction that many , in the North at least , had considered more typical of the South . Mr. Ford made Boston something of a focus for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ H. Levi , tentatively decided early in May to intervene before the Supreme Court in the Boston case on the side of antibusing forces . Mr. Levi did this while following what the White House later disclosed to be a Presidential directive to look for a test case to ask the Supreme Court to reconsider busing . The Attorney General reversed his decision two weeks ago , after strong protests from civil rights ? groups . The White House did not make the initial disclosure of , thee Attorney General 's consideration of the busing issue . ' But in the days that followed the.disclosge  --  days of impending:primary battles ? Mr. Ford singled out Judge Garrity as an example of a Federal judge who had gone too far . Mr. Ford also disclosed at // that time that his Administration was working on legislation that would seek to limit the use of busing on school cases . Civil rights leaders met with Mr. Ford today to urge him to abandon plans for such legislation . A central thesis of the legislation  --  and a thesis that Mr. Levi had planned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . rejected by the First Circuit appeals court in the decision that the Supreme Court left standing today . This is the thesis that a judge , In issuing a desegregation plan , after.having found illegal segregation , should ascertain the extent ? to which official action caused the existing segregation and limit the remedy to eliminating only that amount of segregation and no more . Court Precedents Voted " Although the theory possesses some surface plausibility , the Supreme Court precedents Clearly establish that the district court was correct " in rejecting this , the appeals court said. , . The " remedial principles " of the ' Supreme Court 's earlier school cases , the appeals court went on , " do not tolerate anything less than insuring the effects of constitutional violations are eliminated . " The appeals court noted later : " The Supreme Court has tacitly recognized the impotence of a remedy designed only to eliminate the demonstrable effects of past official conduct . : While de jure segregation may not have been established at each and every school in a system , ' common sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supports the conclusion that effects of the proven discriminatory actions pervade the school system as a whole . " " Unconstitutional desegregation is defined not only by percentages but also by community and administrative attitudes , " it continued . " To require a district court to preserve intact every scrap of segregated education that can somehow be separated from governmental causation is to involve the Federal courts in planning continued segregation and in perpetuating the community and administrative attitudes and psychological effects which desegregation should assuage . " Reasons for Declining When the Supreme Court declines to review a lower court decision , thus leaving that decision in effect , it Goes not mean that the high court approves the lower court ruling . Four Justices must vote to review a case before it can be accepted . There can be several reasons for declining a case  --  the issues are insignificant , the record is ambiguous , the lower court decision is not on its face unacceptable , or even a tactical reasons on the part of some Justices , who want a certain type of fact pattern before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to review a number of lower . court school integration plans . Many experts had predicted that the Court would also decline the Boston case ? because it seemed consistent with earlier Supreme Court decisions and because the basic 1971 ruling allowing busing as a remedy was a unanimous decision , written by Chief Justice Warren E. Burger .                     