@@729640

txt Six bombs exploded in downtown Belfast today within minutes ' of- one another , injuring 39 persons , and wrecking the headquarters of the governing Unionist party . The explosions occurred as office-workers were beginning their lunch break , and the entire center ? of the city was thrown into confusion as ambulances and fire engines converged on the bombed buildings . Officials feared that the bombings , attributed to the outlawed Irish Republican Army , could mark the beginning of a new phase of activity against civilians . In New York , Joe Cahill , ' leader of the militant " provisional " wing ' of the Irish Republican Army , who was detained when he arrived for ? a fund-raising tour ' of the United States , was - held in custody pending a hearing next Tuesday on the revocation of his visa . Details on Page , 8 . In only one case was there a telephoned warning , but by the time the anonymous call was received two bombs had exploded in a multistory parking garage , wrecking scores of cars and causing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the first bomb exploded outside the front door of the Unionist party headquarters , devastating the ground-floor offices . In March a bomb blew out all the building 's windows . Two weeks ago another bomb planted there failed to explode . There were no political figures in the building today when the bomb exploded , although it is frequented by Cabinet ministers . Three minutes later the three other bombs exploded in quick succession , driving panicstricken workers from a recently , opened office building near the City . Hall . The injured , mostly suffering from shock and cuts from ' flying glass , were taken to two city hospitals , but all were released after treatment except . one man who had been trapped in his car at the bombed garage . Later many stores and offices received hoax bomb warnings by telephone . The police believe the purpose of the calls was to cause panic . But as well as confusion there was anger . At the Belfast shipyards , where most of the , 10,000 workers are Protestants , 1 , trade union leaders had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against what are considered inadequate security precautions . British soldiers patrolled the streets in armored cars , but ' security at key buildings is minimal during the day because the Irish RepublicanArmy has usually struck ' at night . Prime Minister Brian Faulkner said in a statement that the bombings were " the . action of subhuman animals . " He ' called on the people to show their determination not to submit to ' terrorism , by joining one of the part-time security ' Forces . In Dublin , Premier John Lynch sharply condemned the bombings . The Irish Republic leader , said that no Irishman " with the least claim to ideals or principles , no Irishman with the least shred of Christianity or sanity , can justify or condone the maiming or the killing of innocent people . " He expressed sympathy with the families and friends of those injured . It was thought in political circles here tonight that there Lwould be considerable pressure Ion Mr. Faulkner to tighten security . Repeated bombings contributed to the downfall of two'Prime Ministers in the past 18 months and Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to agree to the formation of a third security force , preferably under the command of the Ulster Government . The creation of such a force is unacceptable to Roman Catholics , but the demand from Mr. Faulkner 's own party members for some new initiative will be hard to resist . The bombings were assumed to be the work of the " Provisional " wing of the Irish Republican Army , which has claimed responsibility for most of the recent bombings , including the daylight attack on the offices of the Northern Ireland Electricity Board a week ago . One man was ' killed in that attack and 85 persons were injured . The Provisionals , or " Provos , " broke away from the regular Irish Republican Army , or " officials , " two years ago because they disagreed with the emphasis on political rather than military action . The official movement had almost abandoned violence for Marxist political action , and during con , frontations with Protestants in Belfast in August , 1969 , the Roman Catholic Community was virtually defenseless . The formal break came in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Provos " have obtained weapons and ammunition with money from bank raids and from collections at home and abroad . They have been largely responsible for expanding the war against the British Army ; and in Belfast . have successfully challenged , the officials for leadership in most of the Catholic areas . The ideological differences of the two groups occasionally break out in gun battles , one of which is believed to have been instigated by British Secret Service agents .                     