@@731911

txt Government . reinforcements engaged insurgents in hand-to-hand fighting Monday in a desperate but futile effort to save the vital highway linking Phnom Penh to its airport as rebel advance elements penetrated the outskirts of the capital . Field reports said insurgents had driven government defenders out of a marketplace astride Route 3 , cutting off Phnom Penh from Pochentong Airport , four miles to the west and the encircled city 's only lifeline to the outside . It appeared that the final battle for Phnom Penh was under way . REBELS PUNCHED into the western and northwestern edges of the capital , burning refugee camps and sending thousands of terrified civilians fleeing into Phnom Penh on foot , ox carts , and motorbikes . The government airlifted reinforcements into the airfield to join more than 1,000 defenders trying to hold a line along the embankments of a railroad running beside Route 3 , and close-quarter combat was reported . There also were reports of a substantial force of Communist-led Khmer ' Rouge in Samrong village , a mile north of the airport . It was reported that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a battle was going on 500 yards from the - Pochentong Market , three miles from the capital . Camb od i a n reporters returning from the scene said the fighting was heavy . ONE REPORT said that north of the city , less than five miles from its edge , the rebels had raised their flag on factories along Highway 5 . Radio Phnom Penh later s a id the Communists also broke thru the , outer defense line on the nothern perimeter and fought to within " several hundred " yards of the French e m b a s s y in the heart of Phnom Penh . Single-engine bombers of the Cambodian Air Force tried to stop the insurgent advance a half mile north of the road linking the airport with the city five miles away . ? THE ' PLANES flew in low , trying to drop their bombs precisely on target . The explosions and black clouds of smoke formed a backdrop for a steady stream of refugees flowing out of the dirt side roads and jamming the main road into the city . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noon , and , in radio broadcasts , told the people to remain calm . Telegraph and telephone communications to the outside world were still open , but one of the transmission stations west of the city went dead after it came under attack and its staff fled . WHEN THE curfew began at noon , people were still walking and riding in apparent calm along the boulevards of Phnom Penh , in contrast to the scenes of flight on the roads around the airport a few miles west of the city . The refugees said they had not seen the insurgents but had fled as the shelling and bombing came closer to them . There were unconfirmed reports that insurgent infiltrators , some in uniform , had ac ' tually entered the city . This correspondent , driving thru the market of Pochentong Town , only three miles west of the edge of the capital , saw three soldiers in insurgent dress ? black cotton shirts and trousers , red checkered neck scarves , and ammunition bandoliers across their chests ? and carrying Chinese AK-47 rifles . They were doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vicinity did not ap pear frightened . THE ATTACK seemed to be coming almost entirely from the west and northwest of the city , altho insurgents encircle the city . It was the closest the enemy had come to Phnom Penh in the five years of war here . Government lines had not crumpled , but some soldiers were clearly giving up ' . One pilot was among them . A few minutes after 10 a. m. a T-21 fighter-bomber swooped over the headquarters of the military in the center of the capital and dropped two bombs directly on it . The bombs fell on a transport office , killing seven person , and wounding many others . The pilot , identified by the government as Cap . Khieu Yos Savath , presumably flew , off to land in insurgent territory . PRINCE NORODOM Sihanouk gave his strongest indication yet he would withdraw from public life after the fall of Phnom Penh in an interview with Radio Europe Monday in Paris . Sihanouk , speaking from his Peking residence-in-exile , said he was not a Coinmunist and he would clash with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him to power . " After victory , I seriously believe I will retire . " I AM NOT a Khmer Rouge , I am not a Communist , and I do not understand Communism , but the Khmer Rouge have always recognized me as Cambodian chief of state , " he said . " They the Khmer Rouge have made'me president of the Cambodian Popular Resistance ... but that does not mean that I can see any role for myself after victory , " he said . The prince 's role in the new Cambodia has been the sub ject of intense speculation as his forces close in around the capital . Altho he is titular head of the Khmer Rouge and the Royal Government of National Union the prince has acknowledged that there were very few " Sihanoukists " in either .                     