@@732622

txt Pollee were reported Monday to have been told that an informant heard three men conspiring to kidnap children in the area of Chowchilla , scene of the abduction of 26 children and a school bus driver . Authorities searching for the three kidnapers of the children and driver who were found unharmed last Friday were advised that a San Quentin Prison informant apparently disclosed that in 1975 he heard three inmates plotting to carry out the kidnaping and keep the children in caves . One of the three wanted revenge against a small community in Madera County , where Chowchilla is located , the informant said . However , a check of records of those sentenced to state prison in Madera County failed to provide any names to match the informant 's descriptions . In an alert distributed to police throughout the state the man was described as about 35 years old , weighing 150 pounds , and having a receding hairline and scars on his jaw . ANOTHER SUSPECT was Identified by the informant as 6 feet 2 inches tall and weighing about 220 pounds . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The third man was said to be about 35 years old , 6 feet tall , with jet black hair . He was said to be from Raymond , Cal. , which is in Madera County 30 miles northeast of Chowchilla . Meanwhile , investigators turned to computers in efforts to translate new clues , license plate numbers , and composite drawings into the names of the three gunmen . LIn Washington , Atty . Gen. Edward H. Levi said he is seeking facts to give the FBI jurisdiction to resume a full investigation of the kidnaping . The FBI quickly entered the case but withdrew after it was found the children had been taken to an abandoned quarry without crossing a state line . However , two FBI agents have remained to maintain liaison with local investigators . POLICE DISCLOSED they have found clothing , notebooks , and shoes of the children and their driver , Frank Ray , along a road near Saratoga , Cal. , about 50 miles southwest of where the kidnaping victims were found . Three members of the Audubon Society found a plastic suitcase and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police , who went to the scene and found a tarpaulin containing the articles , which also included towels , newspapers , and computer printout paper . Trousers and an identification card belonging to Ray were found in the same area . All the items were being checked for fingerprints . " There 's a lot of brainstorming going on , " said Alameda County Sheriff 's Lt. An artists conception of the buried trailer used to im- mattresses and duo throuoh dirt oiled on the entrance prison bus driver and 26 children from Chowchilla . Frank shaft . They then moved wood and steel covering to Flay , the driver , and two of the older children stacked effect their escape Friday evening . Clayton Patton . " It 's not like you see on television . Most of the work is being done over the telephones and with computers . ' " Everything we are working on is borderline , " he added . ' Our leads are too good to discount , but not good enough to go on alone . " WE 'VE BEEN GETTING a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far as I know we do n't have a suspect identified at this time . " " We have a gut feeling that we are getting closer , " Sheriff Ed Bates said during the weekend as the children and the driver were reunited with their families . And Jack Baugh , criminal - division chief for the sheriff 's office , predicted that authorities would be able to identify at least one of the abductors by Tuesday . Baugh said there was a " good possibility " that one of the three men pictured in photographs sent to Madera County on Sunday was involved in the mass kidnaping . But Bates said he would not show the kidnap victims the photos until he could get more photos of possible suspects to make a fair " lineup . " MEANWHILE , investigators said a man in Sonora , 65 miles northeast of the kidnap scene , provided information that pinpointed where possible kidnap suspects were on specific dates last year . They also revealed the license numbers of two vans believed used by the kidnapers to transport their captives to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The abduction occurred Thursday as the children were being bused home from summer school . They were hidden underground in an old moving van buried at the quarry .. They managed to dig their way out Friday night . A statewide all-points bulletin has been out several days for tluee men believed traveling in two vans , , one white and one green .                     