@@732619

txt America  --  meet jimmy carter . A ho-hum Democratic convention has all but completed its work . Peers of the Democratic Party who formerly opposed him now endorse him . The party tailored its platform to his measurements . Delegates waited eagerly to hear and confirm his choice of running mate . Not in modern times with a new leader has the party found itself so united , though expressions of uncertainty occasionally surfaced ( off the record ) in Madison Square Garden . This completes Phase II of one of the most dazzling party coups in the history of the presidential selection process . Phase I was the two-year campaign in which the single-term governor of a Southern state prepared to seize initial victories in Iowa , New Hampshire , and Florida , and thereby hitched his success to the great American publicity machine . First he was the surprise winner in small states , then the " front runner , " then the fresh new figure ? the " born again " moralist of old-fashioned virtues ? with the trademark toothy smile that everyone talked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even critics agreed , without exceptional qualities of audacity , ambition , and character . // *Party looks for spark after ho-hum convention // Phase II , now completed , was the outlasting of a field of a dozen Democratic rivals which he did so successfully that a month before the convention he had squeezed most of the suspense out of it save his selection of a running mate . Under the superficial calm Madison Square Garden has seen , some of the tremors and hesitations attendant on an arranged marriage contract in which the nervous prospective bride ( the Democratic establishment ) meets for the first time her " intended " ( Jimmy Carter ) , an interval of doubts and coyness is inevitable . Phase III now begins . The standards are entirely different . What happens next is forecast in part by what has gone before . Garden settirt The setting has been the huge , resonant Madison Square Garden which , big though it is , has not been big enough for the climactic scenes , and yet , too ' big for the perfunctory preliminary scenes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There were exceptions to this before the grand climax of Jimmy Carter 's crucial acceptance speech . The Democratic platform and early Nixon-Ford attacks indicate the line the Democrats will take . Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey - belted out a speech that was interrupted by applause at virtually every paragraph in which he urged social reforms and attacked the vetos of the Ford administration . Sen. Edmund S. Muskie used a pile-driver delivery compared to the torrential style of Mr. Humphrey and offered the theme of " let us put America back to work . " Platform harmony In a nonstop , nine-hour session Tuesday , controlled by Carter forces at all times , the convention adopted a 69-page platform , couched in general terms containing domestic proposals that would be radical if all were adopted : a system of nationwide health insurance , a start toward guaranteed minimum income , a drive toward overall economic planning , and a restructuring of government . Minority efforts to open a battle over abortion and other controversial issues were blocked . A long succession of speeches left the Garden 's seats empty by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Wendell Anderson of Minnesota , chairman of the platform committee , for the Israeli commando raid that rescued 100 hostages held by Palestinian terrorists in Uganda . As Jimmy Carter 's Phase III begins , Democrats on the surface look like sure winners . There is a curious lack of exultation here , however . Delegates have been waiting for a spark ; there has been unity but not enthusiasm . Many half-filled sessions have been dispirited and dull . - ? Aides of Governor Carter attached great importance to his acceptance spee'ch . They constantly recall what happened to the overconfident Gov . Thomas E. Dewey in 1948 when the supposedly outclassed Harry S. Truman made his famous whistle-stop campaign across the nation .                     