@@733382

txt The United States and the Soviet Union are likely to be able to sign a new treaty on strategic arms within a few months , according to the chief U.S. arms control negotiator . In an interview with this reporter , Paul C. Warnke , head of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency , defended the emerging treaty as one which will contain " some very effective measures of arms control , " reducing the capability of either side to launch a successful nuclear " first strike . " But the arms control negotiator also said that " some major differences " remain to be settled in talks between the two sides . He declined to go into details , but other well-informed U.S. officials said that recent press reports indicating that the Soviets had made major concessions on the question of testing and deploying U.S. cruise missiles were " premature . " Mr. Warnke went only so far as to say that the question of how to deal with the cruise missiles as well as that of limits on the Soviet bomber known in the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ totally solved . " Mr. Warnke said that the " negotiating climate " had improved substantially after President Carter met with Soviet Foreign Minister , Andrei Gromyko in September . " I believe that in these meetings it became apparent to Foreign Minister Gromyko that President Carter is a serious man and a man who is very serious about arms control , " Mr. Warnke said // From page 1 Warnke : arms pact ' climate ' improves Ile disagreed with those who concluded that the proposals which the U.S. made to the Soviets last March for deep cuts in U.S. and Soviet nuclear weaponry were ill advised . He said that making the proposals was a " useful exercise " which provided an outline of the provisions which a future arms control agreement should include . " I think we are moving toward the incorporation of those provisions , " he said . " We 're not going to get them all in the treaty which is now taking shape , but they 'll come along , in my opinion , because I think they 're sound and I think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why the Russians had reacted so negatively to the March proposals was that they had to go through a period of probing U.S. positions , getting used to a new U.S. president , and setting forth their own bargaining positions . Mr. Warnke , who has spent hundreds of hours negotiating with the Soviets in Geneva , described them as " tough negotiators . " " But that does n't surprise me , " he said . " After all , arms control negotiations do go to the basic fabric of national security . . . . You have to expect that they 're going to be cautious and deliberate . " On other subjects relating to negotiations with the Russians , Mr. Warnke : ? Stated that while he respected former Defense Secretary Melvin R. Laird , he believed Mr. Laird was " misinformed " in charging that the Soviets had been flagrantly violating previous strategic arms control agreements . ? Declared that Soviet President Leonid Brezhnev 's proposals for a " moratorium " on peaceful nuclear explosions was a " major move " which should make it easier to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Said that the question of limits on the transfer of cruise missile technology to America 's European allies ? a subject which has aroused concern among those allies ? is not likely to become critical for three years under the agreements now being negotiated . ? Said he believes that recent leaks of information on the details of U.S. and Soviet negotiating positions amount to a " disservice " to the cause of effective negotiations . He also said the leaks tended to work to the advantage of critics of any new treaty . " It 's awfully difficult to try and defend a partially formulated treaty against somebody 's vision of the ideal treaty , " Mr. Warnke said . " Nobody 's ever going to get the ideal treaty . . . not unless the other side all of a sudden loses its confidence or loses its senses , and I do n't think that 's going to happen , " he said .                     