@@733331

txt When the Concorde swooped in to land here for the first time Oct. 19 , coming in like a huge bird with feet first , nose up , and only a slight bounce , it marked a significant victory for the supersonic jet . It was seven years ago that the plane 's British and French operators first informed the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey ( which runs Kennedy International Airport ) that they intended to come into New York . At the same time , they began to exchange data with the port authority about the 1,350-mile-anhour airliner . Now , after protracted legal wrangling and vigorous local community protests , the test plane from Toulouse , France , has finally touched down . Painted on one side with the colors of British Airways and on the other with those of Air France , it was crammed inside with instruments rather than passengers . Over the next week or more the test plane will check out landings and takeoffs , taxiing and parking proCedures , to make sure it can , *Please tarn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lands in N.Y. , but as one airline official put it , " draw up to the terminal without putting its nose through the window . " Both airlines plan to start commercial flights to London and Paris , respectively , on Nov. 22 . Hearings under way Although Concorde proponents have won the immediate battle , the " war " against the plane is far from over : ? Even as " le big bird " swished down onto Kennedy 's concrete , the port authority was holding public hearings on its proposed new noise regulations , which might yet be used to try and head off Concorde commercial flights . ? In the longer run the port authority has indicated its determination to press ahead with its Supreme Court appeal of a lower court ruling ending the authority 's ban on Concorde landings . The refusal of the Supreme Court Oct. 17 to halt Concorde landings pending the appeal , however , suggests a lack of court sympathy with the authority 's case . ? Mass public demonstrations against the Concorde are being planned for later this month or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the port authority by snarling traffic around the airports here . But since they are usually planned for weekends when local residents are available , they seem more likely to tie up non-Concorde passengers than anybody else . ? Even if the courts keep the airport open to the Concorde and the fury of the demonstrators cools with time , the superexpensive luxury airliner is likely to recoup only a fraction of its development costs . Landing here has become as much a matter of international prestige as of using the Concorde 's most profitable routes . ? The distant question of whether it is possible to build a " second generation " of supersonic airliners that are both economically and environmentally sound remains unresolved . So too is the contentious matter of who might build them . The U.S. Congress voted in 1971 to terminate Boeing 's government-funded SST project , on environmental and cost grounds . A bit of an anticlimax The first-ever Concorde landing here was something of an anticlimax so far as noise was concerned . One startled local resident was compelled to admit from his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like it was gliding in . . . it sounded awful quiet . " Others pointed out that it is the Concorde 's takeoff that is its noisiest weakness . In proposing new noise standards , the port authority is faced with a dilemma : it admits the Concorde probably will meet its present noise standards of 112 perceived decibels . But if it imposes more stringent requirements it will almost certainly keep out a large proportion of subsonic jets too . On the other hand , any attempt to introduce standards directed specifically at Concorde would fall foul of court demands that the authority not be unfair or discriminatory .                     