@@734066

txt ' The overwhelming majority of Iranians have given religious leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan a very visible vote of confidence by going back to work as the new revolutionary government had asked them to . The Marxist Left had initially demurred about trying immediately to get Iran back to normal , on the grounds that the revolution had not been successfully completed . But the ayatollah was quite blunt . He said anybody not going back to work would be deemed a counter-revolutionary . The result : virtually everybody did go back to work and shops are open once more . Tehran , which had been a city shut down for many weeks , has come to life again  --  even as the evacuation of most non-Iranians , mostly Americans , continues through the city 's airport . Mr. Bazargan still faces an awesome task in picking up the pieces and getting the country running again . The immediate challenges facing him are : 1 . Reestablishing law and order . 2 . Restoring health to an economy much of which is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are still many guns in unauthorized hands after the tumultuous weekend of Feb. 10-12 . During the daytime there are no problems for people ( including foreigners ) on the streets of Tehran . But at night one hears intermittent gunfire and From page 1 Iran gets most workers to end strike there are reports of armed robberies , abductions , and holdups . The extreme Left , spearheaded by the once-underground guerrilla Fedjyeen-e-Khalq , has made much of misgivings shared by the rankand-file in the security forces about going back to duty under top commanders deemed by them tainted by too close an association with the discredited Shah Muhammad Reza Pahlavi 's regime . The new armed forces chief of staff , Maj. Gen. Muhammad Ali Qarani , has satisfactory credentials in that he broke with the Shah over 20 years ago and was jailed by him . But the new government has thought it wise to replace its original nominees to head the police and the gendarmerie with men who ( like General Qarani ) had seen the inside of the Shah 's jails . The new Navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Shah for questionable loyalty to the throne . The surprise announcement Feb. 16 of the execution of four of the most hated senior officers who had served the Shah ( including former Savak ? secret police ? chief Nernatollah Nassiri and former Special Services chief Manouchehr Khosrowdad ) may also have been an earnest of the new government 's determination to break with the past and punish those it deemed responsible for its worst excesses . The government also has fired about 100 senior officers and demoted others . Bakhtiar whereabouts puzzling ( People here are puzzled by the news from the radio Feb. 18 that former Prime minister Shahpour Bakhtiar was not in custody after all but was still being sought . Mr. Bakhtiar is a longtime friend of incumbent Prime Minister Bazaragan , and many thought that the latter might seek to protect him . In addition to a repeated call from Ayatollah Khomeini to servicemen who might have deserted during the recent turmoil to return to barracks , the government has announced the dissolution of the Imperial Guard , the special troop committed to personal protection of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has reaffirmed that oil exports will be resumed soon ? although that may be easier said than done , given the chaotic state of the oil industry and the strong Communist hold on many oil workers . Before the current crisis , Iran earned $22 billion a year from oil , and this constituted some 90 percent of the country 's total foreign earnings . At the beginning of this year , Iran still had some $10 billion in foreign currency reserves . But since late December no oil has been ex. - ported . Income from pre-December sales has still been coming in , but this inflow is expected to dry up by next month . Consequently common sense would dictate an early resumption of exports ? and the government has stated these will go to all former buyers except South Africa and Israel . At the same time , the new government is expected to put a brake on the Shah 's oil policy which was , in simplified terms , to sell as much as possible at as high a price as possible while Iran 's reserves lasted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the weekend of the new government 's promised swing away from Israel and toward the Palestinian cause with the current visit to Tehran of Palestine Liberation Organization leader Yasser Arafat and the breaking of diplomatic relations with Israel Feb. 18 . The PLO was ceremoniously given the building housing the ransacked Israeli mission here Feb. 19 and all " official " Israelis remaining here were expelled . " We freed Iran today and we will do the same with Palestine tomorrow , " Mr. Arafat said as he took over the former Israeli mission Feb. 19 . " Under the leadership of Ayatollah Khomeini and with the help of Iranian freedom fighters , we will free Palestine . " But it will take more than selling oil once again to revive the economy . Workers may be nominally back on the job , but the bulk of Iran 's factories are at a standstill . With ports and customs out of action for so long , imported parts for assembly plants are not available . And many foreign partners in joint enterprises have pulled out with no certainty about their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which helped fuel the revolutionary movement last year ? and widen the field which Communists and others might hope to exploit . There is also the sorry plight of the coun- try 's agriculture , which only 20 years ago kept Iran self-sufficient in food . Rapid industrialization , and neglect of the land by the Shah , changed that so that Iran now is heavily dependent on imports for most staple focids . Mr. Bazargan , with Ayatollah Khomeini 's blessing , has chosen a Cabinet which is clearly intended to reassure both middle-class Iranians ( including the all-important bazaaris ) and foreigners . It is made up mostly of colleagues of the prime minister who , for the past two decades , dared to oppose the Shah , and of technocrats.                     