@@733420

txt One week before Bert Lance resigned as budget director last September and returned home to Georgia , officials of the three principal Federal bank regulatory agencies appeared before a Senate committee and said that both the nation 's banking system and its regulatory mechanisms were essentially sound . Their testimony may have been applaudcd by the nation 's bankers , but it Policing the Banks First of a Series did little to reassure Senator William Proxmire , Democrat of Wisconsin , who said that the disclosures about the banking activities of Mr. Lance were just another sign of an " ineptness and laxity in bank regulation " that pointed up a need for major reforms . . " Now we are told that the situation is great , that not much needs to be done , " he said of their testimony . " Frankly , anybody who believes that , I think , believes in the tooth fairy . " Not all critics of the regulatory agencies are as biting as Senator Proxmire , who heads the Committee on Banking , Housing and urban Affairs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons familiar with Federal bank regulation told The New York Times that they believe the agencies lack some of the powers , the ability , and in some cases the will needed to monitor the nation 's large banks effectively . To be sure , they also cited significant improvements in the operations of the agencies in recent years , most of them spurred by criticisms of how the agencies handled a series of bank problems and scandals that ranged from the collapse of the Franklin National Bank , the nation 's 20th largest , to the insider dealings at the bank in Calhoun , Ga. , headed by Mr. Lance . But in the four years since the failure of the United States National Bank of San Diego revealed a situation that one bank regulator describes as " self-dealing run riot , " no bill has yet passed Congress that would explicitly limit such insider dealings by bankers or that would strengthen the powers of the regulatory agencies to cope with it . Moreover , accordIng to many of the bankers , bank regulators , lobbyists , financial analysts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weaknesses in the regulatory process have not yet been corrected by the internal reforms . These include a lack of technical capability and professional expertise needed to supervise foreign loan activities , and a fragmentation of regulatory authority that has resulted in poor supervision of // bank holding companies , which now control nearly two-thirds of the deposits and assets of commercial banks . They also include a closeness to the banking industry , often an outright coziness , that has resulted in lax regulation in the past ( " mistakes of geniality , " in the words of one former Comptroller ) , a hodgepodge of overlapping and sometimes conflicting jurisdictions , and an antiquated structure that has been imposed atop a century-old law , the National Bank Act of 1864 . " All of today 's structure is a reaction to yesterday 's problems , " John G. Heimann , Comptroller of the Currency , said in an interview . During its inquiry into Federal bank regulation , The Times also learned : q . In 1976 , the various bank lobbies and bank political action committees contributed $663,155 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of more than $1.3 million to help fund Congressional campaigns . This was over and above the direct contributions of individual bankers ( $711,118 in 1974 ) , and has helped make the bank lobby a force that has effectively blocked proposed changes in bank regulation in recent years . 1 Because they must rely on data supplied by banks themselves , it is difficult for bank examiners to spot outright fraud until it has reached a point where it threatens the very soundness of a bank . " The best regulatory system in the world ca n't deal with a dedicated , determined , sophisticated crook , " one former official of the Comptroller 's office said . 9 ' Many commissioned , examiners be- ' , lieve that recent changes in the structure of the Comptroller 's office have stripped the field of experienced examiners in order to staff a bureaucracy that has become top-heavy with administrators . Where many examiners once remained et the job for 20 years or more , the average age of examiners is now 31 , and commissioned examiners with 10 or 15 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulators and bankers insist that secrecy is needed in bank supervision to protect the privacy of borrowers and to promote public confidence in banks , a number of present and former examiners contend that this secrecy has led to a regulatory system that often is arbitrary and capricious , particularly in the regulation of smaller banks . U.S. Bank Regulators Praised by Bankers No one interviewed by The Times maintained that the banking system is either unsafe or unsound , or that it is going to continue to experience the problems that it ' did during the recession of the early and mid-1970s . And bankers generally give high marks to Federal bank regulators . A recent study by the General Accounting Office , the investigative arm of the Congress , showed that more than 90 percent of the 1,500 bankers who responded to a survey had rated the competence of Federal bank examiners as " adequate " or better . Gabriel Hauge , chairman of the board of Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company , said in a recent interview that he does not think that even banks as large as Manufacturers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " What you are saying when you take that position is that these examinations are poor surveillances , that the examiners can be duped ... I do n't believe it , " he said . But a number of other New York bankers , who did not want to be quoted by name , said they doubted that the Federal agencies had the manpower ( there are very few women examiners ) to do a thorough job . " They have an awfully small staff , " one New York banker said . " They ca n't cope with the big banks , " a former vice president of a large New York bank said of the examiners . " They 're like a cop on a beat : if he sees somebody beating up a guy , he can step in and try to do something . But when it comes to sophisticated political corruption , he 's helpless . " Funded by Banking Industry The operations of the three principal agencies -- the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency , the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , and the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thus are subject neither to the usual Congressional appropriations process nor to audits by the G.A.O . And bank regulators , who insist that public criticisms of bankers could lead to a damaging loss of confidence in banks , carry out their supervision with little oversight , and with a secrecy almost unknown in other parts of the Federal bureaucracy , outside the intelligence agencies . " They thrive on secrecy . It 's something mann , " does n't have to worry about runs on a bank . " Biggest Bank Failures Of Nation Are Recalled Despite these concerns , pressures to make the agencies more accountable and more open have grown in recent years as a result of a series of events that has focused more public attention on banks and banking practices than at any time since the Depression of the 1930 's . These have included the three largest domestic bank failures in history ( the United States National Bank of San Diego in 1973 ; the Franklin National Bank in 1974 ; and the Hamilton National Bank of Chattanooga in 1976 ) , great increases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' " problem bank " list , and the controversy surrounding the banking activities of Mr. Lance . The causes of the banks ' problems varied from case to case . But in each instance , the Federal bank regulatory agencies were sharply criticized by the Congress for not having moved quickly enough or forcefully enough . And while those bank disasters are now history , the regulatory system itself remains a live issue . In the case of the Franklin National Bank , which had deposits of nearly $3 billion , a subcommittee headed by MrRosenthal issued a blistering report in which , in hindsight , it accused officials in the . Comptroller 's office of having ignored warnings from their own examiners that the bank had serious problems . " The primary cause of O.C.C. 's ineffectiveness is that permissive attitude pervading the agency it said . In the case of the San Diego bank , a Congressional inquiry showed that Jack Baker , a ' Federal bank examiner , had identified major abuses at the bank as early as 1962 , but then had been ? in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Comptroller 's office and never permitted to examine that bank again . In the decade following the transfer of Mr. Baker , there were few criticisms noted in the examinations of the United States National Bank . But after the S.E.C. warned the Comptroller in 1972 that it intended to charge several bank officials with fraud , bank examiners hurried back to the bank and suddenly found that nearly $400 million in questionable loans had been made to subsidiaries of a holding company controlled by the bank 's president , C. Arnholt Smith . Suspicion in Smith Case Some critics of the handling of the United States National Bank case note that Mr. Smith was known as a close friend of President Nixon and a heavy contributor to his campaigns . And the suspicion exists that Federal regulators were lax because Mr. Smith had helped them in the past by taking more than a dozen " problem " banks otf their hands and absorbing them into U.S.N.B. . " I do n't know if there was any quid pro quo , but I 've heard it , " one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We buried our problems there , and then left him Mr. Smith alone . " There also were allegations that bank officials had provided bank examiners with sides of beef , cases of tuna , and what has been described discreetly as " entertainments " at a Southern California resort . This last item was of acute concern , because all three of the bank regulatory agencies are known as keeping remark . ably free of corruption . But James E. Smith , who was Comptroller at the time , said in a recent interview that both his office and the Justice Department had investigated the allegations and had found nothing except for a few " modest " gifts : " six cans of tuna , and that sort of thing . " The mistakes the bank examiners made at U.S. National were the result of inexperience and " mistakes of geniality , " not of corruption , he said . changes are needed in the agency to insure tough long-term regulation . Mr. Rosenthal , for example , argues that the facts that the agencies are funded directly by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banking industry weaken the adversary relationship that he believes should exist . " What there should be is an adversary relationship , not a warm , cozy relationship , with regulators running in and out of the industry at will , " he said . Mr. Proxmire , who describes the current system of divided jurisdiction as a " nightmare , " insists that effective regulation wo n't come about until the regulatory functions of the three agencies have been merged . As things now stand , he argues banks can pick their regulators by changing from a state to a national charter , or vice-versa , ( as 169 banks did between 1972 and 1976 ) . This makes the regulators hesitant to get tough with banks , the Senator says , for fear the banks will leave their jurisdiction . On this point Mr. Proxmire is fond of quoting Arthur F. Burns , chairman of the Federal Reserve Board , who told a group of bankers in October 1975 that the existing structure " fosters what is sometimes called ' competition in laxity , " in which regulators engage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charge . Dr. Burns has since said that the system fosters " competition in excellence , " as well , and has suggested that he now wishes he had not used the phrase in the first place . But Mr. Proxmire has ignored these disclaimers . " He 's an extremely careful man , " he said of Dr. Burns . " I 'm sure that he meant it  --  and it 's the truest thing he ever said . " Skeptics Cite Weak Spots And Problem Areas Although a trend toward stronger regulation is widely acknowledged , many skeptics argue that regulation has been so lax in the past that the agencies should not be trusted to make improvement on their own , and that weak spots , loopholes and problem areas still exist . These weak spots and problem areas include the following ; 9 Although so many banks have set up bank holding companies that they now control nearly two-thirds of the assets and deposits of commercial banks , the structure for regulating them is badly fragmented . The Federal Reserve supervises the holding companies and their nonbank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Comptroller or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporatiqn . In several cases in recent years , most notably the case of the Hamilton Bank , nonbank subsidiaries managed to dump soured assets onto the banks and caused the banks to collapse , literally between examinations by the Comptroller or the F.D.I.C. In a score of cases , the Federal Reserve moved too slowly 75 percent of the time , the G.A.O . concluded . The Federal Reserve recently announced plans to increase its supervision . But George A. LeMaistre , the chairman of the F.D.I.C. , declares that the fragmentation of the supervision is not only wasteful and costly , but " the most serious inadequacy in the present regulatory framework . " International Problem 9Bankers , regulators and Congressional overseers are well nigh unanimous in agreeing that the international lending activities of the nation 's largest banks are unregulated in parts and underregulated on the whole . Even Mr. Hauge of Manufacturers Hanover , who is generally high on the competence of bank examiners , agrees that " the regulators are strapped to keep up " with the tremendous recent growth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they lack the professional skill and technical competence to monitor foreign activities of banks properly , particularly the large loans to less-developed countries . And some officials sneer at the overseas presence of their own agency . Said one official of the Comptroller 's operation in London : " Two crummy little rooms in the Embassy , with six bank examiners in Robert Hall suits trying to talk to the financial elite of Europe . " 9At present , a person or group can buy control of a bank by borrowing the entire purchase price and pledging in return only the newly acquired bank stock itself as collateral . According to Prof. Paul Nadler , the dean of the School of Banking at Rutgers University , buying a bank on the cuff is a disturbing practice because it leads to bad management decisions . The pressure on the bank 's management to step up the bank 's dividends just to pay off the borrowing can be " irresistible , " he said . 9Many bank regulators and Justice Department officials say that existing laws governing banking activities are either unenforceable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loans they have obtained from their own bank or other banks , for example , carries no penalties at all . " The law is very clear , " said one banker who did not want to be quoted by name . " It says they have to report their indebtedness ... but it also says that nothing will happen to them if they don't. " 9Critics also contend that as a practical matter , the agencies concentrate more on small banks . " Examiners and supervisors can understand and can guide the business of small banks ; they have little or no ability to control or guide giant banks , " Prof. Hyman Minsky of Washington University in St. Louis , testified before the Senate Banking Committee this year . Feared Examiners Were Lagging According to Mr. Smith , the former Comptroller , many large banks have internal checks and audits that smaller banks lack , and thus they may require less supervision , But he agreed that as Comptroller ( 1973-1976 ) , he worried that his examiners were not keeping pace with the big banks as they moved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , some of his initiatives were meant to win back the " rapport and respect " of officials at the large banks and to lead them to value the judgments and criticisms of the examiners , Permissive Regulation Blamed by Senator Have the banking agencies , with their traditional approach to regulation , contributed to a weakening of the banking system ? Senator Proxmire and his staff vigorously argue that in the past decade the number and size of " problem banks " has increased , the number of failures has soared , the percentage of " classified " assets in banks ( that is , the assets considered substandard by bank examiners ) has risen sharply , and the capitalization of the system has dropped . In his view , permissive regulation has been at least partly to blame . Regulators and bankers alike bristle at this thesis , noting that the increases Senator Proxmire cited took place during the worst economic recession since the 1930 's . But the Senator 's view is echoed by Elmer Staats , the head of the G.A.O. , whose auditors found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formal powers and an " overwillingness to accept promises " instead . Numerous regulators concede that formal disciplinary actions traditionally were a last resort . " It 's the big club in the closet , " said Jack Ryan , the head of an enforcement division at the Federal Reserve that took the club out of the closet only nine times from 1971 through 1976 . Many hankers and regulators nevertheless oppose any stronger oversight by the Congress . " To my mind , to inject more Congressional control over regulation would be a disaster , " said David Schaub , a former staff attorney in the Comptroller 's office and now a lawyer with a private firm in New Orleans . " I just do n't think that we should subject the method and mode of bank regulation to the warp and woof of politics . " But Congress is actively considering giving the regulators more " clubs " and more scrutiny.A number of measures are said to have a good chance of passage next year . One of Mr. Proxmire 's bills , which already has passed the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $1,000 a day against bankers who ignore cease and desist orders . That same bill , S-71 , also would place strict limits on insider loans by banks , and would make it much easier for regulators to remove officers who show " a willful disregard for the safety and soundness of their bank . " A second bill , introduced by Mr. Rosenthal and already passed by the House , would permit regular audits of the agencies for the first time by the G.A.O. , thus increasing Congressional oversight . Other legislation would empower regulators to veto changes in control of banks and would place a 50 percent margin requirement on all purchases of bank stock . Tomorrow : Was  --  Bert Lance the exception or the rule ?                     