@@733267

txt The Central Intelligence Agency said today that it had discovered 10,000 additional documents describing its secret research on control of human behavior , which was conducted from 1943 to the mid-1950 's . The discovery vastly increases the amount of information to be made public about the research projects , code-named Bluebird and Artichoke . The Senate Subcommittee on Health and Scientific Research , which had scheduled for Sept. 9 hearings on human experiments by the C.I.A . and the Department of Defense , today postponed those hearings until Sept. 20 to study the documents and other related materials newly found in a West Coast college library . Sources close to the investigation said that the papers found on the West Coast indicated that about a dozen persons had made misleading statements in interviews with Senate investigators who are studying the C.I.A . ' s research . Inactive Records Reviewed The newest discovery of C.I .. A records , an agency spokesman said today , was made Aug. 15 in " a routine review of inactive records " in which they were to be designated for disposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that investigated the agency 's drug testing in 1975 and 1976 were told that many records had been destroyed . Last July , Adm . Stansfield Turner , the Director of Central Intelligence , announced the discovery in the agency 's archives of seven cases of records containing 5,000 pages of documents . He said they were overlooked in 1975 and 1976 . An agency spokesman said today that agency personnel were reading and " sanitizing " the newly discovered documents for public release . A statement issued today by Senator Edward M. Kennedy , Democrat of Massachusetts , who is chairman of the Senate health subcommittee , said that the recent discovery of other documents also influenced the subcommittee 's decision to postpone hearings . These include the diaries and personal papers of the late George H. White , a former Bureau of Narcotics agent believed to have been a key figure in the C.I.A . ' s drug experimentation program . These papers were found in the Foothill College Museum in Los Altos Hills , Calif . Mr. White , who served with the Office of Strategic Services in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Narcotics and after retirement as fire chief of Stinson Beach , Calif. , died in 1975 . Notations in Mr. White 's papers indicate that , although he was a Bureau of Narcotics official , he arranged with Dr. Sidney Gottlieb , a pharmacologist at C.I.A. , to serve as a consultant to that agency on an LSD project . His notes show that he went to the C.I.A . on May 7 , 1953 , to get his final security clearance and sign a contract as a consultant . Before his transfer to San Francisco in 1955 , the records show , Mr. White was involved in renting a New York City apartment under the name " Morgan Hall . " His own notes and C.I.A . documents indicate that the bank " was ' a little sticky about opening an account in the absence of ' references ' from another bank " and found it hard to understand how he had " got by for all these years without a bank account . " " What with suspicious banks , landlord , utility companies , etc. , you will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of deleted is taking a little doing , ' " he wrote on May 26 , 1953 . By June 10 of that year , an apartment was rented , carpeted , furnished and supplied with liquor at a cost of $3,515 . This project , C.I.A . documents show , was later transferred to San Francisco , where the same pseudonym , Morgan Hall , was used to rent an apartment in which prostitutes gave LSD to unwitting subjects , whose behavior was secretly observed and recorded for the C.I.A . Subpoenas Sent Out A memorandum for the Inspector General about the use of LSD , dated Dec. 1 , 1953 , which was given to two Senate committees in joint hearings in 1975 , said that Mr. White was " chief of New York District , Narcotics Division , Treasury Department " and that the C.I.A . had furnished him " a limited quantity of LSD " by that time . In today 's statement , Senator Kennedy said that his subcommittee , a unit of the Senate Human Resources Committee , wanted to study other documents recently released @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Defense , which was unable to furnish them all in time for the Sept. 9 hearing date . Subpoenas for that hearing went to Dr. Gottlieb , who was reported to have destroyed most of the mind control records before leaving the agency in 1973 , and to three others . The three were Dr. Robert Lashbrook , a chemist who worked for Dr. Gottlieb and now teaches science at a high school and junior college in California ; Dr. Charles F. Geschickter , a former professor at Georgetown University whose Geschickter Fund for Medical Research Inc. was one of the principal C.I.A . conduits for financing research at hospitals and universities , and Walter P. Pasternak , a former C.I.A . employee who was an official of the Society for the Investigation of Human Ecology , also a C.I.A . tonduit . Mr. Pasternak , who has heed ' linked in agency documents to a series of drug tests on unsuspecting people in New York and San Francisco , agreed to appear at an Aug. 3 Senate hearing on the project , but did not . At that hearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supported research on control of human behavior at 80 institutions , including 44 colleges or universities , hospitals , prisons and pharmaceutical companies . The research was organized under the code name Bluebird , later changed to Artichoke , and eventually became MKULTRA ? MK-DELTA . With each code name change , the interest in mind control broadened until there remained virtually no avenue of human behavior control that was not explored , from interrogation techniques to knockout drugs , from LSD to germ warfare , from the use of polygraphs to handwriting analysis . The program , C.I.A . records indicate , was reduced in scope in 1964 , further curtailed in 1967 and finally halted in 1973 . Its last phase , code named OftenChickwit , was conducted in coordination with the Office of Research and Development at Edgewood Arsenal in Maryland .                     