@@731813

txt Why is planning considered a good thing for individuals and businesses but a bad thing for the national economy ? The traditional ( and ideological ) answer is that individuals and businesses , with limited resources , should have long-range goals to which they can relate their dayto-day decisions , but at the national level planning is bound to be inefficient and an unwarranted interference with the freedom of individuals and businesses to make those decisions in accordance with their own best judgments . Whatever validity that anti-government planning view may have had historically , it is becoming increasingly impractical and costly  --  as a small but growing number of businessmen , labor leaders , politicians , economists and scientists now recognize . Henry Ford 2d , more outspoken than most of his business colleagues , has said the auto industry and others need to learn to live with dwindling supplies of oil and other materials , and hence there is a concomitant need for national planning in order to match scarce resources with consumption in an equitable and efficient manner . But the importance of planning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the face of diminishing energy and other resources ; it also relates to long-range tax and budget policies to avoid inflation . There is a need for integrated programs to ensure that critical national goals are met in such areas as housing and urban development , transportation , health , education , protection of the environment and to provide full employment for the nation 's continuously expanding labor force . The day-by-day operation of private markets can not deal with all those objectives ; all of them involve the participation of government through taxation , public expenditures , regulation , subsidies , and foreign economic policy . Government is involved , in fact , in virtually all aspects of the economy in this country  --  as in all other modern industrial economies . The more than $300 billion the United States Government currently spends each year only partly measures its total weight in the economic system . ... for Economic Policy Given the present and prospective role of government in the United States economy , the issue is no longer whether government planning would interfere with private business but whether the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way as it now does . Efforts by government to look farther ahead and to gather , analyze and publish the information on which dt is , basing Its policy decisions would help private industry to make its own planning decisions  --  without governmental coercion of the private sector . Industries would still be free to make their own investment decisions , but they would do so on the basis of more complete information about long-term trends as affected by government policies . Not only the Administration but Congress , private industry , labor , and other groups in the society would participate in the ongoing national debate over planning and in the establishment of national goals . There are different routes that could be followed toward a more rational approach to economic policy in the United States . One is that proposed by Senator Hubert Humphrey in his Balanced National Growth and Development Bill , which would establish a planning agency within the Executive Office of the President ; this would bring together scattered existing Federal planning bodies , including the Office of Management and Budget and the Council of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new agency on the National Resources Planning Board of the Roosevelt Administration , on the system of indicative planning followed in France , or to create a new body that would be responsible jointly to Congress and the White House . Whatever the ultimate administrative and political design  --  and this could emerge only from full Congressional hearings and debate  --  greater order and perspective are needed in the American governmental process and in the economy and society . Planning may have its flaws and dangers , but the traditional planless approach has already proved its capacity for producing disasters .                     