@@731258

txt Saudi Arabia , which was instrumental in ending the Arab oil embargo , is expected to preslower the Persian Gulf posted price of crude from $11.65 to $8.33 . Saudi Oil Minister Ahmad Zaki alYamani , it is learned on high authority , will urge this lower price in Vienna Sunday , when he meets with his colleagues of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) . Whether this eventually will reduce the price of gasoline or home heating oil for American consumers is not yet certain . If other Persian Gulf oil producers agree with Sheikh Yamani , retail prices might fall , but reportedly his initiative will meet stiff resistance from Iran and some other oil-producing nations who insist that world inflation is shrinking the real value of the money they earn from oil . If there is no rollback in crude oil and the embargo is lifted , the price of gasoline is not expected to be affected . Greater supplies of oil may lower the world price slightly , but the extra oil would be expensive , leaving retail prices about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will meet stern resistance from Iran and some other oil-producing nations , who insist that world inflation is shrinking the real value of the money they earn from oil . OPEC includes seven Arab states , plus five non-Arab oil exporters ? Iran , Indonesia , Nigeria , Venezuela , and Ecuador . Arab oil ministers will come to Vienna fresh from their March 13 meeting in Tripoli , Libya , where they agreed to end their oil embargo of the United States for two months . After two months , according to qualified sources , Arab governments will " reassess " the situation , with particular reference to the pace of Israeli military withdrawal from Syria 's Golan Heights . The implication , sources say , is that the U.S. , if it wants a permanent end to the embargo , must persuade Israel to make meaningful withdrawals from Syrian territory to match those already made by the Israeli Army along the Egyptian front . Arab oil producers , in addition to lifting the boycott of the U.S. , agreed at Tripoli to restore their oil production to last September @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Last September , before the boycott began , Arab states , taken together , were pumping 20,129,000 barrels of oil daily . The current figure is 18,260,000 barrels . Resumption of pre-embargo production would add 1,869,000 barrels of oil each day to the world market . // *Saudis urge oil price cut // This additional flow , oil experts say , should virtually eliminate the need for the U.S. to begin coupon rationing of gasoline this summer . More expensive Though it will take six weeks for fresh Arab oil to reach American ports , " old " Arab petroleum now in European and Caribbean refineries , as well as ships at sea laden with Arab crude , can be diverted to the U.S. The prospect , then , is for gasoline waiting lines to shorten , or even vanish ? assuming , of course , that the two-month " trial period " results in a permanent end to the embargo . The two-month reassessment , qualified sources say , was essentially a compromise between the Egyptian and Saudi view that the boycott should be abolished altogether , and the argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that the embargo should be maintained . The price situation for American families , buying gasoline and heating oil for their cars and homes , is complicated . More foreign oil will be flowing into the U.S. now that the Arab embargo is over , but this oil is more expensive than most domestic petroleum . Increased supplies on the world market , on the other hand , may tend to depress world prices slightly . These two factors , many experts believe , will roughly balance each other out , leaving retail prices about where they'are today . Pricing argued More germane to the price issue is the reported Saudi desire to lower the price of Persian Gulf crude . The world price of oil is pegged to various " posted prices , " set by oil-exporting governments . These posted prices , roughly four times higher than they were a year ago , are the basis for royalty and tax payments to oil-producing governments by Western oil companies . The price of oil can only materially go down if oil-exporting governments agree to lower the posted price . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by proposing a $3.32 decline in the Persian Gulf posted price . Such a decline would apply to oil produced by Iran and five Arab states ? Saudi Arabia , Kuwait , Iraq , Qatar , and Abu Dhabi . If the Persian Gulf price drops , other oil producers ? Canada , Indonesia , Venezuela , and Nigeria ? would have little choice but to follow the downward trend . These non-Middle Eastern producers simply followed the Iranian and Arab lead , Last fall and winter , in boosting their export prices to conform to Persian Gulf levels . By no means , however , is it certain that Sheikh Yamani will win his point at Vienna . The Shah of Iran , supported by a majority of OPEC members , insists that the present skyrocketing price of oil is economically justifiable . The Saudis take the view that no one 's interest is served by fostering a worldwide recession , through oil prices ruinously high .                     