@@729619

txt The Executive Council of the AFL-CIO today called the Nixon administration 's wage and price freeze " unequitable , unjust , unfair and unworkable , " and vowed to fight it in the Congress . Later , George Meany , AFL-CIO president , said the labor organization would not cooperate with the administration in implementing Nixon 's new economic policy . He said that workers who do n't get raises due them during the 90-day freeze have a right to strike . " We 're not advocating defiance , " Meany said , " We just wo n't cooperate , " Meany also took a crack at Secretary of Labor James D. , 4 Hodgson , who accused Meany Tuesday of being " out of step with the American worker . " Asked if he had discussed the program with Hodgson when the labor secretary and George P , Shultz , head of the Office of Management and Budget , ap- economic spokesman , as a man peared before the council today , who does n't know anything Meany said : about the workers ' problems , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " he has no poor at all . In the final analysis , friends as far as I know . " when you have a problem with In attacking the new pro . the landlord , you do n't discuss gram , the Executive Council it with the janitor . " said that " instead of sound Then Meany said he had n't solutions , the President offered really meant to call Hodgson a new bag of tricks ; instead a janitor . What he did mean , of programs to provide emhe said , was that " when you to meat and meet the real have a problem you do n't talk needs of the American poop. ' , to somebody who is n't imhe resorted to Madison Avenue portant. " gimmickry . Teamsters Vow Backing " Enrich Big Corporations " Meanwhile , the powerful in- " Instead of extending the dependent Teamsters Union ishelping elping hand of the federal sued a statement by President government to the poor , the Frank E. Fitzsimmons promunemployed , the financially ising to " cooperate fully " with ' , strapped states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " consumer , the inflation-plagued vacating that profits , dividends ) decided to further and interest rates also be enrich big corporations and placed under government control . banks . " The council noted that it had Fitzsimmons also cited as said previously that it was " one gross inequity " the sugready to cooperate with mondegestion that noneconomic tory government controls " prostrike actions should be ahem . vided such controls were even cloned during the freeze period . handed and across-the-board . " Meany characterized Treas . ConB . John Secretary ury But , the council said , " the nally , the administration 's chief President 's program simply does not meet the test of equity . " It charged that wages are frozen while not all prices are frozen and " executive compensation  --  thru a variety of gimmicks such as deferred income , stock options , and expense accounts  --  remains wide open for abuse . " The council called the proposed " job development tax credit , " which would give business a tax credit for investment in new plants and machinery , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the average taxpayer . " See Fewer John It challenged the administration 's contention that the tax credit would provide more jobs , saying that " businesses that take advantage of it can be expected to invest in highly automated equipment which will not create jobs but only eliminate them . " It said that " despite the President 's contention that his program is designed to promote employment , we firmly believe that the net result will be fewer jobs , " The council said it supports the abolition of the 7 per cent automobile excise tax but noted that " stimulation of the auto industry alone is not the key to improving employment . " It called the 10 per cent increase in duty on foreign goods " at best a temporary stopgap . " The council supported the President 's action in what It called devaluing the dollar by removing its link with the price of gold , but said stronger action should be taken to curb international money speculators . In conclusion , the council said : " We have absolutely no faith in the ability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation for the majority of its citizens . ' Therefore , we call upon Congress to assert control over the economy , to provide an effective , equitable and enforceable , economic stabilization program and to reject any and all ad- , ministration proposals that would benefit only one sector of the economy at the expense of all others . Rejection Is Urged " Specifically we urge the Congress to reject the President 's proposals to further enrich the corporations at the expense of the poor and needy and the public treasury . " Meany said that he believes workers have the right to strike if previously agreed to wage increases are denied them during the freeze . lie asserted that he does not believe the President has the right to nullify collective bargaining contracts . Asked if he believes the freeze will be ended on Nov. 12 at the end of the 90 days , Meany said : " It wo n't expire in November . I 'll tell you that . " Earlier , Hodgson said he believed the President 's program will create 1.1 million new jobs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 90 days in its present form . " Anything longer , " he said , " would build up tensions and distortions in the economy . " Offer Work Return LOS ANGELES , Aug. 19 um ? The 11 unions on strike at the Los Angeles Herald - Examiner since Dec. 15 , 1967 , have offered to have their members return to work under President Nixon 's call for an end to all strikes for 90 days . Charles Dale , international representative of the Newspaper Guild , in outlining the proposal at a press conference yesterday , said the unions also agree to comply with the President 's request to resume negotiations to resolve all strikes or lockouts . Dale also asked that J. Curtis Counts , director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service , supervise any renewed talks and be given authority to , prescribe a binding settlement if negotiations fail .                     