@@730252

txt A 24-hour global work stoppage called for today by pilots and maintenance men to press for more stringent measures against hijacking has disrupted major portions of airline opera-tions , How extensive the shutdown of international and domestic flights would be on this country 's airlines remained uncertain even as the 2 A.M. deadline for the beginning of the strike passed this morning , But many foreign airlines had already canceled flights , includ. ing those out of New York . At 5:45 P.M. , Chief Justice Warren E. Burger upheld a temporary order by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia prohibiting members of the Air Line Pilots Association from joining the stoppage . However , the American union 's president , Capt . J. J. O'Donnell , who earlier called on his members to stay home today whatever the Supreme Court decided , said , " There is no way under our control that we can roll back the suspension of service . " Some Refuse on record as refusing to participate in the shutdown , but there appeared to be sizable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of tile world , there were no significant court actions , and the picture was much clearer . " The stoppage is very much on , " said a spokesman for the International Federation of Air Line Pilots Associations , which called for the one-day demonstration . The spokesman , Terry Middleton , said that the shutdown , scheduled for 2 A.M. today , New York time , was being supported by 40 to 45 of the federation 's 64 units in 62 countries . The outlook for air travelers in the United States , as of last night , was mixed . Early this morning , officers of the union at Trans World Airlines announced a reversal of an earlier decision and said that T.W.A. pilots would heed Chief Justice Burger 's order and go to work today . Shortly after the announcement , a spokesman in Washington for the Air Line Pilots Association said the T.W.A. branch decision would " influence others to follow suit . " Eastern Airlines pilots , however , said they would not work , prompting an announcement from Frank Borman , the former astronaut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would shut down for the day . He added that , while Eastern sympathized with the pilots ' objectives , it did not agree that a stoppage was a proper step . Pan American World Airways said this morning that its pilots had been told by their union leadership to operate all flights today on a normal basis . Northeast Airlines , however , announced that it would cancel all flights for the day in response to the strike threat . And reports from Northwest and Allegheny Airlines were that the pilots were supporting the stoppage . On the other hand , it appeared likely that operations at American , whose pilots have a separate union outside A.L.P.A. , as well as United , Delta and National could be close to normal . The situation at Braniff , Continental and Western was undetermined . Internationally , all service was canceled outright many countries , including France , Switzerland , West Germany , Israel , Spain , Greece , Italy , Chile and Ireland . The world pilots ' group said that it I had received word of support from its Yugoslav @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ join , too . In Britain , the situation was unclear , but it appeared that most British pilots would refuse to fly . The major nonparticipants in the stoppage appeared to be the ' Australians , the Japanese , the ' Arab nations and pilots in most of the Communist nations . Supporting the pilots ' action were plans for parallel stoppages by mechanics and other ground personnel belonging to two international unions . The upshot was that , even where individual pilots ' units decided that they wanted to fly , they might be blocked by the fact that there would he no crews to fuel or repair their planes . The stoppage was the first such demonstration ever experienced on the world 's air ways . The world pilots ' group , a federation of national unions , had many times threatened oneday or longer boycotts to back up antihijacking and antisabotage demands , but it never be- , fore carried out such a threat . The pilots ' federation , headed by Ola Forsberg of Finland , was prompted to act this time because terrorism involving air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governments and airlines to tighten security . Among the recent incidents that particularly spurred the pilots ' militancy were the massacre at Tel Aviv 's airport , the hijacking of a Western Airlines plane to Algeria , and the fatal shooting of a Czech pilot by hijackers who forced a small airliner to fly to West Germany . Finally , on June 8 , the world pilots ' group announced it would impose a 24-hour stoppage today unless the United Nations Security Council took effective new measures by last Friday to put an end to the violence on the airways . Specifically , the pilots wanted the Council to direct the International Civil Aviation Organization to strengthen existing treaties called for extradition or local punishment of hijackers and saboteurs . The 50 ; 000-member federation of pilots wants additional agreements to be worked out so that noncomplying nations can be subjected to boycotts or other pressure with Security Council sanction . Efforts were undertaken , mainly by the United States and Canada and Secretary General Waldheim , to get a positive United Nations response . The pilots were urged to await @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken by Friday , they set in motion the machinery for the stoppage , machinery they said was too complex to turn off . The Security Council plans to hold informal discussions today to consider the steps the pilots are calling for . Chief Justice Burger 's action I supporting a stay against pilots in this country threw new confusion into a situation that fluctuated widely during the day . First , the Court of Appeals issued a temporary stay against the pilots in response to a request by the airlines , represented by the . Air Transport Association . The Air Line Pilots Association , which represents 31,000 United States pilots , appealed to the Supreme Court . The union president , Captain O'Donnell , meanwhile told a nationwide audience on a Columbia Broadcasting System television program , " Face the Nation , " that , even if the Supreme Court upheld the stay , " I have to instruct my pilots not to work tomorrow . " He said that his organization " has committed itself to an effective protest . " He added that , " morally . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signal " to potential hijackers that there was a lack of unified effort . Later the union announced that the Court of Appeals , whose original order was issued by a 2 to 1 ruling , had stayed its own restraining order and given the pilots until 6 P.M. to seek a Supreme Court review . Finally , Chief Justice Burger , in a brief order issued from his home in Washington , said , " It is ordered and decreed that the injunction so entered by the United States Court of Appeals be and is continued in effect until further order here-in. "                     