@@732164

txt To the Editor : Does President Ford realize how much he is jeopardizing chances for his nomination and election next year by his anti-New York stance ? The same people who -- from their assumedly safe corner  --  get a certain kick listening to the President denounce our city will be the first ones to blame him when they are hit by the national . ( and possibly worldwide ) repercussions of a New York default . The naive notion that one can afford to let New York stew in its own juice is being debunked every day by a growing number of leaders in all walks of life . The entire economic and financial structure of the country is at stake and the penalty for letting New York go down the drain will hit right up to convention and election time . It is somewhat ironic that major efforts to come to the rescue are pushed in the Democratic camp because if successful they may actually strengthen the Republican candidate . Maybe they will save him from his own shortsightedness . STRESEMANN New York , Oct. 8 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city 's fiscal woes would be superfluous except for the puzzling suggestion , in The Times and elsewhere , that the Federal Government should pay some of the city 's bills . The Times has repeatedly denounced the city 's practice of overcompensating and over-pensioning its employes , as illustrated by 38-yearold " retirees " and sanitationmen who cost three times as much as their counterparts in private industry . These labor contracts were negotiated by the city 's own elected employes , not by the citizens of Peoria , and there is no reason Peoria , should be asked to pay for them . The imposition of welfare costs on the city instead of To Save a Korean Life To the Editor : The summary execution of five alleged terrorists by the Franco regime is an outrage against humanity , and the many governments around the world which condemned it deserve compliments . However , Koreans who share in the condemnation are puzzled by the failure of these governments to speak out against the executions earlier of seven men by the Seoul Government . These men were declared innocent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their cases . Certainly , the Park Government failed to accuse them of overt crime , let alone terrorism . Also , it can not be said that their executions were not reported , for both the news media and prominent humanitarian and religious organizations gave wide publicity to the atrocity . The purpose of this letter is not to point a finger of accusation against the governments for the apparent inconsistency . It is to remind them that they can yet help save the life of an innocent young man who is a folk hero to millions of Koreans . He is Kim Chi Ha . The Park Government , keeping him in solitary confinement , is laying the ground for his execution under the anti-Communist law . Through insufferable mental and physical torture it forced out of him a " confession " that he is a Communist who joined the Catholic church for subversive purposes . Kim has denied it . No one who knows him believes the Government 's charge . His only crime is that he is unable to keep silent in the face of rank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individuals to rally against the Park regime 's cruelty to so decent , courageous and brilliant a man . CHANNING LIEM New Paltz , N. Y. , Oct. 4 , 1975 Historic Stone Street To the Editor : The Times reported on Oct. 6 that the city has approved the closing of Stone Street to expand the present park at Hanover Square . The project is described as one of several " preservation " plans for Lower Manhattan . I suggest that Stone Street itself should be preserved , even if it is closed to traffic and incorporated in the park . It was the city 's first paved street . Originally it was Brouwer ( Brewer ) Street , because . Oloff Stevenson van Cortlandt operated a brewery there . But the brewery horses raised so much dust that in 1655 Mrs. van Cortlandt and-neighboring housewives demanded the city lay a pavement , and a mere three years later the city put down cobblestones . True preservation would retain the street and its pavement , with a marker telling the story . HENRY Moscow Grand View , N. Y. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as is common elsewhere , is also New York 's own choice . What is needed in New York is a willingness to pay for state and municipal services by raising taxes , as in other states . There is no reason to suppose that the state and city income and sales taxes could not be revised to produce whatever revenue is required . To make these matters Peoria 's concern , by having the Federal . Government pay the city 's bills , is to invite similar fiscal irresponsibility in other major cities as well . DAVID WFSTFALL Cambridge , Mass. , r. : , 1 , 1975 ? To the Editor : The Federal Government must come to the financial rescue of New York City and New York State without further delay unless the nation is to be plunged into the most catastrophic economic debacle in history . I have been personally involved in every American panic since 1893 , when Grover Cleveland 's failure to take action destroyed the Democratic national party until 1912 . One of my most vivid recollections is of Monday , Oct. 21 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spiral . I spent that day as a guest of Henry Ford at a gathering to honor Thomas Edison . President Hoover was in attendance as were the heads of many leading financial and industrial institutions . By Thursday , Oct. 24 , the market had completely collapsed with repercussions that shattered the economy for years to come . Subsequently , I was a leader in urging Hoover to guarantee bank deposits . He expressed agreement , but was paralyzed into inaction by the opposition of Wall Street and the uncertain prospects for Congressional approval . The tragic but inevitable culmination was The Wall Street ' Club ' To the Editor : On Oct. 1 you printed a letter from I. W. Burnham . Apparently your Sept. 13 editorial about " Wall Street Monopolists " bothered Mr. Burnham . His reply to you bothers me . A portion of his letter reads : " The exchange , in addition to providing the world 's greatest marketplace , also protects the public by enforcing its own regulations and those of the S.E.C. " Let 's pause for a moment and look at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own regulations " ? regulations developed by the exchange by its members , for its members , and against the wide public interest . Mr. Burnham is surely aware of all the literature describing in detail , and with supporting data , how the specialist system does everything except protect the public . In fact , the specialist trades against the public in many instances . Confidence could be somewhat regained in the market , if people like Mr. Burnham would state positions as : ( I ) Do away with the specialist system ( use clerks backed up with computer programs for record-keeping ) , and ( 2 ) do away with short sales and buying on margin . These two reforms would do a great deal to do away with bull raids , bear raids , artificial price structuring by the specialist while the small investor is unaware of what 's happening . Can Mr. Burnham make a statement against " the club " and " their thing " ? HENRY L. BERGMAN New York , Oct. 2 , 1975 How Races Are Won To the Editor : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spelling , Russell Baker alleges : " Many Americans would recognize hare as the matter which grows on the head .... " Only those Americans who have bunnies on their minds . Rabbit-race enthusiasts , for instance , could safely say the race was won by- a hare . However , as every Aqueduct patron knows , a horserace is won by a hair . A. S. FLAUMENHAFT Lawrence , L.I. , Oct. 4 , 1975 ? To the Editor : Referring to your Oct. 2 editorial advocating use of Federal funds to bail out New York City , I am opposed to such use . Why ? 1 . New York pays its garbage collectors more than most communities pay their teachers . 2 . New York runs a free , open enrollment university . Most communities charge fees . 3 . New York permits its municipal employes to retire with incomes higher than any they have earned during their working years . Other communities tie retirement income to working income . 4 . According to the Tax Foundation , New York spends at the rate of more than $1,200 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country is less than $300 . As long as New York spends its own funds for these extravagances , it is none of my business . However , it becomes my business and that of every taxpayer in the other 49 states when New ' York attempts to use Federal funds to perpetuate these excesses . Let New York cut its expenses to fit its income . J. L. EVERHART Westfield , N. J. , Oct. 2 , 1975 Silence After the Strike To the Editor : There seems to be a hiatus in media reporting of strike settlements . It goes something like this : Newspapers and TV announce a strike settlement but also report that the detailed terms of settlement are being withheld until the new agreement is ratified . However , even later the details are rarely publicized so that the public can determine for itself the fairness or unfairness of various items in the agreement . I read The Times and other papers regularly , but it was only recently we heard , for example , that sanitationmen get unlimited sick leave , or that substitutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $70 per day , or that musicians on Broadway have a " walkers " clause . These " generosities " seem outrageous . It seems to me that negotiators on both sides of the bargaining table want to hush up some of the articles of agreement . In the case of municipal unions this is particularly despicable since the taxpayers take the beating . Whose responsibility is it to try to evaluate objectively , Jabor-management settlements involving municipalities ? Is it anti-union to say that the construction unions have priced themselves out of the market and seriously undermined the housing industry ? If some unions are closed corporations creating artificial scarcity and refusing to spread the work , what can be done about it ? If municipal unions of all kinds negotiate outrageous pension arrangements , whereby the pensioner gets more while on pension than he earned annually , one wonders how in the world did the negotiators allow this to take place ( again at taxpayer 's expense ) . There is need to hold all this up to the light of publicity before it is too late and before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. BRILL , Dobbs Ferry , N.Y. , Oct . I , 1975 What the P.L.O . Wants To the Editor : Elsa C. Elkin distorts the Palestine Liberation Organization concept of a secular democratic state by drawing a parallel with Lebanon ( letter Sept. 24 ) . Starting with the faulty premise that the two are alike , she erroneously concludes that the vision of a secular democratic Palestine for Moslems , Christians and Jews will not succeed , just as it seems to be crumbling in Lebanon , which she describes as " the most advanced secular and democratic Arab government . " The P.L.O . program does not envision a state on the Lebanese model . Contrary to what Elkin asserts , Lebanon is neither secular nor democratic . Its political system is based on confessional representation inherited from the Ottoman Empire . Political power is divided , at all levels , among some eighteen denominational communities in the country . That this system does not take into account the emergence of new classes who would seek a redistribution of political power is the essence of the current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long maintain an exclusive Jewish monopoly of political power in Palestine . Diversity , is the only alternative to religious and ethnic exclusiveness . A secular democratic state based on the principle of one person/one vote constitutes the . only effective safeguard against perpetual conflict in Palestine , Lebanon , Cyprus and other like communities . NASEER H. ARUM Professor of Political Science Southeastern Massachusetts University North Dartmouth , Mass. , Oct. 2 , 1975                     