@@729646

txt AFL-CIO President George Meany called today for a labor-management-public board to control inflation after President Nixon 's wage-price freeze , and said without such a plan the nation 's economy would plunge into " absolute chaos . " The nation 's chief labor spokesman said he would consider such a board " voluntary " if it made its own rules on how to apply restraints on wages , prices and profits  --  even if the federal government retained power to punish-violators of the board 's decisions . " Would you advocate that type of system ? " Meany was asked during a discussion of a possible plan modeled along lines of the World War II War Labor Board . Fears Chaos Ahead " Well , in the absence of anything better , I would say yes . I would say that type of system would work in this case , " replied Meany , a bitter critic of Nixon 's new economic policy . " If you go to the 13th of November and just let them expire , you have absolute chaos , " Meany said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freeze . The 77-year-old labor chieftain made the comments in an interview with eight reporters coinciding with observance of the nation 's 77th Labor Day . It was Meany 's strongest indication so far on what the 13.6 million member labor federation will accept in Nixon 's post-freeze plans to curb Inflation . Ile emphasized he had no specific proposal from the White House , altho one Nixon adviser  --  George Shultz  --  had been to see him recently " taking soundings . " He indicated that labor 's price for cooperating after the freeze would include covering profits and interest rates in any new economic restraints , and that workers eventually get hack any wage increases already negotiated but held up by the 90-day freeze . That , presumably , would n't prevent limiting future wage increases . Meany said organized labor would not join as " window-dressing " on any board that would simply relay government regulations on economic controls . Attacks Romney Position " If we follow the lines of George Romney secretary of Housing and Urban Development ? he 's talking about a board and he talks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , boy , that is the road to fascism , " Moony said . " If we ever get into that one , you will never turn back  --  where labor-management situations and where wages and hours and everything else are controlled by the courts . " Meany said for the first time that he would not have denounced Nixon 's 90-day freeze If the President bud not accompanied it with proposed business tax concessions that Meany described as a " bribe " to corporations . " What he could have said was that ' we are freezing wages and prices for the next 90 days or less and we are immediately going to call all interested parties ? labor , business and so on ? to try to work out some system for a short time  --  a year or so ? to keep prices somewhere within range , ' " Meany said . " If he had done that ... we would have anid ' Amen ' immediately . We would have had to because this was on the record . This is what we said . we 'd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out with a whole package and it 's so completely biased against the worker and for business , we could n't buy It . " He said Nixon 's new economic plan would give big business $4.2 billion a year in tax concessions and make up the tax loss by freezing the pay of federal workers and postponing his welfare reform and revenue sharing programs . Sees Reverse Robin Hood " He had to find somebody to pay for that , " Meany said of the business tax concessions . " It was Robin Hood in reverse ? he was robbing the poor to help the rich . " Of course , this has been interpreted by administration spokesmen as opposition to wage and price controls . This is complete nonsense . We have been saying that we felt the only way we could stop this inflationary splurge was by putting on restraints of some kind . " Will Seek Back Raises Moony said labor unions will insist that workers eventually get all the pay increases negotiated before the freeze , despite indications by Mxon 's Cost of Living Council that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are going to fight to get that money retroactively or any other way , despite what this council says . This council says that there can be no bargaining after the freeze for what you lost during the freeze  --  well , this is absolute nonsense . How the hell can they tell anyone , If the freeze is off ? You go in and you bargain and you bargain for any damn thing you can get , " Meany said . What if the government writes a clause into its post-freeze plan barring retroactive pay ? Meany was asked . " If they do that . . . we 've taken a long , long step toward fascism , " he said . " If they bar negotiators in advance , if they bar what you can negotiate in the future  --  hell , that really gets right down to government control , " he said .                     