@@731874

txt ? Why do they flee ? From Pleiku and Kontum in the , highlands , from the old imperial capital of Hue , from the coastal city of Danang , the refugees in South Vietnam ' struggle eastward and southward ahead of the oncoming ' Communist forces . The lucky ones by airlift , thousands more by motor convoys bumper-to-bumper on mountain roads , and still others , meager possessions on their backs , wearily trekking on foot , the refugees are on the ' move . The idea that safety can be found in Saigon and the Mekong Delta may be an illusion , belt not since the partition of Vietnam have so many refugees taken flight , - from their homes . Several reasons can be adduced for so many persons making so desperate a journey . They leave because they ' - have been told to go . Having always lived under authoritarian regimes , they tend to obey when those in authority tell them to depart . They leave because they are trying to escape the war -. itself . Some of these cities have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and three times In the past . ' To get away is to lessen the danger of being killed in the ' , shelling , the bombing , the house-to-house fighting that , have occurred before and might occur again in the fluture . They leave because they fear the unknown , in this in4tance , the oncoming Communists from the North . " Though perhaps apolitical themselves , they may reason . that they are safer with the devil they know . r Or they leave because they know only too well what , victories in civil wars can sometimes mean . After Hue w ? as recaptured in an earlier round of fighting , mass ; graves of about 3,000 persons were discovered , victims - of a Communist-directed political massacre . Forces of eboth sides have been known to kill and even mutilate ' helpless civilians . Random terror is one tactic in the ' strategy of total war . It produces fear and submissiveness in conquered populations . It also , as is evident in 41s case , produces refugees . ? Although the Communist forces appear now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few converts . Instead of welcoming them as liberators , the people of ' South Vietnam are again streaming down the highways " itrid fleeing along tortuous mountain trails to escape them . Why they flee is thus linked to the further question  --  why do they fight ? For the government in Saigon , notwithstanding its political weaknesses and military defeats , continues to maintain sizable armed forces , some Of them effective fighting units . Outsiders ultimately can not answer these questions . This struggle between rival elements of Vietnamese for control of the whole of Vietnam is a civil war . Its alignments are complicated , its fighting exceptionally savage , Its passions terrible in their public consequences and yet private in their sources , hidden in the memories and hopes of individual Vietnamese . As in most civil wars , outside powers have meddled for their own purposes . In distant Peking , it may seem logical that Vietnam and its neighbors become part of a Chinese sphere of influence . In far-off Moscow , it may seem a reasonable calculation that the Soviet Union could play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the United States , having ended its own military involvement two years ago , ponders whether more military aid should be sent or South Vietnam quietly written off . Whatever the White House and Congress and the American people decide with regard to further military aid  --  and we think it should not be suddenly terminated but provided on a declining scale for a definitely delimited period of time  --  there can only be compassion for the Vietnamese people as they pass through this ordeal . They alone are now doing the fighting and dying . They are the refugees , hurrying , stumbling , weary , and worried . They are the stricken ones , as all the world watches .                     