@@728437

txt A battalion of North Vietrk4 mese troops was reported today to have been sighted about 12 miles northeast of the new operational headquarters of the American-backed clandestine army at Long Cheng . The troops apparently ' are following up the North Vietnamese recapture of the strategic Plaine des Jarres , which was completed earlier this week when the clandestine army 's operational headquarters fell to the attackers . According to reliable sources , , the capture of the headquarters , known as Lima Lima in military code , turned into a route when 1,300 defenders fled before an attacking force thought to number only 400 men , supported by other units not directly engaged in the final action . The 1,300 fled to the south and southwest of the plain when the command post , housed in old brick building covered with earth on what was once the principal airfield of the plain in French colonial days , was struck by enemy fire and nearby ammunition dumps exploded . The sources reported that most of the 1300 soldiers had been accounted for and were regrouping south and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commander of the clandestine army , which is supported by the United States Central Intelligence Agency , visited Lima Lima by helicopter hours before it fell . Long Cheng , in whose vicinity the North Vietnamese battalions reported to have been seen , is General Vang Pao 's headquarters and serves as base and communications center also for the clandestine army 's logistics support . Three reporters , who two days ago evaded the tight security restrictions that bar all outsiders from Long Cheng , confirmed early reports that that while many Americans are based there , there is no indication that they engage in combat operations . Many American planes use the airstrip , mainly small craft to carry supplies to guerrilla units , target spotters for bombings carried out by the clandestine army 's air force , and transport craft to ferry General Vang Pao 's soldiers and their equipment into and out of battle . Long Cheng also serves as base for a few Jolly Green Giant helicopters , which are used to rescue pilots whose planes have been downed . Military sources reported that heavy air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retook the plain to slow their buildup for advan:es beyond the plateau . A Blow to Prestige The loss of Long Cheng would be a great blow to the prestige of General yang Pao and his guerrillas , mostly Meo mountain tribesmen , although American sources believe that from the practical point of view Long Cheng is not vital to the operations . Long Cheng was built for the clandestine army , has grown into a town of 40,000 and , in addition to being a military The New York Times Feb. 27 , 1970 Long Cheng , headquarters of U.S.-backed army , near which North Vietnamese troop unit was reported . headquarters , has taken on the status of capital of the Meos . Prince Calls for Meeting VIENTIANE , Feb. 26 ( Reuters ) ? Premier Souvanna Phouma said today he believed the situation in northern Laos justified a meeting of the powers that signed the 1962 Geneva accord on the country 's sovereignty . Speaking to reporters , the Prince said , " We are going to send a protest letter to the cochairmen of the Geneva conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large-scale offensive of the North Vietnamese . " He said Laos would ask the conference co-chairmen to apply Clause IV of the agreement , which calls for the signers to consult one another in the event of a threat against the independence , territorial integrity and neutrality of the kingdom . Escalation , Premier Says VIENTIANE , Feb. 26 ( Agence France-Presse ) ? The capture of the Plaine des Jarres represents an escalation of North Vietnamese effort in Laos , Prince Souvanna said today . In an interview issued by the official Laos press agency , he declared : " Politically it is a North Vietnamese escalation , a stepping up of military activities . " Hanoi Accuses Washington HONG KONG , Feb. 26 ( Reuters ) ? North Vietnam called on the United States today to halt its bombing in Laos and allow the country to settle its affairs on the basis of the 1962 Geneva agreements . A statement broadcast by the Hanoi radio accused the Americans of carrying out massive bombing raids on Laos , result-. ing in many civilian casualties . " The Nixon Administration ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the consequences arising from their extremely serious acts of war , " it warned .                     