@@732900

txt The Soviet Union is voicing concern that President-Elect Jimmy Carter 's promises to cut U.S. defense spending and to press ahead with strategic arms talks may be in jeopardy . The Kremlin sees a clear effort by the outgoing Ford administration , fueled by the same right-wing forces that backed Ronald Reagan for the Republican presidential nomination , to convince the Carter team that the Soviets seek strategic superiority over Washington rather than rough parity . Soviet leaders have been following closely the publicity given in the United States to an intelligence estimate prepared by a panel of nongovernment Soviet experts . The estimate warns Mr. Carter that the Soviets want to be stronger than the U.S. in military forces . The latest Soviet expression of concern came Jan. 9 in the Communist Party newspaper Pravda 's weekly review of world affairs . Commentator Sergei Vishnevsky blamed circles close to the U.S. military-industrial complex for a new , noisy campaign to scare Americans with a Soviet menace . The commentator accused U.S. intelligence agencies of stage-managing a battle between two sets of intelligence advisers to ensure that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This was a reference to the selection by George Bush , departing director of the Central Intelligence Agency , of the panel of seven nongovernment experts to assess the agency 's own findings . The seven , headed by Harvard By Gordon N ; Converse , chief photographer // rom page 1 *Soviets claim U.S. hawks collar Carter Russian history professor Richard Pipes , were all more hawkish than agency officials . Reportedly the Pipes team convinced a majority of CIA analysts that newly developed Soviet guided missiles , a Soviet program of underground shelters , and increased air defenses signal a Soviet desire not for parity as previously thought , but for superiority . Pravda called the entire episode a disgraceful show staged by misinformers to jack up American military spending and to prevent agreement on strategic arms limitation . In rebuttal , Soviet tactics have been two-pronged : ? Three days after the first press reports on the pessimistic intelligence estimate appeared in the U.S. , Soviet media began publicizing a statement by Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev that the Soviet Union does not threaten anyone and is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to questions submitted by Hearst newspaper chain executive J. ' Kingsbury-Smith , has been repeated almost daily in Soviet media reports since then . ? Moscow has singled out for approval all Carter references to strategic arms talks with the apparent aim of encouraging him to return to the bargaining table . The biggest remaining hurdle in the talks is if or how to limit the pilotless , low-flying , super-accurate U.S. cruise missile on the one hand and the Soviet Backfire bomber on the other . To the Hearst questions , Mr. Brezhnev held open the possiblity of meeting Mr. Carter ? ' just as Mr. Carter continues to talk about a possible meeting with Mr. Brezhnev ( most recently in his latest press conference ) . Since then Soviet reports have made it clear the Kremlin blames U.S. and NATO opponents of d ? tente for anti-Soviet statements . These opponents flew into rage , Pravda said Jan. 9 , just when progress on d ? tente seemed possible . Pravda worried about the psychological impact on U.S. public opinion in general as well as on some members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , newly appointed national security adviser to the President-Elect . Though recent comment on Dr. Brzezinski has moderated , he was criticized for years for his hard-line attitudes , and some suspicion well may linger . The official Soviet Toss news agency carried an article by commentator Valentin Zorin saying Americans elected Mr. Carter because they wanted defense spending cut . Recalling the late President Eisenhower 's 1960 warning against the military-industrial complex , Mr. Zorin said the Ford administration was interfering openly in the Carter agenda . It is possible that Soviet military and conservative quarters might welcome the U.S. right-wing pressure on Washington as a means of justifying more Soviet defense spending . But Western analysts here say Mr. Brezhnev himself seems to be serious in his desire for boosting d ? tente by more strategic arms talks .                     