@@732908

txt FTC cites curb on ads by industry R0111 Tribune Wire Services WASHINGTON  --  The government Friday charged the American Dental Association with preventing competition on prices by not allowing dentists to advertise and announced it would begin an investigation into the dental industry . comptaint issued Dy the Federal Trade Commission claimed the association that represents most United States dentists has " illegally restrained competition among dentists " by preventing them from advertising and has stopped them from competing with each other on the basis of price . The 124,000-member association , headquartered in Chicago , promptly issued a statement saying " restrictions on dentist advertising are included in all state laws . " IT SAID A CASE on the object Is pending in the U.S. Supreme Court and it has notified member societies to exercise caution in disciplining dentists who advertise . " The ADA neither fostered any practices nor engaged in any conduct relating to its advertising ethics , which is in violation of the Federal Trade Commission Act , " said the ADA statement , issued early Friday . The FTC complaint was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago , the FTC went after the American Medical Association to try to end rules against advertising by doctors , and the Justice Department has taken on the American Bar Association on the same grounds . THE FTC IN RECENT months also has won settlements from individual groups such as the American College of Radiology , the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons , and the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology on the issue of price fixing through suggested price differentials . The FTC said the ADA 's membership includes " the vast majority of all dentists in the United States . " The complaint specifically charges that the ADA 's code of ethics " fixes prices or otherwise interferes with the prices of dentists ' services , " keeps patients from knowing which dentist might be cheaper and " restrains the development of innovative systems for the delivery of dental services . " NAMED IN THE complaint as defendants are the ADA , the Indiana Dental Association , the Indianapolis District Dental Society , the Virginia Dental Association , and the Northern Virginia Dental Society . It was understood that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the parent ADA code that the FTC thinks should be struck down .                     