@@732277

txt The U. S. government 's wholesale price index showed no overall change.hi November , but officials here dismissed the apparent improvement as temporary and probably illusory . The nation 's underlying inflation rate Is still in the range of . 6 or 7 per cent and probably will continue at that pace in the foreseeable future , economists here said . A spokesman for President Fotd 's Council on Wage-Price Stability , the inflation-monitoring agency , said the council attaches no special significance to the November wholesale price report . The report , issued by the Labor Department , showed that wholesale prices held steady because of a sharp 1.2 per cent drop in farm products , the most volatile element of the index . BUT THE INDEX 'S most sensitive barometer of inflation , industrial commodity prices , jumped by 0.6 per cent in November . Although this was half the October rate , it was hi line with the upward push in commodity prices over the last several months . " I think there 's still a basic inflation rate of about 6 to 7 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress ' Joint Economic Committee . " The prob . lem , however , may seem a little less desperate . " The wage-price couhcil 's spokesman said further increases in the prices of such industrial commodities as paper , chemicals , and aluminum should be reflected in the December index . THE WHOLESALE PRICE Index has never been the favorite price indicator of economists . For one thin , ; , it measures mainly listed prices  --  not actual prices paid . It largely fails to take into account the practice of discounting , important at the wholesale level . Many economists doubt its accuracy . The continued rise in industrial commodity prices is puzzling many economists , since the economy is still soft and demand for commodities is still low . The November increase in industrial commodity prices was attributed largely to boosts in prices of textile products , clothing , hides , and leather products . Overall , the wholesale price report probably will have a positive psychological impact . The October report showed a sharp increase in wholesale prices ? 1.2 per cent ' ? and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the direction of the nation 's economy . Farm products declining in price were fresh and dried vegetables , oil seeds , hogs , grain , poultry , and fish                     