@@733124

txt Three years of recession and the worst unemployment since the Thirties are swinging France leftward toward a government with ministers from a Communist Party that has only recently and unconvincingly renounced its Stalinist path . The 52 percent vote rung up by the Communist-Socialist Union of the Left in municipal elections two months ago has risen to 56 percent in recent polls . The stock market is sagging . Capital is leaving the country in increasing amounts . The malaise has dried up investment , complicating President Giscard d'Estaing 's efforts to spur recovery before the next parliamentary election , which must be held by March . The rest of Western Europe and the United States are rightly concerned about the effect Communist entry into the Paris Government would have on the NATO alliance and the Common Market . The question is whether there is anything they ' should or could do to help avert the trend . Telling Frenchmen how to vote from abroad is a tricky business . Former Secretary Kissinger tried strong public warnings at the request of some French moderates . The Carter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and has backed away , on the French President 's urging , from its initial policy of contacts with French Communists , who tried to exploit this as American acceptance . It is not certain that anything will help , since antiCommunist forces in France are split . But President Giscard d'Estaing remains convinced that a revival of the French economy would let him attract enough moderate Socialist and center-left votes to win . Economic revival in France depends heavily on the economic policies of other nations . Recession , inflation and high unemployment bedevil all the industrial democracies and recovery in a single country is impossible in this interdependent world . France needs almost a 5 percent growth rate just to absorb its rapidly increasing labor force ; Western Europe as a whole is growing at only half that rate . So faster expansion depends on growth in the three " locomotive " economies of the industrial world  --  the United States , Japan and West Germany . They have almost two-thirds of the free world 's production ; they must show the way to progress for France and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration set out last winter . to support the appeals of France , Britain and Italy for economic stimulus by the stronger countries . But by the time the Western leaders met at the summit in London last month , Mr. Carter 's domestic priorities had switched from reducing unemployment to dampening inflation . The President and his advisers felt that the American economy was beginning to move forward and that the American payments balance abroad was shifting dramatically from surplus to deficit , to the advantage of the weaker economies . The Europeans and Japanese are not particularly impressed with this argument , contending that the American deficits go largely to pay for oil imports and that the United States is still selling more than it buys in Western Europe . Washington is right to be urging West Germany to conquer its fear of inflation and to risk more economic stimulus . But the inhibiting domestic preoccupations in the United States are undercutting the argument . Foreign policy alone can not be decisive in economic policy , but domestically determined tactics that ignore such risks as those now developing in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stimulus must be argued in a broader context , but the situation in France , Italy and other economically shaky industrial democracies should be a more conspicuous concern for Washington . And appeals to the Germans should certainly continue .                     