@@729614

txt ? Officials of the Hackensack Meadowlands Development Commission disclosed ? today that they were planning to construct and operate the world 's largest garbage incinerator . Plans for the incinerator , which would cost $100-million and would burn 6,000 tons of garbage a day , are going ahead despite a decision earlier this month by New York City officials to abandon plans for an incinerator that would have had the same capacity as the one projected in northern New Jersey . The planned New Jersey incinerator would produce steam for electric power , as would have the one that was rejected in New York . According to commission and city officials , the different decisions are a result of a variety of factors such as economics , engineering and air pollution control standards , the availability of land-fill areas , and the resolution of New Jersey officials to conserve the Meadowlands , preventing them from becoming the world 's biggest garbage dump . The proposed incinerator , which would be built on the west bank of the Hackensack River in Kearny , is subject to the approval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William T. Cahill . Members of the commission are said to be confident that the Governor will give his approval because of the pressing need for a disposal system . A spokesman for the New York City Environmental Protection Administration repeated today that the high cost and air pollution factors prompted the city to announce on Aug. 5 that it was dropping plans for a huge incinerator to be built in the old Navy Yard in Brooklyn . But he added that New York might have more leeway than New Jersey in finding an alternative method of disposing of 200,000 tons of garbage a week because of available landfill areas on Staten Island . According to Myles S. Spector , one of the Hackensack commission 's seven members , the project could be completed by 1975 . Clifford A. Goldman , the acting executive director of the commission , said the agency spent two years studying how to get rid of more than half of northern New Jersey 's garbage , which is now being dumped in the Meadowlands at a rate of 40,000 tons a week . That rate is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meadowlands comprise 19,000 acres of flat , marshy ? tidal plains straddling the Hackensack River north from Newark through the southern I reaches of Bergen County . Planners have described the area as one of the most valuable tracts of undeveloped land in the world . When the commission was created by the Legislature in 1968 to transform the tract into a modern urban complex , It was also given the responsiblity to find another method of disposing of the garbage being dumped there . About two million people in 118 communities now depend on the Meadowlands for garbage disposal . " We wrestled with the problem here for two years , " . Mr. Goldman said today in an Interview at the commission 's new headquarters here . Among a number of things , the commission considered the following alternatives : piling garbage land fills on top of land fills , turning garbage into paved blocks and dumping them at sea , turning garbage into compost , baking it , pulverizing it and atomizing it , and recycling . " None of the alternatives came remotely close to our immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year except incineration , " Mr. Goldman said . " And 10 years from now we will have to find a better way of getting rid of twice that much . " But he emphasized that no one on the commission relished the thought of pumping more pollution into the atmosphere . " But we had to strike a bargain , " he said . " We are losing approximately one acre of new meadowland a day to garbage . In one year we will lose a fifth of the remaining Meadowland that already has n't been covered over with garbage and before the decade la over there 'd be no Meadowland to develop if we keep on dumping garbage on it . " In its most essential terms , our decision is a trade-off ? the land for the air . " Present plans call for the construction of either a single 6,000-ton-a-day incinerator or two 3,000-ton twin units that would serve the extreme southern and northern ends of the tract . In either case the single or twin units would be bigger than the world 's largest Mainardor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biggest incinerator in this country is in Chicago . It can handle 1,600 tons a day , and the most recent tests on its stack show that it falls well below the air-pollution limits that the Federal Government is expected to promulgate within a few months . According to engineers , the proposed New Jersey incinerator would send 1,000 tons of soot a year into the atmosphere , compared with the 3,000 tons a year that the New York incinerator would have produced . According to commission studies , a 6,000-ton-a-day incinerator is capable of generating 150,000 kilowatts of electric power and less pollution than coal or oil .                     