@@731647

txt Chrysler Corp . Tuesday announced plans to shut - down all but one of its six United States car assembly plants from the day before Thanksgiving to Jan. 6 and to cut production at its 42 general manufacturing and stamping plants in the U. S. and Canada . The massive shutdowns , to trim 50,000 cars from fourthquarter production schedules , will idle 8,400 workers indefinitely and 35,500 temporarily . This will boost to 63,000 the number of idled Chrysler workers . The Chrysler layoffs will bring total auto industry unemployment to 150,000 workers . Chrysler said the only U. S. car assembly plant that will operate normally in the Nov. 27-Jan. 6 period will be the St. Louis facility which builds Fury , Coronet , Valiant , and Dart models . AT THE SAME time , the company said it had proposed to the United Auto Workers special Christmas payments to workers laid off temporarily during the holiday period . The payment The new car sales downturn hits General Motors hardest . Story in Business . would not apply to workers laid off indefinitely . Lynn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ payment , together with state unemployment benefits and supplemental unemployment benefits , would give these employes approximately the same amount of take-home pay they would have received had they been eligible for holiday pay for the eight paid holidays between Dee : 23 and Jan. 1 . Under the UAW contract with Chrysler , union hourly and salaried workers laid off before Dec. 9 are not eligible for holiday pay for the Christmas holiday period . The contract provides 12 days off in the holiday period , with eight paid at straight - time rates . In addition , workers get a " Bonus Sunday " which this year would have been payable Dec. 15 . TOWNSEND ALSO said Chrysler had proposed to pay the premium to continue the dental plan insurance coverage for workers temporarily laid off In November and not scheduled to return to work until after Jan. 1 . The UAW reacted immediately and angrily to the layoffs . Douglas Fraser , UAW vicepresident and head of the union 's Chrysler department , accused the company of " sloppy ? management . " " Why ca n't they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inventories on a gradual basis ? " he asked . " They Chrysler certainly did a negligent job of management . " CHRYSLER SAID the plants that will be closed thru Jan. 6. are the Hamtramck , Jefferson Avenue , and Lynch Road plants in the Detroit area , and the assembly plants at Belvidere , Ill. and Newark , Del . About 5,500 employes of the plant in Belvidere would be laid off during the shutdown . A UAW spokesman said 1,200 of those workers would be laid off indefinitely . Chrysler also said that when the Newark , Jefferson and Lynch car assembly plants reopen Jan. 6 they will operate only on single shifts . Meanwhile , American Motors Corp . announced Tuesday that it will close its assembly plant in Kenosha , Wis. , and its Milwaukee body shop for three days starting Monday . The move will affect about 10,000 workers , the bulk of them at Kenosha.                     