@@731768

txt Letters to the Editor C.J. VELZLAURENCE PRINGLECOLEMAN MISHKOFFPAUL MORDECAI ROSENBERGSAMUEL , ROSEN .. pg . 24 Letters to the Editor Energy : The Liberator of Mankind To the Editor : With the shock of the petroleum shortage , dramatized by the Arab embargo , there is a sudden rush to blame social , economic and environmental maladjustments on the use and development of energy . In the name of conservation of resources and protection of resources and protection of the environment , strident voices proclaiming an " energy crisis " generate in the public a negative fear-psychosis . There is a dangerous trend afoot to attack iadiscrimi:ately techno'ogy and , particularly , further use and development of energy . For man there are but two sources of energy , internal or external . Either useful work is achieved by the expenditure of energy from man 's own physical effort , or work is accomplished by application of energy from external sources stored in fossil and atomic fuels , geothermal heat , radiation of the sun , the force of the winds or the fall of water from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These external sources , in total , are boundless , limited only by the engineering ingenuity of man to tap them and to develop methods and machines to convert them to useful work . When society is in trouble there is a tendency to view the past , when life was simpler , with rose-colored glasses . In two recent Op-Ed articles , " Human Underground Holiday To the Editor : The superstition of groundhog weather prophesy is dying , as The Times editorial ( Feb. 2 ) points out . We are such sophisticated people now ; we need a facade of pseudo-scientific respectability for our modern myths ( such as flying saucers , Bigfoot and plants which exhibit emotional responses ) . So far , no one has hitched a polygraph to a woodchuck , and only the folks in Punxsutawney , Pa. , exploit the media-recognition potential of the groundhog . There is , however , a growing recognition of Groundhog Day as a time to celebrate the coming spring . That joyous season has its origins in late December , when day length begins to increase . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are already plenty of spring signs . Growing tips of tulip , crocus and skunk cabbage stick above ground , tree buds are swollen , and several species of birds are giving their mating calls . The " new " Groundhog Day is a symbol of this " secret " spring , and of the more verdant spring to come . It is also a damned good excuse to have a party in February . Killers Among Us To the Editor : There were two news items last week that underscore the need to secure speedier trials and reduce plea bargaining . A young woman was brutally slain and two men were shot in the head by a man who was awaiting trial for an armed robbery that occurred last September . A man was killed , his six children were orphaned and a policeman was critically wounded by a youth with a long criminal record whose last sentence for armed robbery was plea-bargained down to four months served in jail . I suggest that many share in the responsibility for these murders : our legislators who permit court delays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressured our State Assemblymen and Senators to provide legislation and money to eliminate long delays and plea-bargaining ; the newspapers and the either media who have shone an Intermittent , faltering spotlight on the problem . A judicial conference In Tarrytown last week reported that it would require a hundred million dollars to eliminate plea-bargaining. 1 say that is a cheap price to pay to salvage an impotent criminal-justice system . COLEMAN MISIIKor ? New Rochelle , Feb. 3 , 1975 ? Crimes of the Day To the Editor : The Police Department 's publication of summaries of gun-connected crimes and arraignments promises to he an informative undertaking . The daily summaries would be far more informative and valid , however , if they also contained figures on : ? Major ( and minor ) crimes committed without guns  --  homicides , assaults and robberies . ? Court arraignments for possession and/or use of proscribed weapons other than firearms . ? Crimes committed with registered firearms ? by the owners of those weapons . ? Sentences reduced or suspended through plea-bargaining , inadequate Life Can Prosper With Spartan Ways " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in extolling past achievements of other civilizations , recites but half of the story and ignores the vital question : For whom and at what price ? Until the recent successful harnessing of external sources of energy , the achievements of early civilizations , great as they may appear , were for the pleasure and use of a very select few people and at the price of internal energy extracted from the backs of countless slaves and serfs . It is timely to recall that in the last 150 years fantastic gains have been made in taking the heavy burden of work off the back of man ( where it rested for centuries ) and successfully transferring it to machines . Let us not forget it was largely the development of external energy sources that freed the world from slavery . Granted , currently there are maladjustments caused by excessive and frivolous uses of energy , and there is need for intelligent conservation and better stewardship of natural resources . However , these are not causes for downgrading energy . In the long run , greater and wider use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs of the world , to improve the environment and to enhance the quality of life for all mankind . C. J. VELZ Longboat Key. , Fla. , Jan. 22 , 1975 Growing numbers of people celebrate the " new " Groundhog Day . Although some gift-exchanging occurs , aficionados shudder at the thought of inquiries from the greetjng card industry , or of Groundhog Day sales in department stores . As befits its name , the " new " Groundhog Day is a quiet , underground sort of holiday . Spring is the season of hope , and Groundhog Day celebrates that hope and the first signs of its fulfillment . LAURENCE PRINGLE West Nyack , N. Y. , Feb. 3 , 1975 prosecution , judicial pressure , or judicial pity . ? Crimes committed by recipients of reduced or suspended sentences . These data are bound to prove informative , valid and most fascinating . PAUL Morinrcm ROSENBERG Litchfield , Conn. , Jan. 31 , 1975 ? A Slayer 's New Image To the Editor : Prison has been kind to Salvador Agron ( Op-Ed Jan. 29 ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ black cape and a deceptively innocuous black umbrella whose cruel , needlesharp tip he plunged murderously into two unoffending , helplessly spreadeagled teen-agers trapped at night in the jungle of a public city park . Prison has sharpened Agron 's arrogance with a high-school equivalency , Regents ' diploma , college credits , a self-acknowledged talent for poetry , smattering of legalisms and a rapier insight for self-exoneration by denigrating social and civic agencies , faulting teen-age gangs , the contagion of violence , and parents who neglected his proper guidance . Thus , guiltless , he spears the blame for cold-blooded murder onto a backward society of whose darkened moral values he was the pitiful victim and vaults his logic to the sincere conclusion that the penal system and we , collectively , are abusing him unless he is liberated at once . Perhaps prison has failed him in neglecting to instill one insignificant insight : compassion for the families of his murdered victims , mournful remorse for the innocent lives whose eager light he savaged into darkness . SAMUEL ROSEN Locust Valley , L. I. , Feb. 3 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters . If We Abandon Saigon And Phnom Penh .. . To the Editor : A Communist - pacifist - isolationist coalition , backed by the Democratic leadership in Congress , seems determined to force Communism upon South Vietnam and Cambodia by cutting off further U.S. financial aid . What are the arguments advanced for this suicidal policy ? 1 . Saigon has repeatedly violated the 1973 cease-fire agreement . Blame for the cease-fire collapse rests squarely upon Hanoi . When the Canadian delegation withdrew in disgust from the International Control Commission set up ' to oversee the cease-fire , it charged Hanoi with primary responsibility for continuation of the fighting . 2 . No matter what support we provide to Saigon and Phnom Penh , the Communists will crush both Governments eventually , so why prolong the agony ? This defeatist argument crops up whenever pro-democratic causes are under mortal challenge . Charles Lindbergh assured us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the U.S. entered World War II . After the war , how often did we hear that Communism was the wave of the future and that it was useless for the American people to aid the threatened Western European democracies ? The people of South Vietnam and Cambodia have demonstrated that they are opposed to Communism far more than they are to their present obviously inadequate Governments . They are fighting bravely against Communist aggression despite the slashing of American aid . 3 . " We must stop the killing . " Yet we know very well that mass killings will go on if the Communists crush the Saigon and Phnom Penh armies . Everyone suspected of opposition to a Communist regime will be hunted down . When Hanoi 's troops captured the city of Hue , execution squads carrying lists of their intended victims rounded up and butchered several thousand anti-Communists. 4 . Thieu and Lon Nol are dictators and do n't deserve our support . If we abandon the Saigon and Phnom Penh Governments we are in fact supporting the establishment of much more repressive Communist dictatorships . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident in both South Vietnam and Cambodia . Worse still , we are opening the door to large-scale killing through Communist-instigated insurrections in Thailand , Malaya , Singapore and Burma . Do we really want to tell the world that America is a faithless ally , scrap our great investment of blood and treasure in South Vietnam and signal the Communist powers that they may proceed unopposed with future " wars of national liberation " ? If so , we are almost certainly setting the stage for a much greater war of national survival . RONALD S. RAIN Washington , Feb. 6 , 1975 ? To the Editor : There is Appalachia ; there are people who can not make it without food stamps ; there are the aged who need a nursing home but ca n't get in ; there are those on marginal Social Security obliged to pay rents so high that there is little left for the other necessities of life ; there are the many unemployed seeking jobs ; there are schools desperately in need of repair and upgrading ; there are bright , eager and hopeful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make it ; there are slums , and there are cities rotting ; there is an urgent need for mass transportation and for decent housing for millions , and for playgrounds and day-care centers . Yet , did we not just hear that this Administration proposcs to give another $550 million to South Vietnam ? And did we not just hear that our ongoing aid to Cambodia is being diverted to that Government 's so-called " enemy insurgents " ? We had thought that this nation , having been blistered , battered and exhausted both physically and financially in Southeast Asia , and having mortgaged its children 's future by its arrogant misuse of power , would have renounced its policy of challenging the little Communists while romancing the big ones . R. STANLEY BANK , M.D. Harrisburg , Pa. , Jan. 31 , 1975 ? To the Editor : A letter written to the editor on . Tan . 31 deploring increased aid to South Vietnam said that a peace agreement was signed two years ago , our troops were withdrawn and our prisoners of war came home . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a portion of our prisoners of war came home , a fact of which everyone should be aware . Too many people are willing to write off 1,300 men while the President and the State Department are asking for support for Thieu 's unpopular Government in South Vietnam . So many men died uselessly , and we still will not allow peace to come to Vietnam . The sister of an M.I.A. , I do not want to be in Washington , throwing any additional red carnations or carrying any additional lighted candles in honor of our prisoners of war and our M.I.A. 's I do n't believe we have a " moral obligation " to support South Vietnam in a war with North Vietnam . I believe we have a moral obligation to heal the wounds and to soothe the anguish which the war in Vietnam has inflicted upon the peoples of Vietnam and upon ourselves . PAULA B. COPACK New York , Jan. 31 , 1975                     