@@729313

txt Under pressure of repeated defeats in the Senate last December and in the House last week , the Nixon Administration and other advocates of the supersonic transport have retreated to what they hope is a defensible position . As the Senate prepares to cast what could be the final vote on this question tomorrow , SST advocates are contending that nothing more is at stake than the building of two SST prototypes . Surely , they argue , there can not be any harm in going ahead with a couple of test models to obtain research data on disputed issues . This prototype argument sounds open - minded and reasonable in the best pragmatic American tradition , but in this context  --  as its proponents well know  --  it is fundamentally misleading and irrelevant . If the supersonic transport were in regular use , it is possible  --  not certain but possible  --  that it might eventually produce a sharp increase in the incidence of skin cancer . If this came about , it would be because the engine vapor introduced into the thin air of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rays to reach the earth . This result could not occur immediately but only after several hundred SST 's had been flying every day for some years . For the purpose of finding out the cumulative effect of a huge fleet of planes , a few test flights by only two planes would be clearly irrelevant . Careful atmospheric research could find out the desired answers , but academic scientific experts believe that ten years would ? be needed . The Boeing Company , chief contractor for the SST , envisages selling 500 or more planes . If that many planes were in regular use , they would possibly derange the life patterns of migratory birds and have incalculable effects on marine life . ' Birds , like humans , can withstand the isolated shock of one sonic boom , but that is entirely different from adjusting  --  if adjustment is possible  --  to a sonic boom every half-hour or every hour . Two prototypes could not provide quick answers to these imponderables . The severe sideline noise produced by an SST on takeoff is another major argument against the SST @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen. Charles A. Lindbergh has pointed out . It is unnecessary to build two prototypes to convince the public that the sideline noise can be reduced to 108 decibels . It can be brought down to that level if Boeing is willing to sacrifice some of the plane 's cruising range or otherwise reduce its cost efficiency . But 108 decibels is not a satisfactory long-term value . As a Presidential commission observed in a report on noise pollution released over the weekend , existing noise levels are dangerous to health and becoming intolerable . Two prototypes are unnecessary to decide the economic argument against the SST . It is beyond dispute that it would require another $477 million to build them . That is in addition to $864 million in Government funds already spent . Unless private financing can be found , another $5 billion would be necessary to pay production costs . Reputable economists have repeatedly testified that it is highly improbable that enough planes could be sold at a price that would reimburse the taxpayer for these enormous sums . , Since an Anglo-French combine has already built @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt that Boeing could produce a plane that would fly and be technically feasible . But feasible prototypes do not resolve market-place doubts about profitability . The president of Continental Airlines has already told a Senate committee that the Concorde is a fine plane but he would not buy it because he could not make money with it on the California-to-Hawaii run . Its seat-mile cost ratios are simply not good enough . The prototype argument is a fallacy . Prototypes could not test out the environmental issues and are not needed to test the economic issues . More tests are not the answer . The time has come for the Senate to say ? " Enough is enough . Let us lay this White elephant to rest . "                     