@@732907

txt A FOX HUNT scheduled Downstate this weekend in tiny Royal was canceled Friday minutes after - Gov . Thompson asked the state Department of CooservatIon to find a way to stop the hunt . commanaer or one American Legion Post in Royal , sponsor of the hunt , said it was called off because of the " national publicity . " Thompson stepped into the controversy after " many calls from people who think what is about to happen is outrageous and inhumane . " Thompson made it clear he did n't want the hunt to take place . The entry of the governor into the controversy was the last in a series of events that left farmers and'hunters in Champaign County confused and irritated . THEY WERE CONFUSED because conservation and police officials had told them ail along that what they were planning was just fine . They were irritated because television commentator Paul Harvey said they had n't seen " enough blood . " Alvin Bluhm , one of the organizers , argued that what his legion post had organized was no different than hundreds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every year . The only difference was that " city people got wrong Information about ours " after the wire services picked up a local newspaper notice of the hunt . Harvey and other news sources around the country said the people in Royal were going to kill foxes in an enclosure . Others also reported that the legionnaires were going to release foxes for 12- and 13-year-old boys to dub . " Killing them in an enclosure is illegal . No one here would do that . We were not going to release any foxes . We were going to hunt them in the wild . All we said about age is that you had to be at least 12 and have a hunting license to go along , " Bluhm said . IN RURAL AREAS , especially where livestock graze , hunts for foxes , coyotes , and other wild dogs are not unusual , Bluhm said . The usual method , to have been used in Royal , is for several hunters , most of them armed with clubs , to circle a large area and walk slowly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we do n't want all those people out there with shotguns shooting at each other . " Although Thompson asked his conservaion aides to block the hunt , Bluhm and his friends had been told by local conservation officials that this is the legal hunting season for foxes in Illinois . Although charges of " needless slaughter " of the animals dominated the debate , Bluhm said the hunt was arranged after residents near Royal complained about problems caused by the large number of foxes and other wild dogs . The animals kill small livestock , he said , especially newly born pigs , calves , and sheep .                     