@@730358

txt Mrs. Irene Lindquist stared vacantly at the litter of papers strewn before Associate Judge . Seymour S. Price in Family Court . She did n't appear to hear the words of attorneys who argued over who should be given custody of her son Johnny , 6 . Just a few miles away , the staff at St. Anne 's Hospital continued to monitor Johnny 's vital life signs . He was near , death , and it was feared a 1 portion of the youngster 's brain had already died . Case History Reviewed Johnny remained in a deep coma , the victim of a brutal beating a week ago . The child 's father , William , 31 , of 4729 W. Erie St. , who is accused of the beating , remained in Cook County Jail in lieu of $100,000 bond on a charge of aggravated battery . In the court appearance , Assistant State 's Atty . Kevin Sweeney reviewed the case history for the judge as Mrs. Lindquist continued to gaze downward , her hands folded on top of a black purse . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. and Mrs. Robert Karvanek , on a farm near Tigerton , Wis. , until he was returned to the Lindquists March 28 at the direction of the state and Catholic Charities . Sweeney then filed a petition with the court asking that the parents be found unfit to retain custody of their boy . Sweeney 's words brought the first signs of visible response to Mrs. Lindquist 's face . Her eyes reddened , and her hands began to shake , Suddenly she buried her face in her bands and sobbed . Attorney Objects " I suggest that you also request a protective , order to prevent the natural parents f rom seeing their child , " Judge Price advised Sweeney . At this comment , her attorney , Dennis Sherman , objected . " This has been a hearing by the press , " he told the judge . He asked that since the father was in jail and the mother had shown no hostility to the child , she be allowed to see him . Sweeney then asked . for a temporary protective order with a hearing for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next Friday . The judge granted the motion . Mrs. Lindquist shook her head and tried to bury her face deeper into her hands as she wept . Price scheduled the'case for trial on the custody petition for 10:30 a. rn . Oct. 13 . As her attorney led her from the courtroom , Mrs. Lindquist appeared to be stunned by the proceedings she had just witnessed . In the meantime , Johnny 's foster mother , Mrs. Karvanek , continued her vigil at the hospital  --  hoping and praying that he would pull thru .                     