@@731306

txt Russell E. Train , administrator otthe Environmental Protection Agency , urged caution today on a proposal by the White House Council on Environmental Quality for Federal leasing for offshore oil drilling in the Gulf of Alaska and along the East Coast . Mr. Train said on the Columbia . Broadcasting System television program " Face the Nation " that there should be " very careful advance planning " before any such leasing and that his agency expected " to participate and comment on any plans  --  absolutely . " He added that , while some of the developments recommended by the council " would be acceptable " if they were " wellplanned and strongly regulated with tough environmental protection measures fully enforced , " he also believed " there are some places where it should n't be done . " Mr. Train was responding to questions on a 318-page report by the council scheduled for formal release next Thursday ? just a year after President Nixon requested a study of " the environmental impact of oil and gas production on the Atlantic outer continental shelf and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chapter of findings and recommendations has been leaked to the press in the fast few weeks . Representative Gerry E. Studds , Democrat of Massachusetts , made the initial chapter public yesterday . Mr. Stadds 's district includes Cape Cod , Martha 's Vineyard and Nantucket ? an area lying westward of Georges.Bank , one of the ? sites recommended for oil leasing  --  and he was not satisfied with the report . It was , he said , " an - inadequate and incomplete study that does not fully consider the effects of offshore drilling on the local economy , environment , - commercial and sports fisheries and tourism . " The council 's report recommended nine sites in the Gulf of Alaska for potential drilling : four on Georges Bank , historically a commercial fishing area ; five in the Baltimore Canyon trough off the Middle Atlantic states , and five in the Southwest Georgia embayment off the Atlantic coast from South Carolina to northern Florida . Priority on Protection The report conceded that drilling , transporting the oil and constructing refineries in these areas carried an environmental risk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But it concluded that leasing " can be undertaken in these waters under carefully stipulated and controlled conditions " if the Federal Government adopted " a policy which puts very high priority on environmental protection , particularly in areas where uncertainty is great . " The report added that , where the risk to human and natural environment " is greater than that of an acceptable alternative " for meeting the energy objective , " we should not move ahead until we know more and can do better . " Qn a scale of relative environmental risks , the report said the area of greatest potential damage was in the Gulf of Alaska , while the two sites on the eastern part of . Georges Bank posed the least risk and the two sites on the western part of Georges Bank a moderate risk . Potential Damage Seen Mr ; Studds said he was not reassured by these admonitions and predictions . He noted that the report said the Georges Bank area had strong winds and severe spring storms . He also noted that the report estimated there was a 15 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spill in the eastern section of Georges Bank would reach shore in 80 to 150 days , and a 35-to-50 per cent probability that a spill in the western Bank would reach shore in 40 to 120 days . The recommendations chapter of the report stated that such a spill " may be damaging to fisheries on the Bank itself , but irreversible and widespread damage does not appear likely . " Mr. Studds noted , however , that the full report advised that " potential impacts on commercial fisheries should be assessed before development begins . " As for the impact of a spill on tourism and shore-front land values , me Studds said an oil spill could administer a blow " that could take years to repair . " He also expressed doubt about the report 's claim that a refinery in Fall River and New Bedford , both cities of high unemployment , would provide 19,000 new jobs after construction was complete .                     