@@733776

txt WASHINGTON  --  The nation 's unemployment figures this summer have become as freaky as the weather . The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported Friday that the national unemployment rate rose from 5.7 to 6.2 per cent of the labor force in July after dropping from 6.1 to 5.7 per cent in June . Embarrassed analysts conceded that the big decline in June , which the White House has seized upon to brag about the success of its economic program , was probably a fluke , caused by faulty statistical methods . To put it another ? way , the jobless rate did n't decline at all in June ; the government just thought it did . The sharp jump in July was n't an increase ; the unemployment rate was just " correcting itself , " in the words of one analyst . IF THE LATEST figures can be believed , they are bad news for President Carter . At 6.2 per cent , the unemployment rate is essentially where it was at the beginning of the year . In Carter 's first year in office , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The economic record of 1978 thus is one of " stagflation , " sharply rising prices 10 per cent so far this year and stubborn unemployment . When the big June decline was first reported , White House economic advisers cautioned that the figures were probably misleading and flukish . Later , however , the President and his wife Rosalynn complained that the administration was not getting full credit for the improvement in the employment picture . What happened to the figures ? According to analysts at the bureau , the villain is probably the method by which seasonal fluctuations are smoothed out of the statistics . THE PROBLEM is that the seasonal . // Unemployment rate rises to 6.2% in U.S. // adjustment factors include the wild economic movements of 1973-75 , when the oil embargo , higher oil prices , recession and double-digit inflation bombarded the country . So the seasonal adjustment method appears to be out of whack . So much for the explanation . Here 's what the latest figures showed : Employment declined by 400,000 in July , compared with a totally unrealistic increase of 700,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now back up to 6.2 million , after dropping to 5.7 million in June . The United States now has 94.4 million people at work , an increase of about 1 million this year . THE FIGURES showed an increase in unemployment for the following key segments of the population : Adult men , from 3.9 to 4.1 per cent ; adult women , from 6.1 to 6.5 per cent ; teen-agers , 14.1 to 16.3 per cent ; black and other minority workers , 11.9 to 12.5 per cent ; and white workers , 4.9 to 5.3 per cent . The unemployment statistics are taken from a poll of 55,000 households nationwide . A separate government survey of the nation 's business establishments showed that employment increased by 265,000 last month .                     