@@731157

txt The Federal Energy Office issued regulations tonight that in effect will force owners of oilheated residences to lower their , thermostat six degrees , and that leave gasoline stations last in ' line for available supplies . John Hill , an assistant director of FEO. said gasoline stations probably would get about 15 to 20 per cent less gasoline than the public would use if there were no shortage . Essential services which purchase gasoline in bulk were assigned all the fuel they need . Other commercial bulk buyers such as taxi fleets will receive as much as they did in 1972 . THE REGULATION itself . however , described this secondpriority category as " all other business ventures " and spokesmen or the FEO at first told newsmen , in answer to questions , that gasoline stations were in that category . But Hill later said they were not in either the first or second priority categories , but right where they were in the regulations as originally proposed last Dec. 12 ? last in line , to receive whatever is left after the priority users @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order a cutback in gasoline production to a level five per cent below 1972 production levels . ' ' Taking first priority for gasoline are essential services including agriculture , emergency services , energy production , sanitation services , telecommunications , and passenger transportation . THE NEW regulations were to be implemented immediately . The allocation of home heating oil , as previously proposed , cuts fuel deliveries in a manner requiring temperature reductions of six degrees in residences and 10 degrees in other establishments except medical and nursing facilities , which are to receive all the fuel they need . But home owners or any others who would stiffer serious discomfort or danger from such cutbacks can apply for changes supplies electricity to about 3 million customers in the city and in Westchester County . Con Ed burns 150,000 barrels of heavy fuel oil per day to generate power and normally maintains a 25- to 26-day reserve . The spokesman said he more fuel . IN NEW YORK , Consolidated Edison Co. extended its voltage cutback from 3 to 5 per cent . The utility , down to a 10-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal government for additional fuel supplies . could not recall when the reserve had been so low . THE POWER company has estimated that conservation efforts by its customers saved 815,000 barrels of oil in December . It renewed its appeal to them today . In Washington , the government said the highway automobile death toll in November dropped by as much as 20 per cent in states that lowered the speed limit to conserve fuel . When all states conform to the nationwide 55 mile-an-hour speed limit signed by President Nixon earlier this month , the yearly death toll could be cut by 6,000 persons , said James B. Gregory , head of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration .                     