@@728443

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 38 Letters to the Editor of The Times Marine Oil Pollution To the Editor : I was distressed to read the highly inaccurate and completely misleading Feb. 21 editorial entitled " Maritime Vandals . " The editorial is plainly in error in indicating that the oil pollution provisions of the House bill deal less severely than those of the Senate bill with " maritime vandals " whose deliberate discharges of oil wastes threaten to pollute American shorelines or coastal waters . The opposite is true . Both bills provide for imprisonment for not more than one year and a fine of up to $5,000 , or both , for failing to report a discharge of oil immediately . ' But the House bill also imposes a civil penalty of up to $10,000 for a substantial discharge negligently or willfully caused , whereas the corresponding provision of the Senate bill limits the penalty to $2,500 . The statement that the House bill would hold the " shipper " ( the term erroneously employed in the editorial to denote the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the Government proved him negligent , " could scarcely be farther from the truth . Again , the House bill provides precisely the opposite . Recognizing that it might be difficult at times for the Government to prove negligence in pollution cases , the House bill provides that evidence of a discharge constitutes a prima facie case of liability to the United States . The House bill would therefore expressly relieve the Government of the obligation of proving negligence and would instead impose upon the vessel owner or operator the burden of proving freedom from fault ? an extremely heavy burden . Liability Provisions The really crucial difference between the two bills lies in their respective provisions relating , to limitation of the amount of the liability of the owner or onerator f ' negligent discharges . The House bill would limit his liability to either $10 million or a sum equal to $100 multiplied by the vessel 's gross tonnage , whichever was the lesser . The limits of the lesser of $14 million or $125 per ton mentioned in the Senate bill are illusory . If the owner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by one of the four exceptions which the Senate bill would recognize , there would be no liability , and therefore no occasion to consider limitation of the amount of liability ; if there was any negligence at all , there would be no right to limit . During the past several years there have been intensive efforts to achieve international uniformity in civil liability to both governments and private interests for clean-up costs and other damages resulting from marine oil pollution . Last November these efforts culminated in an international convention regulating such liability , which was signed by the official representatives of 34 countries , including the United States , following a diplomatic conference held at Brussels . While we do not regard this convention as a perfect solution , it would treat the problem on an internationally uniform basis . In sum , the Senate bill is the least effective of the three pending solutions to the problem of liability for marine oil pollution . JAMES J. HIGGINS President , the Maritime Law Association of the U.S. New York , Feb. 27 , 1970 An editorial on this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Editor : The March 10 editorial commenting upon my remarks reported in The Times of March 9 and upon school integration , is explicit and clear : to abandon efforts toward school integration will create a serious loss of educational opportunity for disadvantaged children , and to pursue a path toward two societies . Lower class families and ghetto neighborhoods for blacks create an educational disadvantage , which their schools do not overcome . But the warning is misplaced . It should not be a warning to the " neosegregationists within the Nixon Administration " ; The President 's message stated the same point , and just as forcefully . The warning should be a warning to the neo-segregationists among us all , North and South , black and white . So long as desegregation was restricted to the South , the Federal Government could muster Northern support for desegregation . The issue in capsule form was present as far back as Little Rock : there , the middle-class whites of Little Rock whose children did not attend Central High School were willing to see  --  until the lower-class white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Countrywide Issues Similarly , the North has been willing to see school integration for the South , so long as the North was not affected . Now Senators Stennis and Ribicoff , strange bedfellows though they may be , have posed the issue to the country as a whole . As a result , we are at a crossroad : either school integration efforts will be abandoned in the South , or they will be pursued in the North as well . If they are to be pursued , problems such as size of ghettoes will not be insurmountable : innovations will arise such as multiple educational environments for a child at different sites  --  but only if there is an intention to make integration work . The question remains , not for the Federal Government any more than for state and local ones : are we willing to . find ways to make school integration work , North and South , or are we willing to let schools be the vehicle through which the society separates into two , separate and unequal ? The President 's message on education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What remains , at all levels of government , is to implement the intent of that statement . JAMES S. COLEMAN Professor of Social Relations Johns Hopkins University Baltimore , March 10 , 1970 Pressure on Pompidou To the Editor : As a Jew who is deeply concerned with the fortunes of Israel , I regret the recent antiPompidou demonstrations . I am convinced that instead of helping Israel they had the opposite effect . They alienated many Frenchmen and even some Americans . It is likely that President Pompidou will pursue his antiIsrael policy with more zeal and will enhance his standing with the Arabs . More importantly , it antagonized the State Department hierarchy , where Israel never had many friends . President Nixon showed his displeasure by traveling to New York to attend the dinner given to the President of France . While the emotions which provoked these demonstrations are understandable , a more mature and dignified attitude was called for . There was . no need for the so-called Jewish leaders to come to New York to meet with President Pompidou , and his refusal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naive of them to assume that they could influence French foreign policy . JOSEPH KUTAY Bushkill , Pa. , March 6 , 1970 ? Is Chivalry Dead ? To the Editor : What happened to the days of " Ladies first " and " Would you like to sit down ? " Apparently chivalry has finally joined the smoldering ashes of ladies in skirts and boys in crewcuts . Is standing , while a man sits down , the price a woman must pay for her equality ? Does a woman have to sacrifice what is due her feminine status for the equal rights she duly deserves ? I think not . MAUREEN GROSS North Woodmere , L. I. March 4 , 1970                     