@@733514

txt Vladimir Horowitz played at the White House this afternoon for President and Mrs. Carter and an invited audience of 300 . The recital was broadcast " live " and also was televised at 10 P.M. over the Public Broadcasting Service . It lasted exactly an hour'and consisted of standard works by Chopin and others , plus the pianist 's own transcription of Bizet 's " Carmen . " In introducing Mr. Horowitz , the President hailed the 50th anniversary of the pianist 's American debut . He reminisced a bit about his own experiences while a midshipman at the Naval Academy . He first encountered Mr. Horowitz 's art , he said , through recordings . He and his roommate , both music lovers , spent whatever money they had on classical disks . including a number of concertos featuring Mr. Horowitz . At that time , Mr. Carter said , he learned of " the brilliance of his playing , his fearless expression of emotion . " It was a great honor , he said , to greet Mr. Horowitz at the White House , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national treasure . " . This was not the first time that Mr. Horowitz had played at the White House . His previous performance was on Jan. 8 , 1931 , during the Administration of President Herbert Hoover . During the reception after the concert , President Carter said that he had invited Mr. Horowitz some time ago , but that the pianist wished to wait until the occasion of the anniversary of his American debut . ? Mr. Horowitz had his own piano sent from New York . He played on a small stage that was surrounded with tulips , pansies , daffodils and other flowers . He built his program around Chopin 's B-blat Minor Sonata , following that big work with Chopin 's Waltzes in A-minor and C-sharp minor , Chopin 's A-flot Polonaise , Schumann 's " Traumerei , " Rachmaninoff 's " Polka de W.R. , " and his own Carmen " Variations . " It was a typical Horowitz program , and he played it in his typical manner , thundering out the fortissimos , bringing a highly romantic and supercharged approach to the music @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " show piece . Later he said that he was worried about the acoustics of the room , and that he was holding back a bit . Which meant that there were only 9,000 volts of electrical energy instead of 10,000 . President Carter , who listens to classical records all day long , appeared to be enthralled . He watched the pianist with sheer fascination , not moving once during the entire Chopin sonata . One piece that especially pleased him was the Rachmaninoff Polka . He broke into a broad grin at the end of it . Mr. Horowitz had never before played this piece in public , and he learned it just a short time ago . It was a work that Rachmaninoff composed in memory of his father , Wassily , who used to play a little piano piece with that theme . Hence the " W.R. " in the title . ? At the end of the concert , President Carter came onstage to applaud the pianist . " It 's hard to speak , " he said . He also said that the White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but never a greater man or a greater performance . " He also introduced his wife , Rosalynn , and Mr. Horco.vitz 's wife , Wanda Toscanini Horowitz . During the reception following the concert , the President spoke about his love for music and his impressions of the ' recital , which he called overwhelming . " He 's never played better , " he said to Isaac Stern . " What did you think ? " " Incredible , " said Mr. Stern . The President said that he was familiar with nearly everything on the Horowitz program through the White House collection . He listens to classical music about 10 hours a day , he said . His secretary puts file cards on his desk so that he can identify an unfamiliar work . Relatively few politicians were at the concert . Many of the guests were musi7 dans . Among them was Samuel Barber ; Josef Gingold , Byron Janis , Constance Keene , Peter Mennin , Mistislav Rostropovich , William Schuman , Andres Segovia , William Warfield and Billy Taylor . ? Among other guests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brademus , Democrat of Indiana , John Steinway and Alice Tully . Livingston L. Biddle and Joseph Duffey , the new heads of the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities also were present , as were Joan Mondale , wife of Vice President Mondale , Robert S. Brustein , dean of the Yale University School of Drama ; John Mazzola , president of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts , and Frank Taplin , chairman of the Metropolitan Opera .                     