@@733467

txt Senate Republican leader Howard H. Baker Jr . has greatly enhanced chances for Senate passage of the Panama Canal treaties by offering a solution which would avoid the need for any fundamental changes in the treaties . A key figure in debate over the canal treaties , the Tennessee Senator gave the most extensive explanation to date of his views on the issue in a breakfast meeting Jan. 19 with reporters . Because of strong opposition to the treaties within his own party and in his home state , the issue has been an extremely difficult one for Senator Baker , a potential Republican contender for the presidency in 1980. " . s he himself put it , the Senate vote on the treaties " has a lot of political danger in it . . . and very little political benefit . " Senator Baker told repo. , ters that he favored adding to the treaties , in the form of a reservation or amendment , assurances of the U.S. right to defend the neutrality of the canal and to obtain priority passage through the canal in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already included in the treaties . Senator Baker said that his proposed addition would require Senate action and Panamanian concurrence , but would not require fundamental changes in the treaties , renegotiation of the treaties , or a new plebiscite in Panama . The Senate minority leader added that during his recent visit to Panama , the Pan*Please turn to Page 10 From page 1 Baker plans to sweeten ' canal treaties amanian leader , Gen. Omaar Torrijos , indicated that he could go along with this and that Panamanian concurrence could be obtained through action by the Panamanian National Council , without a new plebiscite . The proposed addition to the treaty , Senator Baker explained , would include the essence of the communiqu ? , or memorandum of understanding , which President Carter and General Torrijos issued Oct. 14 guaranteeing U.S. rights to priority passage and defense of the canal . Senator Baker has thus placed himself close to the position of the Senate majority leader , Robert C. Byrd ( D ) of West Virginia , who recently pledged his support for the treaties , provided that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he does not agree with anything like the sweeping amendments to the treaties which are being offered by Sen. Robert Dole ( R ) of Kansas . The supportive positions of Senators Baker and Byrd already may be having a " ripple effect " on other members of the Senate . Sen. Lloyd Bentsen ( D ) of Texas announced Jan. 19 that he will vote for the Panama Canal treaties if they are amended to include the Carter-Torrijos understanding of Oct. 14 . Senator Bentsen , who recently visited Panama , told reporters he was well aware that his support for the treaties would not be politicallypopular in Texas , one of the states where sentiment runs strongly against the treaties . In the meantime , General Torrijos is reported to have told visiting members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that he would not object to amendments designed to clarify U.S. defense and naval passage rights after the canal is turned over to Panama in the year 2000 . What both General Torrijos and President Carter seem to want to avoid is a flood of amendments in the U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ renegotiation of the treaties as well as a second plebiscite in Panama . In his meeting with reporters , Senator Baker said he was certain that an " avalanche " of amendments could be avoided . He added that he did not think the " truth squad " of congressmen led by Sen. Paul Laxalt ( R ) of Nevada , which now is campaigning across the United States against the treaties , had changed any votes in the Senate . Senator Baker predicted that in the end the Senate debate over a new U.S.-Soviet treaty on strategic arms may prove to be " more tumultuous " than the debate over the canal treaties . He said that he expected a vote on the canal treaties sometime after the Senate takes its Lincoln Birthday recess from Feb. 10 to Feb. 20.                     