@@729580

txt Nearly 150 state troopers and policemen from four North Shore suburbs have been assigned to aid Highland Park police in controlling huge crowds expected at Ravinia tomorrow night during a rock concert , " Jesus Christ , Superstar . " Gov . Ogilvie , expected to be among an anticipated audience of 20,000 at the 0 ; 30 p. in. concert , has granted Mayor Raymond Geraci 's request for 75 state troopers to patrol Ravinia . Policemen from Deerfield , Niles , Lake Forest and Waukegan also will help . 10,000 Is Capacity " We do n't expect a Grant Park-typo riot , but anything more than 10,000 people is beyond the capacity of Ravinia , " said Gored , adding that neighborhood resentment is mounting against Ravinia because of , the rock concert . At a Highland Park City Council meeting last week , Police Chief Michael F. Bonamarte Jr . disclosed widespread vandalism at Ravinia , including purse snatching , fights , drug and alcohol use and gatecrashing . Nearby residents have complained of bicycles and car parts being stolen during the rock concerts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupying reserved seats in , the pavilion and refusing to leave when , the ticket holders arrived . Last Friday , he said , several Ravinia benches were broken and used to stoke a bonfire during a rock concert . " You ca n't walk barefoot there because of all the broken glass , " Bonamarte said . Police efforts to apprehend violators in the darkness have failed , primarily because Recline sponsors have failed to provide promised floodlights , officials said , However , Edward Gordon , director of the Ravinia Festival Association , which sponsors the concerts , . said , " Nothing of any consequence has been called to my attention . " Gordon said he is concerned because the additional uniformed policemen might " get the kids uptight . " Despite increased vandalism , city officials said the biggest problems are the huge crowds and traffic Jams that occupy Ravinia rock concerts . " Things have been so tied up that we have been unable to get fire trucks in , " Geraci said . " When our narrow streets are filled , patrons park their cars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ walk here . " Geraci said he expects the City Council to levy an amusement tax on the Ravinia Festival next year . " A certain element wants to see Ravinia famous for rock concerts , something impossible in such a densely populated area as Highland Park , " Geraci said . " If they want to go to the prairies of Illinois with rock concerts , they 'll go with our blessings , " he said . The " Jesus Christ , Superstar " group also is scheduled to hold a concert at Ravinia at 10 a. m . Saturday .                     