@@729123

txt A little-noticed letter from Secretary Laird to Senator Brooke indicates that a basic change may be underway in the nation 's defense policy  --  from deterrence of nuclear war to the long-discredited strategy of preparing to fight one . If confirmed , the change would help explain why the Administration is pressing ahead with a vast expansion of MIRV multiple warhead missiles instead of , seeking to ban them in the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks ( SALT ) with Russia . The MIRV buildup on both sides threatens to leave the United States , after vast expense , less secure than before . The Laird-Brooke exchange was set off by a recent speech by the Air Force Chief of Staff . General Ryan first stirred concern more than a year ago , when he told a House . subcommittee that the Air Force was developing nuclear missiles with warheads of increased power and accuracy ? " a hard-target killer , which we do not s have in the inventory at the present time . " By a " hardtarget killer , " General Ryan clearly meant warheads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ICEIVI 's ) in underground silos. * . Heretofore , the American strategy of deterrence has called primarily for less accurate anti-city missiles , a " second strike " force that can survive an aggressor 's initial attack and , in retaliation , , destroy the enemy 's urban areas . If the United States and the Soviet Union were to acquire multiple-warhead missiles capable of knocking out each other 's ICBM silos , the stability of - mutual deterrence might be replaced by nuclear nervousness ; there would be pressure to expand nuclear capabilities and , in a crisis , both , sides might . be tempted to shoot first . For these reasons , the Ryan plan reportedly was vetoed last year by President Nixon . " There is no current United , States program to develop a so-called ' hard target ' MIRV capability , " Mr. Nixon said . " The particular program to which General Ryan referred did not receive Department of Defense approval for funding in the forthcoming defense budget . " But early in the fall , General Ryan alluded to improvements in the Minuteman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a counterforce capability . " This missile , with a multiple , independently targetable re-entry vehicle ( MIRV ) , will be our best means of , destroying time-urgent targets like the long-range weapons of the enemy , " General Ryan told the Air Force Association . This remark , protested by Senator Brooke , brought forth a disclaimer from Secretary Laird . " We have not developed , and are not seeking to develop , a weapon system having , or which could reasonably be construed as having ; a ? first-strike potential , " Mr. Laird said , adding ? that " the capability of Minuteman III against hardened silos is relatively low . " This reassurance , however , does not eliminate the possibility ' that the Soviet Union may Suspect a present or future capability in the Minuteman III far higher than Mr. Laird Claims could " reasonably be construed . " The whole history of the missile race is one in which each side , on the basis of " worst case " analysis , has vastly overestimated the future deployments of the ether and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is most disturbing about Secretary Laird 's letter is the  --  implication that the United States has abandoned the strategy of deterrence through threat of anticity retaliation . While denying that General Ryan was seeking a first-strike capability , Mr. Laird said the Air Force objective was that of " limiting damage to the United States by second-strike employment of Minuteman III agaihst remaining weapons of an aggressor nation which had struck first . " President Nixon in his State of the World message in February raised the question of whether the United States should seek a counterforce capability for use if deterrence fails . Mr. Laird 's letter suggests that this question now has been answered and a decision made ? to acquire enough " hard-target killers " to strike back against Soviet ICBM 's still remaining in their silos after a strike against the United States . The trouble with this " defensive " counterforce capability is that it may appear to the Russians to be large and efficient enough for an American first-strike against them . And even short of that , Moscow undoubtedly would want to increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , starting another action-reaction buildup in the arms race . The likelihood of a detailed Congressional examination of American strategic doctrine and capabilities was evoked by Senator Brooke . It has now become an urgent and vital need .                     