@@731952

txt SEVENTEEN PRISONERS , ' including five convicted or accused murderers , broke out of the Cook County Jail Wednesday night after they had been taken from their cells with other inmates for a routine inspection for contraband . More than 70 policemen , aided by a police helicopter , dogs , and prison guards armed with shotguns , were making an intensive search in a 5-squaremile area on the Southwest Side for the missing prisoners . At least four of the men were recaptured within three hours of the escape . Sheriff Richard Elrod field the inmates broke thru a wall on the jail 's first floor , escaped into the construction apea for the new prison complex , and fled into nearby streets . Elrod warned residents to keep their doors and windows locked . MOTORISTS IN the area also were advised to be wary of persons approaching their cars after reports that some of the escapers stole two cars and kidnaped their drivers . Residents of the area around the jail at 26th Street and California Avenue reported seeing several men , barefoot and dressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prisoners were dressed in blue denim civilian clothes , according to officials of the Cook County Department of Corrections , making their recapture more difficult . ELROD SAID the 120 men of Tier H-2 had been taken to the jai basement while their cells were being searched . They were left In a corridor with guards at ' each end , tho doors to a-laundry room and soup robins were left open . The men escaped by taking iron bars and smashing out the bricks around a barred window in the soap room , using bed Plows to muffle the sound . They then sneaked along an exterior wall , blocked from the viexf guards , cut thru a wire mesh fence , and got into the construction area , he said . When the inmates were returned to their cells , prison officials discovered .17 missing . Elrod estimated the escapers had at least an hour jump on jail officials . HE SAID the escape did not appear to be the fault of the guards , but an investigation will be conducted . " These men did not know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so ' it is possible that the men who escaped may have taken advantage of the planning of others , " said Winston Moore , director of the Cook County Department of Corrections . " They got out either thru a combination of our negligence , their cunning , or their ability to seize an opportunity , " he said . Poiice concentrated their search in the Marquette poke district , bounded by Roosevelt Road , the lanitary and Ship Canal , Racine Avenue , and the Western city limits . Nearly 20 city policemen and deputy sheriffs searched an area around the Wacker Warehouse Co. , 34th Street raid Kedzie Avenue , where there are trucks , trailers , and piles of steel . THE ESCAPERS included Kenneth Tompkins , 23 , and Angelo Jones , 23 , awaiting trial for murder ; and Daniel Lewis ; 22 , Elliott Smith , alias Alan Johnson , 21 , and William Hardy , 25 , under sentence for murder . Police said Lewis was returned to the County jail from the Illinois Institution for the . Criminally Insane in Chester @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ awaiting trial for aggravated battery Larry Scott , alias Billy Ashmon , 24 , awaiting trial for armed robbery ; Richard Bean , 27 , awaiting trial for armed robbery ; Samuel Brooks , 23 , being held as a federal prisoner ; Alvaro Elzy , 22 , awaiting trial for rape and robbery . ALSO , JAMES Carbon , alias James Carvin , 20 , serving a six-month term for attempted escape and awaiting trial for armed robbery ; Roger Henry , 21 , serving a term for robbery and aggravated battery ; Roney Mitchell , 20 , serving a term for armed robbery ; Willie Chew , 26 , serving a term for armed robbery and unlawful use of credit cards . Also , Keith Lester , 20 , serving a term for armed burglary ; Terry Jackson , 20 , serving a term for armed robbery , and Willie Stevens , 21 , serving a term for burglary .                     