@@729017

txt Republicans held control of the Illinois House of Represent , atives by three votes yesterday , but a bitter organizational fight for the Senate loomed after Democrats pulled a stunning upset by picking up 10 seats and forcing a 29 to 29 tie . A late result from deep southern Illinois made Rep. C. L. McCormick of Vienna a sure winner . Combined with a Republican victory in another downstate district that normally goes Democratic , the G. 0 . P. won a 90 to 87 House margin . Democrats claimed Senate superiority , asserting that Lt. Gov . Paul Simon will provide the tie-breaking vote as presiding officer of the Senate . However , Sen. W. Russell Arrington ER. , Evanston , now majority leader , disagreed , maintaining that the lieutenant THE ELECTION IN ILLINOIS See the editorial page governor can not vote on either organization matters or bills . Simon , reached in Troy , said his reading of the Constitution made the question moot because 30 votes are not required to organize the Senate . Therefore , a Republican layoff on such voting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is " Anybody 's Guess " The Democratic lieutenant governor agreed , however , that there is a question about whether he can vote on legislation . Arrington , who ruled the Senate with an iron hand under the present 38 to 19 alignment for the G. 0 . P. , said the outcome when the new Senate convenes in January is " anybody 's guess . " There was some speculation about a possible coalition move in the upper chamber . Pointed out as another factor in deciding the Senate stalemate was the role of Atty . Gen. William J. Scott , a Republican , as the interpreter of constitutional intent in such cases . Cherry May Lead Denis Some Republican political observers considered the Senate result a particular defeat for Gov . Ogilvie , noting that the new state income tax enacted last year played an important part in the legislative races . Sen. Robert E. Cherry ED. , Chicago , assistant minority leader , is considered the odds-on favorite to follow retiring Sen. Thomas A. ID. , Chicago , as Democratic leader , and as majority leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the upcoming Nov. 16 session of the present legislature in Springfield , Arrington ruled out any attempt by Republicans to romp House and Senate districts to gain political advantage . Arrington said he still expected the session to be a short one , possibly not longer than one day . He reasserted that new bills will not be introduced . Late Tallies Aid G. 0 . P. Republicans were assured of a House majority when late results yesterday gave McCormick an 1,800 vote victory in the 59th district . Another G. 0 . P. victory by former Rep. A. C. Junk Bartulis of Bendl in the 5:Id district helped offset Democratic gains in Chicago . The G. 0 . P. House margin was four votes less than the party held in 1968 , and caused some Republican observers concern about electing a speaker . They recalled the outcome in 1961 , when Paul Powell , late secretary of state , was elected speaker despite a Republican majority because of desertions by West Side Chicago blocsters . The result in the 59th took on particular significance because it is the district where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ borne territory for Rep. Clyde A. Choate D. , Anna , minority whip . the chief candidate for Democratic leader next session . Choate was Powell 's lieutenLt . Gov . Paul Simon ... the tiebreaker ? ant and is his apparent political heir downstate . Jones Loses in 54th Gettirg aid from a sweep at the state level , Democrats scored four House victories in Chicago and two key upsets downstate . A major Republican casualty was Rep. Leslie N. Jones of Flora in the 51th district . Democrats added a seat in the 46th district by electing James Von Boeckman of Pekin . Similarly , the Democrats scored six wins in Chicago Senate races , wiping out all Republican controled districts in the city . They picked up four seats downstate to make up their 10-seat gain , a number never sug-gested by even the most optimistic Democratic prognosticators . It marked the first time in more than 30 years that Re-publicans failed to win the Senate .                     