@@730889

txt Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall today issued an order permitting continued United States bombing of Cambodia . Marshall 's action in effect reversed an order issued earlier today by Justice William 0 . Douglas which Ibuld have stopped the bombing . In a two-page statement , Marshall said be had conferred with the other members of the court and all agreed , making it in effect an 8-1 rebuff to Douglas . Contacted at his Goose Prairie , Wash. , retreat , Douglas said : " The reported ? action of the court was without precedent . " From what I ' an learn , other members of the court had not even read my decision . " U. S. BOMBING raids over Cambodia had continued today , despite the order issued by Douglas at 8:30 a. m . Chicago time . Marshall 's action came in response to an urgent government plea aimed at knocking down Douglas ' action . Marshall 's order was not without ironic overtones . On Wednesday Marshall ruled he was powerless to stop the bombing . Today , Douglas , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ BY Marshall and ? the other members of the court avoided a confrontation between the government 's judicial and executive branches , The continued bombing , plus a statement issued by the Pentagon , had directly thallenged the authority of Doug.14 order . After Douglas issued his order , the administration launched its legal counterattack . A Pentagon statement en the , bombing appeared to challenge directly the authority of Douglas ' action . " Pending appropriate legal action on this matter , " the statement said , " we will abide , by the congressional mandate to , end the bombing on Aug. 15 . " THE DATE referred to was one selected by Congress for a cutoff of funds to finance the air war in Cambodia . President Nixon has reluctantly agreed to meet that deadline , while saying it could have " dangerous potential consequences " in Asia . Military sources reported that bombing missions were flown over Cambodia after today 's court order . The missions , said the sources , had been planned prior to the court action . The legal battle began in earnest last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court in Broolclyn declared U. S. participation in ; the Cambodian war unconstitutional because it was not authorized by Congress . Judd ordered the bombing halted . TILE U. S. Appeals Court In New York stayed Judd 's order pending a hearing which is scheduled for Wednesday . It was this stay which Douglas lifted , thus allowing Judd 's order to become effective . Douglas said he was not ruling on the constitutionality of U. S. involvement in Cambodia . The justice said , however , that the basic question of the case was whether or not Congress had declared war on Cambodia . Douglas thought not . " It has become popular to think the President has that power to declare war . But there is not a word in the Constitution that grants that power to him . II runs only to Congress , ' , ' Douglas wrote . AS FAR AS his specific anion was concerned , Douglas compared it to the decision that faces a judge when asked ? to stay , the execution of a man convicted in a capital case . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " said ' Douglas . He concluded his written comments by saying : " The merits of the present controversy are ... to say the least , substantial , since denial of the application before me would catapult : our airmen as well as Cambodian peasants into the death zone . I do what I think any judge would do in a capital case  --  vacate the stay entered by the Court of Appeals . " THE LAWSUIT that ortimpteft the rulings was brought by Rep. Elizabeth Holtzman ID. , N. V.I and three Air Force officers . When they were initially confronted by the Court of Appeals action , they had applied to Marshall for relief . Marshall declined to take the course chosen by Douglas , saying that ' it would exceed his authority as a single justice .                     