@@728346

txt AUCKLAND , New Zealand , Jan. 15 Thursday ? Hundreds of shouting , booing war protesters surged against police lines this afternoon in a massive demonstration as Vice President Agnew arrived at his hotel here . Unarmed police strained to hold back the crowd in a line across the street in front of the hotel driveway . They were supported in their effort by second and third ranks of police . Police helmets and war protest signs were flung to the ground in the melee . A giant chorus of boos erupted as Agnew 's car pulled into the driveway and he entered the hotel . Police seized at least two demonstrators , one a miniskirted young woman . Witnesses said four others were arrested later . Crowd Grows Larger Security men estimated the crowd at more than 500 some thirty minutes before Agnew arrived . Its ' umbers swelled as the Vice President 's motorcade approached . The protesters , lined up across the street called Waterloo quadrant , carried signs protesting the Viet Nam war . One demonstrator waved an American flag with a black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the provisional revolutionary " government " of South Viet Nam , and still others carried bright red flags . Demonstrators carried signs bearing such legends as " The spirit of Ho Chi Minh will win , " " We protest as mothers , " and " Nixon 's withdrawal phony ? Withdraw now . " Many Are Youths Many in the c r owd were young , but several middle aged persons participated . One , ' a juvenile , bore a sign reading " Children like me are being nap a lme d . " A matronly woman , wearing a band of black mourning cloth across her chest , bore a sign calling for an end to the fighting in Viet Nam . Police continued to bring up reinforcements as the hour of Agnew 's arrival approached . As each police group arrived , the crowd chanted " Slog Heil , " the old nazi salute . Security ' men said many of the demonstrators of the Progressive Youth movement , a left-wing organization , were reported to have come from thruout New Zealand . Group Thins Out About @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ break up , A group of 50 of the demonstrators sat in a semi-circle in the street and other protesters stood at the barricade chatting with the policemen with whom they , had struggled earlier . Some 60 policemen remained on the scene to await the departure of the remaining demonstrators . Agnew arrived at Auckland airport in his jet , Air Force 2 , from Canberra , Australia , where he conferred with government leaders for two days . Before taking off from Canberra , Agnew met briefly with Gough Whitlam Australia 's opposition leader , who came within a few seats of overthrowing the government of Prime Minister John Gorton in elections late last year . He had run on a platform calling for Australian withdrawal from Viet Nam ; It was the first time on the tour that Agnew had been announced as meeting with an opposition leader . Earlier , yesterday , Agnew had met with the Australian cabinet and assured its members that their country would remain protected by the United States ' nuclear shield . He gave the 13-man cabinet an unequivocal assurance that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Australia . New Zealand , United States and Southeast Asia Treaty organizations . Agnew also explained President Nixon 's Pacific policy , stressing that the United States would provide a nuclear screen against an all-out attack by another nuclear power . Demonstration Is Noisiest After his meeting with the cabinet , Agnew was confronted by the noisiest demonstration thus far on his tour . Twelve demonstrators were arrested in ' encounters with police during the afternoon outside Parliament house . Fifty uniformed policemen stood in a line in front of the building and faced the demonstrators across an iron railing . The protesters were part of a crowd of several hundred persons gathered on the sidewalk and in the street . The size of the crowd was estimated at more than 500 persons , but many appeared to be taking no part in the protest . Before leaving the wile- , ment building , Agnew was asked his reaction to several small anti-war demonstrations which have marked ' his visit here . lie replied : " Lam rather used to demonstrators . They do n't upset me , and I pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this ' by walking calmly in the vicinity of booing demonstrators . and entering his car outside Parliament house . The car - drove away without incident and was followed by his motorcade . The Vice President later held an impromptu question-andanswer period with Australian reporters at the close of a brief talk to United States embassy personnel in a , garddn on the embassy grounds .. Critical of Visit The Australian ? press has been critical of Agnew 's visit here because he had scheduled no press conference in this country and because , in the press ' opinion , security measures have kept him away from the public . When he decided to talk with local newsmen yesterday afternoon , one of the questions put to him was : " Are you worried at all about the press coverage of your visit so far ? it has n't perhaps been as kind as to some other leaders who have been here ? " " No , I am not concerned about it , " Agnew replied . " . The point is , I did n't come here to impress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make certain objectives of a national nature known to the Australian government , and I 'm not running for office in Australia , so it does n't bother ' me a whole lot . "                     