@@728859

txt Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird said today that South Korea 's request for $3-billion in military assistance and equipment over the next five years was neither feasible nor realistic , given the present attitudes of Congress . The Secretary was asked at a news conference at the . Pentagon whether the South Korean request , submitted piecemeal over the last several months , represented a realistic proposal . " The answer to your question would be no , " Mr. Laird said sharply . " Three billion dollars  --  considering the attitudes in Congress ? I would say no . " Coming in the wake of a statement by Vice President Agnew in Seoul today that all American troops would be withdrawn after the modernization of the South Korean armed forces , Mr. Laird 's assertion is likely to to exceed $3-billion. of considerable The Administration has rejected this list as excessive and has asked the South Koreans to come back with a set of priority requests . One planning figure that has been discussed , in the Pentagon is $1-billion in equipment over the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Mr. Agnew and President Park in Seoul is seen by Administration officials in Washington as the first substantial application of the " Nixon doctrine , " outside South Vietnam . The doctrine , first enunciated by the President last summer , pledges that the United States will keep its treaty commitments and provide a shield against nuclear attack for its allies , while substituting economic and techical assistance for many of the 750,000 American soldiers currently stationed throughout Asia . North Korean assault against the States forces . They said the South at- this time . Proceeding from these conclusions , and prompted by the to military expenditures abroad , the Administration decided to begin troop reductions in Korea now . In addition to the United Nations commitment in Korea , the American commitment to South Korea 's defense was formally spelled out in a mutual ' defense treaty that was ratified in 1954. systems . The total cost was said , be a source anxiety there . Informed sources here said that South Korean officials had spent much of the time with Mr. Agnew during the Vice President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amounts of modern military equipment to bring their armed forces up ' to the strength of the North Korean Army . At the end of their talks , the sources said , Mr. Agnew and President Chung Hee Park had reached a basic agreement that the United States would commit itself to a program of modernization of the South Korean armed forces and that this , in turn , would permit the reduction and eventual elimination of the American force currently stationed there . Current Strength Is 53,000 The current authorized strength of United States forces in Korea is 63,000 , although only 53,000 men are actually stationed there now , ' according to the Defense Department . The authorized figure is to be reduced to 43,000 by the end of June , 1971 , as was first disclosed two months ago . The Unit-id States forces in South Korea , which include two infantry divisions , are still technically under the United Nations Command , which fought the North Koreans and Chinese Communists ' in the 1950-53 The decision to begin applying the doctrine in Korea at this time was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produced the following conclusions : CIThat the South Korean armed forces were improved to the point where they could take over the defense of their country without the assistance of the two United States divisions now stationed there . qThat the South Koreans ' confidence in their own military and economic capacities had improved to the point where the jittery officials in Seoul of rising Congressional opposition the United States ' intention to stand behind its commitments . To facilitate the program to modernize its forces , which is , expected to take at least five years , the Seoul Government has submitted a long list of requests for military equipment , including modern jet fighters , self-propelled heavy artillery and complex coastal defense ) purpose of Vice President Agnew 's trip was to present the plans formally and to reassure                     