@@731147

txt William E. Simon , the federal energy administrator , said today there can be no doubt there arc genuine shortages of gasoline and heating oil . Ralph Nader , the consumer advocate , came back with the accusation that big oil companies are committing " unarmed robber y " with the help of the government . These divergent views were presented today as Congress started an investigation to try to find out if the energy crisis proclaimed by the administration is as real as it says it is . Sen. William Proxmire ED. , Wis. , cbserving that a great many Americans doubt there is an energy crisis , conducted a hearing by the joint SenateHouse Economic Committee . WHEN CONGRESS returns for its new session next week , i mi I a r investigations a r e planned by at least three and , possibly , four other committees . Ope sing today 's hearing , Proxmire commented that there is " great skepticism in the country " about the energy crisis , with many persons believing it is a phony rigged by the oil industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the expense of the consumer . Proxmire said that adding to the confusion plaguing the American public are the daily changes in energy statistics announced by the government . He told Simon , the first witness , there is " a devastating prima facie case " that the big oil companies ' soaring profits are not justified by increased costs for foreign and domestic crude oil . SIMON SAID " we do indeed have a serious shortage " of oil and refinery products because of steadily rising demand , dedining domestic production , and the Arab oil embargo imposed in mid-October . He reiterated " the existence of a shortage can not be denied , " but indicated the shortage may not be quite as severe as depicted by the government . He acknowledged that in assessing the energy crisis , the government is deliberately taking a gloomy view of the situation and " planning for the worst . " Nader , speaking of an " alleged " energy problem , said his investigation has convinced him the crisis is " contrived " and there is no crisis for the oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of reaping billions of dollars by combining to raise prices , manipulate markets , and drive independent firms out of business . NADER CLAIMED that behind " the public relations facade , " it is evident the government is making no independent decisions to deal with the energy crisis , but merely echoes the decisions of the oil industry . He said the government 's proclamation of a crisis has caused overbuying , hoarding , and price boosts . Prior to Nader 's testimony , Rep. Barber B. Conable Jr . FR. , N. Y.I remarked that in other crises , the government has been the favorite scapegoat , but now " tthe villain 's black mustache is being pasted on the oil industry . " Conable said that talks with his constituents during the current congressional recess convinced him the public is " extremely confused as to the extent of the shortage and what It means to them . " QUESTIONED BY Conable , Simon said his most difficult job will be to " keep the American people awake " once the Arab embargo ends and Middle East oil starts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the widening gap between energy demand and supply will be more acute and demanding than the current shortages , he said . Simon asserted that the era of abundant , relatively cheap energy is over . Americans not only will have to get used to a " new energy ethic " and changes in the way they live , but must be prepared to pay more for the decreased amounts of energy they use , he said . Proximire said the major consumer complaint focuses on the rising prices of gasoline and heating oil . Simon said prices must be high enough to promote exploration for new petroleum sources and increase production , but attributed the recent price raises primarily to the soaring prices for foreign oil and tankers . Despite questioning by Proxmire , Simon refused to predict how high gasoline prices might go . After the hearing , Simon met tor one hour with Nixon on what was described as a review of the energy situation . SIMON SAID the government is powerless to hold gasoline and heating oil prices to a fixed level because 55 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ output of small wells is not subject to federal price control . Proxmire asked if the government might impose coupon rationing of gasoline if the price went beyond 55 cents . Simon , who said last week there Is a 50-50 chance of rationing by March 1 , replied that rationing would not stop price increases , but would only control supply and consumption .                     