@@728934

txt The Amman radio announced tonight that 32 more airline hostages had been freed and ( f Americans . under the protection of the Jordanian Army . All were Americans . Earlier , the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine , the Arab guerrilla group that had been holding the hostages since the hijacking of three Western airliners to the Jordanian desert early this month , had announced that all 38 remaining hostages would be freed within 24 hours . There was no immediate explanation of the discrepancy in the number of those released and the announcement by the guerrillas . Sixteen non-American hostages were released yesterday and were flown to London tonight . Jordanian Announcement The brief announcement by the Amman radio was made by Field Marshal Habes al-Majali , the Jordanian military commander , who said that the 32 newly freed hostages were under the protection of the Jordanian armed forces . He did not elaborate . There was some speculation that the 32 Americans would be flown to Cairo , but there was no ? confirmation of any evacuation plans . The announcement by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Intercontinental Hotel by an aide of the Egyptian Embassy here . It said that there would be no conditions attached to the release of the 38 hostages , a few of whom are believed to hold dual United States-Israeli citizenship . The embassy official also brought a handwritten statement in Arabic that he said was from the Popular Front . He declined to be identified for publication . The statement said that the handing over of the first group of 16 hostages from Switzerland , Britain and West Germany had been made to the Red Cross at a hospital at Ash rafieyeh . During the handing over of the hostages , the statement said , Jordanian tanks shelled the hospital and Jordanian soldiers arrested doctors , nurses , and some of the wounded . " Now that it has become apparent that this way of handing over of hostages to the Red Cross is unsafe , we have decided to hand over the hostages to the Egyptian Embassy , which will supervise their handing over to the Red Cross , " the statement added . And it concluded : " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make sure the governments concerned carry out their promises , in terms of guerrilla demands . " The statement noted that the Popular Front had been in touch with the Red Cross about handing over the captives " in accordance with a decision by the Central Committee of the Palestine Liberation Movement dated Sept. 24 , 1970 , regarding the release of all foreign hostages . " It did not elaborate . Denial of a Deal By JOHN W. FINNEY Special to Tile New York Vines WASHINGTON , Sept. 26 ? American and British officials emphasized today that any release of the remaining hijacked hostages was not a result of any deal with the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine . Neither the State Department nor the British foreign office in London had any immediate confirmation of the report by the Popular Front , issued at the Egyptian Embassy in Amman , that the remaining hostages would be released " within the next 24 hours without any conditions . " American and British officials termed freedom for the hostages a unilateral action on the part of the Palestine guerrillas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to set free Arab prisoners held in Europe and Israel . One State Department official said : " It is just another one of those typically ' erratic turns in this whole affair . " An authoritative report from Geneva similarly said the Berne group had offered no separate deal for the release of the remaining hostages . The Berne group , composed of representatives of Britain , Israel , Switzerland , West Germany and the United States , was formed as a united front in seeking the release of the hostages . While all the parties thus deny any formal deal , it was believed in diplomatic quarters that the countries concerned would face a difficult political and moral question : whether to free their imprisoned Arabs . Britain requested an immediate meeting of the Berne committee to discus the question of releasing prisoners held by Britain , Switzerland and West Germany . This British move was rejected , however , by the other members on the ground that any such discussion was premature . The Arab commandos had demanded the release of one Arab held by Britain , three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the hostages of those countries . For release of the American hostages , they have been demanding that an unspecified number of guerrillas be freed from Israeli prisons .                     