@@732248

txt Former Gov . Ronald Reagan probably would defeat President Ford in the early important Florida primary if that election were held today . This finding comes from a Monitor poll of 26 of Florida 's 42 Republican county chairmen in all parts of the state . The poll , taken within the last week , found growing support throughout the state for Mr. Reagan , who is scheduled to launch his presidential campaign Nov. 20 . Republican chairmen say Mr. Reagan could defeat the President today in most of north Florida and in several important heavily Republican counties in central and southeast Florida . Mr. Ford showed up best in the poll along the southwestern phalanx of counties from Tampa Bay south to the Everglades . But even there Mr. Reagan is strong , the poll found , and Mr. Ford 's lead is slight . Thirteen of the chairmen said that Mr. Reagan could carry the state , nine said Mr. Ford would win , and four said the race was too close to call . Those indicating a Reagan victory , however , mostly said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 or more percentage points . Most of those indicating a Ford victory said it would be extremely close , perhaps by as little as a single percentage point . Chairmen also said that current trends favor Mr. Reagan . Thirteen of the chairmen say his strength is growing steadily in the state , while nne felt his support is declining . Only seven of the 26 felt Mr. Ford 's strength increasing , while nine saw the President 's standing with Florida voters as having slipped in recent months . The Florida primary March 9 will be the first major Reagan-Ford clash in the South . It would be a serious blow to the President 's prestige to lose in the state , which has voted Republican in five of the past six presidential elections . A loss in Florida and New Hampshire ( Feb. 24 ) , analysts say , would make it far more difficult for the President to move strongly into key primaries that follow in the Midwest . // * Poll finds Reagan leading Ford in Florida // The key to Mr. Reagan 's popularity in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a shift toward more conservatism among Republican voters , chairmen indicate . " People are more conservative now in Florida than they have been in years , " says the chairman of one central Florida county . " New York 's experience has shown that you just ca n't keep on spending . Reagan has taken a strong line against federal spending . Ford is softer . " The chairman added : " If Ford finally approves aid to New York , it is really going to hurt him down here . " Another central Florida chairman said : " Ford is coming across as indecisive . People are in a mood to keep changing until they get a leader who can do the job . " The strongest " plus " for Mr. Ford is his incumbency , chairmen say . Republicans are traditionally very protective of the men they have in office , says one chairman . That quality probably stems , in part , from the party 's minority status . But other chairmen say Florida Republicans are far less traditional than most . Many of the Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , new activities , new friends . They are highly independent . " There 's something about a person who pulls up stakes and moves his home to try new things , " said one chairman from a major Republican county . " These people are independent by nature . They wo n't vote for Ford just because he 's in office . " " One other thing , " the chairman added , " these people feel no personal disdain for the President . But they are waiting for lightning to strike ? they 're looking for a political messiah . " There was one note of encouragement in the poll for Mr. Ford . Although most chairmen thought Mr. Reagan would win in Florida , they also said by a margin of 15 to 7 that President Ford would probably go on to the Republican nomination . Four of the chairmen said it was a toss-up.                     