@@734290

txt Nicaragua 's rebel-backed provisional junta formed an 18-member cabinet today made up mainly of businessmen and technocrats . The list includes only one guerrilla leader directly involved . in the fight to overthrow President Anastasio Somoza Debayle . Sources close to the junta said that for security reasons it had disclosed the names of only the 12 ministers who are , outside Nicaragua . Among the other six are people ' who are in hiding and others who are openly participating in nonviolent opposition to the Somoza regime . , Leader of Sandinist Group The composition of a new Nicaraguan government has been a key issue in talks in Costa Rica between United States officials and the five-member junta . Washington has been pressing for expansion of the junta to include two members it would regard as moderates , but the junta maintains that its membership reflects all key sectors of Nicaraguan society . Only one cabinet member , Thomas Barge , named to be minister of the interior , is a leader of the Sandinist National Liberation Front . The sources said that as head of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement , Mr. Borge should be in a position to control the most radical elements among the rebels . The key economic sector , in contrast , would be placed in the hands of businessmen who have been involved in the campaign to overthrow the Government . Juaquin Cuadra Chamorro , a wealthy lawyer who for 30 years worked for Nicaragua 's main financial organization , the Banco de America , has been named to be finance minister . The planning and economy ministry would be in the hands of Roberto Mayorga Cort ? s , former Secretary General of the Central American Common Market . As president of the Central Bank , the junta named Arturo Cruz , an economist who has worked for some time for the Inter-American Development Bank in Washington . A newly formed bank of development would be headed by Lionel Arguello , an insurance executive who is chief spokesman for the private sector . Other cabinet posts are to be filled by well-known businessmen and academicians . The job of defense minister would go to Lieut . Col. Bernadino Larios , who was arrested for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detention in an amnesty announced before Christmas . The Rev. Miguel d'Escoto , who belongs to a pro-Sandinist group of non-Marxists known as " The Twelve , " had previously been named to be foreign minister . Major Offensive Announced Although President Somoza has told United States officials that he is prepared to resign in favor of a democratic regime , the Nicaraguan ruler showed no signs today of being ready to leave the country . The National Guard , its air force bolstered by the arrival this week of at least six T-28 propeller fighters , announced a major counteroffensive against guerrilla positions in various parts of the country . National Guard sources said a rebel column near the border with Costa Rica had suffered heavy casualties , but that the Government had held off mounting a full attack on Masaya , 20 miles south of here , because the town was still heavily populated . " We 've been telling people to leave , " a guard spokesman said , " but the guerrillas wo n't let them go . " The Sandinists , meanwhile , appeared to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ northern town of El Sauce and attacking the city of Boaco east of Managua . Numerous skirmishes between rebel snipers and National Guardsmen also occurred in Managua last night .                     