@@732137

txt THE REASON FOR the Boston busing is that the federal court found the Boston School Committee guilty of the deliberate creation of segregated schools . That situation is no different from a finding of guilty of any other criminal act . You require the criminal to stop and you do your best to rectify the damage . " The speaker is Thomas I. Atkins , president:of the Boston branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and victor in the long court battle that brought busing to Boston . Interviewed in his basement headquarters In the black neighborhood of Roxbury , Atkins said desegregation is the only means of giving black children the benefits they were deprived of by segregation . And , he said , busing is good , as one of several means of desegregating the schools . THERE IS NO such thing as " forced " busing , this black lawyer and father of three argued . The only compulsion on parents is to send their children to the schools to which they are assigned . They can get them there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , beyond walking distance et white neighborhoods , and vice versa , and . between them may lie dangers such as highways , railroads , and deserted areas , so busing is the only practical way of transporting many desegregated children . Atkins also said : 0 The cost of busing , While it may be . For the last two years , Boston has been - the center of the controversy over busing to achieve racial balance in schools . Joseph Egelhof , who has covered the confrontations for The Tribune , interviewed the leaders of both - sides for these reports . William Griffin 's report on the Louisville busing controversy and how leaders there feel about the issue is on page 8. substantial , is minor compared to the inestimable vahie of what is being restored to the black children by the ending of school segregation . ? The cost of the police protection should be blamed on the people opposing school desegregation , not on . " busing . " " THE COURT 'S decision was consistent with every decision made by the courts since 195 when the Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be inherently unequal , " he added . The NAACP chief was asked : Did n't the Boston school segregation develop naturally from the fact that whites and blacks lived in different areas ? " The court did n't find them guilty ofl residential segregation , " he replied . " There is pretty good evidence that in Boston it was segregation of the schools which caused residential segregation in some areas and reinforced it in others . " WHY IS SCHOOL desegregation good ? " The 13th Amendment to the Constitution says you ca n't have two classes of citizens and the 14th that all citizens must have equal protection of the laws . The courts have said black children are entitled to the same educational rights and benefits as white children and that if black children are segregated into black schools they are being denied equal protection of the law . " Why does segregation deny black children equal protection ? " Because in every school system where the courts have ordered desegregation , they have found that black children are being cheated educationally . The schools tend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of teaching tends to be poorer . Black schools tend to get less experienced teachers or a succession of teachers  --  like a turnstile . School officials do n't care about black schools because school officials are n't black : " ATKINS WAS ALSO asked why it is n't Thomas I. Atkins . . . busing is the result of a criminal act . " You do your best to rectify the damage . " enough to provide better facilities and teachers for black schools . He replied that from a practical point of view " it 's much less likely that public school officials will practice educational discrimination against black children if white and black are in the same buildings , classrooms , and programs . " The only way blacks can be deprived then is if all the children are deprived . But there 's more to-it than that . " How much is a right worth ? " Atkins asked . And he gave his own answer : " Priceless . " FURTHER , HE ARGUED , " desegregation brings a city together . " In other words , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action to cope with problems  --  such as school inadequacies . Altho the national argument is keyed to busing , the NAACP leader thus redefined it in terms of the NAACP 's long legal struggle against segregation . Busing , in his argument , is good for all  --  good as one of several means of desegregation of the schools and good as a service benefitting people who are meeting their legal obligation to send their children to assigned schools . " If you think there 's yelling and screaming now , what do you think would happen if the judge had ordered those kids assigned to those schools and had provided no transportation ? "                     