@@728310

txt FINCH RELAXES SECURITY CHECKS FOR CONSULTANTS Eases the Procedures of His Department That Led to Blacklists of Scientists MOVE HAILED BY CRITIC Investigations of Nominees for Part-Time Posts Are Dropped by Secretary Excerpts from the security report are on Page 10 . By RICHARD D. LYONS Special to The New York Times WASHINGTON , Jan. 2 ? The Department of Health , Education and Welfare relaxed for part-time personnel today the security clearance procedures that had led to the blacklisting of scientific consultants to the Government and the animosity of many intellectual societies . Robert H. Finch , Secretary of Health , Educatipn and Welfare , dropped investigations of part-time advisers by the department 's Office of Internal Security , which had been bitterly criticized by scientific and civil rights groups . Mr. Finch issued a statement saying that in the future a prospective nominee for a parttime consultancy would be asked to submit three references attesting to his good character . In addition , the nominee would be asked to sign an affidavit , required of all Federal employes , stating that he did not advocate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be checked against files of the Federal Bureau of Investigation . Could Challenge Data Should a question of loyalty or suitability arise , Mr. Finch said , the nominee would have the right to challenge the evidence against him . The right was previoulsy denied . The effect would be to prevent a prospective nominee from being subjected to the adverse use of unsubstantiated " raw data " collected from such sources as the old House Committee on Un-American Activities , now the Internal Security Committee . The sole authority to appoint part-time advisers , on the basis of professional suitability and competence alone , will now rest with the department 's agency heads , with the approval of Mr. Finch , rather than with departmental security officers . Dr. Prugh ' Delighted ' Dr. Dane G. Prugh , - professor of pediatrics and psychiatry at the University of Colorado Medical Center , who led the fight to change the clearance system , said he was " delighted with the outcome . " In a telephone interview from Denver , Dr. Prugh said , " Mr. Finch is to be congratulated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a campaign against what were described as unduly harsh security procedures that had resulted in barring competent scientific personnel from serving on departmental advisory committees . These // groups contended that , unlike the Atomic Energy Commission or the Department of Defense , there was little need for strict security clearances at the Department of Health , Education and Welfare . Two blacklists containing the names of 93 scientists , including one Nobel laureate , eight members of the National Academy of Sciences and a dozen world - renowned researchers , subsequently came into the possession of The New York Times . Many of those on the blacklists had expressed liberal views or had been connected with left-wing organizations in the sometimes distant past . Some of them had had brushes with Congressional investigating committees . With the announcement today , Mr. Finch 's department also released the text of a re-. port on its security procedures prepared by Harlan Reed Ellis , a Harvard-trained lawyer who is now a research assistant at Columbia University . port , adding that the system " blatantly ignores the constitutional rights of those whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedures was made Wednesday after a threeand-a-half-hour meeting attended by Mr. Finch and about a dozen of his major subordinates , some of whom did not want the system amended . According to persons who attended the meeting , the relaxation policy came about through the influence of John G. Veneman , Under Secretary of the department , and W. Phillips Rockefeller , an assistant to Mr. Finch . Calls New ' Plan ' Rational ' In his report and in an inH terview , Mr. Ellis emphasized , that Federal agencies had no , common system of clearances for part-time advisers regardless of Executive orders and civil service regulations . Some interpreted the fine print literally , others liberally , he said . now has taken the lead in setting up a rational system of granting clearances to part-time advisers , " Mr. Ellis said . " I hope other Federal agencies follow this lead . " Mr. Ellis noted that the Department of Commerce , the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the Veterans Administration " all have pre-appointment investigatory procedures similar to those of H.E.W . " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Agriculture , the Atomic Energy Commission and the National Science Foundation , which has the most lenient rules . The orders issued today do not affect full-time Health , Education and Welfare employees , who must still undergo detailed security and suitability clearances that draw on information from . sources . Materia from paid informers and lists of members of leftwing organizations have led to complaints that unsubstantiated information has been used to bar potential advisers because of their political beliefs . Congressmen and spokesmen for scientific groups have also charged that the departmen ' s clearance procedures mimic the anti-Communist methods of the early nineteenfifties , when the department was formed . They contended that the clearance system was a holdover from the days and ideas of the late Senator Joseph R. McCarthy , Republican of Wisconsin . The number of scientists who have been barred from serving on the study sections and review committees that give advice on how Federal research funds should be allocated has never been disclosed , although hundreds of persons were certairily ? Several thousand persons sit oft these advisory panels , membership on which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The panels meet several times a year ; the members are paid $50 a day and expenses . Scientists who had ? been barred from sitting on such panels contended that rejection was an unfair blow to their personal prestige and professional standing . In summing up the changes , Mr. Finch said , " The Ellis report suggests that much of the difficulty , was self-imposed by the department over the years , but that we can overcome the difficulties by replacing archaic practices with pragmatic ones adequate to do the job . Today 's decision is the first step in the long overdue updating of our appointment procedures . " " No reasonable man would design the present system as it has evolved , " Mr. Ellis said bluntly after he conceded that blacklists had been unofficially drawn up within the department . Finds Lists Encouraged " Officially , blacklists are condemned but the operation of the system itself encourages bureaucrats in the bowels of the appointing agencies to make them up and use them anyway , " he said . " The whole operation takes on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excluded from the Government service for whatever reason . " " The present system is pockmarked with secrecy , " Mr. Ellis said in his 38-page reReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission .                     