@@730983

txt MORE THAN 50 CTA bus drivers went on a wildcat strike just before the evening rush hour yesterday after striking maintenance workers set up pickets outside the North Avenue garage , resulting in long delays for 13 bus routes . CTA switchboard operators reported that hundreds of angry riders called and complained that they were unable to board buses that arrived at stops because of crowds . A spokesman for the CTA said that rush-hour buses usually running in 5 or 10-minute intervals had been running at intervals of up to a half-hour during the wildcat strike . " WE HAVE no way of knowing whether these bus drivers will remain on strike Friday , " the CTA spokesman said . The 13 affected bus routes are : Belmont , North Avenue , Division Street , Lake Street , Armitage , North-Narragansett , Chicago Avenue , Laramie , Cicero , Grand , Pulaski , Fullerton , and Diversey , the spokesman said . The buses for each of the routes originate at the CTA garage at North and Cicero Avenues . The wildcat strike by about 50 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of about 150 striking ntainten ? once workers who tried to block buses from leaving the garage . Two pickets were an rested and about 30 bus drivers refused to cross the pick &; lines . Spokesmen for both the CTA and the bus drivers ' union said the strike had not been authorized by the union . Despite warnings of renewed violence today , CTA officials made no response to strikeending proposals submitted earlier this week by George Tapling , president of the Metal Trades Council . Rainy weather and frustration over the lack of movement by the CTA to end the dispute nettled pickets as the strike moved into its 11th day yesterdayMEANWHILE , the crucial arbitration hearings involving the CTA and the two unions representing bus drivers and rapid transit employes were concluded yesterday in the La Salle Hotel . The outcome of wages , fringe benefits , and disputed working conditions hinge on the decision , of the three-man panel headed by Harry Platt , a veteran arbitrator from Detroit . " The whole thing 's in Harry 's hands , now , " said Sherman Carmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urgency of the situation and will do whatever be must as fast as be can considering the circumstances . " AND MOST sources agreed that a wage settlement for the striking craft union workers also will hinge on the arbitration decision . The CTA has promised the craft union workers 15.5 per cent more than what the panel awards to the operating unions . The strike was called after members of the Metal Trades Council representing 686 workers in 11 crafts rejected the CTA offer and insisted on a 5.5 per cent wage increase retroactive to last Nov. 30 . The contracts of both the council and the two operating unions , Divisions 241 and 308 of the Amalgamated Transit Union , expired last Nov. 30 , but the bus drivers and motormen were prohibited from striking under the arbitration clause in their contract                     