@@729387

txt The Supreme Court upheld today the constitutionality of state referendum laws that permit a majority of the voters in a community to block construction of low-rent housing for the poor . Voting 5 to 3 , the Court approved a 1950 California law that has been used by voters to prevent the construction of almost half the low-rent housing proposed for the state in the last 20 years . The law requires a majority of the voters in any city , town or county to approve a federally financed low-rent housing ' project before it can be built . Its potential impact upon ill- ture housing patterns was considered so important that the Court was urged to strike it down by friend-of-court briefs filed by a score of organizations  --  ranging from civil liblefties and religious groups to the National Association of Home Builders , the American Institute of Architects and the Justice Department , Lower Court Found Bias One of the groups that filed a friend-of-court brief , the National Urban Coalition , responded to the ruling with a statement that it " may have rendered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desegregate urban public schools . The statement said that the development of " black and poor central cities and white and affluent suburbs " will frustrate such " piecemeal approaches " as busing . Today 's test case grew out of a suit brought by 41 welfare families in San Jose after the city 's voters reversed a decision by the City Council in 1968 to construct up to 1,000 low-rent units . A three-judge Federal District Court declared Ithe law unconstitutional , saying that it violated the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment by discriminating against the poor . Justice Hugo L. Black wrote the majority opinion today as the Supreme Court reversed that decision and upheld the law . Black 's Arguments Justice Black declared that the thrust of the 14th Amendment was to outlaw legal distinctions based on race , He said there was no evidence that the California law was aimed at any racial minority . He added that " this procedure for democratic decision-making " gives the people a voice in decisions that would raise their taxes , dilute the tax base and affect the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Burger and Justices John NI . Harlan , Potter , Stewart and Byron R. White joined in the majority opinion . For the first time since he joined the Supreme Court , Justice Harry A. Blackmun split with Mr. Burger on a major case , dissenting along with Justices William J. Brennan Jr . and Thurgood Marshall . The dissent by Justice Marshall charged that the statute " explicitly singles out low-income persons " for unequal treatment . " It is far too late in the day , " he said , " to contend that the 14th Amendment prohibits only racial discrimination ; and to me , singling out the poor to bear a burden not placed on any other class of citizens tramples the values that the 14th Amendment was designed to protect . " Jutice William 0 . Douglas did not take part , presumably because one of the lawyers in the case , Warren Christopher of Los Angeles , did legal work for Justice Douglas in connection with the impeachment investigation of him in the House of Representatives last year . Eight other states have referendum procedures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They are Colorado , Iowa , Mississippi , Montana , Oklahoma , Texas , Vermont and Virginia . The majority opinion noted that referendum laws had been in use in California fonyears , implying that if other states now adopted similar procedures and voters seized upon them to freeze the poor out of their communities , then the high court might not uphold those laws .. Archibald Cox , the former Solicitor General and present Harvard law professor , argued in the Supreme Court for the welfare families . Donald C. Atkinson , a lawyer for the City of San Jose , and Moses Lasky of San Francisco argued on the law 's constitutionality . In an 8-to-1 ruling today the Court upheld the constitutionality of the 1968 anti-loan shark law that makes it a Federal crime to use extortionate methods to collect a debt . Rejecting the contention that such a " local " offense can not be made a Federal crime , the Court held that Congress had properly exercised its authority to regulate interstate commerce by outlawing loan sharking on the ground that it helps finance the interstate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insisting that the Constitution gives the states sole power to prosecute local crimes . The ruling upheld the conviction of Alcides Perez of Brooklyn , who was given an 18-month prison sentence for extracting extortionate payments from a butcher who had turned to him for a business loan . The Court agreed today to rule on the constitutionality of bail-reform laws that are being enacted in some states . At issue is an Illinois law that resembles the Federal bail reform law by permitting the release of poor defendants on their recognizance or upon the deposit of an amount equal to 10 per cent of the bail . However , the Illinois law differs from the United States statute in requiring those who post the deposit to pay a bail charge , levied to help defray the costs of the bail system , if they are subsequently found guilty . Low-income defendants who challenged the Illinois law asserted that it discriminated against the poor because wealthy persons who posted full bail got it all hack , even if convicted . At least one other state , Wisconsin , has adopted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   