@@730778

txt Two weeks of fighting in Lebanon have not resolved the issues at the heart of the conflict , but they have one important positive aspect : The big powers have-kept-firmly-putof the dikpUte , despite their vital interests in the area . On the Western side , France , Britain , and the United States all have a major stake in Mideast stability . And all three , as well-as the Soviet Union , are suppliers of arms to the little 13,000-man ' Lebanese Army. , But all three studiously avoided becoming entangled . A French news agency report from Washington that the U.S was considering , sending additional light weapons to Lebanon was cut from some Lebanese newspapers by military censors , who unaccountably allowed it to be published in others . Lebanon 's defense minister denied any such request to foreign powers . Words of encouragement On the other side , Moscow , anxious to avoid anything which could upset Soviet Communist Party First Secretary Leonid I. Brenimev 's scheduled June visit to Washington , had only soft , public words of encourageMent for both the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moscow , on its own or at Washington 's request , , used its ? influence in Syria to reduce guerrilla infiltration ' from that country , is not yet certain . ? Meanwhile the role of the , 300,000 Palestinians in Lebanon and Lebarion 's ? own role in the larger Arab world around it remain unsettled . Just as President Suleiman Franjieh seeks a new accommodation v4 , th the guerrillas , so does Lebancin try to adjust its historical position as a land of asylum and compromise to its exposed geographical , position in the Arab-Israeli conflict . Lebanon ' and the guerrilla movement ' each have . a , differing set of objectives . Neither ' meshes at any point - except for a tacit and shaky agreement that a cease-fire is currently better than more fighting . Observers here foresee two possible scenarios for the coming weeks . In neither case does a total political settlement appear possible , but the first alternative is for the continued truce . This will be broken only when the **44;1185;TOOLONG against Israel , and Israel retaliates with some action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raid on Beirut April 10 . This would again stir up the nationalist Lebanese political pressure which Mr. Franjieh as chief executive must take into large account . // *Big 4 avoid Lebanon dispute // Damascus , Cairo , and other Arab capitals , which are cultivating their public Arab image as protectors of the Palestinians , would likely contribute unhelpful propaganda again . Last sa4ctuary ' The second possibility is a new cycle of violence that is already in the making . Palestinian leaders mutter about suspicious government troop movements , while the government insists it plans scrupulously to observe the cease-fire and only take countermeasures if attacked . Palestinians say , " Lebanon is our last sanctuary , the last place we can freely develop guerrilla action and our information campaign in Africa and Asig. "                     