@@729788

txt Japanese Minister of Finance Mikio Mizuta went on the offensive today with Secretary of the Treasury John B. Connally to ward off the Nixon Administration 's efforts to have Japan undertake a major revaluation of the yen . Informed Japanese officials reported that Mr. Mizuta , in meetings with Mr. Connally here , laid out numerous reasons why Japan could not raise the official rate of the yen without substantial concessions from the United States . American officials declined to comment . In a briefing for Japanese and foreign newsmen , a spokesman for Secretary Con. nally said only that there had been " considerable discussion of monetary matters . " Last Leg of Tour Mr. Connally arrived here last night on the last leg of his Asian tour for what Japanese officials consider to be discus. sions that are critical to the economic and diplomatic relations between Japan and the United States , who are each other 's major allies in East Asia . Economically , the Nixon Administration has long been urging Japan to revalue the yen by 15 to 20 per cent to help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of payments . Revaluation would make Japanese exports less competitive and American exports more competitive in the markets of each nation and in third countries . It has become increasingly evident to Japanese officials that the Nixon Administration wants to reach an agreement on currency realignment with Japan first and then to use that to bring Western European nations into line . Potential Turning Point Diplomatically , Mr. Connally 's visit is widely regarded here as a potential turning point in badly strained United States-Japanese relations . An agreement on revaluation and other economic issues would most likely halt the deterioration , while a lack of agreement would accelerate the downhill slide . In the meetings today , Mr. Mizuta was reliably reported to have told Mr. Connally that Japan was suffering from a recession due to the floating dollar and the imposition of the 10 per cent surtax on imports to the vital American market . That precluded a major revaluation of the yen , he argued . Japanese officials said Mr. Mizuta told Mr. Connally that Japan was unwilling to realign the yen with the dollar alone but insisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He urged Mr. Connally to pay more attention to the thinking of Japanese and Western European leaders , which was an oblique warning that the Nixon Administration ' should not try to force a settlement but to reach a compromise with Japan and the , Common Market , whose mem- , hers are France , West Germany , Italy , Belgium , the I Netherlands and Luxembourg . Commitment Is Asked Mr. Mizuta also insisted , Japanese officials said , that the Nixon Administration commit itself to removing the import surcharge simultaneously with an international realignment of currencies . Mr. Connally , according to Japanese officials , set no specific figure in his discussion of yen revaluation , The Secretary was reported also to have argued that a recession was a relative matter and that Japan was not in a real recession . The Japanese officials indicated that Mr. Connally warned Mr. Mizuta that the Soviet Union , Communist China , and the E.E.C . were becoming ecoIatomically stronger and that , therefore , Japan 's best intereats lay in cooperating with the United States . Mr. Connally was reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a devaluation of the dollar and for being unrealistic in adhering to a gold standard . Japanese officials said that Mr. Mizuta did not press strongly for dollar devaluation but said that Japan would support the Europeans if that became necessary to settle the currency crisis . Doubts on Settlement Both Mr. Connally and Mr. Mizuta were reported to have expressed the hope that the currency crisis could be settled before the end of the year . But they left the meetings with serious doubts that it would be . Japanese officials had been expecting Mr. Connally to come here with a strong set of demands that Japan revalue the yen by a large margin , lift barriers to American imports , impose more restrictions on Japanese exports to the American market , and pick up a greater share of the United States defense burden in Asia ? all to ease the deficit in the American balance of payments . But the spokesman for the Secretary said today that Mr. Connally " did not come here with a package to negotiate or with a set of proposals . " He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political , and defense questions with the Japanese Government . For the last several days , Mr. Connally and American officials , here appear to have been backpedaling from the earlier position , having been apprised of the stiffening Japanese posture . I Robert Anderson , who was , Secretary of the Treasury in the Eisenhower Administration land a longtime friend ' of Mr. ( Connally from Texas , met with Premier Eisaku Sato and Mr. Mizuta about 10 days ago . He outlined the Nixon Administration 's demands and then reported the reaction to Mr. Connally . Shortly after , Mr. Connally held a news conference in Indonesia in which he said that he did not intend to propose a package deal and did not expect to reach a settlement of the issues while he was in Japan . Relay by McCracken Late last week , Paul M. McCracken , chairman of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers , met with Mr. Sato , Mr. Mizuta and other Japanese Cabinet officers here . Although he declined to reveal the content of his discussions , he was believed to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr , Sato 's Cabinet has been under ' growing pressure not to revalue nor to concede on trade issues with the United States except on Japanese terms . A senior businessman here said that the business community , which is a major power in the establishment that governs Japan , wants the uncertainty taken out of commerce by a quick resolution of the currency crisis . But he added that the settlement should not be at the expense of too much revaluation . He stressed that the business community wanted to hold revaluation to 9 or 10 per cent , plus a 2 per cent " band " on either side of a new parity in which exchange rates would fluctuate . That would be about where the yen is currently being exchanged after having been floated on Aug. 23 . The Bank of Japan has been supporting the dollar since then to keep the yen from rising too high .                     