@@734265

txt They live in airless barracks of cardboard walls , plywood beams and corrugated tin roofs . Gnats swarm in the steamy twilight outside and the occasional breeze only momentarily cuts the stench from the open latrines . There is dust everywhere except after the daily rains , when them is mud Yet the people clustered in the encampment behind this town 's church consider themselves lucky . They are among 100 , - 000 Nicaraguans believed to have reached refuge in Costa Rica since the start of the civil war . ' Here I Have My Life ' Damaso Ponce , 62 years old , was a field foreman on a farm near Lake Nicaragua . On Saturday ; Nicaraguan National Guard troops fired on him and his workers from a launch in the lake . That night , he said , Sandinist Liberation Front rebels herded them into oxcarts and escorted them to safety over the Yolaina Mountains and across the border 12 miles north of here . " Life there was good , " Mr. Ponce said . " I had 30 pigs , two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corn . But even though I have lost all of that , at least here I have my life . " The Nicaraguan refugees melt Into the slums of major cities like San Jose or end up in camps like the one here or the tent city that has sprung up in Liberia 38 miles to the south . The settlements were even more fetid // before international groups such as the Salvation Army began arriving last month . Now conditions are improving . Still , malnutrition afflicts 80 percent of the refugee children , and the doctor who visits once a week and the nurse who comes daily have turned up cases of malaria , tuberculosis , eye infections , parasites and lice . The Men Are Missed " A lot of the women suffer because their husbands are not here , " said Walter Santillan , a Salvation Army official from Argentina . " There is a lot of tension and a lot of crime . One woman had a complete nervous breakdown , and we had to take her to the hospital . Her six children are still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made up mostly of women and children . Most of the men are in Nicaragua fighting . Most of the women are either suckling infants Or carrying babies . Children romp around the campsite seemingly unaware of having been uprooted . Yesterday several raced from building to building aiming rudely fashioned toy wooden rifles at each other in playful immitation of the war in their own country . " Who are you ? " one was asked . " I am a guerrilla , " he said . Occasionally , individuals make it across the frontier without help , but for the most part refugees are guided out of Nicaragua by guerrillas who the refugees say protect them from Government troops and warn them when to take cover from mortar and rocket fire . Almost all the inhabitants of the camps appear to be behind the rebels and say they will not return to Nicaragua until President Anastasio Somoza Debayle is out of power . Children Left Behind A 14-year-old boy named Ivan told of escaping Managua during the battles in the eastern districts last week , being taken by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and then walking the rest of the way over the mountains to safety . " My family is in the Red Cross center in Managua , but my mother wanted me to leave , " the youth said . She sent hint away , he . explained , out of fear that he would be killed by National Guardsmen who reportedly have been shooting youths his age to lessen the number of potential recruits for the rebels , whose forces are largely ' made up of teen-agers and young adults . A barefoot woman in a pink print housedress and her sister-in-law told of being rescued by the . Sandinists from National Guard gunfire while doing their wash in a river near the town of Sapoit . They could not return to their home because of the battle , and the rebels brought them here . Left behind were the seven children of the two mothers , ranging in age from 16 months to nine years . " We cry all the time for them , but we get assurances from the Sandinists who come here that they are all right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the refugees can not read or write and they are recorded by the Costa Rican Government as " Temporarily Displaced Persons " on white documents bearing their names , hometowns , arrival dates and thumbprints . The women maintain a regimen of house work , earnestly scrubbing the family wash on top of raised cement tablets next to running faucets or preparing the soup-kitchen portions of rice and beans for the camp residents . The few // The New YorkTimes/July J , 1979 La Cruz and Liberia are among Nicaraguan refugee centers. men sweep the area , chop wood and do other odd jobs . There are rumors that the Sandinists intend to enlist some of the men from the camps to join them in battle , and a number of the men say they are eager to sign up . All the Sandinists have done thus far ; however , was to pay one visit to the Liberia tent city and promote the rebel cause over loudspeakers on a soundtruck.                     