@@733092

txt After two weeks of public cheerleading and private maneuvering by Governor Carey on his behalf , Mario M. Cuomo formally announced his candidacy for Mayor of New York City yesterday with a declaration of independence from the Governor . " I 'm not his puppet , " Mr. Cuomo declared . " I respect him , I admire him ; his friendship and respect for me will help this city and when it comes to the point where it wo n't , I will differ with him and I will win . " The 44-year old New York Secretary of State referred to the Governor only in response to questions at a crowded news conference held not in Manhattan , where such major announcements usually are made , but at the Cuomo Queens campaign headquarters on Queens Boulevard in Rego Park . Fifth Announced Candidate Mr. Cuomo is the fifth announced contender for the Democratic mayoral nomination in what could be a record field . Already announced are Borough President kercy E. Sutton of Manhattan , Represenative Edward I. Koch , Edward N. Cos.ikyan , the former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader . Almost certain to announce are Mayor Beame and former Representative Bella S. Abzug . Possibles are two Bronx Representatives in Congress , Herman Badillo and Mario Biaggi . While one of the pack in the Democratic field , Mr. Cuomo is the front-runnner for the Liberal Party nomination over State Senator Roy M. , Goodman , a Republican who is expected to announce his candida:3 , for the G.O.P. mayoral nomination jmorrow . In his prepared statement , Mr. Cuomo loncentrated on a litany of the shortcomings of the Beame administration and what he would do about them . " The evidence of the present administration 's failures is all around us ? on every filthy and violent street in Brownsville , every pothole on Queens streets , in every abandoned apartment on the Grand Concourse , in the open drug markets of Harlem and in the halls of high schools , where safety is as much sougnt atter as is education , " he said . Among the half-dozen television and film crews chronicling the news conference was one hired by Gerald Rafshoon of Atlanta , who served @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign and will serve in a similar capacity with the Cuomo campaign . Mr. Cuomo 's pollster will be Pat Caddell , another Carter campaign aide but also a longtime acquaintance of Mr. Cuomo . The Queens Democrat proved as adept as his friend the Governor in fending off questions with humor . When a reporter seemed to question whether he was a Democrat , Mr. Cuomo responded with a smile that " I knew I had a recognition problem but I did n't think it was that bad . " In his announcement , Mr. Cuomo listed four " tasks " and three " principles " that would mark his administration . Ticking off the tasks , Mr. Cuomo said that " we must bring back the rule of law and the expectation of order on our streets , in our schools , in our lives " ; revive the private economy of the city by ending " excessive taxation " ; bring back " an atmosphere of discipline and learning " in the city 's schools and restore " the physical condition of the city : to fix the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clean the grime from the streets and the litter from the parks . " Principles Are Explained As for the principles that would mark his administration , Mr. Cuomo said that he would not delegate responsibility to Deputy Mayors , that he would keep a constant check on inefficiency and corruption in city government ? " the era of the ripoff must finally be ended , " he said  --  and would emphasize the role of neighborhoods . Mr. Cuomo , who was born and raised in Queens and still lives there , with his wife and five children , first achieved fame as a neighborhood defender . During the administration of Mayor John V. Lindsay , as an unpaid , unofficial conciliator , he worked out compromises over a high school site in Corona and public housing in Forest Hills . As Secretary of State , he has served as the Governor 's principal troubleshooter  --  negotiating with the tenants of Co-op City over controversial rent increases and with Mohawk Indians in the Adirondacks over their claims to private lands . It is customary for a candidate to have his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but Mr. Cuomo enlarged the custom by featuring his wife , five children , mother , father , mother-inlaw and father-in-law and a score of other relatives . The Cuomo family , immediate and extended , filled three rows of camp chairs behind him . The large family replaced the usual political figures at such political premieres . The only political notables present were three Queens district leaders and Adam Walinsky , the former Robert F. Kennedy speechwriter who helped Mr. Cuomo write his statement . Much of the questioning at the news conference centered on Governor Carey 's role in encouraging Mr. Cuomo to get into the campaign and going so far as to tell Democratic and Liberal leaders , according to them , that he would support Mr. Cuomo as a Liberal candidate even if he lost the Democratic primary . Mr. Carey has neither denied nor confirmed that he would make such a politically risky move of ignoring the wishes of a Democratic primary electorate . But he opened an escape hatch Monday when he said that he might support a Democrat other than Mr. Cuomo if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Several politicians noted that an overwhelming victory was not likely in a orowded primary . Primary Is Sept. 8 Mr. Cuomo said that he had not discussed the subject with Mr. Carey and did not know how far the Governor would go in supporting him if he lost the primary . However , he said that the impact of the Governor 's support would carry on into the general election campaign even if he lost the primary . The Governor told Democratic and Liberal leaders last week that he would help raise $150,000 for the initial stages of the Cuomo campaign . The primary is scheduled for Sept. 8 . If no one gets 40 percent of the vote , a runoff between the two top candidates will be held Sept. 19 . Mr. Cuomo appeared to differ with Mr. Carey on one point , the role of an antibossism theme in his campaign , since most of the city 's Democratic county leaders are backing the Mayor . The Governor had signaled such a campaign Monday . An anti-boss campaign ? Mr. Cuomo said he was a politician and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a later interview , he described politics as on a par with a religious vocation . The Mayor alluded to Mr. Carey 's role in the Cuomo campaign when he was asked his reaction to the Cuomo candidacy . " The Governor already announced his candidacy a couple weeks ago , so what 's new , " said the Mayor in his best New Yorkese . " A smokescreen , " said Mr. Cuomo of the Mayor 's charges .                     