@@732749

txt The Supreme Court was accused by a group of law school deans and professors Saturday of adopting a " double standard " under which the court makes the federal courts available to causes and groups that it favors but denies access to those it does not favor , such as the poor . The group also accused the court of a " whittling-down , " in its recent decisions in criminal cases , " of the substance of the various First , Fourth , Fifth , Sixth , Eighth , and Fourteenth Amendment rights "  --  and the " denial of a federal forum to remedy violations of these rights no matter how egregious or clear the violation . " The group making the charges is the board of governors of the Society of American Law Teachers , a three-year-old organization that seeks to represent the interests of law teachers and to speak out on law-related public issues . THE GOVERNORS include E. Clinton Bomberger Jr. , formerly dean of the Catholic University School of Law and now executive vice president of the Legal Services Corp. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for legal assistance to the poor . Among the other board members joining in the statement are Monroe Freedman , dean of the Hofstra law school ; Thomas Emerson of Yale law school , and Charles Halpern , executive director of the Council for Public Interest Law , an organization founded under the joint sponsorship of the American Bar Association and three foundations . The group made its charges in a 31-page memorandum replete with citations and analyses of court rulings prepared by two other board members , Professors Herman Schwartz of the Buffalo law school and Carole Goldberg of the law school of the University of California at Los Angeles . THE MEMORANDUM sharply criticized the " Nixon appointees " to the court , particularly Chief Justice Warren Burger , and contended that they are acting " contrary " to the way the court ruled in the days when it was led by Earl Warren . The memo also said the present court is undoing one of the major achievements of the Warren Court  --  opening up the federal courts " to the claims of those wronged by governmental and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notion that the federal courts are and ought to be vigorous protectors of rights guaranteed by the Constitution and laws of the United States , " the memorandum said . " Chief Justice Warren Burger has recognized this development ever since he became chief justice and has frequently deplored it , " the group said . " In July ; 1971 , he cautioned young people against becoming lawyers in order to accomplish change through the courts , because that is not the route by which basic changes In a country like ours should be made . ' " THE STATEMENT described three main ways In which it said the court is making it " harder and harder " to get a federal court to vindicate a right : ? By rulings on procedural issues that curtail access to courts , such as tightening up the rules on who has " standing " to bring a lawsuit , and on the requirements that must be met before a class action may be brought . ? By decisions that require " great deference to state court proceedings " ? decisions , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoin enforcement of an allegedly unconstitutional state law , when that law is the subject of an on-going proceeding in a state court . ? By rulings that limit the power of federal courts to " fashion appropriate remedies " for violations , such as the decision that limited the ability of courts to award attorneys ' fees in public-interest lawsuits brought to vindicate the public 's legal rights . THE COMPLAINTS ABOUT A " double standard " came in the memorandum 's discussion of the first set of rulings , those involving access and , in particular , the rules on " standing . " As an example , two cases were cited in which the court found that the plaintiffs did not have standing to sue  --  one in which low- and moderate-income minority group members in Rochester , N.Y. , challenged the exclusionary-zoning ordinances of a Rochester suburb ; and one In which various low-income people in Kentucky , in an effort to increase hospital service for indigents , challenged favorable tax treatment granted to certain private hospitals . " THE COURT 'S willingness to find standing seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claims of the plaintiff , " the memorandum said . The court 's trend toward limiting access to the federal courts , at least for certain types of cases or claims , has been a serious concern of civil-liberties and public-interest lawyers for many months . Last spring it became a key issue at a national conference of lawyers and judges co-sponsored by the chief justice in St. Paul . A group of lawyers distributed a letter to conference participants condemning the trend . Burger , in a rare public defense of the court , disputed the charges at a news conference there by pointing to the Increased caseloads of the federal courts in recent years and citing some Burger court decisions establishing certain prisoners ' rights . The society 's memorandum was intended in part to rebut the chief justice 's statements .                     