@@728645

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 38 Letters to the Editor of The Times Cambodian Evaluation To the Editor : President Nixon , in his June 3 televised address to the nation , rose to new heights in fashioning a political victory ( for himself ) out of a national disaster . Contrary to what the President suggested , the success of the American operation in Cambodia should be measured  --  not by the number of abandoned rifles ? but by the extent to which it has contributed to the viability of an independent , neutral Cambodia . At the moment that prospect grows dimmer . James Reston " Washington " column June 5 seems to think that the President is pursuing a course Senator Aiken of Vermont prescribed : proclaim victory and get out . Would that the problem were that simple . How long can the Lon Nol regime , the newest of the American clients , stay in power after American aid stops ? If the regime falls , what will happen to the millions of dollars worth of weapons and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long run will have gained more , " our side " or " the other side " ? The trouble with saying anything in the superlative ( " the most successful operation " ) is that it dwarfs everything else in comparison . Surely the half million American soldiers in Vietnam must have done something more substantial than go for a treasure hunt on neutral soil . K. Ymx Valley Cottage , N. Y. June 6 , 1970 ? Thais in Cambodia To the Editor : Thailand , with American encouragement , is preparing to send Thai soldiers of Cambodian descent to fight in defense of the group it recognizes 41S the legal government of Cambodia . Why then should not China send in Chinese troops of Cambodian descent to fight for Sihanouk 's Government , which China recognizes as the legal regime ? And , if this comes to pass , what is America 's counterescalation ? I. N. WOLFSON Worcester , Mass. , June 6 , 1970 Egypt 's Protectors To the Editor : The recent plea by Senators Javits , Goodell , et al . ( news article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ironic in the light of the Senators ' outspoken criticism of the United States military role in Indochina . More puzzling still is the fact that men like these , who have for years been assuring us that Communism no longer threatens anyone , are now warning us that the Red menace is about to engulf tiny Israel , dragging us all into nuclear holocaust in the process . These kinds of hysterics may win votes , but they bear little relation to the realities at work in the Middle East . Militarily , of course , Israel is not threatened by its neighbors  --  rather , the opposite is true . In the main , it is Arabs who have been killed , Arab homes destroyed , Arab lands occupied . There are foreigners helping defend Egyptian cities today because Egyptians have repeatedly proved their inability to defend them . Those foreigners threaten not Israel , but rather Israel 's ability to bomb Egyptian population centers with impunity . ( A genuine military balance might induce Israel to negotiate a compromise peace , rather than demand surrender . ) Those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy advocated by men like Senator Goodell . The tragedy of that policy is not in its inherent hypocrisy , but rather in the catastrophic impact this policy has in an area of vital importance to the United States . JAMES KNOX HOLMAN Darien , Conn. , May 28 , 1970 ? Use for Custom House To the Editor : While the Metropolitan Museum girds to expand into Central Park , the downtown financial district will shortly have available by General Services Administration surplus sale , the landmark classic building  --  the Custom House at Bowling Green . This beautiful building contains 350,000 square feet of high ceiling space  --  virtually the same area the Metropolitan intends to build . . The financial district is totally devoid of cultural facilities . Locating the expanded museum at the Custom House would make it more accessible to residents of Staten Island , Jersey City , Bayonne and Brooklyn . Indeed the Custom House could be directly deeded to the museum as a grant-in-aid . JAMES P. O'SHEA New York , June 4 , 1970 ? Report on Pollution To the Editor : Your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dismayingly erroneous on three grounds . First , there is no personal animosity toward Senator Muskie whatsoever . Your attribution of that motivation as a basis for the report 's factual criticism of the Senator 's grievous lack of leadership in pollution control legislation stems from the tactical imaginations of Senator Muskie and his staff . When asked by the press to indicate the basis for this charge , he declined . Edmund Muskie is a friendly , engaging legislator , but to use this ploy so as to avoid facing the arguments in the report , is sheer fabrication and unworthy of an aspiring Presidential candidate . To give it the dignity of a premise in a Times editorial is an irresponsible slur . Second , I did not ignore an invitation to appear before Senator Muskie 's subcommittee , After receiving the invitation , I telephoned the subcommittee staff to advise them that the date they suggested involved a schedule conflict and that another time after the report was completed would be welcomed . Third , the basic criticism of the Senator goes far deeper than a difference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editorial suggests . At issue is the very integrity of the legal process , presently twisted in the mesh of unworkable legislation devoid of the most minimally effective sanctions and riddled with industrial opportunities for endless delay , obfuscation and attrition of a semi-starved Federal pollution agency . The chief architect and booster of these laws is Senator Muskie . This has been the Senator 's principal issue during his career and the is chairman of the jurisdictional committee developing pollution legislation . Consequently , he assumed the major trusteeship for the electorate here . Violation of Standards The report contains the documentation of continual viola . tions of the air pollution standards by the auto industry , the lack of any implementation to date of the 1967 Air Quality Act , the inherent failings , past , pres. ent , and future , of the criteriastandards approach and the necessity of a maximum feasible technology approach to prevent this environmental violence against the health and safety of millions of Americans . The report strove to present a fair , accurate evaluation of government agencies and officials ' role in air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I believe the students and young lawyers who worked on this report want Senator Muskie to rise to the occasion , in. stead of defending the indefensible record . RALPH NADER Washington , May 19 , 1970 ?                     