@@729553

txt Two Democratic Presidential candidates , Senator Hubert H. Humphrey and Senator Edmund S. Muskie , joined today in a proposal that the United States and Soviet Union freeze the deployment of nuclear weapons while they seek an agreement to control strategic arms . The initiative came from Senator Humphrey when he testified before the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Arms Control , which is headed by Senator Muskie . Senator Humphrey proposed that Congress include an amendment in the defense procurement bill placing in escrow all funds for development and deployment of multiple-missile warheads known as MIRV 's , ' for multiple independently targetable re-entry vehicles  --  while the arms limitation talks proceed . Restriction on Funds The funds could be released ' only if the President and Congress decided jointly that deployment of the MIRV warheads was necessary to guarantee the retaliatory capability of the United States . The arms limitation talks reopened in Helsinki on July 8 . Senator Humphrey also an . ' pounced that he would introduce a sense-of-the-Senate resolution calling upon the President to propose that the United States and the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defensive nuclear weapons while the arms talks were being held . A similar resolution was approved by the Senate two years agog This time there is an important political difference : the initiative is coming not from Republicans ? as was the case with the 1969 resolution originally sponsored by Senator Edward W. Brooke of Massachusetts ? but from prominent , Democrats who are contending for the Presidential nomination . In some ways , Senator Humphrey stole the march on Senator Muskie , who had been trying to develop a case for a moratorium on the deployment ' of MIRV 's and antiballistic missile ; or ABM , systems in his Subcommittee hearings . As Senator Humphrey was fnaking his proposal for a freeze , on . nuclear weapons , Senator Muskie broke in to observe that it was " comparable " to the suggestion he had made more than , a year ago for , a moratorium that would be renewed every six months , depending upon whether the Soviet observed it , Senator Humphrey at first described the Muskie approach as " cautious " but later , in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the idea of a six-month renewal period . The two Democrats eventually joined in endorsing the proposal for a moratorium and , in so doing , appeared to be staking out a Democratic alternative to the Administration 's negotiating position at the arms talks . At one point Senator Humphrey observed that he was not being " critical " of the President but rather was trying to " supplement " and " complement " his efforts to reach an agreement on the limitation of strategic arms . The two Democrats are also challenging the Administration argument emphasized by Deputy Defense Secretary David Packard before the subcommittee yesterday  --  that the United States must proceed with development of MIRV 's and the Safeguard . ABM system as " bargaining chips " in the negotiations with the Soviet Union . Highly Tenuous ' Reason Senator Humphrey said that Administration officials " must remember when they ; talk of a tough negotiating position , they are going to get a tough response . ' Noting that the original purpose of the MIRV 's was to penetrate a Soviet ABM defense , he contended that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " highly tenuous " now that the United States and the Soviet Union had agreed to seek a limitation on ABM systems . If an ABM agreement was reached , he said , the deployment of MIRV 's would be wasteful and would jeopardize any possibility or further arms agreement on offensive weapons . In proposing a freeze on Weapons deployment , he said : " Our negotiators and Soviet negotiators can not arrive at agreements on shifting sands . they need a temporary halt or hold on offensive weapons to provide a solid foundation and climate to shape their proposals . "                     