@@731977

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor Currencies : Why Floating Must Continue To the Editor . The world economy is going through a turbulent period  --  double-digit inflation , intensified though not originally caused by the oil-price rise , followed by worldwide recession . Unavoidably. the impact of both inflation and boom and of the recession on different countries has been very uneven , as reflected in widely divergent inflation and unemployment rates . The ensuing recovery , too , will surely not be uniform . Thanks to the floating of all major currencies , world trade has held up remarkably well . But it was bound to contract in the recession , although again thanks to floating , protectionist reactions to the recession have been held to a minimum and " competitive depreciation " has been avoided . All this would have been very different under the old system of " fixed though adjustable " parities . Now floating is under attack , and a return to the old system is advocated by various groups . We believe strongly that floating must continue . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diverge sharply , and the speed of recovery , too , will be uneven . It is often said that floating was one of the causes of worldwide inflation . Actually , the opposite is true ; inflation started long before floating became general , and rapid inflation made floatWorld Trade Center : The Proper Tenants To the Editor : In a letter published in The New York Times of June 5 , Richard T. Nagle makes the wholly false assertion that some State of New York agencies are not proper tenants of the World Trade Center . Mr. Nagle erroneously contends that the World Trade Center authorizing legislation limits governmental occupancy in the center to " government agencies directly involved in international commerce as a primary function . " This very argument was made to , and rejected by , the highest court of New York in 1966 in the case of Matter of Port of New York Authority ( World Trade Center ) , 18 N.Y . 2d 250 . The court determined that the Trade Center 's authorizing legislation did not limit occupancy to " governmental services related @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but included " other governmental services " as well . Accordingly , it ruled that " the tenancy of the State of New York appears to be fully within the contemplation of the Legislatures as an accommodation of other governmental services set out in the statute . " The court also found that the plan adopted by the Port Authority 's Board of Commissioners , which over the years has been scrupulously followed , regarding the size and configuration of the Trade Center and setting forth the standards of tenant eligibility is " consistent with the primary purposes To the Editor : I read with great dismay your June 1 news report of a Congressional study which recommends dismantling the Office of Minority Business Enterprise of the U.S. Department of Commerce ( O.M.B.E. ) . The study alleges ineffectiveness of a vehicle designed to provide assistance to minority businesses . It charges the program with racist policies in that blacks have been favored as recipients of funds and with producing an abnormally high failure rate of assisted businesses . The charge of racism shows incredible disingenuousness . What did anyone expect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ How else to define their minority status on any basis other than race ? Implicit in the term minority is the discrimination to which blacks have incontestably been subjected . A sizable minority of Hispanics is similarly eligible for assistance , though discrimination in that case has been based on linguistic and cultural factors . My experience with the O.M.B.E. system absolutely belies the charge of ineffectiveness . I have found the staff people to be knowledgeable and dedicated . Conceding instances of failure , cognizance must be taken of the many successful ventures generated in spite of an unfavorable economic climate . These instances should be scrutinized to extract the ingredient of success , and future activity should be patterned accordingly . Sound modifications are a more prudent alternative to a preemptory wipe-out of a valuable base of experience . In our group , we perceive a hardheaded business attitude within minority groups that clearly distinguishes between social and economic probing necessary . Floating enables some countries to have much lower rates of inflation than their neighbors . True , under floating , unlike under fixed parities , rapidly inflating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to others ; each country has to swallow and endure the consequences of the inflation that it generates . However , floating can not prevent home-made inflation , and it can not protect a country from " real " shocks from abroad  --  such as changes in the terms of trade , the oil-price rise or protectionist measures taken by others . But it can protect a country from imported inflation and deflation . To try to re-establish a " fixed though adjustable " pattern of parities at present or in the foreseeable future would have disastrous consequences . The rate structure so established would have to be modified on frequent occasions , and this would happen with considerable delays after disruptive speculative movements and efforts to rescue each successive structure by restrictive regulations . FRED BERGSTEN , RICHARD E. CAVES HARRY G. JOHNSON , WILLIAM J. FELLNER GOTTFRIED HABERLER , ALLAN MELTZER MARINA VON N. WHITMAN Washington , June 6 , 1975 The writers are economists , mandated by the legislation under which it has acted . " Mr. Nagle 's charge that Port Authority commissioners are guilty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the center to the State of New York is therefore not only baseless but completely irresponsible . PATRICK 3 , FALVEY General Counsel The Port Authority of N. Y. &; N. J. New York , June 6 , 1975 ? Voiceless-Peoples ' Banks To the Editor : Although savings banks advertise that they are peoples ' banks , the fact is that the people ( the depositors ) have no rights in the selection of the trustees . In the State of New York billions of dollars are under the management and control of selfperpetuating boards of trustees of savings banks . In 1974 , the Superintendent of Banks recommended that depositors be given the right to elect trustees . New York State savings banks are presently Lampaigning in the Legislature for the right to institute checking-account services for depositors . Savings bankers have always fought giving their own depositors a voice in the selection of trustees , tut the Legislature should not grant the savings banks any further rights or powers without affording the depositors the rig  --  t , by weighted vote , to select their Own trustees . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We aim at bottom-line dollar profits in the certainty that social problems will be more amenable to solution in an improved economic climate for minorities . PASCUAL SANCHEZ , M.D. New York , June 9 , 1975 The writer is chairman of the National Puerto Rican Business and Marketing Association , which is funded by the O. ltf . B. E. To the Editor : In the . May 9 Times , Dr. Dominic Purpura of Einstein Medical School was quoted as suggesting that viability of the human fetus be considered to begin at 28 to 32 weeks of pregnancy , because , he suggests , at this time the fetal brain begins to develop " consciousness , self-awareness and other generally recognized cerebral functions . " Before anyone takes his recommendations too seriously certain welldocumented facts should not be for-gotten : 1 . Brain activity , as measured by E.E.G. , has been found to exist in the brain of the human fetus as early as 43 days after conception . When brain activity is used as a criterion of death , cessation of all electrical activity is used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function . 2 . Cerebral cortex can be seen in the brain of the human fetus as young as eight weeks after fertilization , at which time this cortex begins to acquire typical cells . 3 . The nervous system does not finish developing until after birth . 4 . The medical dictionary definition The Defenders To the Editor : Buried in Richard Halloran 's June 5 dispatch from Tokyo on Japan and its security is a curiously revealing little paragraph that may be useful to specialists in the media and in the Departments of State and Defense for their future endeavors in analytical-. studies on China 's ambitions : " . . . Japan spends at a rate of only $33 a person on defense each year . That Milton Harris compared with %468 in Israel , $404 in the United States , $352 in the Soviet Union and $183 in West Germany . Among the major nations only China , with a population of 800 million , spends less per person on defense ? $13 . " Through the years we have been hearing that China is aggressive , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figures above , I do n't see how any serious analyst either in government agencies or in the media could have claimed that the United States must be armed to teeth to meet " the Chinese Communist aggression , " or how anyone can still believe Russia 's supposed fear of China 's invasion along the Soviet border . Would China dare ? Granted , China has a large population of 800 million , and $13 per person adds up to a lot of money . But the United States has a population of over 211 million , more than one-fourth of that of China , and the Soviet union has a population of over 250 million , nearly one-third of that of China . Using China 's defense spending as a yardstick and taking the population into account , would Washington be happy to spend on defense $50 per person , or Moscow $40 per person ? The irony is that on the front page of The Times the same day is the headline : " Senate Rejects a $1.2-Billion Cut in Arms Budget . " TIMOTHY TUNG New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To the Editor : Of those physicians who complain about higher insurance rates , I wonder how many have ever referred their patients to attorneys in order to file claims against insurance companies for automobile , product liability or Workmen 's Compensation accidents ? I wonder how many physicians have ever run up large bills , with numerous office visits , to build up claims against insurance companies ? I wonder how many physicians have ever written reports and/or testified in any of the above-type cases where their reports or testimony may have , to be polite about it , been exaggerated in order to bring in high awards or settlements ? These practices also lead to higher insurance rates for the automobile owner , the business owner and the manufacturer . If the doctors do n't like what the plaintiffs ' attorneys are doing to them in the malpractice field , they should get out of bed with them altogether . EDWARD BLAU Livingston , N.J. , June 4 , 1975 of viability is : " Capability of living ; state of being viable ; usually connotes a fetus that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ? not whether one possesses particular attributes . There is documented evidence that a certain percentage of prematurely born infants below 28 gestational weeks have survived and developed normally . Where would these now-living children fit into Dr. Purpura 's definition of viability ? 5 . Dr. Arnold Gessell , in " The Embryology of Behavior ; the Beginnings of the Human Mind , " stated : " And so , by the close of the first trimester twelve weeks , the fetus is a sentient moving being . We need not pause to speculate as to the nature of his psychic attributes , but we may assert that the organization of his psychosomatic self is now well under way . " Well-documented electrical and behavioral evidence of brain activity exists long before 28 weeks of fetal life . Choosing 28 to 32 weeks as the beginning of " brain life " is arbitrary and ignores significant observations , unrefuted in the scientific literature . It might be more logical to use the first observation of any brain activity at all as the beginning of " viability . " Indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time at which cerebral cortex is first seen ( 40th day ) or that time at which the first E.E , G. tracings can be obtained ( 43d day ) is the beginning of " relational humanity , " the point beyond which , to act ethically , we must treat the fetus with the dignity we accord any other human being . This dignity includes a right to continuing life and the right not to be used for unethical nontherapeutic experimentation . To remain a caring society , should we not err on the " safe side " in discussing concepts of viability ? MICFIELINE M. MATHEWS-ROTH , M.D. Harvard Medical School Boston , May 26 , 1975 Office of Minority Business : A Flawed Attack On the Concepts of Fetal Viability                     