@@733519

txt Letters WALTER HELLER , ARTHUR OKUNTHOMAS E. DOW JR.PENELOPE GILLIATTA.A . NEELYSIDNEY Letters Economy : Toward a ' Carrots ' and/or ' Sticks ' Cure To the Editor : After almost three years of recovery from the 1974-75 recession , the deepest since the 1930 's , unemployment ; s still 6.1 percent of the labor force . Inflation has receded from the doubledigit rates of 1974. but the hard-core 6 percent per year inflation persists . The public regards this persistent combination of inflation and unemployment as.unacceptable . The Administration , the Congress and the Federal Reserve are committed to significant reduction in both rates . The unpleasant truth is that they have at present no way to achieve this goal . The problem is that in today 's economy high unemployment rates are not achieving the desired disinflation but appear to be essential to forestall the risks of accelerated inflation . This is why the Government has not used more stimulative monetary and fiscal policies to sustain and complete the economic recovery . This is why the President 's original targets , 4.8 percent unemployment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impasse is terribly costly ; the losses of jobs , production and investment weaken our economy for years to come . Is there a way out ? The first step is realistic recognition that the traditional instruments of fiscal and monetary policy are by themselves inadequate . Additional measures are needed to restrain the rise of wage and salary rates and of production costs , markups and prices . Currently the economy is trapped in a , pattern of roughly 8 percent wage inflation and 6 percent price inflation . Each feeds the other . Given a normal productivity trend of about 2 percent , business raises prices 6 percent to cover the rise in unit labor costs . To keep up with these price increases , as well as with the wage gains of other workers , unions and unorganized workers expect and obtain wage increases that exceed productivity growth . The pattern is stubborn , but not inevitable . In the early 1960 's a self-consistent pattern of about 3.5 percent wage inflation and 1.5 percent price inflation was maintained throughout a recovery that reduced unemployment from 7 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If several points could be simultaneously chapped off today 's wage and price inflation rates , neither labor nor business would lose to the other . The President 's goals would come within easy reach , with substantial gains for all economic groups . Direct anti-inflation policy has in the past taken two forms in this country : comprehensive and compulsory wage and price controls , and advisory guideposts . Controls entail well-known inefficiencies and inequities , and after the 1971-74 experience both management and labor are strongly opposed to them . Guideposts appear to have helped in the early 1960 's . But voluntary compliance is at best uncertain and uneven , and informal White House pressure in selected cases is not a satisfactory procedure . The shortcomings of these two approaches should not lead us to discard the whole idea of " incomes policy . " Too much is at stake . There is a third way to operate an incomes policy . The Federal tax system could carry " carrots " or " sticks " or both to induce business end labor // GII Elsner to comply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by incentives which apply to everyone fairly and uniformly . But the Government would not intervene directly in the setting of prices or in collective bargaining . Tax incentives allow flexibility ; firms and unions would weigh tax savings or tax costs along with other factors in deciding how much to raise prices and wages . Competitive forces could still govern their choices . A number of specific proposals have been advanced by economists . According to one of them , for example , the Government would annually set a threshold rate of wage increase , which right now might be 7 percent . Then each employee of a firm would receive a tax rebate equal to one point of the normal payroll tax for each point by which the firm 's rise in average compensation per hour fell short of the threshold for the year . If in 1978 a firm held its average increase in hourly compensation to 4 percent. , then each of its employees would recover three points of the 1978 payroll tax . Thus the average worker would be compensated ( up to the Social Security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sustained , but inflation of labor costs would be diminished . Fractional compensation could be allowed instead . If price inflation were to fall point for point with wage inflation , workers would lose nothing from restraint , and the payroll tax rebates would be net gains . Although prices move generally with labor costs , this result can not be guaranteed . Workers will find the offer fairer and more attractive if a parallel incentive to restrain firms ' markups over cost is provided . Or the Federal Government could " insure " cooperating workers by promising ad ; ditional tax rebates to the degree that price inflation fails to respond . This is only one possibility . Another proposal , on the lines of the Wallich ; Weintraub tax-based incomes policy . would operate through the corporate profits tax . A firm would be rewarded for each point by which it holds its own wage , inflation below the specified threshold . These are " carrots . " The " stick . " version would penalize workers and ' / or firms by tax surcharges for each point by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a preset target , perhaps 5 percent at the start . The proposals operate in the first instance on wages rather than prices only because continual change in materials costs and in product design and quality would make it very difficult to apply them directly to prices . These are complicated and untried schemes . The best design is not yet clear ; many administrative wrinkles need to be ironed out . The difficulties are trivial compared with the costs of our present impasse  --  losses of billions of dollars of producticn and oC ' millions of jobs each year that we drag along . Washington should begin to plan along these lines now . The Ad-. ministration and Congress are consid ; ering major tax reduction in 1978 . They have the opportunity to design tax cuts to bring down inflation as well as to stimulate the economy . What unites the signers of this letter ' is the conviction that this matter deserves the highest priority in publitdiscussions and official deliberations. about economic policy . We are not . individually or collectively , decided on the best design . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the letter as follows : " I support the general concept . of a tax-based anti-inflation policy and specifically the version that , since 1970. has been associated with the name of Sidney Weintraub and mine . " WALTER HELLER , ARTHUR OKUN ROBERT SOLOW , JAMES Toots HI'NRY WALLICH , SIDNEY WEINTRAUB New Haven , March 10 , 1978 Rhodesia : In Support Retirement Legislation vs. the Worker Of the Internal Solution To the Editor : ? It is difficult to imagine a more uninformed position than that taken by The Times in its March 5 editorial on Rhodesia . A communal problem , whether in India , Rhodesia or the United States , is solved by arrangements which seek , by mutual consent , to provide a sense of security and confidence for . religious , racial or geographic groups under circumstances where such security and confidence can not be taken for granted . It is this principle which determines the composition of the United States Senate , and it is this principle which would , if accepted , have saved the Indian subcontinent from the tragedy of partition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the center of the current internal Rhodesian solution . More specifically , the provisions of this internal solution are those which representative black as well as white Rhodesian negotiators have accepted as necessary and just for the successful launching of a new state . That such arrangements should be held by the Editorial Board of The Times to be unworthy and the basis of future conflict rather than peace is virtually an exercise in doublethink . Nonetheless , it is an exercise which will have the unfortunate effect of damaging a complex and promising ' national solution . A solution , incidentally , which holds promise of providing a working model which can not but influence favorably the political stalemate in South Africa . Is it then not in our interest to join with England in support of an internal Rhodesian solution which stands out so clearly from the unfortunate pattern of authoritarian despotism so prevalent in today 's world ? Surely we have not so lost our sense of history , purpose and proportion that we would attack rather than defend a multiracial solution in Rhodesia . THOMAS E. Dow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ College at Purchase Purchase , N.Y. , March 6 , 1978 To the Editor : The corporate lobby has persuaded House-Senate conferees working on mandatory retirement legislation to exempt top executives and policymakers whose retirement income is $27,000 a year or higher , excluding Social Security . Their argument is that new blood is needed in these positions . The truth of the matter is more complex . Such executives , having insured their security with lavish pension and stock-option , plans , will tolerate no interference with their elite position . American workers had best ' look closely at this legislation . They , too , have a long-range stake . Workers ' reTo the Editor : As I approach my 60th birthday , I am thankful mostly for the fact that the greater part of my life has coincided with what may be remembered someday as the " Golden Age of Testing . " We are being told that tests have become a device for racial discrimination ; to me they have been an instrument for individual freedom . I have thrived on tests , which must make my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admittance to Townsend Harris in 1932 ; I received an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy in 1939 , and I enjoyed a modest degree of professional advancement for years thereafter . Without testing , I could have done none of these things , which to me were important , This is because of an The Times welcomes letters from readers . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters . tirement benefits likely will hP changed to conform to the new age limit , thereby making it impossible for most to retire before death . Again the private sector demonstrates its double standard . The welloff can look forward to retirement , while the poor can not . This is a cleat case of Federal intervention , based on an emotional issue , which will hurt the average man . In a system where unemployment is a never-ending problem , this seems to be another " right " the worker must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. A. NEELY Mableton , Ga. , March 3 , 197 , unfortunate personal trait , which has always rendered me congenitally unfit to ingratiate myself with those on whom my success would have been totally dependent . A moderately polite word for this type of personality would be the frequently used " abrasive . " With such a personality , and without the compensating advantage of some variety of conspicuous talent ; I would have had a hard time . Not that it 's been easy , but I managed . ? - Tests , conducted under circumstances of strict anonymity , are blessing to loners , who are hopelessly dominated by a yearning for individual freedom . They have enabled me to sur= vive long enough on my own term , so that now I may enjoy the luxury of moderate indifference to whatever vicissitudes I may encounter . I conclude with an expression gratitude for the arrangement God made with my parents to have me born at a time uniquely suited to the advancement of my interests , a time during which testing prevailed , a time in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chestnut Hill , Mass. , March 4 , I97S A Paean to the ' Golden Age of Testing ' Women and Combat To the Editor : In The New York Times of March 4 , Antonia Handler Chayes , an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force , is quoted as saying , " This is the first step forward " about the Defense Department having asked the Congress to end the ban on women in combat . Surely the first ? step forward would be to end the possibility of men being in combat ? ' Have we forgotten " Lysistrata " ? This is Women 's Lib standine nn its head . PENELOPE GILLIATT London , March 6 , 1978                     