@@728788

txt Four months after the ouster of Prince Norodom Sihanouk , friends of the new Government are most encouraged by what has not happened ? the Government has not collapsed . In the face of such probblems as the attacks by the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese , the virtual disintegration of the economy and misbehavior of South Vietnamese troops sent in to help , this " aspect of negative intelligence , " as one American official termed it , is considered in itself a tribute to the new leadership . In more positive terms , the Government headed by Premier Lon Nol , Deputy Premier Sisowath Sirik Matak and Chief of State Cheng Heng has recently shown signs of growing self-confidence , stability and statesmanship . Still , even Western observers who have been encouraged by these developments concede that proselytizing and recruitment by the Communists in the regions they control make an eventual insurrection or civil war virtually inevitable . Unlike the days and weeks following the Prince 's overthrow as Chief of State on March 18 , the day-today existence of the Government is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who represents West Germany , is leaving for a vacation at home soon , but he is so confident events will allow his return here in the fall that he has already ordered 380 bottles of his favorite German wines for his wine cellar here . Even the remaining Communist diplomats here privately admit to sharing that confidence . The number of foreign newsmen has dwindled to a few dozen from the several hundred who streamed here until about a month ago . The Government 's increasing self-assurance and capability has been demonstrated recently in the following ways : tjGeneral Lon Nol recently made his first two trips as chief executive to confer with the leaders of Thailand and South Vietnam . While he was reported to have been unsuccessful in his quest for more aid from Thailand , he acquitted himself well with both difficult allies . cRejecting pressures from rightist elements who want Cambodia to participate in an anti-Communist military pact against China and North Vietnam , the Government continues to affirm a nominal neutrality ? essential to continued relations with the Soviet Union , Poland , Czechoslovakia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ younger national leaders , the Cabinet was broadened early in July to redistribute ministries to some of the more energetic and innovative young officials , thereby easing some of the tensions in the parliament . Judicial Council Abolished In another move , the Chief of State , under special powers granted him on March 28 , last week abolished the High Council of the Judiciary , which had long undermined the authority of the Justice Minister . In the war , the inexperienced army of about 20,000 fairly well-trained troops and 80,000 others in uniform has at least learned not to run away from a fight . The troops have suffered heavy casualties ? some battalions are still unaccounted for ? but they have remained dogged and loyal . But the Government successes have been limited to the area the Government controls ? which roughly excludes the half of the country north of a diagonal line running from the southeast to northwest . Not many people live north of the line ? there are only about seven million people in all of Cambodia ? but those who do can count on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plains and jungles . Throughout the country , telegrams can not be sent to 60 per cent of the cities and towns . Many roads are unsafe , often being cut suddenly by enemy bands . Recruiting by Enemy The main unanswered question is the extent to which the North Vietnamese and Vietcong are able to recruit Cambodians in the areas under their influence . Interrogation of Cambodian prisoners impressed into service by the enemy and the accounts of Cambodians who escaped from enemy-held areas indicate the recruiting campaign is quite intensive . Furthermore , no one who has studied Vietcong organizing efforts in South Vietnam , which were carried out at all levels , can doubt that the same pattern is being applied to Cambodia , despite the racial and national differences . Whether this recruiting campaign results in little more than an annoying insurgency similar , for example , to that of Thailand 's 2,000 Communist guerrillas or a broad antigovernment movement involving civil war depends on how quickly the army moves into these enemy regions to disrupt the proselytizing . While the first two major offensive military operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been limited and a general offensive into the enemy regions still appears to be some time off . Nor have the approximately 50,000 South Vietnamese troops been an unmixed blessing . President Nguyen Van Thieu is said to he furious over the looting by his soldiers that threatens to turn a diplomatic plus into a minus . Government officials no longer try to hide their belief that the South Vietnamese presence is just the lesser of two evils , and the censors allow newspaper dispatches about South Vietnamese misbehavior , ... to pass without protest . Thai troops , the Cambodian leaders are reported to believe , would probably prove as trou-1 blesome as the South Vietnamese and probably only a Communist offensive in the northwest would convince the Cambodians to call them in . The American Embassy , while eager to help the Cambodians with financial and material aid ? officials hope Washington will provide ** next year , up from $8.9-million this year  --  is aware of the problems an active United States role would cause . Embassy officials were angered when American Air Force personnel from a damaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ airport wandered around downtown in their United States military uniforms while waiting for repairs to be made . U. S. Items Sought Eagerly But the Cambodians , for now , are fascinated by everything American . United States military equipment , for sale , courtesy of South Vietnamese troops , at black market stalls in most Cambodian communities confers instant prestige on the possessor . The United States Embassy hopes to take advantage of its current influence to convince Cambodian officials to be more forthright with the foreign press , to bridge a growing credibility gap in official war reporting . Despite periodic diplomatic feelers , the chances of a negotiated settlement between the Cambodian Government and the Vietcong and North Vietnamese appear remote . Truce Feeler Reported Several weeks ago the French Embassy was reported to have received a message from the enemy suggesting that if wounded Communists could be cared for in Cambodia and the sanctuaries quietly re-established , the fighting could end . " It was unthinkable , and I did n't even tell Lon Nol about it , " said Yem Sambaur , the former Foreign Affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are ready for negotiations , they mean they are ready to negotiate the enemy withdrawal from Cambodia , and that is not negotiable . Nor does the enemy appear any more ready to give up the supply corridor re-established on the Mekong river and its tributaries . A comeback by Prince Sihanouk does not seem likely either . Travelers report pictures of a shadowy Cambodian Communist leader , Son Ngoc Minh , are replacing Sihanouk 's in Kratie Province and other enemyheld areas . There also appears to be tension among followers of the Prince , the Khmer Rouge , or traditional Cambodian Communist movement , and Son Ngoc Minh , who is now believed to be in Hanoi , as well as other dissident factions . Meanwhile Cambodia gets along . An industrialized state where production stopped would strangle to death , but here the rubber plantations and factories and Vietnameseowned businesses have not been operating since March ? with little apparent effect . In the countryside the young , ice is brilliant yellow-green and people seem to have enough to eat . A Cambodian newspaper said the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last four months , to one and a half million , because of refugees fleeing the war . But the garbage is still being collected and this city of hroarl boulevards and orange ila " ta trees hardly shows the change .                     