@@729825

txt Indian armed forces struck against Pakistan by land , sea , and air yesterday in all-out war . They captured six towns in East Pakistan , destroyed 33 Pakistani warplanes , and set up an air and naval blockade to choke off vital supplies , Indian officials said . Pakistani President Agha Mohammad Yahya Khan told his nation in a broadcast that Pakistan was " at war with a treacherous enemy " and said the Pakistanis would not only " drive the enemy from our territory but also destroy him in his own territory . " A dusk to dawn curfew was ordered thruout the country . Yahya said Pakistani troops had stopped the Indian offensive and were fighting hard on every front , " undeterred by the overwhelming numbers of the enemy . " A spokesman said the Pakistanis had captured several positions along the Kashmir frontier In the northeast . China Pledges Support The eruption of lade-Pakistani border tensions into full-scale war also brought a pledge from China of support for Pakistan . Peking accused the Soviet Union of encouraging India 's " armed aggression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made no overt move to influence the fighting . The commander of India 's East Pakistan operation , Gen. Jagit Singh Aurora , expressed concern at a news conference in Calcutta that Red Chinese troops might come across the Himalayan frontier and attack India in a diversionary maneuver to help Pakistan . But a government spokesman in New Delhi said no movement of Chinese troops had been reported . Official Indian spokesmen in New Delhi said Indian troops were advancing on Pakistani troops in rebellious East Pakistan and had destroyed the bulk of Pakistani warplanes in that state . They also reported heavy ground fighting on two fronts along the West Pakistan border about 1,000 miles across Indian territory from East Pakistan . The Indian government claimed early today that its forces had captured 130 square miles of territory in East Pakistan in the first day of all-out fighting . MIGs Bomb Dacca Indian warplanes carried out heavy raids on bases in East and West Pakistan . A New Delhi defense spokesman said Indian fighter planes attacked a military field near Karachi late yesterday and destroyed nine Pakistan air force planes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Pakistan aircraft reported shot down or destroyed on the ground since heavy fighting began Friday . A correspondent reported that Indian MIGs bombed and rocketed Dacca , capital of East Pakistan , six times yesterday in raids apparently aimed at crippling the city 's airport . Ground fire met the attacking planes . Indian warships joined in the assault of East Pakistan and planes from India 's only aircraft carrier hit Chittagong . India announced its force had sunk two Pakistani gunboats and a merchant ship . By nightfall , the Indian navy anBlocked due to copyright . See full page image or microfilm . Lt. Gen. Jagit Singh Aurora , commander of Indian military operations in East Pakistan , talks to newsmen in Calcutta . nounced it had boarded a Pakistani merchant ship in the Arabian Sea and was escorting it into Cochin Harbor , 300 miles south of Bombay . The Indian government also announced a maritime blockade of East and West Pakistan and warned that neutral ships suspected of carrying contraband might be ordered into Indian ports for investigation . Radio Pakistan reported its forces had destroyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in air action in both East and West Pakistan . It said Indian airplanes carried out 24 raids into Pakistani territory by midday yesterday , attacking Karachi , Islamabad , and Peshawar in West Pakistan and Dacca , the capital of East Pakistan . Indian Defense Minister Jagjivan Ram told Parliament that Indian troops bad destroyed six tanks and inflicted heavy losses on Pakistanis attacking along the 1948 cease-fire line near Akhnur in Kashmir . He said the Indians took losses of their own and were pushed back by Pakistan troops farther south . Ram said a brigade of Pakistani troops attacked in the Ferozepur sector in the western Indian state of Punjab , near the border crossing point of Hussainiwala . " Our troops have repulsed all attacks , inflicting heavy casualties on the enemy , " Ram said . " Wo also have had casualties and lost some ground . " Indian officials said Indian jets launched strikes against West Pakistani air bases In retaliation for the continued bombing of their own airfields by Pakistani jets . Indian spokesmen said 10 Pakistani F-86 Sabre jets and 4 other aircraft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action against targets there . " The bulk of the Pakistan air force has been decimated , " he said . He estimated Pakistan had only two to three fighter planes left in its eastern territory , scene of a Bengali uprising against the federal Pakistani government . Four planes were reported downed over India and another 15 knocked out on the ground in West Pakistan . Ram told Parliament that India had lost it aircraft , 6 of them in the attacks on West Pakistan and 5 in the East . " Our losses should be considered moderate , " he said . Details of the expanded fighting began flowing into New Delhi In official reports following India 's decision to join Mukti Bahini ( freedom force guerrillas in open offensive action in East Pakistan and Pakistan 's Informal declaration of a state of war yesterday morning . Defense Secretary K. B. Lall said Indian commanders had been told to push into East Pakistan on all fronts , join with rebel commanders , and act in concert with them to overcome the Pakistani occupation forces in East Pakistan . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Ram said . " What we want is that Pakistan should live as a friendly neighbor and cherish values of democracy and secularism which in modern times are regarded as good and human values . " Ram told Parliament that Indian army troops combined with the rebels to capture the town and airfield at Sham Shernagar in Sylhet district of northeastern East Pakistan . He said Indian troops also seized the towns of Suigon and Majlispur in Comilla district , less than 60 miles from Dacca , and Thakurgaon , Darsana , and Cazipur in the western sector of East Pakistan . All-India Radio said the town of Jamalpuh in East Pakistan fell late yesterday and that all 160 Pakistani troops in the town surrendered to the Indian force . Heavy fighting was reported still underway at Akhaura , located in East Pakistan 's Comilla district across the border from the Indian town of Agartala. 150 Pakistanis Killed In the first 12 hours of fighting in East Pakistan , 150 Pakistani troops were killed , an Indian military spokes. man in Calcutta claimed , He did not disclose Indian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He said 100 Pakistani soldiers were killed there and large quantities of arms and ammunition were captured . All India Radio reported last night that the Jessore cantonment in East Pakistan had been encircled from all sides , with supplies and communication channels blocked . The best available assessment of the relative overall strength of the two armed forces gives India 860,000 regular troops plus 50,000 reservists and 100,000 border guards , with 3,000 artillery weapons , 1,500 tanks , and 20 antiaircraft units . The Indian air force has 80,000 men with 625 combat aircraft and the navy has 58 warships . Pakistan has an estimated troop strength of 365,000 plus 250,000 militia . men and 30,000 border guards . It is reported to have 1,100 artillery weapons and 800 tanks , a 17,000-man air force with 285 combat planes and a 28-warship fleet .                     