@@732992

txt Now that casino gambling is coming to New Jersey can New York afford to be far behind ? Dismayed at the prospect of losing tourists to a revivified Atlantic City , enticed by visions of Vegas-like profits , boosters from the Catskills to the Rockaways , from Niagara Falls to Saratoga to New York City are placing their bets on casinos . They have won the support of New York State 's Department of Commerce , which is drafting legislation ? subject to referendum  --  to eliminate the constitutional ban against gambling casinos . If a repeal measure is passed at this session of the Legislature , the roulette wheels could be spinning , the dice clicking , the slot machines whirring by 1980 . Should it be passed ? There is the fundamental moral objection : Gambling is sinful , or , in more secular terms , unwholesome . There is the social policy objection : Gambling tempts those who can least afford to squander money to squander it . There is the public policy objection : Civic expenses should be borne equitably by the taxpayers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public safety objection : Gambling , with its fast flow of cash , inevitably attracts society 's predators , corrupts officials and demoralizes a community . 0 These are all principled arguments , deserving of respect . But even before Atlantic City broke ranks , they were not equally compelling or absolute in their force . We do not conceive it to be the state 's duty to pass judgment on how people throw away their time or their money as long as they do not harm their fellow citizens or their communities . But we do think the state has a stake in the moral content of its revenue measures and certainly it must reckon with the practical consequences of the activities it charters . The dangers of opening up yet another lucrative field to criminals and accelerating the decline of any city 's tone and spirit ought to be much on the Legislature 's conscience . The example of Las Vegas , tamed for the presence of mob figures and the art of " skimming " casino proceeds , obliges state and local officials to move deliberately and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be worked out as a precondition to removing the ban . Still , the risks of rejecting gambling at the expense of New York 's economy can not easily be dismissed . Other things being equal , the state 's cultural and geographical advantages are sufficient to compete for the tourist and convention dollar . But the availability of gambling in Atlantic City , only 128 miles from New York City , can rig the competition ; its spread to the Poconos or the Maryland shore would further damage the state 's resorts . No matter how reluctantly , New York must pursue the matter , and promptly . Can measures be devised that will keep the games aboveboard and closely geared to the goal of stimulating the tourist business ? That is the challenge that proponents of casinos must address if they expect public support . They can look for direction to gaming centers such as Monaco , which have relatively clean records , and draw upon law-enforcement experts for innovations appropriate to this place and time . If New York is compelled by economic straits to accept casinos , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the casinos had probably best be operated by a state agency which , let us hope , will be more careful than the state 's Lottery Division in guarding against operatives with criminal records or ties . All employees would be subject to severe penalties for malfeasance . On the model of Puerto Rico rather than Las Vegas , stringent zoning would restrict the number and placement of the casinos ? no " strips " or walk-in-offthe-street joints . ( Felix Rohatyn , chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation , believes that discreetly situated casinos might upgrade neighborhoods like Times Square . ) Minors would be barred , of course . The hours would be limited , and so would the stakes . There would be entrance fees and a charge for liquor , if it is permitted at all ? no drinks-on-the-house , thank you . To discourage loan-sharking and other invitations to misery , no credit could be offered on the premises in the heat of the action , or off the premises by any casino operator . The most careful hour-by-hour scrutiny would be essential ; the casino @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had better be periodically audited . The New York voter should not be asked to ratify casinos until such safeguards have been designed and mandated . Moreover , the casino consumer should benefit from the truth-in-labeling movement . If the tourist is to be served , he can not be fleeced . This means protection not only against stacked decks and rigged wheels ; it means clear statements of the rules of the games and the odds against the player . It also means the best possible odds that fair operation can offer , not , for example , the appalling slot-machine odds that pertain in most places . The purpose would be to advertise New York , not worsen its reputation . ? We are willing to be shown that all this could be done . Just one more suggestion , in the event that casinos finally do come to New York : In the spirit of the Surgeon General 's warning on cigarette packages , the state might post over every casino portal , the message of Ogden Nash : Another thing about games of chance Is a thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no matter how far at any time you may be ahead You are always well behind when it 's time for bed .                     