@@730826

txt Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz announced last night that his investigation of a suspected Republican-aided scheme to siphon votes from Democratic candidates for the Assembly had been turned over to District Attorney Frank S. Hogan far possible criminal prosecution . Mr. Lefkowitz issued a brief statement saying only that the evidence , including testimony and exhibits , had been sent to the Manhattan prosecutor . He added that the Albany County District Attorney , Arnold W. Proskin , had received information relating to the state law that candidates must file campaign statements with the Secretary of State in Albany . The inquiry has focused in part on the office of the Assembly Speaker , Perry B. Duryea , Republican of Montauk , L. I. The announcement Made no reference of individuals or of Republican figures whose campaign statements have been scrutinized . It referred to a complaint received about purported Liberal literature used in last year 's Assembly campaign . The Nassau County Republican Committee , meantime , acknowledged providing to the Liberal party the postage mailing labels used to send out some of the anti-Democrat campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Liberal officials in Nassau disclaimed any knowledge of how the labels apparently came to be used by Harold J. Relkin , a former Queens Liberal who sent out the literature and who holds a patronage job on the Assembly Republican staff . The basic question in the inquiry is whether Republican Assembly campaign funds were improperly channeled to help the Liberal party in certain marginal districts last year to cut the Democratic vote and preserve the Republican majority in the Assembly . A Queens printer who has talked to state investigators said in an interview on Saturday that he had printed " Liberal " literature and was paid with a check from the Republican campaign fund . The literature , printed over Lefkowitz Gives G.O.A. Data on Voting to Hogan ing into possible wrongdoing in his own party . Privately , some associates of Mr. Duryea grumbled that the Attorney General 's office permitted the inquiry to become exaggerated in the press , to the detriment of Republicans . They say that the Assembly Democrats never filed 1972 campaign statements , as required by aw . Mr. Duryea himself has said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that he is confident that the Attorney General will conduct a fair inquiry . Investigators in the Lefkowitz office insist they are dealing fairly with the inquiry and will attend to any suspected violations , including the Democratic omissions , which Democrats attributed to a party official 's illness . The fourth verified instance of a campaign mailing sent out by Mr. Relkin was disclosed // Mr. Relkin 's signature in the name of the Action Committee for the Liberal Party , has been denounced by Liberal party officials as unauthorized . Mr. Relkin insists it was legitimate . Mr. Duryea , who nominally , at least , was in charge of the 1972 Republican , Assembly campaign and Assembly patronage jobs , has said he did not know how Mr. Relkin was hired i by the Assembly . A spokesman for Mr. Duryea denied a report that the Assembly Republicans ' director of communication , James C. Threatte , delivered copies of the suspect literature to the Queens printer . The spokesman said one of Mr. Threatte 's duties was to deal with various printers in the state , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Threatte was not available for comment . His office said he was on vacation , although Mr. Duryea 's office said he had been at his office in the Capitol in Albany earlier in the day . Mr. Duryea met yesterday in Albany with the Republican majority leader , Assemblyman John E. Kingston of Westbury , L. I. , who was the chairman of the Republican Assembly campaign last year . Earlier , Mr. Kingston said in an interview that he had had very little to do with the campaign committee 's activities and ? knew nothing about the Attorney General 's inquiry . Neither man was available for comment after the meeting . Meanwhile , former officials of the New York Committee to Re-elect the President cast doubt on a Republican Assemblyman 's suggestion that the Nixon campaign was responsible for G.O.P. literature on Long Island linked to material under investigation by Mr. Lefkowitz . Assemblyman Alfred A. Dellibovi said Sunday that he believed campaign leaflets for President Nixon that mentioned Mr. Dellibovi 's name as the local candidate had come from the national committee . The Queens printer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men who ordered a " Liberal " campaign letter signed by Mr. Relkin . But the former head of the city 's committee to re-elect President Nixon , Fioravante G. Perrotta , said In an interview that he could not retail such literature and that as a rule no such Presidential campaign material incorporated the names of local candidates . While some Republicans contend privately that the inquiry involves little more than possibly minor infractions of the state 's campaign filing laws , the Democrats see it as an issue for next year 's governorship and legislative elections . The state Democratic chairman , Joseph F. Crangle , again urged election law reform , seeing hints of a Watergate-style scandal for New York Republicans and questioning Mr. Lefkowitz 's dedication in lookyesterday by Vincent F. Nicolosi , a freshman Democratic Assemblyman from Queens who said his 1972 campaign had apparently been " ripe " for the mailing . The letter , signed by Mr. Relkin  --  as were the other versions reportedly investigated in 11 Assembly races  --  urged voters to support Mr. Nicolosi 's Liberal party opponent , Kenneth A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25th A.D. in northeastern Queens , had been the scene of pre-election battles between his forces , which he said were conservatively oriented , and those of reform Democrats and Liberals in his area . " I guess I was ripe for an effort , " he said . In the election , Mr. Nicolosi received 23,973 votes ; his Republican - Conservative opponent , W. G. Meier , received 22,705 , and Mr. Newman , the Liberal , received 3,305.                     