@@728866

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times For a Volunteer Army To the Editor : Your Aug. 28 editorial " No American Mercenaries " implies by its title that our armed forces would become a group of mercenaries , men who sell their combat services to other countries , under an all-volunteer system . This clearly was not the case in our over 170 years experience with an allvolunteer military nor has it been with our less than 35 years experience with a conscripted force . The legislation , which had the support of thirty-seven Senators , would have raised basic pay of enlistees and firstterm officers . Today , when a man is coerced into the armed forces and subsidizes almost 50 per cent of his service , including pay , food , lodging , and medical benefits ? when over 20,000 servicemen are on welfare  --  it is a disgrace to our society that those who bear the responsibility of our country 's defense do not receive equitable pay . Military Pay Level To claim that by raising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor and the black to join the military is factually incorrect . The pay level within the military is already generally above the poverty level , so the financial inducement to the poor is presently existent . Although there would be a slight increase in the ratio of nonwhites to whites in an allvolunteer military , as projected by the President 's Commission on an All-Volunteer Armed Force , their proportion in the armed forces would be roughly the same as their ratio to the over-all population . Asserting that a volunteer armed force would be static , isolated and contrary to " the concept of the militia " is also a contradiction of facts . In an all-volunteer force of 2.5 million men ( projected force strength within the next three years ) there would be an annual turnover of 325,000 men . Military isolationism is determined by civilian controls applied by the President and Congress , economic influences and the state of international relations . There is no positive correlation between the manner of recruitment and the frequency of coup d'dtat . Our country has had conscription only three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first time we have had a peacetime draft . The alternative to voluntarism that is offered by The Times is national compulsory service which is diametrically opposed to the cornerstone of our country 's foundation , the value of individual liberty . Universal conscription , particularly during peacetime , is anathema to our Republic and individual rights . In monetary terms , it would cost a minimum of an additional annual $16 billion and perhaps as much as $40 billion . We would become in the process . the essence of the totalitarianism against which we have so valiantly fought since our founding and negate the very rationale of our creation . MARK 0 . HATFIELD U.S. Senator from Oregon Washington , Aug. 31 , 1970 ? Rhodesia 's Policies To the Editor : I feel compelled to comment on K. H. Towsey 's letter ( Sept. 5 ) . I am a white Rhodesian by birth and upbringing , and taught at the University College of Rhodesia and Nyasaland from 1958 to 1967 . That one-half of the land area of Rhodesia is set aside for use by blacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population of the country is about sixteen times as large as the white population , and that the land so reserved includes the driest and least productive sections of the country . Mr. Towsey gives the regime credit for " necessary modernization for survival and welfare " in these areas . In fact , the credit for medical care and education in these areas goes almost entirely to missionaries . The churches have recently been threatened with removal from their humane work ( which the regime has not funds to take over ) unless they submit to racial segregation . That the black population is represented by tribal chiefs ( paid by the regime ) is the decision of the regime , not of the blacks . Those who have a claim to represent black political thinking are mostly either in restriction or have fled the country to avoid restriction . Within the last few months the regime has renewed yet again the state of emergency which has continued almost without a break since before the unilateral declaration of independence in 1965 . Under the terms of the emergency regulations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a designated area for a period of years , without recourse to courts of law . All this is well known to any who have an interest in Rhodesia . I am surprised that Mr. Towsey hopes to convince anyone , least of all , say , someone like Daniel Madzirnbamuto , of a soul-searching dilemma facing the regime . But then , wherever he is held in Rhodesia , I doubt whether Mr. Madzimbamuto will be allowed to read Mr. Towsey 's letter , let alone mine . M. PHILIPPA FORDER South Hadley , Mass . Sept. 5 , 1970 ? Appeal to State Heads To the Editor : All humanity must stand united against the wave of air piracy , and put an end to the methods of blackmail and terror against innocent civilians . President Podgorny , Chairman Mao and President Nasser are the only ones who have the power to stop this crime against mankind . It is their moral obligation to fly to Jordan and personally set free all kidnapped men , women and children . BENJAMIN B. WOLMAN New York , Sept. 9 , 1970 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ published Sept. 3 , former Judge David Peck criticizes a remark attributed to Adam Walinsky suggesting that if elected State Attorney General , Walinsky would " take a dim view " of enforcing flag desecration laws . Mr. Walinsky has since suggested that he was misquoted ; however I should like to comment on Judge Peck 's notion that a law enforcement official would " pick and choose " those laws he will enforce . Surely Judge Peck knows that every law enforcement official in this state in this century has , as one example , - . decided to ignore the state law making adultery a crime . If law enforcement officials did n't " pick and choose " among the laws they will enforce , they could have virtually the entire citizenry behind bars . When it comes to the flag desecration laws , a decision by the U.S. Supreme Court in ' 1969 in the Street case in-. validated a portion of New York 's law and another case presently on its way to the . Supreme Court , the Radich case , further challenges these laws . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pick and choose which laws to enforce , but how and what he will pick . I , for one , would hope that the State Attorney General would choose not to enforce laws of such dubious constitutionality as the flag desecration laws and would concentrate his ' energies on enforcing those laws which provide substantial protections for the public in such areas as crimes against persons and property , fraud , and corruption of the environment . ARYEll NEIER Executive Director New York Civil Liberties Union New York , Sept. 9 , 1970                     