@@732880

txt Letters Science : ' We Need a Calculus of Ignorance ' To the Editor : As a non-scientist I do not know whether the reported support of 28 prominent scientists for a science court ( news story Jan. 2 ) reflects prevailing opinion in the scientific community , but it would be strange to find a general turning to the adversary process , with one side declared the winner , as a means of determining what is an " established " scientific fact . There are recognized , valid methods of resolving scientific controversies ; and they do get resolved , not by official pronouncement but by a consensus based on the weight of evidence and the cogency of demonstration . Policy decisions , however , can not always await the outcome . A court is needed  --  a technology policy court , made up not only of scientists making scientific judgments but of logicians , philosophers of science , economists , systems theorists and others qualified to make an altogether different sort of judgment . Where there is disagreement among scientists in areas affecting our lives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What are the facts ? " but rather " What decisions do sane people make while waiting for the facts to be determined ? " What can we afford to be wrong about ? What will be the consequences if we ban fluorocarbon-propellant aerosols and then find out ten years later that we need n't have ? What will be the consequences if we do n't ban them and then learn . we should have ? No amount of scientific expertise will tell us which way the burden of proof should go ; that is determined by the values of a society . One would hope the wish to maximize survival and well-being would prevail , which means one would have to prove the safety , not the danger , of each policy . But the full implications of our choices are often obscured by complex realities , especially by immediate economic pressures . What we need is a calculus of ignorance , a sort of risk-benefit analysis with variable unknowns and with social priorities made explicit . A court using such an approach would serve as a natural liaison between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unfortunate fact that a few scientists , usually with business or military allegiances , while employing impeccable methodology in their professional work , are not above using twisted logic or biased selection and interpretation of data when confronting the public . It is not sufficient for scientists on an impartial panel to answer them with contrary factual information  --  the fallacies of their reasoning must be exposed . Too many scientists perceive the public as hysterical children to be soothed . Too often the zeal to " prevent undue alarm " has eclipsed the duty to inform . At a time when a generation sick of being lied to has turned in distressing numbers to occultism and pseudoscience , a court of the kind I propose could go a long way in restoring the status of rational thought . A healthy public skepticism is in the best interest of any democracy . It is also in the best interest of science . RUTH KOENIGSBERG Upper Nyack , N. Y. , Jan. 7 , 1977 If Tankers Carried ' Marine Auditors ' Robert Brandreth America 's Shame To the Editor : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting this nation 's social crisis says well what we do not want to hear . Racism has , for all practical purposes , pushed many of our problems beyond the reach of money . White America ran out of guilt on the " race problem " back around 1969 . We have not yet substituted shame as the appropriate motive for a new beginning on racial justice in all of its economic , educational and humanwelfare forms . In recent months , I have seen again the black ghettos of New York , New Orleans , Baltimore , Pittsburgh , Philadelphia , St. Louis and Washington , D.C. We can only be ashamed of what we have permitted to happen in these cities . From shame , not guilt , we might make a fresh start on building an urban environment that reflects rather than denies the dignity of the human person , black or white . Your editorial says the first step for the new Administration should be to recommit the nation to the primacy of civil rights . Since that Administration will have to " do something , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ step for the nation will not be taken this month , or next , or for many months to come . As a matter of fact , no single step will ever mark the point where a majority of Americans come to possess an amalgamated attitude of love , outrage , pity and shame , all dedicated to the task of removing racism from the American mind . My plea would be for a new commitment to the life of the mind in America . That is where our social crisis will either deepen or be resolved . ( Rev. ) WILLIAM J. BYRON President , University of Scranton Scranton , Pa. , Jan. 3 , 1977 Senatorial ' Tyranny ' To the Editor : I consider utterly irresponsible and downright obscene the action taken yesterday by the Democrats in the U.S. Senate in lavishing special and extraordinary privileges on Senator Hubert Humphrey , after first voting to defeat his bid for majority leader , including over-generous enhancement of his salary , increase in his spacious office quarters and staff , a chauffeured automobile and a new honorary title , all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a clear and vivid manifestation of the tyranny of the overwhelming majority in the Senate , to its eternal shame and disgrace ! HENRY H. SHEPARD Manhasset , L.I. , Jan. 6 , 1977 To the Editor : Two years ago , in response to a Times editorial ( " The Menace of Oil " ) , three letter writers called for specific actions designed to prevent or lessen the chance of oil spills in U.S. harbors and coastal waters . ( Arthur , Dec. 30 , 1974 ; Trevor O'Neill , Jan. 15 , 1975 ; Eldon V. C. Greenberg , Jan. 17 , 1975 . ) Had your editorial and their suggestions been heeded even in part , it 's unlikely that the damage from recent oil spills by tankers of Liberian registry could have occurred or , if so , to the disastrous degree that it did . In the second of the letters , it was proposed that tankers be required to take aboard disinterested marine auditors or marine auditing teams on entry into U.S. coastal waters and harbors . In effect , these observers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would act as the " black box " device acts in air transport : both as a record if need be of actions taken or omitted in the hours and moments preceding an accident , and as a strong deterrent to careless procedures that might invite such accidents . Senator Warren Magnuson 's committee is about to open hearings looking to improve pollution controls at sea and in inland waters . While awaiting enforced double-bottom tanker construction , stiffened harbor regulaThoughts on Electing An Attorney General To the Editor : In his Jan. 6 letter , " Toward an Elected Attorney General , " Steven Nelson makes out an excellent case for the election rather than appointment of the U.S. Attorney General . After the Watergate scandal Lowell Weicker made the same point . Subsequently , however , little progress has developed . A constitutional amendment takes considerable time to enact , and there is apparently little demand for such a change at this time . Reduction of influence of the President on the Attorney General remains nevertheless a highly desirable goal to avoid future skulduggery similar to that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the President and the Attorney General , a bill should provide for the election of the latter in a year in which the President is not elected . If the two elections are held in the same year , there is a strong probability that the two men would be of the same political party . Unfortunately all too many voters vote a straight ticket . A President may attain the peak of his popularity before election or shortly after he attains office . Disaffection grows as he fails , for one reason or another , to fulfill some of the glowing promises of his campaign days . He may sink to the nadir of his popularity two years after his election . That might be the best time to elect for a four-year term the Attorney General , who might well be of the opposition political party . Even if he is of the same political party , however , an Attorney General elected in a non-Presidential election year would probably be less indebted to  --  and therefore more independent of  --  the President . The suggested changes can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establish some safeguards . RICHARD J. STEIN Scarsdale , N.Y. , Jan. 6 , 1977 tions , shipboard safety facilities , tightened inspections abroad and other long-overdue preventive measures that the committee may eventually recommend , might n't the Coast Guard now ? under existing authorizations ? be moving in some way to prepare for an early test of marine auditing procedures , starting , if possible , the hundred miles from shore that could be included if a tanker intended delivering its cargo at an American port ? Whether by borrowing men from the Navy , recruiting retired Coast Guard and merchant marine officers or hunting out others qualified for this special duty , particularly through high personal integrity , the problem of manpower can surely be solved . The payments of several hundred such inspectors for a year could scarcely exceed the cleanup costs and damages otherwise to be expected following one bad spill that their presence might prevent . Tankers known to be accidentprone , overly aged or of low-standard flag-of-convenience registration should , of course , be the first to come under such inspection . In fairness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly all the expense involved . The seas are wide , but not wide enough for what we 've so casually been doing to them . CHARLES O'NEILL Greens Farms , Conn. , Dec. 31 , 1976 How to Keep Firms In New York City To the Editor : It is encouraging that there appears to be a reversal  --  however slight ? in the trend to abandon New York as a center for corporations . However , we New Yorkers , in my opinion , must continue to fight on every level to keep business in this city . Many corporate managers have used as a reason for departure the unwillingness of middle-management executives to live in the city , citing the discomfort and inconvenience of New York living . Perhaps these middle managers should be reminded that the New York metropolitan area , more than any other region , contributes to their salaries and the well-being of their corporate lives  --  this region being the largest market in the United States . It should also be pointed out that some discomfort and inconvenience might improve their performance as executives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the life led by most of their customers . Finally , much as I detest the weapon of the boycott , it is not inconceivable that one day New Yorkers collectively may show a decided partiality for products made by companies that have elected to remain as New York employers and taxpayers . None of this is intended to suggest that we in New York must not diligently improve our economic climate and environment so far as business is concerned . I believe that we have managed a good start in doing this , but there is much yet to be done . Meanwhile , there appears to be some growing recognition on the part of top management of the advantages of being in the world 's most creative and energetic city ( if not the world 's most comfortable ) . Moreover ( and to repeat ) , New York buys more of the goods its companies make than any other city . Let that fact sink in . DAVID BROWN New York , Jan. 3 , 1977 Job-Seekers ' Plight To the Editor : The proposal for tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stimulating the economy . But left out in the cold by such a " stimulus " are those who have no taxes to pay  --  those who have used up their unemployment insurance benefits and who are still out of work . Would it not make better economic sense to utilize the funds available for a further extension of benefits to those who have yet to find jobs ? ANDREW AI.PERN New York , Jan. 8 , 1977                     