@@731235

txt An attempt to assassinate Secretary of State Henry Kissinger was averted last week , possible by an unexpectedly long conversation with Syrian President Hafez Assad , it was confirmed today . Secret S e r vice men with Kissinger learned of a verified plan , understood to be by Pales . tinian guerrillas , to assassinate the secretary as he drove thru the narrow , teeming streets of Damascus to visit the 8th Century Omayyad Mosque . However , existence of the plan did not become known until after Kissinger had unexpectedly canceled his visit and driven to the airport instead of the mosque because - his talks with Assad ran longer 1 than expected . STILL unaware that he was mar k e d for assassination ; Kissinger again planned to visit the mosque on his return trip Friday night or early Saturday morning before departure . ? It was only on Friday as the plane landed in Damascus that the plot became known . Kissinger went directly into talks that night with Assad and slept an hour later next morning instead of going to the mosque @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kissinger changed cars within the motorcade , . riding in an unmarked car with increased security around him . While officials Would not discuss more than those bare details , nor confirm that the threat came from the Palestinians , the Fedayeen move with relative freedom within some parts of Syria and are strongly opposed to accommodation with Israel . IThe Washington reports of the assassination plot were denied by official Syrian sources in Damascus , according to Reuters News Agency . A Syrian . spokesman said , " The reports are without founclation2f1 THE OMAYYAD Mosque was built in 705 A. D. by Caliph al-Walid on a site where previously had stood a Christian church as well as temples of both the Greek and Roman empires . The head of John the Baptist , according to legend , is still there . A huge , ornate structure with a towering minaret , it is reached by winding thru the labyrinthine streets and alleys of one of the biggest and most famous bazaars in the Middle East . Only two . of Kissinger 's party actually went  --  on foot ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George Vest , and Winston Lord , director of policy and planning , as a dozen reporters stood for nearly two hours at the mosque 's main entrance waiting for Kissinger . THE LAST 100 yards of the narrow street leading to the mosque were blocked off and lined with Syrian soldiers armed with machine guns tho no Secret Service men appeared . Since the Secret Service routinely but methodically checks in advance , every place the secretary is to go , their absence Wednesday morning at the mosque was unusual but unexplained by U. S. officials .                     