@@730767

txt MAYOR RICHARD Hatcher , asserting he will not permit . " 150 hoodlums to terrorize Gary 's 175,000 decent citizens , " called yesterday for a massive outpouring of law-abiding citizens next Thursday to protest open narcotics warfare in Gary . 1 Hatcher 's most fiery remarks on the problem to date came as it was learned that invite , thins for 60 Gary policemen to attend a wedding reception for one of the reputed hoodlums were circulated Thursday inside police headquarters . " The issue is clear , " Hatcher said in anouncing plans for a giant community-citizen rally set for 7:30 p. m . Thursday in Gary 's West Side High School Auditorium . " I WANT To find out from the decent citizens of Gary who is running our community  --  the decent people or the vermin . " We ca n't allow 150 hoodlums to ' intimidate and terrorize 175,000 decent citizens . We are n't going to stand for this . " Hatcher said the rally in the 2,000-seat auditorium is aimed at " enlisting support for a new crackdown on narcotics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blamed the strife on rival drug factions fighting for absolute control , of heroin distribution . Al least 36 persons have been killed , in the continuing battle since early last year . RECENTLY , t h r violence has taken on aspects reminiscent of gang warfare in the 1920s , with drug peddlers exchanging gunfire from moving cars . Hatcher said he and Police Chief Charles Boone would report at the rally on efforts to combat the violence . He indicated he would ask residents to form patrols to safeguard their neighborhoods . The mayor later met for more than one hour in his office with Lake County Prosecutor Henry S. Kowalczyk and Judges James Moody of Gary Superior Court and Andrew Giorgi of Lake County Criminal Court . THE MEETING , had been called to discuss their differences , particularly Hatcher 's charges that Kowalczyk and the courts have been overly lenient in prosecuting drug and gun violators arrested by Chief Boone 's men . Hatcher said afterwards that the meeting was " useful " but declined further comment . Kowalczyk repeated his plans to start a grand jury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Gary jail and alleged police abuse of salary payments for moonlighting as Gary school guards . POLICE OFFICIALS confirmed that invitations to the wedding reception tomorrow : ight of a reputed hoodlum , Grover Barnes , 27 , were distributed by Barnes Thursday in police headquarters . Barnes , whom police describe as a heroin peddler and racket enforcer , was married in Gary last weekend , but the reception was postponed until tomorrow when gunmen in a moving car fired at him outside his bride 's house at 2186 Georgia St. Barnes reportedly told one of the prospective guests he wanted police protection in the event there is another attempt on his life .                     