@@730612

txt A MAN WHO drove out of a service station yesterday after refusing to pay $9 for gasoline led 90 police cars on a 15-mile high speed chase in which numerous cars were sideswiped and two squad cars were in a fiery crash . When police finally figured up the total damage , their tally showed two police cars demolished , another damaged , and 17 citizens ' cars with ventous dents and scrapes . Two policemen were taken to hospitals for minor injuries . It all began when a man drove a late model luxury convertible into a gas station at 6056 S. Ellis Av . " Fill it up , " said the driver to the attendant . However , when the attendant told him the gasoline was $9 , the motorist floored the accelerator and sped from the station . HE SMASHED Into four parked cars , near the station and drove down Ellis Avenue at high speed , police said . One of the gas station owners , Calvin Davis , 35 , of 1513 W. 104th St. , jumped into his own auto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Patrolman Donald Jones , 26 , of the Grand Crossing District , was getting into his squad car when the fleeing customer almost ran him down , police said . Davis stopped his auto and shouted to the policeman , " I 've just been robbed . " Jones told Davis to get Into the pollee car and they began chasing the other auto . The chase wound thru South Side streets , and finally onto the Dan Ryan Expressway . Jones then radioed for other Police cars to take up the chase . DURING THE attempt to stop the nonpaying motorist , the chase reached speeds of 100 miles an hour . Police said the suspect sideswiped about a dozen other cars on the Dan Ryan and Calumet Expressways . About a half hour after the chase began , the motorist sped off the Calumet Expressway at 159th Street and drove around a road block set up at Greenwood Road in Calumet City . By this time , Patrolman Roy Titus of the Calumet City Police Department , was behind the suspect 's auto and also drove around the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Policeman Kenneth Gouwens , 28 , driver of the Soutt Holland car , seeing the chase go around his car , pulled out to take up the chase . As he was pulling out , Jones , the Chicago policeman , arrived al , the intersection and smashed broadside into Gouwens ' police car . JONES AND Davis jumped out of a rear door moments before the squad car burst into flames . A short distance from the smashup , Titus rammed the suspect 's auto with his squad car . The suspect , identified as John David Ford , 23 , of 538 E. 90th St. , had $17 in his pocket , Police said the car he was driving had been stolen Oct , 31 . Ford was charged with attempted murder auto theft , theft of services , damage to city property , driving without a license , and eluding police .                     