@@733957

txt A sharp debate over grants from the World Council of Churches to groups fighting for political causes has erupted here during opening sessions of the Council 's Central Committee . The outcome is considered important for the future . course of the ecumenical body because it centers on the recent shift in resources and staff toward social action . Critics of this direction want greater emphasis on theology and evangelism , and , they deplore the links between the Council and groups that use violence for political goals . Money Intended for Refugees The focus of the debate among the 150 members of the Central Committee meeting at the University of the West Indies is an $85,000 allocation last August to the Patriotic Front , an alliance of black nationalists fighting a guerrilla war for control of Rhodesia . Council leaders stress that the money was designated for Rhodesian refugees , but they also concede that the grant was anQvert political gesture to help the guerrilla movement undermine Rhodesia 's biracial internal settlement . Although scores of grants totaling $2.6 million have been made to liberation groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive of the Council , explained that support of the Patriotic Front was " the most blatant example of the Council making a direct political move " and it brought a torrent of protest . A related factor was that the front was // accused of shooting 40 missionaries last summer . The front ' has denied the charge . Some of the victims were from the Salvation Army , which protested by withdrawing from active membership in the Council . Other churches in the United States and Europe have also objected and some have threatened to withhold contributions , which would aggravate the Council 's already precarious financial position . Last year , the Council had a deficit of $2.8 million , and it plans to reduce its staff to 213 from 273 in the next two years . With dissent and the financial pinch , the committee 's deliberations have already become heated . Tension was evident in the opening address by Dr. Philip Potter , general secretary of the Council and a West Indian . He said : " We recall the inauguration of the Council 30 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But I judge that the mood of the Central Committee is more of sober and even anxious reflection . " Although some staff members say the grant to the Patriotic Front was a mistake , Dr. Potter strongly defended it and called the threat of reduced support from protesting churchmen " an ugly spectacle . " One of the criticisms of the grant was that it undercut two church leaders participating with Prime Minister Ian D. Smith in an interim Government designed to lead to black majority rule in Rhodesia . They are Bishop Abel Muzorewa and the Rev. Ndabaningi Sithole . Rhodesian Arrangement Rejected In his speech , Dr. Potter rejected the Rhodesian arrangement , saying it offered " so-called peaceful solutions without touching the structures of racist oppression . " He attributed criticism of the grant to , among other things , a failure by the Council to describe its purpose adequately . The 57-year-old general secretary has played a strong role in the transition of the ecumenical body from a Westerndominated association of churches to one that increasingly reflects its expanding third-world constituency . Holding this meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is the third world that has provided some of the strongest support for the program to combat racism , under which the controversial grants have been made , although some African and Asian leaders think the Council now needs a more sophisticated way to.analyze and respond to political and social crises . The growth of third-world churches ' and the tendency of many of them to practice non-Western forms of Christianity has produced tension between the regional blocs in the Council . European and Orthodox participants in particular contend that the Council is losing its traditional theological base . As the largest non-Roman Catholic religious voice , the Council includes 293 Protestant and Orthodox member churches representing 400 million Christians . The Central Committee , with members from 100 countries , is the decision-making body between World Assemblies of the Council , which are held every seven years .                     