@@734510

txt Nuclear power is praised as a blessing that will save an energy-starved world from darkness ? and vilified as a demonic technology that threatens the survival of humanity . Its advocates are denounced as arrogant , greedy , power-mad ? and its opponents as paranoid flower children seeking a target , any target , to march against . Is there no way out of this bitter dispute , no middle ground that would enable the nation to have nuclear power plants and safety , too ? There is , indeed , if the public and political leaders ignore all the hyperbole and focus instead on the most important truths about nuclear power . ? The first is that nuclear power is too valuable to reject without very good reason . It is not indispensable . Nuclear power supplies only 13 percent of America 's electricity . Some regions rely on it heavily but even for them it is not irreplaceable . For the moment , the nation has far more electrical generating capacity than it needs . If nuclear plants were deemed an imminent hazard , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transfer electricity from areas of surplus to areas of need and keep the lights on ? though at heavy cost . Future needs might also be met through similar contortions . But the nation would have lost capacity to cope with a very real energy crisis . Nuclear plants are cheaper , cleaner and less vulnerable to fuel interruption than coal plants , their chief competitor . And no one really knows how fast coal production can expand , conservation take hold and alternative energy sources materialize . The safest course is to rely on a mix of fuels . Nuclear power should be abandoned , or its expansion halted , only if the risks are intolerable and unmanageable . ? What are those risks ? Two that excite public outcry are trivial . Nuclear plants in normal operation are not a radiation hazard . They actually emit less radioactivity than a comparable coal plant and contribute only a tiny amount to the total radiation dose received by the public each year . Nor is the transportation of nuclear materials uniquely dangerous . The most lethal materials are shipped in containers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spikes . Whatever hazard exists can surely be met by regulating the routes , hours and conditions for shipping . Three other hazards do cause legitimate concern , but each can be managed without abandoning nuclear power . The most worrisome is weapons proliferation ? the possibility that the spread of nuclear power plants around the world may eventually put atomic weapons into the hands of terrorists or irresponsible nations . Nuclear power will eventually , sometime , somewhere , accelerate the spread of nuclear weapons , if only by enhancing a nation 's technical capabilities . Unfortunately , that genie is already out of the bottle . Abandoning nuclear power in this country would not induce other nations to forswear nuclear weapons . The least troubling of the three major problems is disposal of radioactive wastes . These have been stored for years at power plant sites and military installations without harm and they can continue to be stored that way indefinitely . Admittedly , there is no agreement in this country on permanent storage . Indeed , the Federal program to find a solution has been scandalously negligent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason why safe storage sites can not be found , probably deep underground . The third risk , the one uppermost in the public 's mind as a result of Three Mile Island , is the possibility of a catastrophic accident . A " worst case " accident could kill thousands immediately , tens of thousands later from cancer , cause billions of dollars in damage and contaminate wide areas for centuries . Most experts believe the chances of such an accident are remote ? less , say , than the chance that an earthquake will destroy a dam and release a devastating flood . But no one can say for sure . Three Mile Island reminds us that nuclear power is inherently dangerous . The current rush to improve nuclear plants is all to the good . But it leaves us with an uneasy , perhaps irrational feeling : that sooner or later some lunkhead will trigger a truly serious release of radioactivity . ? The best way to assure safety ? and allay anxiety ? is to put reactors where they would cause the least damage in the event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowed near cities on the theory that safety equipment could protect the public . That policy is now undergoing needed revision . New reactors should probably be put in remote sites ? 50 or more miles from population centers , or underground , or on platforms floating offshore . Evacuation should be easy ? and strict zoning should keep it that way . Rural residents might resist siting plants in their areas . Utilities would oppose increased transmission costs ? though remote siting might actually reduce overall costs by defusing opposition that causes delays . Existing plants would pose an additional dilemma : they represent an enormous investment and only a small risk . But there are n't many on grossly unsuitable sites . Each site ought to be re-evaluated to determine whether its plants should remain open . Safety will make or break nuclear power in this country . The proliferation of weapons abroad will not be affected by domestic power plants . Radioactive wastes are a threat in the distant future , and not a large one at that . But the fear of a serious accident is here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Island , could end our use of nuclear power . Remote siting would make the danger ? to the public and to nuclear power ? unquestionably remote 