@@733478

txt A deadly blizzard hammered the Middle West , the Great Lakes and the Ohio Valley into virtual paralysis yesterday . It marooned thousands of people , killeds , snow-trapped motorists and pedestrians and shut down government offices , facto- I ries , shops and schools . The blizzard raged from the upper Midwest to the Appalachians , riding winds up to 80 miles an hour in Ohio , dropping 15-inch snows in Michigan and Indiana and stacking eight-foot drifts in Illinois . National Guardsmen swarmed into rescue operations along toliways , interstate highways and hundreds of other clogged , impassable roads in Ohio , Indiana , Michigan and Kentucky . ' Worst Blizzard ' for Ohio Gov . James A. Rhodes of Ohio called it " the worst blizzard in the history of Ohio . " A National Weather Service spokesman in Detroit said it was " one of the worst , if not the worst , " in Michigan 's history . Gov . Otis Bowen of Indiana said that " the wind is so great we . can not even get helicopters out " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Chicago , hundreds of pasengers were injured when a packed Illinois Central-Gulf commuter ? // train crashed into the rear of another . More than 300 persons were taken to hospitals , but few injuries were believed to be serious and no one was killed . The crash occurred at the Van Buren Street station just as Loop office workers were struggling to get home in the teeth of the blizzard that has lashed Chicago since last night . The cause of the crash - was not immediately known , but passengers said that motormen had been having trouble stopping at stations because of the heavy snow . The storm in its two-day sweep from the northern Plains to the Appalachians and wild weather on the eastern and southern fringes of the massive storm system claimed at least 15 lives . Alabama counted three weather-connected deaths ; Illinois , Missouri and Georgia two each arid South Dakota , Iowa , Indiana , Ohio , Tennessee and Michigan one apiece . The National Weather Service said at moon yesterday that blizzard warnings were up from eastern Illinois and Wisconsin to Vermont . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangerous storm . Tornadoes , high winds and snow swept the South and the Eastern seaboard . Hundreds of thousands of people were left without electricity , and many without heat , in the Middle West and Southeast . Floodwaters drove hundreds from their homes along the Gulf Coast and in New England . At least 13 persons were injured by - tornadoes and high winds in the Southeast . A 3-year-old child was missing in the debris of one Virginia community . Turnpikes Are Closed The Ohio Turnpike shut down along fts entire length and a section of the Pennsylvania Turnpike was closed . Almost 500 truckers were stranded at truck stops in Hamilton County , Iowa . Cleveland , Columbus , Akron , Cincinnati and Dayton , Ohio , were virtually paralyzed . Dozens of airports in the storm zone , including Detroit Metropolitan , Indianapolis and Columbus , were closed . Chicago 's O'Hare International Airport halted flights periodically . Governor Rhodes said that a " dire emergency " existed in Ohio . - " The problem now is fear that the elderly and senior citizens may be trapped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We 've got to see that these people get to city halls , armories and churches . " The storm blew down power lines end left an estimated 150,000 homes in Ohio without heat or electricity and temperatures near zero . . State officials said 2,000 to 5,000 Ohio National Guardsmen had been ordered out to aid in evacuations and to help rescue thousands of motorists stranded on Ohio 's highways and roads . The state Transportation Department said 60 percent of all state roads were closed and said a curfew might be imposed on driving on state roads . Workers Trapped in Plant About 2,000 workers at a General Motors Corp . plant in Defiance were snowbound in the plant , and 900 patients at the Massillon mental helaith hospital were evacuated because of a power failure . The entire city of Findlay in northwestern Ohio was without power and major disruptions were reported in Columbus , Fremont , Tiffin and Fostoria . The Indiana National Guard opened 35 armories to stranded people . Kentucky , which was just beginning to return to normal after last week 's - record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flooding that forced the Governor to request that the state be declared a disaster area . Winds gusting up to 65 miles an hour swieled two to four inches of new snow ' into drifts as high as six feet , reducing visibility and virtually paralyzing traffic in the state . In southeastern Kentucky , . rising rivers posed a threat of lowland flooding to several counties hit by severe floods last spring . At least three deaths were attributed to the blustery weather . Dozens of colleges in the Midwest called off all classes . Postal trucks were - unable to make their rounds in Grand Rapids and Benton Harbor , Mich . Gov . Alism G. Milliken of Michigan commandeered a National Guard truck to get to his office .                     