@@729985

txt The number of Pakistanis left homeless or landless by the December , war with India and now seeking Government relief has swollen to nearly 1.5 million , adding an enormous burden to the shattered economy . They are scattered in villages and living in spare rooms , lean . tos and animal sheds because the Government has no refugee facilities . About two-thirds receive weekly food rations from dwindling Government stocks ; the rest live off meager savings or relatives . No widespread hunger has been reported , nor have there been epidemics of smallpox and cholera , against which hundreds of thousands of them have been immunized . But the near-freezing nights on the Punjab plain and a lack of blankets have resulted in colds , bronchitis and pneumonia among nearly half the refugees examined at clinics set up at relief centers near Lahore . It will be a month before the weather improves . As India 's refugee problem declines and millions of Hindus and Bengalis return to their homes in Bangladesh , formerly East Pakistan , the western region is just beginning to assess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the war with the Bengali separatists the Government re- ; fused to acknowledge much , of ' a problem because to do so would he to acknowledge the dimensions of the military debacle . Now it has urgently requested food , medicine and other relief supplies from the United Nations , the Red Cross and other sources such as the United States . Pakistan 's fertile breadbasket region east of Lahore was hard hit by advancing Indian troops. ; In Sialkot District , the worst ; affected , a thousand square ; miles of farmland and 574 vil-1 lages  --  roughly half the district ? are under Indian occupation . When the fighting started early in December the villagers scattered . By last weekend nearly a million had registered at 200 relief centers in Punjab Province . Three hundred thousand more in the region are believed to have been affected and are expected to register as refugees . Several hundred thousand people have become refugees in the less populated regions of Jammu and Kashmir , to the north , and in Sind Province , to the south , where other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , assistant commissioner for relief in Punjab Province , said 832 villages were under Indian occupation or were in danger zones , requiring that they be surrounded li ? land mines and Pakistani troops . He said nearly half a million acres of standing crops , mostly wheat , had been lost . " Even if the Indians are forced to vacate our territory they will wait and harvest our crops first , " Mr. Ahmed Khan said . " They did it in the 1965 war . " The wheat , planted in October and November , will be ripe in May . Besides that crop , the refugee families ? most of whom owned land and were self-sufficient ? left stores a grain and many of their pos-1 sessions in their hastily vacated homes . International relief workers who made a recent survey estimate that 230,000 head of cattle , both work oxen and milk cows , were lost , along with 12,000 head of sheep . To compound the problem the Government does not have enough wheat in storage to feed even the unaffected population of Pakistan until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It has now asked for American wheat under the Food for Peace program , but so far Washington has not responded . Meanwhile , flour prices are rising steeply , generating unrest aimed at the Government of President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto . The refugee program in the Punjab is geared for a sixmonth operation , on the gamble that India will be forced to vacate occupied territories in that period . Planning beyond six months is virtually nonexistent , relief officers conceded , and they only shake their heads at the thought of a prolonged effort . After seven weeks people forced by the Government to house refugees are becoming uneasy . The problem is expected to grow in the coming weeks . The relief officials have been reluctant to assign refugees to work projects for fear that the pressure on India to pull out will he lessened . " If we put them to work around the country , " an official explained , " it will look like we can handle them and maybe India wo n't leave , We know how this pressure game works . Look how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refugees from Bangladesh . But we have not done this here . We do n't have any big camps for the world to see . But we have the problems just the same . "                     