@@729354

txt Mayor Kenneth A. Gibson warned today that this city was headed for a destructive racial and political confrontation over the 10-week-old teachers ' strike and appealed for a restoration of calm and reason . In a 500-word letter to the Board of Education and the Newark Teachers Union , the Mayor charged that " demagoguery has replaced conciliation " in efforts to end the walkout and contended that the original issues in the strike had been submerged in a welter of " emotional , inflammatory rhetoric . " The letter , Mr. Gibson 's strongest public statement to date on the strike , which has kept half of Newark 's 80,000 children out of school since Feb. 1 , urged both sides to reText of Mayor 's statement will be found on Page 44. sumo negotiations promptly . " Each of you must realize that the effort to achieve total victory can only result in a bitter and total loss , " it said . Meeting Is Proposed The Mayor asked represent . atives of the board and the union to meet with him next week to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tuesday night , when the board , by a 5-to-4 vote , rejected a twoyear contract proposal that had tentatively been agreed on by both sides . A spokesman for the teachers ' union said tonight that the letter from Mayor Gibson had not yet been received and that there would be no comment until it had . Jesse Jacob , president of the Board of Education , could not be reached for comment on the letter or on whether a meeting would be held . Two provisions of the rejected proposal  --  both in last year 's contract  --  have been the technical points of dispute . One called for binding arbitration to resolve grievances , the second would relieve teachers of nonprofessional tasks , such as hallway and cafeteria patrol . Both provisions arc demanded by the union , about a third of whose members are black , with the rest divided largely between Italians who live in Newark and Jewish teachers from outside the city . The provisions have been opposed by a black and Puerto Rican majority on the Board of Education and by a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would give teachers too much power in setting school policy and that nonprofessional duties are the " more human aspects " of a teacher 's job . Alluding to these issues in his letter today , Mr. Gibson elected last June as the first black mayor of a major Eastern ( city , declared : " The original points of contention  --  management prerogatives and the terms and conditions of employment of teachers ? have ceased to be the focus of discussion . " Accusing both sides of hay ing used inflammatory rhetoric , the Mayor said : " Demagoguery has replaced conciliation and the energies which could otherwise he channeled into productive service are being spent on activities destined to bring about a confrontation of the most destructive and undesirable nature . " About 60 per cent of Newark 's 380,000 people are black . About 10 per cent are Spanishspeaking . Mayor Gibson , contending that the strike had " developed into a grave and bitter crisis , " condemned " all tactics which are leading to division and polarization in our community " and said the rights of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who has sought to keep his lines of communication to both sides open throughout the strike despite pressure from blacks and whites , called the strike a " tragic contest for victory " with roots that predate the strike itself . " Inferior education in this city has been a fact of life for all for many years , " the Mayor declared . " Blacks , Spanishspeaking persons and whites have for too long been denied equal educational opportunity . " Asserting that relationships in the school system have been " horrendously marred by disputes and distrust , " he said that the strike was prolonging a system that " condemns our high school graduates to be functional illiterates and maintains our school dropout rate at 30 per cent . " " The reversal of the decline of education must be the goal of our efforts , " he added . Noting that only the board and the union could legally reach a contract agreement , Mayor Gibson urged the parties to " find the common ground of our individual interest and seek a basis for survival with respect for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is " for the resumption of education . " As a " first step , " Mr. Gibson asked that " each side and all citizens of Newark put an end to inflammatory statements so that we may proceed in an atmosphere of calm and reason . "                     