@@728843

txt Chancellor Willy Brandt appears to have defined the price he wants the Soviets to pay in Berlin to gain ratification of their newly signed treaty with West Germany . Mr. Brandt insists he will not ask the West German Parliament to ratify the Moscow-Bonn pact until the Soviets have improved the living conditions of isolated West Berliners . Klaus Schutz , Lord Mayor of West Berlin , now has disclosed what improvements Mr. Brandt appears to have in mind  --  and what counterconcessions he would make to the Soviets . A satisfactory Berlin settlement , Mr. Schutz declared , should contain the following elements : 1 . West Berliners must have the same right as West German citizens to travel to East Berlin and the ( East ) German Democratic Republic . As things now stand , West Berliners can cross the Berlin wall only in hardship cases involving relatives in East Germany . 2 . Land and water routes from West Germany to West Berlin , running across East German territory , must be free of interference . 3 . The Soviets and East Germans must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and legal systems of the Federal Republic and is represented in foreign relations by Bonn . The official Cornmunist view is that West Berlin , lying 110 miles inside East Germany , forms an independent political entity , with no links to the Federal Republic . Federal presence ' In return for such concessions , Mr. Schutz argues , Bonn might show willingness to dismantle what he called " demonstrative forms of the federal presence " in West Berlin . Such demonstrative forms the Mayor defined as Bundestag ( parliamentary ) sessions in West Berlin and meetings of the federal Cabinet there . He also questioned whether the federal President should continue to transact business in West Berlin . The bulk of federal civil servants now in West Berlin would remain there , Mr. Schutz stressed , because they administered the economic and legal links between Berlin and Bonn . The Lord Mayor was speaking for himself , in an interview with the nationally circulated Welt am Sonntag . But a spokesman for Mr. Brandt confirmed that the government had had prior knowledge of Mr. Schutz 's program and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then , are what Mr. Brandt apparently expects the Western ambassadors to exact from the Soviets , when their ambassadorial meetings resume in September . Powerless to negotiate Sovereignity in Berlin rests with the Big Four victor powers  --  the United States , Britain , France , and the Soviet Union . Mr. Brandt is powerless to negotiate directly with the Soviets on the future of the divided city . So far , in the series of ambassadorial talks which unfolded during the spring and summer , the Soviets showed little readiness to accede to what Bonn wants . This , however , was before the conclusion of the Soviet-West German political treaty , climaxed by Mr. Brandt 's presence in Moscow , cast relations between Bonn and Moscow in a new light . An allied diplomat confirmed that what Mr. Schutz had outlined was " not out of step " with improvements the American , British , and French Governments would like to see transpire in West Berlin . The next move is up to the Soviets , who seem to set great store by the treaty which Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aug. 12.                     