@@731244

txt The " Year of Europe ' is at last on . President Nixon is now planning to visit Brussels in the second half of April ? almost a year later than originally expected ? for a ceremony marking the 25th anniversary of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . But he does not plan to travel to any other European capital . At least that is what U.S. Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger told West German Chancellor Willy Brandt Monday during a visit in Bonn on the way home from his latest Middle East peacemaking mission . Dr. Kissinger met with the NATO council late Monday in Brussels . Kudos from NATO Monitor special correspondent Richard Neff cables from Brussels that Kissinger won large approval from the NATO allies for his peacemaking efforts in the Middle East . The Secretary of State briefed the NATO council in detail about what he was doing on his latest swing through the Mideast . Later Dr. Kissinger met with West German Foreign Minister Walter Scheel at the German Embassy here . Mr. Scheel , current president of the Common Market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the day to start consultations with 20 Arab nations on development of long-term European-Arab cooperation in energyt trade , economic development , and other fields . Dr. Kissinger apparently saw no conflict between this Common Market action and the decisions of the larger 13-nation oil users conference held last month in Washington under American leadership . He told his // *Nixon Europe trip on again  --  for NATO signing // press conference that the Washington meeting and actions stemming from it deal primarily with bilateral oil deals between consumer countries and producers . Signings planned During his visit to Brussels , President Nixon is expected to join the heads of government of the European NATO partners in signing an updated formalization of the tasks of the NATO alliance . Besides this new NATO declaration , Mr. Nixon is to sign together with the representatives of the European Community a document outlining the relations between the Nine and the United States ? if the final working of this statement can be worked out by then . Dr. Kissinger gave these basic messages : 1 . West German-American relations are excellent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " we had difficulty finding problems . " Chancellor Brandt indicated that those politically responsible want the troublesome issue of offset payments settled by the end of this month . The last offset agreement , aimed at covering the balance-of-payments costs of keeping 229,000 American troops here , expired at the end of last June . 2 . The United States supports attempts to unify Western Europe . " We see European unity and Atlantic partnership as complementary and not as contrary , " remarked Dr. Kissinger . This comment clearly allied the U.S. and West Germany in opposition to the French view that the two are somewhat incompatible ? that partnership leads to American domination . Germany has no choice During 40 minutes of speaking alone with Dr. Kissinger , the Chancellor explained that West Germany could not make a choice between France and the United States . It needs al-liance and cooperation with both . In issues of defense , West Germany would join with the U.S. , the Chancellor reportedly told Dr. Kissinger . In other matters , say regarding the French-German friendship treaty , West Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on , the U.S. should not regard any pro-French policies of West Germany as an impairment to the Federal Republic 's basic friendship with the U.S. 3 . Chancellor Brandt ' outlined for Dr. Kissinger the plan ( announced Monday in Brussels ) of the European Nine jointly to broaden their industrial and economic cooperation with the Middle East nations .                     