@@733011

txt The United States International Trade Commission recommended yesterday that President Carter impose a new tariff on imported color television sets that would raise the average price of a foreign-made set by $56 . At the same time , the commission also recommended in Washington that the President slash by a third the seven ' million tons of foreign sugar allowed to enter the country from the world market , where prices are below American production costs . The two recommendations were intended to protect American manufacturers of TV sets and sugar growers from what the commission found to be damaging foreign competition and thus preserve American jobs at a time of high unemployment . 60 Days in Which to Act But the commission 's recommendations also create a dilemma for President Carter , who has 60 days in which to accept , reject or modify them in the knowledge that Congress can overrule a rejection by a majority vote . For , besides raising domestic prices at a time when many economists are worried about renewed inflation , the commission 's call for new import curbs risks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such trade restrictions could also cut into the growth of international trade and damage the world 's hopes of recovery from the economic recession . President Carter has until April 9 to rule on an earlier commission call for new restrictions on imports of foreign shoes and footwear . Manufacturer Welcomes Step Yesterday 's commission findings on television imports were welcomed by John J. Nevin , chairman and president of the Zenith Radio Corporation , the nation 's largest TV manufacturer , who spoke of " unfair and unlawful conmetitton by foreign producers . Agriculture Secretary Bob Bergland is a supporter of a reduction in the United States sugar import quota and new subsidies for domestic growers whose production costs are about 1 1 cents a pound higher than the world market price levels . Although sugar imports , at 4.5 million tons last year , were well within the quota , they are expected to rise further to about 4.8 million tons this year , and Mr. Bergland has warned that some American growers will be forced out of business . However , Lloyd Hackler , president of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Carter that increased TV tariffs would be " yet another protectionist move at great cost to the American consumer and the retail industry . " If the President Imposes higher tariffs , Mr. Heckler warned that " consumers who are already facing the highest prices in history will face even higher prices . " Privately , trade officials expressed dismay at the commission 's findings on TV sets and sugar , which come only six weeks before President Carter holds his first economic summit meeting with other Western leaders in London , at which plans for further liberalizing world trade will be discussed. ? The general thrust of what these officials said was summed up by Harald B , Malmgren , former United States Special Trade Representative , who said , that the commission 's findings " risk contributing to a new mood of protectionism at a time when trade is the principal engine of economic recovery in the world . " The six commission members , finding increased imports were seriously damaging the domestic color TV industry , voted by 5 to 1 to recommend increasing the present 5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next two years , lowering it to 20 percent during the subsequent two years and to 10 percent in the fifth year . The commission also voted by 3 to 0 , to recommend an identical tariff increase on imported black and white sets , with three members not voting on this issue . According to a study published earlier by the Council on Wage and Price Stability , every 10 percent increase in the tariff on imported TV sets adds 5221 million to consumer prices and pushes up the cost of the average $308 color TV set by $28 . However , American TV makers argue that foreign producers , particularly in Japan and elsewhere in Asia , have increased their share of the United States color TV market of eight million sets a year from 22 percent in 1971 to 40 percent today . They assert that foreign producers now supply about 75 percent of the 10 million black and white sets sold annually and that in the United States TV industry as a whole 19,000 jobs have been lost with another 65,000 jobs threatened . Moreover , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase tariffs on imported sets , including a suit against the Treasury by Zenith and another , separate complaint to the trade commission about unfair trading practices . On sugar , the six-member commission voted unanimously to reduce the present import quota of 7 million tons to something less than 4.5 million tons , but could not agree on the precise level or its duration . Three commissioners wanted a quota of 4.275 million tons for five years , two wanted a three-year quota of 4.4 million , and one member , the chairman , Daniel Minchew , recommended a five-year quota of 4.4 million tons .                     