@@729686

txt The Foreign Office today told the Soviet Embassy that 90 members of its staff of 550 here must leave Britain within two weeks because they are suspected of " being concerned in intelligence activities . " A statement said British suspicions were confirmed by a newly defected Russian identified as an official of the KGB , the Soviet secret police . The Russian , who has reportedly been in Britain for several weeks , asked for and was granted political asylum . The Foreign Office said 15 officials of Soviet trade organizations in London now out of the country will not be permitted to reenter . The expulsion orders were given today to the Soviet charge d'affaires in London , Ivan Ippolitov . He was summoned to the Foreign Office and was given the orders on instructions from Foreign Secretary Sir Alec Douglas-Home . Informed sources also said British intelligence officers were in contact with the United States Central Intelligence Agency . They said this indicated the defector may have information affecting the U. S. Restrictions Placed on Total The Foreign Office said the number of Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pegged at the present depleted figure of 445 . There are 78 British officials stationed in Moscow , including 90 diplomats . British commercial representatives and technicians in the Soviet Union currently number over 400 , together with their dependents . In addition , about 20 students are studying at Soviet universities . In another tough move , the department said any Russian official who in the future is ordered out of Britain for intelligence activities will not be replaced . The number of Soviet officials in Britain and the proportion of them engaged in intelligence work has been causing grave concern for some time , the statement said . " The size of the Soviet Embassy was limited in November , 1968 , but the numbers in other categories have continued to grow . The total of 550 is higher than the comparable figure for Soviet officials appointed to any other Western country , including the United States . " The statement noted that several Russian officials have been ordered out of Britain in the last year for intelligence activities . It said others had left the country for good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have applied for visas to work in Britain have had their applications vetoed because they were known to be Soviet intelligence officers . Reveal Activities of Defector " This man , an officer of the KGB , brought with him certain information and documents , including plans for infiltration of agents for the purpose of sabotage , " the statement said . British sources said the Soviet defector was the No. 2 KGB man in this country , with considerable knowledge of Soviet espionage activities . They said the defector was under guard by British intelligence officers at a hideaway , probably in the countryside around London . The statement said Soviet espionage in Britain has involved military and commercial secrets , including information on the Concorde supersonic airliner , computer circuits and electronics . The expulsions drew no immediate comment from Soviet news organizations . The Russians have retaliated in the past by ousting representatives of the countries initiating the actions . In the last 11 months , the statement revealed , Home has made three approaches to the Russian foreign minister , Andrei Gromyko , about suspected activities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was in London for an official visit last October . At Gromyko 's request Home wrote him a personal letter on Dec. 3 . No reply or acknowledgment was received from Moscow , so another letter was sent on Aug. 4 . Again no acknowledgment was forthcoming . " During all this time , " the Foreign Office said , " Soviet officials have continued to engage in espionage against this country on an undiminished scale . Her Majesty 's government has thus had no alternative but to take the action announced today . " The statement said Britain hoped the Soviet Union would realize that it was still government policy to improve AngloSoviet relations . Home is scheduled to visit Moscow early next year .                     