@@734019

txt Letters DONALD E. NUECHTERLEINARTHUR BODENHEIMERELIZABETH WHITEHEADHY GROBERWILLIAM J .. , pg . 18 Letters Foreign Policy and the National Interest To the Editor : Recent letters to the editor by Max Spector , M.J. Peterson and James Lazerow raise anew the question which has divided scholars since Hans Morgenthau published " In Defense of the National Interest " a quarter century ago : Is there a predetermined national interest which ought to guide policy makers in the formulation of foreign policy ? Or is the national interest the result of a political process in which competing views are weighed and a decision is ultimately made about- what goals the United States should strive for in its external environment ? I share Professor Peterson 's view that " national interest is whatever a government and a people decide it will be . " But leaving it there does not provide policy makers with any tools to analyze the range of interests ( stake ) which the United States , and all major powers , have in dealing with the world . Traditionally , scholars and policy makers could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's economic well-being and creation of a favorable world order.were basic naTo the Editor : The Feb. 1 letter by C. Joseph Stetler , president of the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association , is a sperm cious collection of weak points in favor of brand-name pharmaceuticals versus generics . None of his arguments will impress the patient with a low-ebb pocketbook who looks to those generic prepartions which conform in quality and efficacy to U.S.P. United States Pharmacopeia ) standards . The sole reality which must impress every fair-minded consumer regardless of his economic standing is the brand manufacturer 's right to be adequately compensated for his years of costly research . It 's not for me to say whether development costs should be applied against the manufacturer 's total gross profits or should be charged against the specific drug thus evolved . The manufacturer has a right to recover his expenses while his uniqueness of product ( i.e. his patent ) still prevails . But once in the public domain or generic or licensed to other manufacturers , a pharmaceutical product ? as A Woman 's Choice To the Editor : In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fathers , " Jerome Davison proposes a " return to the age-old morality that demands that the father take responsibility for the mother and child . " How does Mr. Davison propose a woman gain this support  --  paternity suits and shotgun marriages ? Women have learned that they can not depend on the support of men , be it political or financial . A woman must have the power to make decisions which are amenable to her own life . This includes the right to choose abortion , and to have that abortion funded if she can not pay for it herself . Without this control over her life , control without dependency on a man for financial support , the word " equality " is meaningless . ELIZABETH WHITEHEAD New York , Feb. 4 , 1979 Rearguard Action To the Editor : Alas and alack ; I grieve and wring my hands ; I shake my head in disbelief . In your lead editorial of Jan. 30 you say " raring to go . " No , no , a thousand times no ! Say anything , but say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ test the readership , or whatever comes to mind , but please say you always knew it was " rearing to go , " derived from a skittish horse who rears on his hind legs for whatever personal reasons he has to be off and rearin ' to no . Woe is me . HY GRoBER Teaneck , N.J. , Jan. 30 , 1979 To the Editor : Much of the recent publicity about the efforts of handicapped people to secure accessible public transportation dwells on the cost of rehabilitating currently inaccessible buses and subways or purchasing newly designed vehicles without describing their benefits to society . Opponents of mandated accessibility try to make the claims of handicapped people seem meaningless and unrealistic compared with the " practical " calculations of transit companies . In fact , the economic benefits of accessible buses and subways far outweigh the costs because they extend not only to wheelchair users but also to older people , parents with small children , pregnant women and people with broken legs . For example , the Urban Mass Transportation Administration has determined that the accessible bus known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be worth the investment of Federal transportation funds because the Federal Government will save millions of S.S.I. and other disability payments as many recipients of such payments become working taxpayers . Opponents of expenditures for accessible transportation belittle the aspirations of handicapped people to come and go like anyone else ; this view undoubtedly comes from stereotyped attitudes about handicapped tional interests of most countries . But what about a nation 's value system ? Should the Soviet Union 's desire to spread Marxism-Leninism throughout the world be considered part of its national interest , or separate and distinct ? Was Wilsonian idealism about a League of Nations keeping the peace a part of the United States ' national interest or an aberration ? opposed to a luxury item ? must be within the economic reach of every citizen . Of course , everyone knows the reason for price differential of one and the same drug from one retailer to another . The small , independent pharmacist who must buy one vial at a time can not possibly compete against the co-op or chain establishment , whose common buying office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem is in sight : More and more independents are joining cooperatives . The problem is manifold and complex . Nothing will be resolved overnight . But the brand-name manufacturers must first become more realistic in their efforts to " sell " the public . They must acknowledge that illness ? the need for drugs ? cuts across economic strata , geography , language barriers and education . Hence , they must concentrate their arguments and P.R . on those points which are intelligible to all , and with which everyone can identify . ARTHUR BODENHEIMER River Edge , N.J. , Feb. 1 , 1979 The Executioners To the Editor : Who says New York does not have capital punishment ? We never lost it . Of course , it changed from a responsible legal administration of the death penalty to the do-it-yourself category . Now a frightened storekeeper packs a weapon under the counter , a policeman decides in milliseconds whether to kill or be killed , a crime victim may be lucky enough to seize the criminal 's weapon and do what our sophisticated legal system considers too barbaric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . You say capital punishment does n't stop murder or forcible rape ? Try to convince ( if you could reach ) the second and subsequent murder victim or the second and subsequent rape victim . JOHN D. MEEItAN Rockville Centre , N.Y. , Jan. 31 , 1979 To the Editor : In his otherwise excellent recent article about the consequences of cutting " frills , " Fred Hechinger is grossly unfair to those of us who stumble along in our mediocrity when he allies himself with School Chancellor Macchiarola 's statement that " school systems could do a far better job of teaching if they stopped condoning mediocrity among administrators and teachers . " Here we are , the masses , the overwhelming ? occasionally known as " silent " ? majority striving mightily for mediocrity . Our simple motto embedded on a slateboard gray : " Neither people , reinforced by nearly total separation from them . However , many of the same people would surely claim to support the recent advances in the rights of other groups to participate freely in all the affairs of society . Handicapped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ JANET ZALEON Long Island City , N.Y. , Jan. 31 , 1979 The writers are , respectively , executive director and an advocate of Advocates for Children , Inc . It seems to me that ideology ( a nation 's value system ) is part of its national interest , a driving force behind its foreign policy , even though it may not always be given the same support as defense , economic and world-order interests . President Carter 's emphasis on human rights in foreign policy is not an infringement on the U.S. national interest , as Morgenthau and Kerman and others would argue : It is a reiteration of the fact that the United States has always stood for something more than power in the world arena , even though this aspect of U.S. interests has been largely submerged for the past 30 years . Recent events in Iran should remind us again of the powerful role that religion plays in determining the national interests of some states . Is it not time that American scholars and policy makers accept the notion that national value systems , or ideology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? DONALD E. NUECHTERLEIN Professor of International Affairs Federal Executive Institute Charlottesville , Va. , Feb. 1 , 1979 Those Killer Ads To the Editor : In two editorials nearly three years apart , your condemnation of cigarettesmoking was impressive . The first appeared on Feb. 20 , 1976 , ( " Nails for Female Coffins " ) in which you deplored the increases in " lung , bronchial and other cancers associated with cigarette smoking " and called the statistics on smoking " dismaying . " The second was your lead editorial of last Jan. 12 , " Those Killer Cigarettes , " in which you refer to the " danger " of smoking , and express no surprise at Secretary Califano 's conclusion that smoking is far more dangerous than was supposed in 1964 . You state that " the weeds are killing more than 350,000 Americans each year " and pose the question , " How can the nation break its cigarette habit ? " In view of your stated dismay and concern , I find it singularly curious that paid cigarette advertising appeared in both of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I offer a suggestion . Perhaps one way to help solve the problem would be for The Times to end its double standard and discontinue all advertising of such potential killers . Some other publications took this advanced step as long as 15 years ago . JOSIAH B. WAY Stanton , N.J. , Jan. 31 , 1979 To Foil Graffiti Artists To the Editor : One way to clean up the graffiti mess in the subways might be to sell more advertising , both inside and outside the cars . Graffiti artists tend to regard advertising posters as sacrosanct , or the posters ' impermanence gives them less appeal as a surface for the art work . Taking up more and more of potential graffiti areas with advertising posters seems the lesser of two evils and might even bring in much-needed revenue . PAUL R. GREEN Westport , Conn. , Jan. 31 , 1979 into a pothole step , nor over a manhole cover stumble , " and along come Hechinger and Macchia rola wanting us to be " successful . " Unfair ! If mediocrity is good enough for automobile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called back and who are still considered the backbone of our nation ; if mediocrity is good enough for the steel industry which ca n't compete against imports ; if mediocrity is good enough for Big Business which wants to be subsidized and tariff-protected and receive a tax deduction for a three-martini lunch ; if mediocrity is good enough for most of our hospitals and most of our politicians and most of New York 's sports teams ? why , by golly , being average , being ordinary , being plain downhome mediocre should be good enough for teachers and administrators . After all , who but a mediocrity would tolerate for so long the increasing physical violence of those supposed to be educated and the verbal violence of those who should know better ? Besides , that great mediocrity Senator Hruska from Nebraska thought a mediocre Supreme Court justice was just what America 's mediocre masses needed . So c'm on , fellas . Be fair to us common folk . Give mediocrity a chance . WILLIAM J. HUNTER Brooklyn , Feb. 3 , 1979      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      