@@734142

txt LAS VEGAS , Nev. ? Barley Roberts , a welder , and William Nunamaker , a truck driver , were working on the Nevada testing ground one morning nine years ago when a nuclear bomb codenamed Baneberry exploded beneath the surface a few miles away . Four years later , they were both dead of leukemia . Their widows are in a Las Vegas courtroom this week trying to prove that their deaths were caused by Baneberry  --  the worst atomic testing acWhen the bomb buried 910 feet underground exploded , It tore a hole in the surface above . A RADIOACTIVE cloud ' escaped and drifter 3.5 miles away to where Roberts , Nunamaker , and 81 other workers were standing . Mrs. Roberts and Mrs. Nnuacident qwq In the Baneberry trial , Judge Roger Foley of United States District Court finds himself in much the same position as the American people on the question of radiation . . As the judge in a federal claims case such as this where there is no jury , he has listened for days to experts who assure him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He will soon hear other experts who will warn that people can die from low levels of radiation . EVENTUALLY , JUDGE Foley must decide whether the risks of low-level radiation  --  in this case , atomic fallout ? are greater than the government and some scientists have been claiming since the dawn of the atomic age . In the last two weeks , lawyers from // Two Tribune reporters have spent the last month In the West , where the effects of radioactive fallout from more than 25 years ago still are being felt . This is the last article in a series examining how the West has been used as a dump for radioactive wastes and for testing exotic weapons of war . Widows sue for compensation ES . watches court case over A-test accident // the Department of Energy  --  the agency that enveloped the old Atomic Energy Commission in 1976 ? have argued that the radiation dumped on those workers nine years ago was not enough to cause health problems . The DOE has called on experts from the Harvard Medical School , Brookhaven National Laboratory , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radiological institutions . The department has offered to produce a total of 54 witnesses to say that the two leukemias were not related to Baneberry . In the coming weeks , lawyers for the two widows are expected to produce a similarly-impressive list of specialists to testify that the odds are overwhelmingly against two of 86 workers contracting leukemia under normal conditions . STATISTICALLY , THERE is one case of leukemia per 100,000 people a year , and the defense scientists are expected to link tile deaths of Roberts and Nunamaker to the 1970 nuclear accident . If the widows can make that link to Judge Foley 's satisfaction , it could be a landmark case , energy specialists believe . It would establish a legal connection hetueen a low level of radiation and a form of cancer  --  a connection that has been difficult to establish in court because it takes so long between exposure and detection of the disease . The case could help close the door on nuclear energy  --  an option that already seemed less encouraging to many people this week as plans were laid for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And it could pave the way for hundreds of other court cases by those who lived under radioactive clouds in the 1950s and 1960s and who believe those clouds caused cancer in themselves or their relatives . IN SHORT , while the East concentrates on one recent incident , the West has lived with radiation for years . The massive corridor between the Great Plains and the Sierra Nevadas has been like one huge nuclear laboratory for almost three decades . At latest count , 547 claims have been filed against the Department of Energy charging that the atmospheric atomic bomb tests have caused cancers in Nevada , Utah , and Arizona . During those tests , which were conducted above ground from 1951 to 1962 , the Atomic Energy Commission officials repeatedly assured residents that they were safe if they took certain precautions such as staying indoors as much as possible on test days . Once-secret documents , released last month by Secretary of the Department of Health , Education and Welfare Joseph Califano , provide these petitioners with powerful information about how the fallout may not have been as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for example , that scientists were beginning to worry about excessive leukemias and thyroid problems in the fallout areas in the late 1950s and early 1960s . As The Tribune has shown in this series , residents were bitter about being used as " guinea pigs " by those conducting nuclear tests and other experiments at Dugway Proving Grounds near Salt Lake City . They complained that their health and safety was being jeopardized for the sake of national security . They also complained that they were unaware that they were expendable , " as one Utah resident put it . DOE officials interviewed by The Tribune during this investigation of the fallout situation reminded reporters that the 1950s was the time of the Cold War when politicians felt we were in a nuclear weapons race with the Soviet Union . Scientists , living in that climate of fear , were prone to minimize hazards of radiation , the DOE officials said . THE FIRST government standards for civilian exposure to radiation were no more than five roentgens per year . Today , , using a more sophisticated measurement for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , or less than 0.5 rems per year . The 1950s was a naive time by today 's standards . Army strategists , preparing troops for thermonuclear combat , shipped training units to the atomic test site where they dug foxholes near ground zero and waited for the blast . In one Army film , a man wearing a chaplain 's helmet stiffly recited the reasons a nervous soldier should love the bomb . The chaplain described a huge fireball of many colors that " ascends into the heavens . ... It is a wonderful sight to behold , " he told the grim recruit . Now , almost 30 years later , government scientists have become more sophisticated and citizens have become less trustful of both their science and their government . SUDDENLY , NATIONAL leaders talk about how the Arab oil potentates have a stranglehold on the American economy . Presidents proclaim an energy crisis ; and the nation is told that its hope for unlimited power probably rests with a nuclear power program . But the accident at the reactor near Harrisburg may have caused further doubts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Energy Secretary James Schlesinger said early in the Harrisburg case , the government believes that Harrisburg is an exception . The hope is that nuclear energy plants may provide the answer to our future energy needs . Still , there is another stumbling block for nuclear power beyond Harrisburg ? what to do with the nuclear wastes . Until recently , the plan had been to take those wastes from the populated states where the plants are located to the wide open spaces and the great outdoors . That means that once again the Western states are in danger of becoming the dumping ground for the nation 's latest technological hazard . TIIIS TIME , HOWEVER , leaders from the West are resisting . Rep. Morris K. Udall D. , Ariz. whose constituents in tiny Fredonia were doused with fallout for more than a decade , said his people do not want the nuclear plant wastes . He suggested that some other state might agree to the dangers if the people were offered an incentive . " A community might say , ' We would like our real estate taxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested . " It might even be a community contest as a tourist attraction  --  the only place that is going to glow in the dark for the next 200,000 years . " THE FALLOUT IS not the only reason the West is leery of the East 's atomic garbage . The West still has to clean up 125 million tons of radioactive leftovers from uranium and radium mines . Radioactive tailings , hot sands left to hlnw in filo ringart winds after mills have extracted the ore for atomic bombs and nuclear reactors , still sit in 21 locations throughout the western U.S. Gov . Thompson of Illinois , meeting with fellow governors in February on the issue of nuclear wastes , said he believed that the West 's experience with tailings plays a big role in the problem of getting the public to accept nuclear wastes . Thompson told his colleagues that " local people feel that they ought to have a voice " in any future contaminations of their communities . " WE IN ILLINOIS are right on the hot seat in this debate , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other state in the nation . " President Carter , a nuclear engineer and protege of the Navy 's most vocal nuclear advocate , Adm . Hyman Rickover , is trying to resolve the fear and uncertainty about nuclear power by ordering a complete re-evaluation of the dangers of nuclear materials including fallout , power plants , and X-rays . In order to give the study credibility , HEW Secretary Califano released 3,500 pages of unpublished documents that journalists and scientists have been trying to get a look at for years . Centeno said the documents were part of the increasing amount of information that " raises questions " about whether even small amounts of radiation can be deadly . CALIFANO CITED studies of nuclear workers at an atom bomb factory in Hanford , Wash. ; St. George , Utah , residents exposed to fallout ; and New Yorkers exposed to X-rays . " Although none of these studies is conclusive , they do " Califano said . He added the new HEW studies also show that " the latency period for cancers induced by low-level radiation is long  --  as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to determine the risks of lowdose radiation can require systematic follow-up of large numbers of subjects over long periods of time . " Therefore , the secretary said , " Definitive answers are not likely to be available soon . " What will happen if the White Housedirected study finds that the price of nuclear technology is a certain number of extra deaths each year from cancers ? " AS WE TAKE STEPS to ascertain more precisely the risks for very low levels of radiation exposure , we must also remember the benefits society derives from the use of radiation , " Califano said . " The government must explain fully the scientific basis for its policies and be ready to re-evaluate them as new information be c o me s available , ' he added . Schlesinger assured Western governors at February 's meeting that nuclear waste from all nuclear plants in the country until the year 2000 could be stored in an area the size of a football field . Gov . Robert List of Nevada , who wants to make certain that field does n't land in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs a football field , " Why not put it in Washington 's Robert F. Kennedy Stadium ? " a 7.1 in ? P.m Av Mirh/101 Western states are resisting approaches by Midwestern and Eastern utilities needing a place to store radioactive wastes from atomic power plants . In Illinois ; General Electric has a nuclear-fuel storage facility in Downstate Morris . Plant manager Eugene Voiland shows a container in which spent fuel rads are placed before being lowered into a vast pool ( below ) , where 310 tons of spent fuel are now stored . At right , a load of spent fuel is hoisted from a trailer inside the plant .                     