@@732809

txt Some Japanese celebrated the 50th anniversary of Emperor Hirohito 's reign today . Others did not , and some even protested . The feelings behind those attitudes mark some deep changes in the affluent Land of the Rising Sun half a century after a young marl was allowed to grow his first mustache , was permitted to marry and then ascended the throne of his father on Dec. 25 , 1926 . It has been the longest reign of any Japanese emperor ' in recorded history . During Hirohito 's reign , Japan became the pre-eminent military power in Asia , launched World War II in the , PlicIfic , became , the only nation to experience atomic bombing , suffered its first military defeat and occupation and rose from the ashes of fire-bombings to build the second most powerful economy in the non-Communist world . " Today , " the Emperor said today in a rare public reflective moment before his 111 million countrymen , " as I look back over the past 50 years , I recall many joys and sorrows . Above all things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having overcome national crises and ordeals , have become what we are today . " However , when I think of the many victims and their families of the last war and as I still see the scars of that conflict , my heart is filled with great sorrow . " Then , in an unusual warning , he said : " I believe that we should not be blinded by the prosperity of the moment . The world changes second by second and our . country will have to deal with many problems in the future . " He did not elaborate . He spoke , standing , before 7,500 Gov- ernment officials , diplomats and other guests , also standing , at a modest Government-sponsored anniversary celebration in the Japan Martial Arts Hall , an auditorium near his palace , that was the scene of the boxing-wrestling match between Muhammad Ali and Antonio Inoki last summer . At the 60-minute ceremony a series of dignitaries praised and congratulated the Emperor , an orchestra played , a children 's chorus sang and Prime Minister Takeo Miki , who is approaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three shouts of " banzai ! " 6,000 Join in Protest Rallies The Government and many schools closed down for half a day to mark the anniversary of the Emperor , who , under the postwar Constitution , has no governmental powers and is only the symbol of the state . But outside the hall stood another kind of symbol . Ten thousand riot policemen with helmets , sticks and shields stood guard against violence by leftists protesting against the institution of the monarchy . Twenty thousand armed policemen were on duty elsewhere throughout the nation . More than 6,000 protesters . joined in various rallies in Tokyo . At least 12 were arrested in brief scuffles , but there were several long parades by protesters in which there were no major incidents . Communist members of Parliament and many Socialists boycotted the celebrations . They hold the Emperor responsible for Japan 's participation in World War II , which in Japanese is called the " Pacific War . " Monarch as a Human Deity Few of Japan 's 124 emperors have held the real reins of power . Most Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new heights as a " human deity " in the interests of their political goals . An older generation of Japanese remember the Emperor 's photograph in its special case at school , and how , if there was a fire , saving the photograph was more important than seeing the youngsters to safety . Kazuko Ishibashi tan remember being scolded by her uncle for tossing to the floor a newspaper that had the Emperor 's picture in it . To this day Japanese calendars carry the date not of the Christian-era year but of the year of the Emperor 's reign . Sixty-two-year-old Takeo Fujikura still thinks of his old army rifle as the Emperor 's property . It was not until the war 's end , when Japan 's sovereign broadcast the surrender statement , that Mr. Fujikura discovered that the Emperor spoke Japanese . Bowing to the Palace No average citizens had ever heard him Speak before . They remember how Tokyo streetcar conductors would announce that the car was approaching the front gates of the palace , and how every rider would rise , face the palace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the war who hold the Emperor and his wife , Empress Nagako , in the highest respect and affection . This interest in the imperial family prompted mag zines for women here to chronicle the flmily 's doings as closely and frequently as American publications for women cover Jacqueline Onassis or Elizabeth Taylor . " Thanks to Crown Prince Akihito 's three children , we do n't have to worry over having nothing to write about , " said Takehiro Hirano , editor of My Woman , a weekly . His Age Shows , and Is Felt - For many other Japanese , most of them Young , the Emperor seems less relevant today . " When I hear him speak , ' said Reiko Tsuzuki , a 23-year-old Tokyo secretary , " he sounds a little dumb or like a robot . Also , I am worried about his age . " Hirohito is 75 . , The Emperor 's health appears to be good , but he walks slowly and approaches steps with great caution . At today 's ceremony some exchanged glances of concern when , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's chorus , the bespectacled Emperor alone turned the other way to watch the wrong balcony . ? His isolation , by the Imperial Household ggency , also arouses concern . " We Japanese have no access to him yet , " said Yasuko Ikeda , a 20-year-old student , " even thcugh he actually talked to the townspeople of Williamsburg on his U.S. Visit last year . " - Still , there are few here who would abolish altogether the institution of the Emperor . In a country where fathers are Itighly respected , they still see him as a kind of national father figure . " The emperor system , " said Miss Ikeda , " has been the ground cn which all Japanese have lived . "                     