@@734127

txt Letters LOUIS JOUGHINDAVID E. LI-LIENTHALWINNIE RICFILYA LEVINLEONARD S. HIRSCHHOWARD ... Letters Three Mile Island and the American System To the Editor : The nuclear reactor problem at Three Mile Island will not be fully understood , much less solved , for some time . But this event , even at its first appearance , raises serious questions about the intelligence and moral responsibility of the scientists involved , the administrative regulators and the leadership of the executive and legislative branches of government , and ? not least ? about the health of the American democracy . At least three challenges are inescapable : ? Prior to the reactor malfunction , with full knowledge available of the potential for failure in this and other installations , authorities gave no explicit , dispassionate , official description of the nature of these instruments to the public . Everyone had to depend on chance acquaintance with various levels of journalistic exploration . ? Both before and after the malfunction , with insane consistency , a variety of ridiculous statements of probability were offered as indicators of the range of danger . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong likelihood , " " maybe one death from cancer . " Any high school student with the most elementary introduction to the mathematics of probability , patterns of random chance , or mere first steps in computer programming , knows that To the Editor : The decision of the U.S. Ambassador to Moscow , Malcolm Toon , to call the Soviet police to the embassy grounds to forcibly remove a Soviet citizen is dishonorable beyond words . It is only a few years ago that a Soviet seaman , Simas Kudirka , who sought political asylum on an American ship , was returned by the captain of the ship to the Soviets to be brutally beaten and subsequently sentenced to 10 years of forced labor . The action of the American captain was , as we know , justly condemned by the American public ? but evidently it is none of Mr. Toon 's concern . According to Mr. Toon , his decision to call the Soviet police was caused by the fact that the seaman , who came there seeking protection from the Soviets and help in emigrating , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a threat to embassy personnel . If all that Ambassador Toon wanted to do was render the man harmless , why on earth did n't he ask the marines stationed at the embassy to disarm him ? I have a strong reason to believe that the Soviet seaman , who came to the embassy not to assassinate American diplomats but to ask them for help , would have gladly done so had he only been promised the protection he sought and needed . The desperate decision of the seaman to come straight to the embassy in his desire to leave Russia was motiTo the Editor : Aware of the effects of inflation on homeowners , Congress last year changed the tax structure to give a homeowner a one-time exemption of $100,000 on capital gains in the sale of his principal residence . Such relief was long overdue . However , for some arcane reason , Congress chose to restrict the exemption to those at least 55 years of age . Since this is a once-in-a-lifetime exemption , there should be no age restriction whatsoever . The homeowner should be able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ homeowners are subject to such phrases have no meaning or use and are , as science , lies . ? Although some nuclear experts are conducting themselves as scientists and practicing professional selfdiscipline , others appear to be assuming a totally uncertified competence for social decisions , public administration and executive responsibilities . As for the regulators , some appear to draw no line between their assigned duties and the decisions which , under the American system , should be made by elected authority . And at the level of policy decisions , some of our executive and legislative leaders have distinguished themselves at best by silence and at worst by sentimentality . The ultimately responsible body , the general public , has been essentially voiceless ; we have remanded evaluation to the obviously incompetent crew now in charge , or to the protestors ? " clamshell " groups , pickets and so forth ? whose principled indignation is , unfortunately , not accompanied by any sense of constructive criticism . A void of needed basic information , the dishing out of tubfuls of twaddle , morally reprehensive confusion , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands by two hundred million of us ? all of this does not add up to the picture of a sound culture , an effective educa vale ( ' by the strong trust in the U.S. and Americans that Russians have , despite all the Soviet propaganda ? the trust that Ambassador Toon has done his best to kill . Ambassador Toon may now be satisfied knowing that the Soviet police , if they want to , may use tear gas and gunfire right at the embassy . Evidently the Soviet police are also satisfied with tl  --  a arrangement . The question is : Will American public opinion be satisfied with it ? ILYA LEVIN Austin , Tex. , March 29 , 1979 The writer is a former member of Amnesty International 's Soviet Section . the ravages of inflation . One would suspect that this was an arbitrary , capricious selection of an age requirement ? almost like picking a number out of a hat . Congress and the courts have made great strides in eliminating all kinds of discrimination , including discrimination based on sex and age . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ younger taxpayers . This onerous restriction should be removed in the present session of Congress . LEONARD S. HIRSCH New York , March 30 , 1979 tional process or a strong nation . The Three Mile Island threat will eventually end , in some way . A greater problem will remain . To what present manner of life , and to what eventual place in history , is the United States being led by the plainly discernible practice of evasion and intellectual dishonesty in the scientific community , and through the dispensing of the offerings of a valueless system of public relations burps by some of our executive and legislative managers ' ) And the worst question of all : Does the democratic ideology of the United States , and its operational machinery , now confront a failure of such dimensions as to constitute a prophecy of an eventual need for radical surgery ? LOUIS JOUGHIN Cambridge , Mass. , April 2 , 1979 To the Editor : Ever since I left the chairmanship of the Atomic Energy Commission , and even before , I have been speaking out about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electricity , but I find no satisfaction whatsoever in observing that the malfunctioning of the Three Mile Island reactor tends to confirm those warnings . Yet there is an affirmative and hopeful side to this current , grave anxiety , for at long last it is now recognized that the country must give top and sustained priority to overcoming these hazards , by marshaling , for the first time in more than 30 years , the cream of our unparalleled scientific , technical and managerial crop to make the atomic resource truly safe The country 's energy choices are far too limited simply to write off the atom . This is not the end of the atom story , but it is and must be the beginning ? the beginning of a new , better and safer nuclear technology . DAVID E. LI  --  LIENTHAL New York , April 3. 1979 ? To the Editor : In May , my daughter is going to jail Her crime : peacefully protesting , in May 1977 , the building of the nuclear plant at Seabrook , N.H. Her courage , her vision , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lesson of Harrisburg , her numbers will increase ? until this country fairly faces the dangers inherent in nuclear Dower nlants WINNIE Ricr Croton-on-Hudson , N.Y. , April 1 , 1979 Save The Progressive To the Editor : The admirable comment " Censors at Work " editorial March 291 omits one particularly unfortunate aspect of the Government 's  --  and t lie court 's ? actions in The Progressive case Unlike some other minority or dissenting periodicals , there is no " angel " or owner with tax advantages behind The Progressive . And obviously the magazine does not have the resources of the average ( surviving ) big-city daily or the profit-swollen electronic media . Its readers are called on periodically to supplement their subscriptions with an added mite . The costs of litigation are notoriously high , especially the loser 's side in an appeal . I can understand that your letters columns are not an appropriate place for fund-raising , even for the most meritorious of causes , but the special place of the First Amendment in our society may warrant pointing out that the price of fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by cost-attrition , of a very important and useful gadfly periodical . TOWARD N. MEYER New York , March 29 , 1979 A Soviet Seaman Who Wanted to Be Free Homeowners ' Tax Break Unfairly Restricted The Lesson That China Tried to Teach in Vietnam To the Editor : Prof. Alfred R. Rubin made two points in his reply ( March 20 ) to my letter of March 7 . Differing with your editorial of Feb. 28 , I had contended that the Chinese invasion of Vietnam was a legitimate act of collective selfdefense in response to Vietnam 's occupation of Cambodia . In response , Professor Rubin said first that Vietnam 's invasion of Cambodia might be considered permissible as humanitarian intervention , although he refused to defend that position himself . International law certainly should and may still accept humanitarian intervention in extreme cases where minimal standards of human decency have been violated . But a large majority of the Security Council voted to condemn both the Vietnamese invasion and the Indian invasion of Pakistan in 1972 , which Professor Rubin mentioned . Those votes hardly support the view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggestion . And I see no reason for international law to confine the right of humanitarian intervention , if it is ever re-established , to " neighboring states , " as Professor Rubin does . Such a rule would make powerful tyrannies , like Hitlente Germany , altogether immune . Professor Rubin 's second point is that China did not declare that the defense of Cambodia was one of its aims in " teaching Vietnam a lesson . " The issue is not critical , but in any event , Professor Rubin is in error . On Feb. 23 and 27 , Ambassador Chen Chu made it The Times welcomes letters from readers . Letters for publication must include the water 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters . clear that China 's action in Vietnam was far more than a response to alleged Vietnamese violations of its borders with China , that it was addressed to Vietnamese " aggression against and annexation of Cambodia , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And on Feb. 28 , the Chinese Government referred to the proposal for mutual withdrawal by Vietnam from Cambodia and by China from Vietnam as " a key to resolving the current tension in Southeast Asia . " Even so , Professor Rubin argues , China would have no legal right to help Cambodia unless Cambodia requested such help . This is a strange contention . It would mean that if a quick invasion wiped out the government of a nation , the nation itself would lose its inherent right to assistance from others , even if the world community did not recognize the conquest . International law is by no means so mechanical as Professor Rubin suggests . Like all law , it is derived from the nature of things ? in this case the nature of the international state system . Each state has the same interest in the stability and integrity of the system , based on the rules that no state violate the territorial integrity or political independence of any other state and that all states have the inherent rights of individual and collective self-defense . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view . I should contend , on the contrary , that the recent weakening of these rules as an influence on the behavior of states and the sharp rise in the number and gravity of aggressions constitute a movement not toward a new international law but toward the old nightmare of anarchy The " lesson " the Chinese were trying to teach in Vietnam , i believe , is that the international system can function in peace only if there is general and reciprocal respect for the rules of the Charter , backed by collective security . There is no other basis for peace . EUGENE V. RosTow Sterling Professor of Law Yale University New Haven , April 2 , 1979                     