@@734238

txt VIENNA ? Describing his trip as a " mission of peace , " President Carter flew into Vienna Thursday night for his first face-to-face encounter with Leonid Brezhnev and the formal signing Monday of the new Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty SALT Carter and his wife , Rosalynn , were greeted by Austrian President Rudolf Kirchschlager and Chancellor Bruno Kreisky as they stepped off Air Force One after a flight of more than eight hours from Washington . Soviet President Brezhnev arrives here Friday niorning and will meet Carter for the first time later in the day when they pay a courtesy call on their host , Kirchschlager . THEY WILL THEN plunge into two days of summit talks Saturday and Sunday before signing the treaty the two superpowers have been negotiating for more than six years . Texts of the treaty were initialed in Geneva Thursday night by the two negotiators , Ralph Earle for the United States and-Viktor Karpov for the Soviet Union . Carter told the crowd that welcomed him at the airport that he came here " to strengthen and enlarge cooperation and understanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reduce the dangers of nuclear war , to move toward ? a more stable and secure world . " HOWEVER , HE SAID , ' ' We have no illusions that this treaty will rid the world of danger or end all differences between our two nations . But we are confident that SALT II will widen the areas of cooperation and reduce the dangers of nuclear holocaust . " Perhaps because it was nearly 10 p.m . Vienna time when Carter arrived , the crowd that greeted him at the airport was small , almost outnumbered by the hordes of news.people covering the summit and the even greater number of police and military personnel on security duty . THE OFFICIAL WELCOME included an army brass hand with a bass drum towed on a cart by a miniature pony , the review of a military honor guard and a march down a red carpet to Carter 's waiting black limousine . Carter proceeded immediately from the airport to the U.S. Embassy residence , in a wealthy section of Vienna where he will stay during the summit . Brezhnev 's arrival @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 72-year-old Soviet leader 's health // =3110 From page one Carter calls summit a peace ' trip // has been fading and he has become the target of speculation about how much longer he may remain in command at the Kremlin . U.S. SECRETARY of State Cyrus Vance told reporters aboard Air Force One on the flight from Washington that Brezhnev 's health recently has " improved . " Brezhnev has " his ups and downs , " Vance said , but " the last time I saw him he was in good shape . . . no problem with slurred speech . " Vance said he was " glad " about Brezhnev 's improvement because it " will help " with U.S. hopes for having a productive summit meeting . The administration generally has been pushing a cautious line and deliberately speaking of only modest goals for this first U.S.-Soviet summit since 1974 . " WE WANT TO AVOID the disappointment that some of those earlier summits generated " as a result of the advance buildup of " excessive expectations , " a senior administration official said on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ h ite House is particularly conscious of the gloom and disappointment produced by another Democratic President 's first summit in Vienna . That meeting , between John F. Kennedy and Nikita Khrushchev in 1961 , turned into a near disaster diplomatically and politically when the Soviet leader belligerently browbeat Kennedy for two days . This time both Carter and Brezhnev are cordially hailing a new treaty they will sign Monday as a historic step toward controlling the nuclear arms race , and there are no advance signs of any big blowup between them . But beyond the treaty signing , the White House has set itself only modest goals for the three-day summit . WHAT CARTER is hoping for , an administration official said , is an opportunity to " widen . our mutual understanding " of those issues on which the two countries have " different perspectives . " The administration also hopes to use the summit to " generate more movement on arms control generally " and to expand the measure of communication between the two world powers . Carter , for example , has advocated regular summit meetings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not shown any enthusiasm for that idea . WORLD ATTENTION at the summit is likely to focus more on Brezhnev than on Carter , since the 72-year-old Soviet leader 's fading health and the question of who might succeed him has become a matter of increasing interest lately . Administration officials added new piquancy to that issue this week by disclosing that Konstantin Chernenko , 68 , who has only recently emerged as a potential successor to Brezhnev , is expected to be in the Soviet delegation at Vienna . After a long career as an obscure bureaucrat , Chernenko , a longtime Brezhnev crony , was elected to the ruling Politburo only last year and has suddenly been identified as a fast-rising power in the Kremlin . AN ADMINISTRATION official noted that , along with Chernenko 's unpreceBlocked due to copyright . See full page image or microfilm . Valentin Agapov , a Soviet merchant sailor who defected in Sweden in 1974 , is confronted by an Austrian policeman as he demonstrates outside he Soviet Embassy in Vienna . Police detained him for further investigation . Agapov 's family , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four years to join him in Sweden . Earlier Agapov 's grandmother was arrested in Moscow 's Red Square as she held a banner demanding the release of the family . dented presence at the summit , the Soviets also may bring along their defense minister , Dmitri Ustihov , and their top military officer , Gen. Nikolai Ogarkov . The White House sees this as an important plus , especially in view of Brezhnev 's age and frailty , since it might afford an opportunity for U.S.-Soviet cessions beyond the Carter-Brezhnev talks . Carter 's entourage includes the U.S. counterparts to Ustinov and Ogarkov , Secretary of Defense Harold Brown and Gen. David Jones , chairman of the joint chiefs of staff , plus Secretary of State Vance and Zbigniew Brezinski , the President 's natiooal secti  --  ity adviser whom the Soviets view as a hard-line anti-Communist hawk . The summit sessions will formally begin at the U.S. Embassy on Saturday morning . The two leaders will meet for a total of 31/2 hours each on Saturday and Sunday , with the daily sessions broken up into two hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half starling at 5:30 p.m. , after Brezhnev 's daily nap . The Saturday meetings will be at the U.S. Embassy , the Sunday sessions at the Soviet Embassy . Carter and Brezhnev also will take turns hosting each other at dinner on Saturday and Sunday . They will meet again on Monday in two briefer sessions , then wind up the summit with the treaty signing ceremoney in Hofburg Palace , site of the 1814-15 Congress of Vienna at which the leaders of Europe rearranged the continent after the defeat of Napoleon .                     