@@728441

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Sentence in Chicago To the Editor : I am writing to compliment you on your Feb. 21 editorial in which you condemn the outrageous sentences imposed by Judge Julius Hoffman on the defendants in the recent Chicago trial . I imagine that even Judge Hoffman would admit that murder is a more serious offense than anything with which the Chicago Seven were charged . Yet , to my knowledge , murderers are never assessed the cost of the prosecution . The closest parallel to the judge 's spiteful act that I can think of was the practice of the Nazis of sending bills for " cost of transportation " to the families of persons deported to concentration camps . It would be interesting to inquire whether Judge Hoffman has in the past assessed the cost of prosecution to defendants in his court who were found guilty of more serious offenses . If not , what justification can there be in the present case ? It is a horrifying and disgusting spectacle to behold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defendants . I hold no brief for the defendants in this case , but their danger to the United States is small compared with that of a judge who makes a mockery of our judicial system . It seems clear that Judge Hoffman is emotionally unfit to be trusted with the enormous powers of his office and I very much hope that the leaders of the bar will initiate an investigation of his conduct as soon as possible . PAUL EDWARDS Professor of Philosophy Brooklyn College Brooklyn , Feb. 25 , 1970 ? To Raise ' Gold Price To the Editor : Over the years I have seen a great deal written about the inadvisability of raising the world price of gold from the $35 level established in 1934 to a substantially higher price . The point has been made repeatedly that raising the price of gold could be inflationary because it would greatly increase the liquidity of the banking system . The current experience of the nation with its very limited bank reserves , high interest rates , adverse balance of payments and increasing cost of living gives ample evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation 's needs without a massive increase in liquidity . The only way to obtain the flexibility to deal with our domestic and world financial problems is to increase liquidity by universally raising the price of gold through the International Monetary Fund . Central banking management needs flexibility to cope successfully with both expansion and contraction . Only a substantial increase in liquidity through increasing the price of gold can bring this about . 3 . MORTON BAXTER Wilmington , Del. , March 2 , 1970 ? Forced Integration To the Editor : Your recent editorials ( the latest Feb. 22 ) on the problem of desegregation in our school system exhibit a surprising disregard for the principles that should animate a free society . It is now thoroughly established that no state can maintain laws looking to a discriminatory and dual school system . This legal battle has been won . What The Times apparently , and large sections of the press , now favor is something quite different : namely , the active integration of the races in our society by Government dictate , and ? insistence on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other devices , whatever the consequences . Thoughtful citizens , whether from North or South , will and should oppose this kind of Government intervention on the grounds that it is wholly impractical unless we contemplate the uprooting of whole communities ; that it disregards what should be the principal aim of our school system ? namely , the provision of quality education for all ; and that it contravenes and challenges one of the basic premises of our constitutional system . That premise is that within a broad framework of law individuals and families shall be free to associate or not to associate , according to their respective and mutual desires . This means that in schooling no less than in other matters we should maintain maximum freedom of choice for whites and blacks alike . Respect for this voluntary principle may make actual integration of the races a slower process than the forced measures you seem to favor , but it is the only kind of integration worth having . It would be ironic , indeed , if in your hot pursuit of integration by Government dictate you destroyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . JOHN DAVENPORT New York , Feb. 23 , 1970 ? Mayor 's Absence To the Editor : In choosing not to accord the French President a reception , Mayor Lindsay has once again demonstrated his standard thinking process . It is difficult to come up with a Lindsay decision made on any basis other than numbers of voters to be pleased or offended . Our city is run by a spineless nosecounter . THOMAS DEMARco New York , March 3 , 1970 ? Non-Dissident Army To the Editor : As a member of the Armed Forces and potential Vietnam participant , I am presumably part of the commodity Vice President Agnew has offered to trade for an entire " zoo " of dissidents , draft-dodgers , etc . Let me then describe the " kind of men " we are . Many of us steal from one another to the extent that nothing valuable is safe in our barracks . We often curse , swear : , fight with one another , tell jokes about the abuse of women , and get obnoxiously drunk. , Many of us seldom read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  about the important issues in Vietnam or our own country . We are nothere to fulfill noble obligations : we were either drafted into the Army , or enlisted into one of the other branches of service to avoid being drafted . It is therefore difficult for ' me to understand why the Vice President wishes to acquire uS in a trade . We members of the Armed Forces feel strongly for those men who risk or give their lives abroad . Many of us also feel strongly for those non : members who are characteriZed . zoologically by the Vice President . Furthermore , we resent ' being cast opposite these people ' and used as pawns in the Vic President 's political maneuvers . JAMES F. WILLOTT Sheppard AFB , Texas Feb. 28 , 1970 , ? Anti-Israeli Russians , To the Editor : Your correspondent in MOs4 cow reports that Soviet intellectuals and writers have added their names to the anti-Israel campaign . Looking through the list " .. of signatories , we recognize such individuals as the writer Boris Polevoi who condemned Boris Pasternak , ousted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the downfall of other known progressive writers . In other words this group represents the most reactionary group of the Soviet society . On the other hand , we notice the absence of names of the well known progressive and liberal Soviet writers . GEORGE LEWENS Brooklyn , March 4 , 1970                     