@@732373

txt - Henry A. Kissinger is about to fulfill a long-delayed promise to visit Latin America and to demonstrate that the United States does , indeed , care about the nations of the hemisphere . He was supposed to make the trip in late 1974 . But he postponed it at least six times because of pressing commitments in Vietnam and the Middle East . Now Africa , with the Angolan civil war and its Soviet and Cuban involvement , is a more pressing problem than anything in Latin America at the moment . Dr. Kissinger is expected to express to Latin American leaders Washington 's deep concern // * Kissinger trip to focus on Cuba issue // over Cuba 's intervention in Angola ? an act of belligerency in Washington 's eyes . He is likely to win some Latin American understanding and perhaps even support on this issue . Countries like Venezhela and Costa Rica are uneasy over the Cuban role . They are concerned that if Cuban Premier Fidel Castro can mount such a venture thousands of miles from his island , he could do it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hemisphere leaders accept Dr. Kissinger 's preoccupation with Angola and superpower relations , they are unhappy over what they , ' see as his lack of interest in their affairs . He will have his hands full convincing them otherwise . Aides to the Secretary of State admit that it would have been far better if he had gone to Latin America when originally scheduled . One leading hemisphere statesman , a longtime friend of the United States , said recently : " Dr. Kissinger does n't seem to realize that a lot of talk about good relations , if not followed by solid action , will do more harm than if he had kept his mouth shut in the first place . " That attitude is widely held throughout Latin America . The trip is not expected to produce any spectacular developments nor to lead to any new approach in United States policy toward the hemisphere . But it is expected to provide Latin Americans with some evidence of Washington 's thinking about their part of the world . Dr. Kissinger is expected to stress the importance in Washington 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American nations . Some Latin Americans see this as a " divide- , and-conquer " approach . The Secretary of State also will tell Latin Americans that the U.S. is sincere about writing a new Panama Canal treaty with Panama , and he will try to keep the issue from exploding before the treaty is signed . Latin Americans are generally lined up with Panama , and this solidarity is expected to grow , especially if progress is not made in current talks toward a new treaty . The Kissinger trip is scheduled to begin Feb. 16 with a visit to Venezuela and to continue nine days with stops in Peru , Brazil , Colombia , and Costa Rica . Nearly half the time will be spent in Brazil . While in Costa Rica , Dr. Kissinger will meet with most of the presidents of Central America .                     