@@734495

txt A portrait of the election-year presidency during a week shortly before Mr. Carter announced his candidacy for re-election : ? The President swoops into suburban Chicago in Air Force One to answer questions at a high school gymnashim about , among other topics , unnecessary traffic stop signs . The fare alone for chartering a 727 jetliner ( smaller than Air Force One ) to Chicago and back would have cost any of the other candidates seeking Jimmy Carter 's job something like $18,264 . ? The President delegates prominent citizens from New Hampshire , Florida , and New Jersey to attend the independence ceremonies of a new island nation in the sunny Caribbean . All of these states so favored with presidential attention , by coincidence , will hold presidential primary elections in coming months . ( There will be at least 36 presidential primaries in 1980 ? in 34 states , Puerto Rico , and Washington , D.C. ? plus the important Iowa caucuses in January . ) ? The President helps brief two separate groups of invited " civic and community leaders " from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on sundry issues in the East Room of the White House . The East Room of the White House can not be rented by any other candidate : This round of thinly disguised campaigning , however , cost the Carter re-election committee nothing . ( The Democratic National Committee and the Chicago party organization will be asked to chip in for the party functions which the President sandwiched around his town hall meeting . ) The American taxpayers paid for everything directly connected with the activities ? from much of the $3,258-an-hour cost of flying the President 's customized 707 jetliner down to tea and cookies for the guests at the East Room briefings . When an incumbent President runs for re-election , he has at his broad disposal 2.5 million federal employees , more than $24 billion in discretionary federal funds , and all the perquisites and prestige of one the most powerful public offices in the world . Four years ago , capitalizing on his role as an outsider at a time of deep public mistrust of Washington , Mr. Carter criticized President Ford for using these same advantages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own , he is unapologetically exploiting them to the hilt . All modern presidents , of course , have done so , and Mr. Carter is utilizing this advantage of incumbency with the thoroughness and attention to detail that have characterized all his election campaigns . Harnessing the federal government to the Carter reelection campaign began as early as last winter at a corner table in Duke Zeibert 's restaurant in downtown Washington . Around that table during regular Wednesday lunches , Tim Kraft , then the President 's assistant for political affairs and now manager of his re-election campaign , met with John C. White , chairman of the Democratic National Committee , and Evan S. Dobelle , then party treasurer and now campaign treasurer , to begin coordinating plans for Mr. Carter 's re-election . ' // Right , from top : the White House , the President meeting visitors in the East Room , and First Lady Rosalynn Carter hitting the hustings for her husband . From page 1 Carter wields perks ' of presidential office The effort spread to the rest of the sprawling federal bureaucracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Building next door to the White House . There administration officials reportedly instructed the legal and scheduling staffs of various federal departments on how to convert official functions into the maximum political benefit for the President 's re-election drive . A White House spokesman disclaims any knowledge of such a session , but says a series of meetings was held last spring when the Carter re-election committee was formed " to give federal employees an idea of what was appropriate or not in the way of political activities . ' The success of the operation has effectively turned much of the White House and some federal departments into arms of the Carter-Mondale campaign committee . Here is how : Presidential travels . Since July , . Mr. Carter has visited 24 of the 50 states ? all but six of which happen to be the sites of presidential primaries early next year . None of these trips have been financed , even in part , by the Carter re-election committee . White House officials claim the government is reimbursed by the campaign committee , the Democratic National Committee , or local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afterwards toting up the amount of time spent on politicking , and splitting the costs accordingly . But critics charge that the Carter campaign regularly underpays . For example , rather than repaying a fair percentage of the total cost of a trip to a distant state , proportionate to the hours devoted to campaigning , for example , the re-election committee may refund only ' the nominal cost of driving from an official function to a political functioh elsewhere in the state . So contends the International Association of Machinists , a labor union backing Mr. Carter 's chief rival for the Democratic presidential nomination , Sen. Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts , in a complaint to the Federal Election Commission . But even " nonpolitical " travels have their political side . Take Mr. Carter 's trip in late October to an energy conference hosted by Northeastern governors in Providence , Rhode Island . It gave him a chance to soothe regional concern over the soaring cost of home heating oil . And it gave him a chance to punish one of the leaders of the " dump Carter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Rhode Island , by denying him a seat on the presidential plane . Campaigning by other officials . Following the President 's peripatetic example , Cabinet secretaries and other high-ranking federal officials also are hitting the campaign trail . ( With the Iranian crisis keeping the President in Washington for the last month or so , this " surrogate " function has increased in importance . ) Their contributions range from out-and-out political trips to timely official visits to regions and groups politically important to the President , to plugging Mr. Carter 's re-election during " nonpolitical " appearances . Secretary of Transportation Neil E. Goldschmidt frankly labels himself as part of the " political arm " of the Cabinet . Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Moon Landrieu advises " every member of the Cabinet to become more politically sensitive . " Secretary of Commerce Philip M. Klutznick , a successful fund-raiser for various Democratic and Jewish groups before recently joining the Cabinet , vows to " do everything that I can for the President . " Attorney General Benjamin R. Civiletti has appeared at several Italian-American gatherings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bob Bergland , for his part , is hosting hearings on the politically popular issue of preserving the family farm this month in nine states ? six of which plan presidential primaries early next year . In the weeks before the Florida Democratic presidential-preference caucuses in October , 11 administration figures paraded to the state . Six of their trips were " official " and paid for by taxpayers , who also shared the costs of three others . " We did n't expect the administration to move the White House to Florida , " a Kennedy campaign leader in the state marvels . Now the State of New York , with its presidential primary looming in March , is getting similar treatment . Housing Secretary Landrieu trekked to midtown Manhattan last month to announce a program to strengthen urban centers . The next day Vice-President Walter F. Mondale turned up in Brooklyn to announce a hospital grant . Discretionary federal aid . The White House also is currying political favor using something more valued than visiting big-wigs from Washington : big bucks from Washington . Most federal grants are distributed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other factors , but some are left to the discretion of US officials . It ' is a political carrot ( and stick ) of multibillion-dollar dimensions ? $21.9 billion in discretionary funds in the current fiscal year available - to the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare , $2 billion for the Department of Transportation , $400 million for the Department of Housing and Urban Development . Revenue-starved cities , which rely on federal grants for roughly one-third of their budgets , are particularly dependent on Washington handouts . The Carter administration , belying its reputation for innocence in the wily ways of Washington , is skillfully using discretionary federal aid to political advantage . Cities whose support is deemed important to the President 's re-election have been showered with federal largess ? New York , Miami , Detroit , Chicago , Los Angeles , San Francisco . The mayors of all of them , except Chicago , have become Carter supporters . Chicago alone was wooed with more than $100 million in discretionary US grants in the past year . In the week preceding Florida Democratic caucuses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cornucopia of Washington aid , ranging from a new Job Corps center to a tourism project in the Cuban community . Telegrams to local officials announcing the federal beneficence left no doubt about whom to thank . " On behalf of President Carter , " they read , " I am pleased to inform you of a grant offer of .. . . " The administration has been equally blunt about withholding money.for lack of political support . Transportation Secretary Goldschmidt vowed to curtail aid to Chicago after Mayor Jane M. Byrne endorsed Senator Kennedy for president . Two other cities headed by mayors with ties to Senator Kennedy ? Philadelphia and Nashville ? have been warned of possible similar retaliation . Federal appointments . Once the heftiest spoils available to a president , federal patronage , has been pared down by Civil Service to a political tool of limited but still significant clout . During the recent campaign in Florida , the President parceled out more than two dozen appointments to Floridians , including the Cabinet-level job of trade negotiator to popular former Gov . Reubin Askew . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than through Civil Service , one of the goV  --  ernment 's last , largest patronage plums : 275,000 enumerators and other temporary employees to tally the 1980 decennial census . The jobs , ranging in pay from $3.60 an hour for several weeks ' work for enumerators to $20,000 a year for district managers , are being channeled through congressmen loyal to the President , according to Capitol Hill sources . Says Rep. William D. Ford ( D ) of Michigan , a senior member of the House Civil Service Committee : " They are going to operate the patronage on a basis calculated to build up support for President Carter . " Town hall meetings . The President 's popular question-and-answer sessions with local citizens also show signs of political targeting . Mr. Carter has hosted 17 such town hall meetings since he became President , ' scattered in all sections of the country as well as two overseas . But the only state to receive two meetings happens to be New Hampshire ? site of the nation 's first presidential primary in February . New England as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ town meetings . White House briefings . An estimated 10,000 influential local citizens have been shuffled through the commodious East Room of the White House in the past 18 months for briefings by the President and other administration officials . The invited guests , in groups of 300 or so , are recommended by congressmen , White House staffers , and various federal agencies . All pay their own expenses . Of the 14 such groupings from specific states which Mr. Carter has addressed since September , all but three have come from states with impending presidential primaries . Participants hear a speech on the legislative issues that the administration is promoting ? the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty , windfall oil-profits tax , hospital cost control . or simply on " the administration 's programs . and policies . " Undeniably such briefings , aside from their political value , are a worthwhile means of informing , and being informed by , leaders from across the nation .                     