@@733912

txt Letters THEODORE RODMAN , M.D.ROBERT M. TRENTB.F . POEA.L . RUBENSTEINMAX SPECTORARNOLD Letters Pitfalls of a National Medical Care Program To the Editor : Both proponents and opponents of President Carter 's proposal for " health care " legislation persistently and erroneously refer to " health planning " and " health care . " What is really being discussed is " medical care , " a small but very expensive component of " health care . " Medical care is provided by physicians and the medical care establishment . One hopes medical care contributes to health care . The magnitude of that contribution is probably small . Health did not measurably deteriorate in the United States during the Depression years of the late 1920 's and early 1930 's , when medical care was underutilized , or during World War II , when two-thirds of the physicians and much of our medical care establishment were serving the armed forces . Occasionally , the provision of the best medical care is actually counterproductive . The recent attempt to wipe out tuberculosis by treating all tuberculin skin reactors led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of well-publicized deaths on Capitol Hill and a large number of deaths elsewhere . on the other hand , health is greatly improved by a society ( such as ours ) which makes dramatic improvements in the provision of housing and food . The same can not be said for even the more spectacular recent advances in medical care . As a physician whose 25-year career has spanned the introduction and development of open heart surgery , I am awed by our technical virtuosity . A large number of patients now undergo coronary artery bypass surgery , with an astonishingly low mortality . In the process , an enormous amount of surperb medical care is delivered . The annual national cost for coronary artery surgery is in the billions , but the impact on national health is at best small . Our appetite for medical care appears to be nearly insatiable when it is " prepaid . " An ambitious program to make such medical care universally available might well consume an additional 10 percent of our gross national product . The goal of such a program is improved national health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of programs contemplated are likely to achieve this goal : Our biggest unsolved health problems are now life-style related . Medical care now available ( or on the horizon ) is not likely to have a significant impact on those diseases whose prevalence is due largely to our smoking habits , our drinking habits , our gluttony. our physical indolence and our tendency to inflict physical trauma on ourselves and others . It is possible , perhaps likely , that a large Federal medical care delivery program may in fact be counterproductive . To the extent that it results in the allocation of a greater percentage of the gross national product to medical care delivery , less would be available for other programs , which might well buy more health care for the same or even a lower price : Since our resources are finite , this hypothesis and the complex problem of national priorities and alternatives to achieve improved health deserve much more study before we embark irrevocably on the kind of massive medical care delivery program proposed . THEODORE RODMAN . M.D. Prof. of Medicine , Temple University Philadelphia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fairer Way ' To the Editor : The absurd allegations in Ira Glasser 's incoherent letter of Nov. 26 ( " Army vs . Liberty " ) , condemning the proposed revival of the draft to raise an American standing army , are followed by a number of equally specious conclusions . A permanent American standing army poses no " threat to liberty . " On the contrary , a good-sized regular army of well-trained and properly equipped troops is ' the best guarantee we have of preserving our liberty . Liberty in a democracy is not threatened by the reasonable requirement that our young men serve some time in their nation 's army . The real threat to our liberty is posed by the several potential aggressors prowling our dangerous and unstable world today . I do n't know the age , experience or education of Mr. Glasser , but it seems that he should have learned somewhere along the way that the U.S.A. got involved in World Wars I and II precisely because of a weak defensive position , which invited aggression by both the Germans and the Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War II the lack of a large , welltrained regular army resulted in a series of humiliating and costly defeats in the Phillipines and almost cost the free world its ultimate victory ? As for using the draft to select the citizens to serve in our Army , there is no fairer way to accomplish this task in a democracy . If our duly elected government officials are unable to solve our international problems by peaceful statesmanship , it unfortunately sometimes becomes necessary to resort to force to defend our freedom and security . When this occurs , any loyal , responsible and patriotic young American should be honored to be selected to serve in his country 's military forces regardless of his personal political convictions . ROBERT M. TRENT Fort Montaomerv . N.Y .. Nov. 29. 1978 Same Old Flimflam ' To the Editor : In his Paris television show , exPresident Nixon described the Watergate affair as a " blunder . " That is the same old flimflam . Nobody needs or accents a Presidential pardon for a blunder . B. F. POE New York , Nov. 30 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Where do our taxes go ? A good deal of it to a legislature which ' decides how much the taxes should be . Another slice goes to the apparatus for collecting the taxes . Yet another goodly portion is distributed to those who ca n't afford to pay taxes . Perhaps the largest hunk goes to keeping us from paying taxes to an alien taxing authority ( this is known as defense ) . Since the taxes collected are insufficient to pay all these expenses , it is necessary to go into debt and print extra money , which reduces the value of the taxes paid to a further insufficiency . This is called inflation , the remedy for which , we are told , is not to increase prices and salaries , the source of the taxes . The study of these idiocies is economics , also known as the dismal science  --  dismal yes , but science ? A. L. RUBENSTEIN New York . Dec. 4. 1978 To the Editor : When James Reston , in his Dec. 3 column . asserts that " there may be no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Guyana holocaust , he is , in effect , saying that there may be a rational explanation , but he is disinclined to believe that anybody " will ever find it . " For those who refuse to believe in societal causality , this is a convenient cop-out , which absolves the society and the individuals within it of any responsibility and attributes the catastrophic aberration to some nebulous , Of Privacy in Medicine And Abuse Detection To the Editor : In his recent article about the eroding tradition of privacy in medicine . Lawrence K. Altman is understandably concerned about the present and future effects by cybernation on medical record confidentiality . When , however , confidentiality becomes a shield for the subterfuge of questionable medical practices , then we must address a more urgent issue : rising health costs and their containment . As a physician utilization review analyst charged with detecting physician overutilization and mis-utilization patterns , I must rely on the availability as well as the accuracy of patients ' medical records . Indeed , those ancient oaths of Hippocrates could not have envisioned instances where a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) for , say , 10 hospital visits when , in fact , he only made seven ? as later verified from the patient 's medical records . Or instances where a patient 's symptoms warranted only , say , 12 basic blood tests but where instead a comprehensive battery of 35 tests was performed . ' These instances are exemplary of a significant percentage of physicians who , either for fear of malpractice ac ? tions , poor judgement in diagnosis or just plain dishonesty contribute to elevating the costs of health care as well as health insurance . Patterns can be detected , but only with the aid of accurate medical records , the contents of which are of interest to the health insurance corn . pang only as an instrument of cost con ? tainment . ARNOLD TESCHER Rrnnklvn Nnv 147K mystic quality in human nature . " To draw general conclusions about American politics or religion is obviously ... a form of madness , " says Mr. Reston . Why ? Is our society sacrosanct ? Recent history indicates that we , as a nation , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mores of a society which produced Vietnam and Watergate necessitate close scrutiny and analysis by all our concerned citizens and should not merely be " left to the philosophers . " MAX SPECTOR Maspeth , N.Y. , Dec. 4 , 1978 Jonestown and the Mores of Our Society Economy : ' What We Need Now Is a Department of Experience ' To the Editor : Arthur C. Holden letter Nov. 13 censures recent increases in interest rates as militating against adequate growth in production and employment , which he deems the top priority . James S. Nystrom Nov. 15 suggests 3 percent wage increases ( assumed productivity gains ) and price stability instead of the President 's " guideline " formula of about 7 percent for wage increases and about 6.5 percent for price increases . And A. Richard Golub Nov. 15 scores the recent tax legislation as a regressive net tax increase . These valid criticisms invite further comment about national policies . " No growth " Federal budget spending , soaring interest rates and recent tax legislation , including increases in Social Security taxes , are all highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guidelines " were observed , a very large portion of those employed would get money wage rate increases far short of 7 percent ( and the 7 percent rate includes fringe benefits ) , so that the average increase in money wage rates available for current spending would be 3 to 4 percent , contrasted with a 6.5 percent rise ( at least ) in prices ; this , too , would be very repressive of consumer demand as it bears upon production and employment . Indeed , it is unparalleled to condone , if not encourage , 6.5 percent price increases in the future . Previous controls and " guidelines " we , re aimed at price stability and wage rates rising in accord with normal productivity gains . President Truman 's anti-inflation program did this when Chinese intervention in the Korean War produced double-digit inflation ( which we now have again ) , and by 1952 price increases were only 1 percent and unemployment was only 3 percent . All of the repressive measures mentioned above augur still another recession next year , maybe a severe one . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still seeking to tradeoff production and employment for less inflation and to " protect the dollar . " Similar repressive measures came before each of the five recessions since 1953 . The 25-year results : forfeitures of more than 5.5 trillion 1977 dollars of total national production ; more than 75 million man- , woman- and teenager-years of employment opportunity , and far more than one trillion dollars in public revenues at actual tax rates ? forfeitures immensely more costly than any price restraint assumed to result . Actually , in the last 25 years empirical evidence has accumulated that idle resources of plant and human power generate more inflation than utilized resources . This evidence is supported by current developments and competent forecasts . Moreover , " protecting the dollar " overseas is not a higher priority than protecting the economy and people at home , and the lack of confidence overseas which weakens the dollar has been augmented most of all by the roller-coaster and low-average U.S. economic performance , the dwindling rate of real economic growth now and the rising prospect of another recession . What we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guide those not yet profiting by experience , and not yet honoring the mandates of the Humphrey-Hawkins legislation , which prohibits a trade-off attempt . Such attempt is sensible only in the view of thnca whn tin not In n it at what is hnn. pening LEON 11 . KEYSERLING Washington , Nov. 30 , 1978                     