@@734032

txt The Carter administration , worried that its grim assessment of the Iranian oil cutoff will panic financial markets and consumers , sought to reassure the public that the situation is still manageable . Just one day after he had described the cutoff of Iranian oil as " prospectively more serious " than the 1973 Arab oil embargo -a description that sent the dollar plunging Wednesday ? Energy Secretary James Schlesinger changed his emphasis and accentuated the positive . Declaring that the administration wants " to avoid an overreaction , " Mr. Schlesinger said the situation is " serious " but is n't " critical . " Moreover , he told the House Science and Technology Committee , " if we do an efficent job ( of conservation ) , we can live with the 500,000-barrels-a-day " net loss to the U.S. resulting from the halt in Iranian exports . Elsewhere on Capitol Hill yesterday . Treasury Secretary Michael Blumenthal called the dollar 's current weakness a temporary phenomenon related " entirely " to the situation in Iran and said it " is n't to be ascribed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the U.S. government 's efforts to stabilize its currency . " While daily movements in foreign-exchange rates are to be expected as traders react to current developments , - he said . " the U.S. is determined to prevent a reemergence of disorderly conditions . " " Genuine Concern " Although the administration tried to strike a more positive note yesterday , senior administration officials are clearly worried about the dangers posed by the Iranian cnsis for the U.S. and the world economy . There 's " genuine concern " at the highest levels , one official said yesterday . So far , one insider says , there 's been " very little analysis " within the government of the economic effects of a long-term cutoff of Iranian oil exports . But government officials worry that the cutoff could result in higher oil prices and more inflation . And they recognize that if the U.S. is forced to impose mandatory energy-conservation measures soon , there could be a dampening effect on economic growth , already programmed to slow significantly this year . At the White House . presidential inflation adviser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious problem , " noting the sudden surge in spot prices for world crude- oil supplies . " How we respond to that , how OPEC ( the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ) responds to that , to what extent that may encourage departure from the upward side from the officially posted OPEC prices , are all very critical questions to which we have n't framed the answers , " he said . The immediate concern , however , is the impact of Mr. Schlesinger 's Wes.lesday remarks on the financial markets ainund the world . " There were a lot of people here screaming about what he ( Schlesinger ) was doing to the dollar , " a Treaqury man said , even though privately many Treasury officials agree with the Energy Secretary 's gloomy assessment of the Iranian situation . In the view of senior Treasury officials , the dollar 's health is improving but still fragile in the wake of the U.S. government 's Nov. 1 rescue operation . And they are fearful that public commentay such as Mr. Schlesinger 's could send the American currency into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he told the Senate Budget Committee : Situation Called " Unsettled " " The situation is still unsettled . . . . Current uncertainties continue to generate nervousness . One of the principal sources of uncertainty in the market , for instance . is the impact of recent political development abroad on oil supplies . " Apparently seeking to reassure nervous money markets , Mr. Schlesinger promised to avoid any abrupt government actions that would overly restrict fuel use . Specifically , he said , he does n't want to " suddenly constrain the use of fuels in such a way as to damage the economy . " Accordingly , the Energy Secretary said his department is proceeding cautiously in preparing possible mandatory conservation measures , including such things as temperature controls for buildmgs and contingency plans for closing gasoline stations on Sundays . " I think we should move quickly , " Mr. Schlesinger said . " But we should avoid doing so hastily in a way that may backfire . " An aide to Mr. Schlesinger explained that the department hopes to avoid what occurred during the Arab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " oil supplies . The aide explained that the relatively small cut in the oil reaching the U.S. during the embargo did n't justify the government 's expansive approach . In addition , the Energy Department wants to give voluntary conservation measures a chance to work before resorting to compulsory steps such as the Sunday closing of gasoline stations , the aide said . Energy Department officials note that the U.S. currently has a 70-day supply of oil on hand . Although Mr. Schlesinger avoided the explosive language he used to describe the Iraman oil situation earlier this week , he repeated that he does n't foresee a resumption of production any time soon . " I do n't expect to see the restoration of production from Iran for many months at best , " Mr. Schlesinger said . He explained that he does n't see any " short-term prospect of the restoration of political stability " in Iran . where a massive strike by oil field workers has cut production to 660.000 barrels a day from a normal level this time of year about 10 times as high . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to this political strife . Mr. Schlesinger said Iran may never again be able to reach its previous production level of about six million barrels daily . even after all the striking oil-field workers return . He bases this assertion , which he has made before , on the exodus of foreign experts , who are better able to force maximum production from Iran 's oil fields , and on the haphazard manner in which many of the wells were closed down . In various appearances over the past few weeks , Mr. Schlesinger has coupled a tough line about the seriousness of the oil shortage and the probable need for mandatory cow trols with expressions of hope that the worst can be avoided through voluntary energy cutbacks . But he and his aides are privatell pessimistic that the situation in Iran will improve enough , or that voluntary conserva ? tion will save enough , to avert a painful fuel shortage and some form of mandatory cog. trols.                     