@@729104

txt Screaming , kicking defendants and attorneys brawled with 20 federal marshals in the courtroom today at a contempt hearing in the Seattle conspiracy case . After Judge George H. Boldt of United States District Court sentenced six of the seven defendants to six-month terms , they stood up , ripped the contempt citations to shreds and told Boldt he had gone berserk . Those cited were Charles Marshall III , Roger Lippman , Jeffery Dowd , Michael Abeles , Joseph Kelly and Michael Lerner . Then the seventh defendant , Mrs. Susan Stern , also was held in contempt for making a speech at the counsel table , and was sentenced to six months in jai 1 . A scuffle erupted when a federal marshal grabbed her and dragged her away . Boldt later imposed a second set of six-month contempt sentences on five male defendants for the fracas today . Michael Lerner was the one male defendant not sentenced for today 's brawl . His lawyer forcibly held him in his seat dtis- ! ng the uproar . Brawl Is Quelled The brawl was quelled with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marshals dragged struggling spectators out of the courtroom . A group of about 150 supporters marched and shouted outside the Federal Building thru the entire incident , occasionally setting off firecrackers . After ' order was restored , Boldt had the six defendants brought before him in handcuffs . " If there was any doubt before , " he said . " It is clear now . .. that reasoned trial proceedings can not proceed . " Accused of Conspiracy The seven defendants were accused of conspiring to damage the federal courthouse in Seattle in a riot there last Feb. 17 . Boldt had abruptly called a mistrial last Thursday and cited all but Mrs. Stern , who was in a hospital after an operation , for contempt . Then he recessed the proceedings until today 's hearing . Boldt on Thursday found the six in contempt after they refused to enter the courtroom so their trial could continue . The judge said he believed the jury had been prejudiced by the defendants ' refusal to enter the court and by their earlier behavior . The defendants said they had refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enter . A marshal said the courtroom was full . Begins Her Diatribe After the defendants tore up the citations today , Mrs. Stern strode to the podium , took a wad of gum out of her mouth and said : " Let me state for the record : I am in contempt of this court . " Then she launched into an emotional 20-minute speech on Viet Nam , racism , poverty , " American imperialism " and the court system . " You old killer ! " shouted Dowd . " You 're so bloody it 's unbelievable ! " " I 'm walking out , " yelled Marshall . The courtroom then erupted into a mass of struggling marshal s , defendants , attorneys and spectators . Boldt later said the seven defendants would go on trial again on the conspiracy charges but not before they had served all their contempt sentences .                     