@@728400

txt An avalanche of snow thundered down on the fashionable Alpine resort of Val d'Isere today , killing at least 39 young skiers . The avalanche , believed to be the worst in French history , injured 37 youths as it smashed into the bottom floors of a student chalet at breakfast time . Information tonight indicated that Belgian and French youths were staying in the chalet . There were no reports of any Americans among the victims or survivors . More than 100,000 cubic yards of snow crashed down from a treeless , 7,000-foot crest known as le Dome , rushed 700 yards across the Alpine source of Isere River , engulfed a section of National Route 202 , and smashed into the chalet . The three-story structure , owned by a youth club known as the Union of Fresh Air Centers , housed about 200 persons , mostly in their early twenties . The avalanche struck at 8:05 A.M. , roaring through the ground floors and windows of the eight-year-old concrete building . Survivors said the only warning they had was " a terrible noise " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The building remained intact . Rescue workers immediately came to the ? scene and began digging out bodies and survivors . It was the first time in 50 years that an avalanche had struck the village about 20 // miles from here , in a blustery , mountain corridor at an alti- : tude of about 5,000 feet between Chambery and Turin , : Italy . President Pompidou , declar- : ing the avalanche a national ' , tragedy , sent Interior Minister ' Raymond Mercellin and Joseph ! Comiti , Secretary of State for Youth Sports , to oversee the rescue efforts . But the weather was so badl at Val d'Isere that neither man was able to get to the village tonight . They remained here at Bourg - St. - Maurice , where those injured by the avalanche were being brought all day today by ambulance down a treacherous mountain road . By this evening only 23 of the dead had been identified . Rescue workers said that the reported number of dead was not definite . Thirty - two injured youths were brought down from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with lesser injuries , were treated by local doctors . Mr. Marcellin told reporters that the identified dead were mostly French . Some Belgian youths were also among the dead , he said . One survivor , Mike Benoit , 21-year-old , from Brussels , told reporters from his hospital bed that he had been headed up the stairs toward his bedroom from the dining room when the avalanche struck . He said that the snow crashed through the staircase window , and carried him down a corridor and out through another window . Luckier than most , he suffered a badly cut The New York Times Feb. 11 , 1970 arm . Vivianne Euzanat , also 21 , from Paris , was dragged unconscious from an air hole in the snow , near the staircase in the dining room . Many of the youths found safety under the staircase . One survivor had been buried up to his neck in snow . Tonight Bourg-St. - Maurice was a scene of tearful encounters of parents with rescue workers and those compiling lists of casualties . Communications with Val d'Isere were extremely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children were among the dead , injured or unhurt . A father , wandering the corridors of the hospital , told of his frustration in trying to learn of his son , who was staying in the chalet . " They really do n't know anything , " he said . Freakishly warm weather and high winds were held responsible for the avalanche . Heavy snows have fallen in the region in recent days . The high winds and above-freezing ternperatures loosened the snow . The mayor of Val d'Isere , Noel Machet , reported tonight by telephone to interior Minister Marcellin that winds were higher than 100 miles an hour . Mr. Machet said there were at least eight points on the road between Bourg-St . Maurice and Val d'Isere where avalanches could strike . All road and air links with Val d'Isere were severed tonight . Others Urged to Move VAL D'ISERE , France , Feb. 10 ( AP ) ? The blizzard continued tonight , and the police advised occupants of chalets and hotels outside the center of town to stay in emergency dormitories set up in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest floors of their houses . Many of the guests at the chalet were French postal and railway workers . There were about 20 Belgians and six West Germans staying at the camp 's hostel , according to reports . Some bodies , including those of ski-trail workers going to their jobs , were hurled high in the air . The slide 's 100 yardfront caught autos ! and carried them 100 yards . " There was a gay , happy atmosphere at the- dining tables , " said Jean Charles Loos , 25 , who suffered head and hip injuries . " We were talking about where we would go skiing . " Suddenly , there was this rumbling sound . As the noise became deafening , I realized it was an avalanche . I just had time to dive . against the wall for protection . Then a great wall of snow burst through the door and hit me . I was submerged and I remember no more until I woke up in a neighboring house . " Chantal Demur , 22 , said she had been buried for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ snow before she was dug out . " I tried to get people out , " said Jacques Sifferlen , a student trapped in the slide , " but a lot of them were stuck like in concrete . You could n't pull them out and had to cut people free with steel blades . " Val d'Isere is the home of French ski champions Jean Claude Killy and Marielle and Christine Goitschel . It was the greatest loss of life in an avalanche in Europe since 1900 , according to the Swiss Avalanche Research Center near Davos . Snowslides in Austria in January , 1954 , killed more than 100 persons , but the deaths were in several communities . Responsibility for measures against avalanches and for evacuation when one threatens normally lies with local authorities in France , a procedure called haphazard and amateurish in a statement by Melchior Schild of the Swiss service .                     