@@729052

txt Treasury Secretary David M. Kennedy has offered himself to President Nixon as a political scapegoat if the President feels one is necessary because of David Kennedy voter discontent over the state of the economy . However , it can be authoritatively reported that , as of late today , Kennedy had not submitted his resignation to the White House nor had he been asked to submit it . Three . Others Mentioned Reports of imm , nent changes in the Nixon official family have been frequent since the Nov. 3 election . Some changes have been confirmed by the White House , but these have been among the President 's personal staff . - Kennedy and three other cabinet members have . been mentioned as candidates for replacement by the President as he nears the end of his first two years in office . The others are Commer ce Secretary Maurice H. Stans , Secretary of Agriculture Clifford M. Hardin and Interior Secretary Walter Hick &; Would Like to Remain Kennedy has told friends , frequently that he joined the Nixon administration to do a job . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation 's economy without a deep recession , he believes the worst part of the job is David Kennedy Offers to Quit as Scapegoat Over Economy // over and the administration can begin encouraging growth in the economy . It is understood that Kennedy would like to remain as the nation 's chief fiscal officer thru Nixon 's full first four-year term . He has said that it is a much more pleasant task to get the economy growing than it has been to impose a policy of fiscal restraint . Kennedy has told close associates that if President Nixon requires a political sacrifice because of the economic slowdown and the increased unemployment , he would do what was asked of him . However , he has been assured that the President has not asked anyone else to take his job . The treasury secretary enjoys a close relationship with the President and sees the chief executive as often as necessary . The President has been a visitor several times in Kennedy 's office across the street from the White House . Thrives on Pressures There are some other factors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ post . Among them are his age and health . At 65 , Kennedy is the oldest member of the Nixon cabinet . However , associates report that he seems to thrive on the pressures of his office , which include extensive travel and speechmaking . It is understood that the President is concerned about leaks of staff changes that appear to be coming from the White House . While a number Of ehatuve normally tveurld expected after the first two years of an administration , it is understood that planning for the job changes has not yet been completed . Among the changes already announced was the resignation of James Keogh as head of Nixon 's stable of speechwriters . He plans to return to journalism . Presidential Counselor Daniel Patrick Moynihan is expected to return after the first of the year to his teaching post at Harvard 's Kennedy School of Government . Bryce Harlow , another Presidential counselor , also will return to private life . Kennedy is convinced that the nation 's economy has begun to expand toward its growth potential . Ina speech last week he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economy are favorable , in my estimation . We are successfully reducing the rate of growth in prices , while increasing the economy 's r ate of expansion . " Much Heat , Little Light The " obsession " with short term economic developments that characterized the recent political campaign , he said , has " generated too much heat and shed too little light . " It is the long term trends which indicate progress , not the day-to-day changes in economic statistics , he added . Kennedy said the Nixon administration shifted from a policy of restraint to one of expansion more than nine months ago . He said he is convinced that " our objective of a full employment economy with substantially less inflation " will be achieved .                     