@@733379

txt Last week was Cuba Alarm Week in Washington . A White House briefing painted a disturbing picture of a coordinated Cuban-Soviet attempt to subvert a dozen African countries . And then Robert Byrd , the Senate majority leader , chimed in with a warning that Havana 's African connection might jeopardize Senate ratification of the strategic arms limitation agreement with the Soviet Union . Since Cubans were in Africa " at the bidding " of Moscow , he said , Moscow should bid them leave . These were but two more episodes in a sorry record of obsession with Cuba , running back through four Administrations . If North Americans would take a cooler look , they would see a relationship between Havana and Moscow that is far more complex than the simple servant-master image offered by Senator Byrd . They would also see Cuban policies that differ substantially from those of more than a decade ago . While Ch ? Guevara lived , Cuba tried to spread revolution to mainland Latin America  --  not at Moscow 's bidding but out of its own revolutionary ? lan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involvement in this decade aims to support governments , not to undermitie them . That support is spelled out in duly ratified and publicized treaties . The trouble , in Washington 's view , lies in the identity of some of those governments , notably that of Agostinho Neto in Angola , which the United States , virtually alone , still does not recognize . The Ford Administration supported Mr. Neto 's opponents in the scramble for power after Portugal relinquished its hold in 1974 . Cuban forces , with Soviet logistic and financial support , came initially to fight against South African invaders , and stayed on to help fight Mr. Neto 's domestic enemies . Now 19,000 strong ( their ranks enlarged by several thousand in recent months ) , they are evidently defending the Neto regime against the b continuina insurgency . Their sheer numbers are worrisome to Washington , and to some African governments , which fear they will be used to intervene elsewhere . Those fears were reflected in the Administration 's briefing last week , which noted that several hundred of the Cubans were recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Horn of Africa , presumably to train Ethiopians in the use of Soviet weapons against invading Somalis . They may well have gone wholly at Moscow 's urging . Yet Fidel Castro seems to believe that despite its brutality , the revolutionary Government in Ethiopia is a genuinely popular modernizing force . And in the eyes of most African leaders , the Ethiopians are fighting a just war to preserve their country 's territorial integrity . Take away the massive presence in Angola , and the rest of Havana 's African involvement , even including Ethiopia , is very much a conventional foreign aid program  --  light on cash , because Cuba is poor , but heavy on technical assistance  --  and with . striking parallels to Israel 's involvement in black Africa during the 1960 's . Like Israelis then , Cubans today are particularly welcome in Africa because they come from a developing country , shun amenities and empathize with the people whom they assist . Israel 's political purpose was to leap over the wall of Arab hostility . Cuba 's seems to be to play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relative isolation in the Western Hemisphere . Reasonably enough , the Carter Administration wants Havana to thin out its troops in Angola . If the Neto regime still needs 19,000 Cubans to hold its own against internal opposition , its popular base may be questioned . But to blow up the Cuban presence in Africa into a barrier against normal relations with the United States , as the Administration has done , is merely cynical opportunism . The Administration is being pressed by opposition to the Panama Canal treaties , to SALT , to more normal relations with China , to the withdrawal of troops from Korea and , indeed , to its effort to resume diplomacy with Cuba . Talking tough about Cubans in Africa is no doubt a cheap way to score political points ; the domestic dividends are immediate while the costs in Havana are hard to measure . Recent American history , however , provides ample warning of the harm of such scare talk . As for the nations of Africa , they can surely sound their own alarms when they feel threatened by Cuba . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                