@@729418

txt Egypt 's President Sadat , when speaking in public for home consumption , puts at only 1 percent the chance for peace in the Middle East , but Western diplomats do not take this literally . Pessimism is the right line for Mr. Sadat to take when he is rallying his troops - at- home for whatever may lie ahead . Unless the Egyptian Army thinks it might be in another war almost . any day , its tendency could be to neglect the practice of the arts of war in favor of another nap . Besides , how does one define " peace " when applied to the highly complex situation now prevailing in the Middle East in the wake of the first visit in 18 years to those parts by a United States Secretary of State ? If by peace is meant a formal , writtenand-signed , long-term settlement of the issues between Israel and its Arab neighbors , then 1 percent would be putting the chances on the high side . But no one involved in the problem now thinks , there is a serious chance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present chapter and open a new one  --  perhaps . But that would be a new chapter and a new story in a ? ' fiew-and different framework . Right now two countries concerned  --  Egypt and the United States  --  have an interest in a formalized and long-term settlement . But the other two principals  --  Russia and Israel  --  are , no matter how inPattern ( II diplataary congruous it may seem at first glance , both . primarily interested in more of precisely what exists today  --  a protracted truce without a formal settlement . The United States wants a permanent settlement for precisely ' the reason Russia does not . Russia is in the Middle East today as the purported protector of the Arabs against Israel . // By Joon Forbes , staff ca tographer Sinai 's mountain citadel *Mideast peace puzzle // A formal settlement between Arabs and Israel would wash away the rationale for Russia 's military and political presence in the Middle East and clear the way for a return to normal and easy American relations with the Arab states . Russia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just as much as Washington would like to see Russia leave . The Middle East has been Moscow 's greatest foreign-policy success story since World War II . It is the only part of the world in which Russia 's influence now is more extensive than in the days of Joseph Stalin . Elsewhere Stalin 's frontiers have been contracted or have receded . Successful ' czar ' In the Middle East Leonid Brezhnev can claim to be a more successful czar than was even the " Joseph the Great , " who advanced Russia 's imperial frontiers beyond anything any of his predecessors had ever achieved , or even seriously attempted . But Egypt like the United States , wants a full and formal settlement , because it is the only means by which it can hope to get back most of its lost territories . This , of course , is why there was an overtone during the Rogers visit of more easy rapport between Mr. Rogers and the Egyptians than between Mr. Rogers and the Israelis . He does want precisely what the Egyptians want , although for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israelis and Americans . There can be no permanent settlement which does not restore to Egypt most of Sinai . Washington wants it restored , to clear the way for its restored relations with the Arab states . But Israel wants to keep it , for military security reasons . The post-Rogers-visit negotiations now are aimed at finding a common ground through this labyrinth of conflicting interests which cuts between the local parties and their protectors . And this is where the project for the reopening of the Suez Canal comes in . Egypt wants it open for the revenues it will bring in and the greater independence it will permit . Russia just happens also to want it open  --  to support its naval operations in the Indian Ocean . Israel would like it open , provided Israeli shipping could use it . Washington has little to gain from a reopening of the canal , something to lose . But if this is the price for continuing the cease-fire , Washington will pay it . Natural fortress The vital thing to Washington is that the cease-fire survive . Add that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of attrition . Its losses during the last round in that kind of war were politically unacceptable . So the real negotiating now is not over a formal peace , but over the price to be paid for a stabilized cease-fire plus a reopen canal . Egypt has proposed that Israel withdraw its troops by 115 miles . Israel would be willing to go back perhaps 25 miles . At stake here is a purely military consideration . The center of the Sinai Peninsula is a plateau ringed by mountains . In its military effect it is a huge natural fortress . In Israeli hands , Israel is untouchable . No Egyptian would dare to try to enter-that citadel on foot or in a tank against an Israeli garrison . The inner floor of the citadel averages about a thousand feet above the level of the surrounding coastal plain . The ramparts of the citadel run up as high as 8,000 feet . Mostly they are about 3,000 to 4,000 feet . So long as Israel holds the citadel , it dominates not only the Sinai Peninsula but also the sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Egyptian tanks would again be in position to move against Israel . And on another occasion they would , presumably , have effective air cover . Sufficient advantage ? Is there enough advantage to Egypt and Russia in a reopening of the canal to persuade them to leave the Sinai fortress in Israeli hands ? If there is not , then the truce will break be had . Ifthere is not , then the truce will break down . Considering that Israel can not really afford a return to the war of attrition , the chances are at least even and probably better that the cease-fire will survive long enough to become a habit and to permit a reopening of the canal . That would be the middle of the present chapter in the Middle East . Peace might be formalized in the following chapter . But that might lie as much as . a generation away .                     