@@731566

txt Secretary of State Kissinger has told associates and foreign visitors in recent weeks that he is gravely concerned that failure to solve the world 's economic problems could lead to a break-up of the political fabric of the West and possible Communist take-overs in some countries . This gloomy assessment of the situation , which he attributed largely to the spiraling costs of oil , was a major factor in the decision by President Ford and Mr. Kissinger to make . their strong speeches on Monday calling for reduced oil prices and cooperation by producers and consumers to avoid world economic disaster , State Department officials said today . Although Mr. Kissinger  --  and Mr. Ford  --  focused on the economic aspects of the problem , key State Department officials said that Mr. Kissinger was very worried about the long-term ( political dimensions of the Problem , and bad ' told this to many people privately . One visitor with whom Mr. Kissinger spent many hours recently was Premier Yitzhak Rabin of Israel . In an interview printed yesterday in the Tel Aviv newspaper Maariv , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prompting a significant number of the Americans I met during my visit to consider the price of oil as the main reason for a possible collapse of the democratic regimes in Western Europe , which would make the European countries ripe for Communist domination . American personalities pointed out to me in many talks the serious danger of Communist domination in Italy , and perhaps in other European countries . " While not confirming that Mr. Kissinger had , expressed that concern to Mr. Rabin , several officials familiar with Mr. Kissinger 's views said that they had heard similar remarks from the Secretary about the longrange implications of the oilprice crisis . " You have to look upon him in this case as a historian , " one official said . " He grew up in Nazi Germany and knows how economic depressions can lead to acceptance of authoritarian regimes , and he fears that this could happen in the West if something is not done to solve the problem . " Mr. Kissinger is expected to repeat this concern at Camp David on Saturday when he and A related @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treasury Secretary William E. Simon meet with Foreign and Finance Ministers from Japan , Britain , West Germany and France to discuss the economic crisis , aides said . Mr , Rabin 's allusion to Italy as especially prone to Communist take-over , was confirmed by officials here as a particular , Kissinger concern . Italy , with a critical balanceof-payments problem , has the largest Communist party in the West . Last month , the dominant Christian Democratic party rejected an offer by the Communists to join the coalition Government , an offer backed by many Christian Democrats . Mr. Kissinger was also reported to have expressed concern about Italy 's " going Communist " when he met with Congressional leaders last week to discuss the activities of the Central Intelligence Agency . At that meeting , he reportedly defended the need for covert activity by asserting that despite criticism of the C.I.A. , if Italy went Communist , there would be criticism that the United States had not done enough to save her . ? - President Giovanni Leone of Italy arrived in Washington yes , terday and continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy , economic and security problems . In a ' ' toast yesterday , Mr. Kissinger said that in recent months , " as the result of circumstances outside the control of Italy , " the country " faces economic difficulty . " " When Italy 's friends , therefore , attempt to work out cooperative arrangements , " Mr. Kissinger said , " it is not something that they do for Italy ; it is something they do for themselves and for the structure of the modern world . " According to The Associated Press , President Ford has accepted an invitation to visit Italy " in he near future , " saying that the United States " is prepared to play an appropriate , constructive and responsible role in a return to economic equilibrium in Italy . " One official said that in his speech Monday Mr .. Kissinger deliberately alluded to the political crisis he sees the West facing when he said : " The economic history of the postwar period has been one of sustained growth  --  for developing as well as developed nations . The universal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions , and the assumption underlying the evolving structure of peace are all based on the belief that this growth will continue . " But will it ? The increasingly open and cooperative global economic system that we have come to take for , granted is now under unprecedented attack . The world is poised on the brink of a return to the unrestrained economic nationalism which accompanied the collapse of economic order in the thirties . And should that occur , all would suffer ? poor as well as rich , producer as well as consumer . " One aide said that Mr. Kissinger not only feared for the political democracies in the west ? including the United States '  - -   - -   if the economic crisis went unchecked , but fdr those In the developing world , such as India . What concerns Mr. Kissinger , aides said , is that other coun  --  tries do not see the problem in the same serious dimensions                     