@@730060

txt The most intriguing news in world affairs over the past week has been the fact that there is once more a top Russian diplomat in Peking . Leonid F. Ilychev is " chief delegate " on the Russian side in the negotiations with the Chinese , which have been on and off again for many months over " frontier " rectifications . He had apparently not been welcome in Peking for some time . But he is back now and this fact must go down on the lengthening list of interesting things that have happened since President Richard M. Nixon of the United States was received in the Imperial Palace in Peking by Chairman Mao Tse-tung of China . This one fact does not by itself prove that Russia has canceled , at least for the time being , any " contingency " plan it may have had for a military attack on China . But it most certainly does suggest that Peking feels more confident in its relations with Russia than before the Nixon visit . And the corollary is that Moscow apparently finds talking with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Not a reconciliation In other words , China is a decided beneficiary of the trip the American President made to the ancient " Middle Kingdom . " Are there other beneficiaries ? Some Westerners may be disappointed that the sequel to the American opening to China is a reopening between Peking and Moscow . But first , this is by no means a reconciliation . This is no more than a reopening of formal lines of diplomatic communication . Those lines have been blocked while a world tried to digest the magnitude of the meaning of the Nixon visit . Now they are unblocked . Second , this is a long way from a renewal of any military alliance between the two main Communist capitals , but it does reduce the danger of a war between them , And that is a gain for everyone . What this world yearns for above all else is a time of stability . A war between Russia and China would not be helpful ? to anyone . Third and most important is the hopeful implication that the Nixon visit really has had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more signs of such a welcome development than just the return of a Russian diplomat to Peking . Caution in the hot spots Moscow 's favorite areas for causing trouble are the Middle East and Western Europe . Since the Nixon visit Moscow 's role in the Middle East has continued to be played most cautiously and carefully . King Hussein of Jordan has even dared to propose a settlement between himself and Israel that would enormously increase Israel 's security while openly breaking up the old appearance of Arab solidarity . He would not have dared make such a move if Moscow were playing an assertive and forward role in Arabia right now . // *A Russian back in Peking to continue border talks // And Moscow has sweetened , not hardened , the terms with West Germany over the pending new treaties . It seems that the Muskovites do not relish the prospect of a political crisis in Bonn , with Willy Brandt perhaps overthrown and the future course of German policy uncertain . That course now is set toward a closer union with Britain and France in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be willing to have this trend continue rather than face the uncertainty that would be the alternative . Among Western diplomats there has long been a wistful hope that someday internal changes inside the Russian state would cause the leadership to become more cautious and mature in its attitude toward other countries . There has never yet been any clear sign of this tendency . But we now have at least a tentative indication that a drastic change in the world around the Rus- sian imperium is having the desired sobering effect . So far as we can see they have become more cautious , careful , and reasonable in all parts of the world from the moment they heard that Mr. Nixon was going to Peking . So far , the results of that trip are heavily on the plus side ! .                     