@@733809

txt MOSCOW  --  Seven Americans demonstrated briefly against the arms race in Red Square Monday , distributing leaflets and shouting " peace and friendship " in Russian . Soviet police quickly took four of them into custody . ' Six British tourists who had accepted leaflets also were arrested . Correspondents for three American news outlets  --  including this reporter ? also were taken into custody and detained for about half an hour at a police station near the entrance to the square . The , other newsmen were Charles Bierbauer of ABC and Kurt Hoeffle of CBS . THE FOUR demonstrators who were detained and released were Jerry Coffin , 33 , a broadcast ertecutive from New York City , Pat Lacefield , 25 , a journalist from New York City , Steve Somerfield , 24 , a community organizer from Chapel Hill , N.C. , and Craig Simpson , 28 , a union organizer from Albuquerque , N.M . The demonstrators , all members of the War Resisters League , unfurled a banner , " U.S. ? U.S.S.R. Disarm Now , " which the Soviet police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of leaflets into the air when police tried to seize them . The British tourists also were detained briefly . They were upset and repeatedly tried to explain to the police that they were sightseeing in the square . The demonstration was timed to coincide with a similar protest inside the White House . In Washington , Secret Service agents arrested 11 persons Sunday who broke away from a tour group and dashed to a fountain , urging the United States and the Soviet Union to " disarm now . " BIERBAUEll AND Hoe f f I e were seized as they filmed the demonstration . Hoene had his arm twisted behind his back by several officers , and he shouted for help as they forced him into a car with two of the demonstrators . I was grabbed by two officers when I approached a car in which Coffin had been confined . The sleeve of my jacket was torn by one of the officers who grabbed me as I tried to retreat . Earlier an officer had demanded my notes , but when I refused , he did nol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour during which we were forbidden to talk m smoke , Bierbauer and I were usherec into a room and interrogated briefly by half a dozen officers . AFTER SATISFYING themselves that we had no ? . taken part in the demonstration , the officers lectured us about the i inadvisability of covering such events . / One plainclothes officer told us that , N while the Soviet Union had no objection to the awns of the War Resisters League , unauthorized public demonstrations were against the law in this count try . iIf we wanted to report on and take pictures of Soviet citizens ' demonstrate ing against war , the authorities would be happy to arrange such an event for us , he added , Then , with a brusque " goodbye , " he clismiaed us . Hoeffle was released earlier . The authorities did not confiscate my notes or Bierbauer 's camera and film . Their attitude seemed more one of exasperation than anger . DEMONSTRATORS NOT taken into custody were Scott Herrick , 52 , a teacher from Ft . Lauderdale , Fla. , David @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Norma Becker , SO , a New York City school teacher . Coffin had told American correspondents before the demonstration that it was not intended to be " anti-Soviet in character . " Rather , he said , it was " pro-disarmament and anti-militarist . " " Whenever we demonstrate against the arms race in the United States , " he said , " people always tell us to tell it to the Russians . Well , that 's what we 're going to do . "                     