@@729228

txt Dr. Harvey B. Scribner , the Chancellor of the New York City school system , proposed today that students ? along with parents , teachers and supervisors  --  participate as advisers in the selection of high school principals . In an address to the annual convention of the Council of Supervisors and Administrators , which represents principals and other officials in the city schools , he also offered some criticisms of American educational practices . Some in his audience of 300 applauded politely at the end . Others sat in silence . Walter J. Degnan , president of the council , later called the Chancellor 's proposal " utterly silly , " and asked : " What does the average kid of 15 know about picking principals ? " In his address , Dr. Scribner said , that representatives of parents , teachers and supervisors , but not of students , should assume an advisory role in the selection of principals for elementary and junior high schools . He added that all principals , once selected , should have a voice in picking and promoting members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the advisory groups will always be wise or should always be accepted , Dr. Scribner pointed out . But , he added : " In the name of good sense , good education and democratic participation , it is time to begin to staff the schools of this country with the advice of those whom the schools serve and with the advice of those on whose skills they depend . It is time to transform schools into democratic communities of learning . " The supervisors ' council has been Dr. Scribner 's most persistent , critic since the former Vermont State Education Commissioner proposed last October , six weeks after he took , over the city post , that the city system abandon its traditional licensing examinations for teachers and supervisors . Dr. Scribner , in his address this evening , made no specific mention of that proposal , but lie left no doubt that he had not changed his views on the matter . His call for the involvement of parents , teachers , supervisors and , in some instances , students , in the selection of principals represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be involved in school decision-making . All regular principals are now selected from a Civil Service eligibility list drawn up on the basis of an examination . Elementary and junior high principals are selected by district superintendents and community school boards , and high school principals are chosen by the Chancellor with the help of the central high school division . In recent years there has been more parent involvement in the selection process , but virtually none by teachers and students . Dr. Schribner said in an interview that representatives of the high school 's students , teachers , supervisors and parents should participate on a committee that would interview and screen candidates when a vacancy for a principal arises . He added that representation on this committee would be on a proportionate basis . The final decision , he said , would be the Chancellor 's in the case of high schools , and the district superintendents in the case of elementary and junior high schools . His Theme : Reform In his address here , Dr. Scribner took note of the increasing number of school disruptions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has become a major theme of most of his public addresses  --  the need for fundamental reform of American education . During the current school year , the Chancellor said , more than 30 New York City schools have experienced serious disruptions and , in some instances , have had to be closed for varying periods of time . He rejected as " simplistic and misconceived " the contention that school disruption is " produced solely by the ills of society or plotted exclusively by agitators , and that the schools are helpless victims . " " The schools of America , " Dr. Scribner asserted , " nurture a climate of protest when they overly constrain the life of the student , when they perpetuate policies which serve to harass and antagonize them , when they unduly limit his decisions , when they offer him too little responsibility , and they fail to offer a real possibility and a legitimate means by which the student can influence those school policies which directly affect his education and his , life within the school through democratic participation in his school , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have contributed to their own disruption through their curriculum , " he continued . " It is not that all of what they teach is totally out of date , but that the intellectual content of the schools as a whole lies not kept pace with the times . " It is not that all the educational programs of the schools should be scrapped as useless , but that new and different kinds of programs are needed if the schools are to respond to the contemporary demands of pluralism and diversity . It is not that all the methods of the schools produce boredom , but the fact is that many students are indeed bored by the schools . " The chancellor said that he was aware of the difficult problems school supervisors faced and that he did not believe principals were all " lawless barons and that students are innocent victims . " But , he said , educators must not allow themselves to be " overwhelmed into inaction . " Dr. Scribner ended his address with an appeal to his audience : " You and I , as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibility to exert leadership in the reshaping of the schools. , And we can not lead , whatever our differences , if we refuse to lead cooperatively . The schools can be reformed , but only through cooperative efforts . And I look forward to continuing to work with you for change . " 4-Quarter Year Suggested Dr. Scribner said in an invision appearance on Mayor Lindsay 's weekly program , " With Mayor Lindsay , " on WNEW-TV last night , said that establishing a four-quarter school year in New York City might be one solution to overcrowding . Under the plan , which has had some limited experimentation in the state and around the country , students still attend classes for only nine months of the year , but their vacations are not necessarily now . Proponents of the plan say it makes more efficient use of school facilities , now idle during the summer , by spreading the load over a longer period . In the past , however , it has been opposed by some unions that have been reluctant to give up their summer vacations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     