@@732315

txt ASK A PRINCIPAL of a Chicago public school to grade the teachers in his or her school , and three out of four say they are excellent or very good . The principals also give high marks to School Supt. Joseph P. Hannon , but they flunk the 11-member Board of Education cold . These are findings in a Chicago Tribune survey of the city 's public school principals , made in cooperation with the Chicago Principals Association . The survey received an 87 per cent response , with 464 of 535 principals answering a 46-item questionnaire . But while principals generally rate their teachers highly , some volunteered harsh criticism about a 144-page book they must keep at their sides . THE BOOK IS the Board of Education contract with the Chicago Teachers Union . Some principals look resentfully upon it as the key reason for erosion of their authority . That viewpoint was explained by the principal of one of the city 's largest high schools : " My greatest satisfaction comes from working with some truly great and dedicated teachers . It is through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well on tests , achieve in competition , and establish one of the highest attendance records and lowest dropout rates in Chicago schools . " My greatest frustration is in seeing the union 's quest for power in running the schools . It has long been established that the true motivation is more mercenary than concern about quality education for students . The union is a definite handicap to the efficient operation of a school . " Nevertheless , this principal rates the performance of his teachers as excellent . WHEN ASKED to assess the performance of teachers in their schools , 72 per cent of principals rank them excellent or very good . Another 22 per cent rate their faculties good , while the remainder give grades of fair or poor . Since 1967 , principals have been required to implement provisions of the teachers ' union contract with the school board ? and their views are mixed , For some , the contract is no problem ; for others , it is an ever-tightening noose around their necks . The teachers ' contract need not degenerate into a day-after-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who described the greatest source of satisfaction as " a fine staff , and we seem to get along well . " added : " Problems of the union contract are worked out on a rational basis , and the limitations of the facility are taken into account . " " On the whole , " said another principal , " my faculty is dedicated ? primarily dedicated to the education of the children and not existing merely to have a well-paying job . I am happy that they are cohesive , cooperative , and enjoy working together . " That principal made a point in the questionnaire of emphasizing he is a white male in a black elementary school . OTIIER PRINCIPALS emphasized that they have " dedicated teachers . " Some spoke of " high teacher morale " and of " teachers , children , and parents working together . " One observed , " 1 can depend on the teachers performing on a higher level each year . " But among those principals who find the teachers ' union contract a hindrance , one said : " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about that statement . " I have a copy of the union contract on my desk , and I refer to it more often than the general superintendent 's bulletins and board policies and procedures . " ANOTHER PRINCIPAL complained that the contract " prevents me , in many cases , from causing teachers to be accountable . The contract seems to protect incompetent teachers . " Yet another objects to " implementing a policy of education based not on a sound educational philosophy or common sense but on the rigid structure of the latest union contract . We have a new Bible . " The depth of the principal-teacher conflict in some schools was expressed most vividly by one high school principal . " They tend to exaggerate their abil ities. " the principal said . " Because of union victories , they have grown arrogant and less professional and caring about children . " What I see are greed and power games being played by teachers . High school teachers are subject-oriented with emphasis on transference of information to students rather than seeing each child as a unique being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see students shortchanged in this manner . " At one time , I thought that the principalship was the most important office to effect educational change . I thought it to be the seat of power where decisions broke across the schools like tidal waves . " I was wrong . The Board of Education sold us out to the union in the very first board-union contract . It has become worse each succeeding year . I intend to retire at the earliest possible moment . " ANOTHER ISSUE of contention between some principals and teachers is salaries . Asked to rate their present salary , 5 per cent of responding principals said their pay is high , while another 23 per cent replied it is above average . More than half ? 52 per cent ? rate their salary only adequate , and 20 per cent call it inadequate . Some principals resent the narrowing range between them and their assistant principals and teachers . Teachers ' salaries range from 511,000 to 622.500 for 41 weeks , including two weeks ' vacation pay . Principals ' salaries range from $28,150 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than my assistant principal , per pay period , " one principal said . OTHERS HAVE specific figures right on their lips . " My assistant makes $2.43 a week less than I do , " one principal said . " We both have master 's degrees and 36 hours of other college credit . I 'm responsible for the results of a milliondollar-per-year budget . " Another resents " being paid a few dollars a month more than my highest paid teachers . Last year I made $80 more per month . " One other principal with an obvious eye on the wage scale said , " My salary is approximately $12.50 a month higher than my closest teacher , and there is no comparison of workload and responsibility . " As well as asking principals about their teachers , the ' survey asked a rating of the performances of their local district superintendent , School Supt. Joseph P. Hannon , and the members of the Board of Education . Three of every four principals surveyed assess the performance of their immediate superiors , the district superintendents responsible for an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . HANNON RECEIVED a similar rating , although a number of the principals noted that it is too early to form a definitive opinion because he 's still new on the job . Some enthusiastically praised Han-non 's performance during the most recent teachers ' union negotiations and for insisting on holding to a balanced budget . Many of these principals fault the school board for not backing him all the W8y . " We finally have a superintendent ready to stand up to these union bosses , and the board does not have the gumption to back him , " one principal said . " What was the point in appointing the man if they did not intend to support him ? In three years , they will be crying for his head , the same as they did for former School Supt. James F. Redmond 's , saying he is ineffectual , " THE OPTIMISM Hannon exudes encourages some principals . " I feel that Dr. Hannon is going to make our system the best in the country , " one said . " I want to be part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winning team . " " He seems to be the strong leader that our schools need , " another said . But there are skeptics . " Dr. Hannon has said that principals can not be held accountable without getting the tools to do the job , " one principal said . " We wait to see . " But there is a marked difference between how the white and black principals surveyed view Hannon . While 72 per cent of white principals regard his performance as excellent or very good , only 37 per cent of black principals give him one of those two grades . Fifteen per cent of the whites and 20 per cent of the blacks said their superintendent is doing a " good " job . On the low end of the scale , 43 per cent of black principals rate Harmon as only fair or poor , marks given by 13 per cent of the white principals surveyed . ALTHOUGH THE principals generally have positive feelings about their rookie superintendent , they solidly reject the 11-member Board of Education 's performance . Only 6 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excellent or very good . Another 13 per cent said board members are doing a good job . But an overwhelming 82 per cent said the board is only fair or poor . One principal passed up rating his district superintendent and Harmon , explaining , " It is not my duty or responsibility to rate the performance of my district superintendent or of Dr. Hannon any more than teachers can rate princioals . " But the same principal did not shy away from an assessment of the board , emphasizing , " As a citizen and taxpayer , I rate the board ' poor . ' " TOMORROW : Drugs and discipline ? " constant " obstacles in many schools .                     