@@731026

txt When Americans turn their clocks back one hour this Sunday , they could be doing so for the last time . A number of congressional proposals ate now calling for year-round daylight saving time ? setting the clocks forward indefinitely ? as a means of conserving energy . Benjamin Franklin is supposed to have devised the concept of daylight saving time while ambassador to France during the American Revolution . Franklin resented missing out on morning sunshine after late Parisian balls , it is said . By setting the clock forward , he reasoned , people would be able to stay up late and still catch the morning light . National policy set up After almost two centuries and endless debate , daylight saving time ( d.s.t. ) from April to October was finally established as a national policy by act of Congress in 1966 . But even the inventive Franklin could hardly have foreseen that his suggestion would now be championed as an energy-saving device . Dr. Ronald D. Doctor of the Rand Corporation says the speed and ease with which year-round d.s.t. could be initiated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Unlike many energy-conservation schemes , year-round d.s.t. would not depend on voluntary public action , nor would it require several years to yield results as the development of new energy resources will . Nonetheless , Dr. Doctor says , actual energy savings could be " marginal . " In a typical household , extension of daylight saving time might save as much as 6 percept of the electricity now consumed in lighting , or about .2 percent of total household energy , he said . Power saving small Federal Power Commission statistics show that about 1 percent more electric energy'is used during the week following the annual return to normal time from d.s.t. , as compared with consumption of electricity during the previous week , Dr. Doctor says . Although differences in weather and other factors also must be considered , he says the 1 percent figure is " reasonable , " since the U.S. War Production Board reported a similar savings from d.s.t. during World War Dr. Melvyn P. Galin , a consultant with Mitre Corporation , says extended d.s.t. might be most important as a form of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of most intense electricity demand . In Boston , for instance , the sun sets at about 4:15 on Dec. 21 , the shortest day of the year . With extended daylight saving time , the sun would set at about 5:15 , after normal business hours and the shutdown of industrial plants , Dr. Galin points out . Extra generators needed " It is important for it to be light until after 5 o'clock because the daily peak in electricity demand comes in the late afternoon , " he says . Reductions in demand for electricity during peak demand periods are particularly important because extra electric generators used to satisfy these demands not only burn petroleum products , but are relevantly inefficient , he added . A spokesman for the U.S. Department of Transportation , which administers the 1966 d.s.t. statute , says the indirect , as well as the direct , effects of extending daylight saving time must be considered , however . Given an extra hour for recreation in the late afternoon , Americans might burn up as much energy driving to the golf course or the local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he warned . Congressmen sponsoring the proposals to extend daylight saving time say those opposed to the concept include farmers , and mothers who do not want their school-age sons and daughters waiting on a school bus in early morning darkness . On the other hand , the legislation would eliminate semiannual confusion over schedule changes due to setting the clock forward in the spring and back in the fall , they say . The National Transportation Safety Board has estimated that extended d.s.t. might cut down on the number of automobile accidents by allowing the nation 's workforce to return home in daylight .                     