@@730058

txt President Nixon today expressed disappointment with rising food prices and pledged to take action if food prices do nnt rnmn rinwn At a surprise press conference in his oval office , he added it would be a mistake to " make the farmer the scapegoat " for the high meat and food prices . The President did not elaborate on what action might be taken . Warning by Connally Earlier in the day , Treasury Secretary John B. Connally refused to rule out the possibility of imposing controls on raw agricultural products that have been exempt thruout Phase 1 and 2 of the new economic program . lie warned food chains to " watch your prices " or face an administration investigation into their profit margins . Nixon said he welcomed the initiative announced yesterday by the Price Commission to look into rising food prices and supermarket profit margins to see if they have gone beyond the commission 's guidelines . " Then in the event those food prices do not start to move down , " he said , " another action will have to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be taken . " Fanner Gets Third The President pointed out that the food component of the cost of living index is not COD troled . He pointed out that about one-third of the price the consumer pays for food at the supermarket is received by the Farmers as farm income . The other two-thirds goes to middlemen , to retailers , and others , Nixon said , adding that it would be " a mistake and totally unfair to make the farmer the scapegoat for the high meat prices and the high food prices . " Nixon said a preliminary investigation by the Cost of Living Council shows that the " spread between what the farmer receives and what the consumer pays in the grocery store ... has widened . It is too great . " Aside from food prices , the President noted that the rate of inflation over the last six months has decelerated . " On the other hand , " he said , " we are disappointed at even a one-month figure in which the rate of inflation is at the level it was this time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which increased one-half of 1 per cent from January , of which 1.9 per cent of the growth represented higher food prices . Asked About Meany The President was asked how he expects the war on inflation to succeed without the cooperation of George Meany , president of the AFL-CIO , who along with three other labor leaders quit the Pay Board this week . " The war on inflation will succeed with their cooperation , if possible , but without it , if necessary , " Nixon asserted . He praised Meany as a patriotic American " who , at a time when many of his weakspined business colleagues were ready to throw In the sponge with regard to the security of the United States and what was best for this country in dealing with its adversaries abroad , stood firm . " However , the Chief Executive said , by quitting the Pay Board Meany " has overstepped . " Applies to Both He pointed out that the public in the late 19th Century deterMined that no business leader could take the attitude , " the public be damned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Century , " Nixon said , " that applies to both business leaders and labor leaders . " Mr. Meany - . thinks he is acting in the best interests of his members , but I would respectfully suggest that I believe that a great number of his members , possibly a majority realize that wage increases that are eaten up by price increases are no wage increases at all . " Nixon emphasized that in the gan , workers have made the six months since Phase 2 beirst increase in real wages ? noninflationary pay increases ? in five years . " While we have had this one month of bad figures  --  and believe me , I am not satisfied with bad figures ; I want these food prices down  --  nevertheless , our wage-price controls a r working , " the President said . - " We are going to reach our goal , in my opinion , or we are going to come very close to it , cutting the rate of inflation im half . Even tho Mr. Meany not with us , I think what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members . " The President 's language toward Meany was much stronger yesterday when he said the Pay Board would continue to operate as an all-public board rather than a tripartite panel as it was originally structured . He said Meany 's resignation was " selfish and irresponsible " and that as President he could not permit any powerful special interest leader to " torpedo and sink " the anti-inflation program . Meanwhile on Capitol Hill , several Democrats have called for an investigation of the failure of the economic stabilization program and said additional congressional action might be needed .                     