@@729908

txt Walter Dejaco , who designed and built the gas chambers and cremation furnaces in Auschwitz-Birkenau , the largest Nazi death camp in occupied Poland , went on trial before an Austrian jury here today . The 63-year-old former SS officer , an architect by profession , was first denounced to the Austrian authorities in June , 1961 , but continued to live in Reutte , in the Tyrol , where he worked in his fields for almost 10 years before being taken into custody . Dejaco and his former aide , Fritz Karl Ertl , 64 , are accused of direct complicity in the ? premeditated and " vicious " murder of three million European Jews between 1941 and 1945 . In addition , Dejaco is said to have committed several individual murders . The maximum sentence in Austria is life imprisonment , the death penalty having been abolished . Both defendants pleaded not guilty . Seated before large wall charts showing the camp 's system for wholesale execution and speedy disposal , Dejaco denied having joined the SS ( Elite Guard ) voluntarily until he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handwriting , He also maintained that at first he did not know what he was building . Termed Fully Responsible According to the indictment , he was entrusted by the Nazis with over-all responsibility for designing and constructing the gas chambers in Auschwitz and the much bigger installations in neighboring Birkenau , He is known to have been so proud of his work that he exhibited his construction plans in his office until the SS told him to remove them because the project was secret . The reading of the indictment , which lasted more than an hour , took place in an almost erflpty courtroom . The public trial is scheduled to last seven weeks with more than GO witnesses to ' be heard , The indictment said that Dejaco was fully responsible for the planning and building of the death camps ' installations and barracks , acting on the basis of the Nazis ' " final solution " of the Jewish question , In keeping with that he designed the ' ' living " quarters in a way described by the prosecution as a mockery of the most elementary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ventilation to accelerate the " natural " dying process . The indictment said Dejaco knew full well that they were unfit even for animals because he also built hygienic , wellventilated facilities for watchdogs and cattle . In connection with the forcedlabor system and the starvation diet , the document said that even the strongest inmate was reduced to skin and bones within four months . The gas chambers , designed for the use of cyanide , gas , were disguised as shower rooms with signs saying ' ' To the Baths . " In the ceiling dummy showers were mounted and the exit said " to disinfection . " ' Irk reality , the indictment explained , only corpses passed through that door , which led to a room where gold teeth and hair Were salvaged , The indictment said that Dejaco was also responsible with Ertl , who until recently was a contractor in Linz , for servicing the camp 's mass-murder " production line . " The trial is the first in Austria involving Auschwitz . The prosecution 's case has largely been provided from trials in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Jewish Documentation Center here . He prodded several Austrian Governments before he succeeded in getting the authorities to assign a prosecutor to the case full time , The long delay in holding this trial is partly due to the slowness of the Austrian authorities in sifting the wealth of material dealing with Auschwitz . Until recently there was no prosecutor working full time on the Auschwitz case . The authorities were reluctant to go to court again with a badly prepared , case because in previous war trials this had resulted in acquittals by incompletely informed juries . This time the prosecution wanted to make sure that it could demonstrate guilt beyond doubt . The trial of two former guards accused of murder is scheduled to open in April                     