@@734303

txt How long has it been since you listened to live folk songs or watched a play while munching a luncheon sandwich ? For several thousand union members in New York City it has n't been long at all . Since January , members of District 1199 of the National Union of Hospital and Health Care Employees have been getting that kind of cultural lunch hour bonus every few weeks in the hospitals and nursing homes where they work . IVA all part of a mammoth two-year union cultural project , funded by the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities and private organizations , called Bread and Roses . The name comes from James Oppenheimer 's poem recalling the 1912 textile workers strike in Lawrence , Massachusetts , in which young girls carried signs insisting : " We want bread and roses too . " The aim of this varied program , which includes gallery exhibits of photographs and paintings and Friday evening performances at the union 's 43rd Street headquarters , is to cut through the elitist image of the arts and bring them directly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 Lunch-hour bonus : culture for workers The hope is that as more unions launch culturil projects for blue-collar workers , the on-the-job brush with the arts will prove so comfortable and enriching an experience that the workers will be inspired to explore further cultural opportunities after work hours on their own . " We know we 're swimming upstream because we 're dealing with a segment of the population which has been sort of cut off from arts experiences , but we 're making modest progress , " says Paul Stackhouse Jr. , the permanent labor liaison with the Pennsylvania Arts Council , which has helped sponsor more than 100 cultural events for unions around that state over the last year . Since union members account for one-fifth of Pennsylvania 's population , they are , in Mr. Stackhouse 's words , " definitely worth cultivating . " Admittedly , the convenient lunch-hour format , one of several variations being tried for blue-collar workers , has some drawbacks for the performers . Most find it hard to keep an audience fully engrossed as candy wrappers and sandwich bags are constantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It 's hard to get heavy concentration on following a plot , so it precludes your doing certain kinds of shows , " says Bette Craig , one of the founders of New York 's Labor Theater , which has put on 40-minute lunch performances for Bread and Roses workers as well as for a number of other unions in Pennsylvania . The theater tries to tackle social and economic problems in a way to which blue-collar workers can easily relate . Its most recent production is a series of vignettes based on the experiences of working women ranging from maids to truck drivers . The debate continues as to just how much of a role workers should have in choosing the content of the arts programs put before them . In the Bread and Roses project , hundreds of union members had a voice in the choosing and came down heavily in favor of blues , spirituals , and folk songs . The Cleveland Labor Council specifically commissioned a playabout the late labor leader , John L. Lewis . In Baltimore , however , where a grassroots effort by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cafeterias by string quartets and brass ensembles , the fare was strictly classical ? by the union musicians ' choice . " It was the kind of thing you 'd hear on a Sunday afternoon from the Budapest String Quartet , " says James Hook , a trombone player who helped start the project a few years back . " There was never any attempt to play down to the people by doing Pops ' things . But it was totally informal and very well accepted . " Marion Dockery of ' the special projects division of the National Endowment for the Arts argues for an imposed program choice on grounds that the whole idea is to introduce workers to something new that they might not realize they like . " With any arts exposure program you 're always taking a chance on whether or not the audience will be receptive , " she explains . There are few if any statistics on how many union members have rushed out to buy season tickets to the symphony or ballet as a result of the cultural programs served up at the factory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positive short-term effects . After a recent performance by the Howard Roberts Chorale at St. Luke 's Hospital in New York , one doctor said he had never seen any program have a more uplifting effect on employee morale . " It gave us a new incentive to go back to work full of enthusiasm , " conceded one nurse 's aide . Performers note that the informal nature of the union programs makes audiences more likely to participate . " You 're liable to get comments like ' you better believe it ' after a point that really hits home , " says the Labor Theater 's Bette Craig . One other union arts effort under way nationally is a prod to encourage latent artistic talent in workers themselves . In Flint , Michigan , the Greater Flint Arts Council is working with unions to set up an artist-in-residence program at a local auto plant so that workers can improve their artistic hobbies and to get their works out in the open where they can be sold . Similarly , a local New York union of the International Brotherhood of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a workers ' musical that includes disco roller-skating.                     