@@732925

txt Mildly radioactive old gloves , paper towels , scrapped equipment , and other nuclear-industry junk ? just " hot " enough that it should be kept isolated ? threaten to swamp U.S. disposal sites . This is a more immediate serious storage problem than the disposal of the highly radioactive power plant wastes that has raised public concern . Mildly radioactive wastes are generated in large volume and commercial disposal space is filling up faster than once anticipated . The House Government Operations Committee last year called the problem " one of the major unresolved nuclear issues today . " Now , a panel of the National Research Council ( National Academy of Sciences ) has reinforced this warning . As with earlier studies , the panelsees no immediate health hazard . But it says " it is not convinced that current practices should be continued indefinitely . " These practices included disposal methods of questionable safety . Some material is stored above ground in barrels or boxes ; some , after being packaged , is buried at shallow depths in pits or trenches . The Environmental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last year , when it found that plutonium and some other radioactive material had migrated from burial trenches at the Maxey Flats commercial disposal site in Kentucky . ( Leakage has also been known at the Oak Ridge , Tennessee , repository for government wastes . ) While no immediate health hazard was found , the EPA report focused a growing concern that low-level radioactive wastes are not always being satisfactorily handled . // From page 1 *Radioactive trash overflows Meanwhile , available storage space has shrunk , even as need for it continues to grow . In 1975 , there were six commercial sites ? Richland , Washington ; Beatty , Nevada ; Sheffield , Illinois ; Barnwell , South Carolina ; West Valley , New York ; and Maxey Flats . Then they were considered well distributed geographically and adequate for this century . Since then , West Valley has been closed and state surcharge of 10 cents a pound for waste delivered . to the site has driven off most of the Maxey Flat customers ? so that site is to some extent effectively unavailable . Meanwhile , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come in large volume . Both ERDA and industry each now generate waste volumes equivalent to the trash of a typical American community of 55,000 . But , while ERDA does not expect its waste volume to grow much , industrial waste will escalate as the nuclear power industry grows . Kitty - Dragonette , health physicist in the waste management program of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission ( NRC ) , says there is no question this must be taken seriously . She cites a soon-to-be-published NRC study which estimates existing commercial disposal capacity will run out by 1989 . This will not happen , she adds , because NRC , EPA , and other interested agencies now are well aware of what had been a neglected problem . She expects adequate new disposal capacity to be ready in time . However , getting it will not be simply a matter of certifying new sites or expanding existing ones . New and tougher safety criteria ? both for the sites themselves and for disposal methods ? must be developed . This will take several years . Reinforcing what both the General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , the NRC panel has stressed the need to overhaul the whole regulation of commercial activity in this field . Present regulation is a muddled legacy of an era in which mildly . radioactive waste - disposal was a low-priority item . A system of divided authority evolved . Various states under agreement with the old Atomic Energy Commission and its successor the Nuclear Regulatory Commission ( NRC ) manage disposal sites through private contractors . NRC licenses the sites . The states are responsible for their perpetual care . That is why Kentucky slapped a surcharge on material sent to Maxey Flats when the EPA report - of leakage suggested costs of care might rise .                     