@@733390

txt column missing " It is impossible for us to accept Presi- I dent Sadat 's invitation to a meeting in Cairo , " Mr. Khaddam said . The remarks by the Syrian Foreign Minister to reporters represented the strongest condemnation yet by Syria of President Anwar el-Sadat 's peace moves , and was interpreted as tantamount to a rupture in relations between the two countries . The Foreign Minister accused Mr. Sadat of " betraying the Arab nation " and said the Egyptian ' leader was " finished " as : commander in chief of the Arab . forces . Referring to Mr. ' Sadat 's visit to the Israeli Parliament , he said , . " Syria considers that peace does not pass via the Knesset . " Attack by Prime Minister The so-called " refusal summit " in Libya is expected to be attended by Syria , Iraq , Algeria . Libya , Southern Yemen and the Palestine Liberation Organization . Earlier , without directly mentioning Mr. Sadat or his proposal for a preliminary meeting in Cairo , Prime Minister I Abdel Rahman Khleifawi charged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ displays of moderation " would not lead to a solution of the Middle East problem . " The Prime Minister made his statement column missing petted to urge Damascus authorities " not tp go too far too soon " in their declared deposition to Mr. Sadat 's dialogue with Israel . A Syrian Government spokesman had a ) ready condemned Mr. Sadat 's proposal for a Cairo meeting next week as " only a maneuver to cover up his visit of shame to Israel last weekend . ' " We shall not allow Sadat to create a news event to cover up his visit to the enemy and make the Arab people forget it , " the official spokesman said , in what was interpreted as refusal to attend the Cairo talks . Meanwhile , Palestinian officials announced that a limited Arab summit conference , grouping the countries that have led the attack against Mr. Sadat 's recent initiatives , would be held in Libya next Thursday . According to the Palestinians , the leaders of Syria , Iraq , Algeria , Libya , Southern Yemen and the Palestine Liberation Organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced joint action earlier this week to combat what was described as " Sadat 's pan-Arab treason . " Therefore , it was believed that the meeting in Libya had Syria 's blessings . The summit meeting would be aimed at setting up " a solid Arab front " against Mr. Sadat 's visit to Israel and its results , the Palestinian sources stressed . Khaled Fahoum , chairman of the P.L.O . ' s Central . Council , announced that a meeting of the policy-making body , set for next Thursday in Damascus , would be held a day earlier . The change was to enable the Palestinian leader , Yasir Arafat , to attend the talks in Libya on Thursday . The P.L.O. , which has , denounced Mr. Sadat 's visit to Israel as " treason , " also rejected'his proposal for a Cairo meeting next week . The organization 's Executive Committee was to meet In Beirut tonight " to adopt adequate measures , " Palestinian sources here said . Mr. Sadat 's invitation for a preparatory meeting made no mention of the P.L.O. , and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ P.L.O . has been recognized by all Arab countries as " the only . legitimate representative " of the Palestinians but relations between it and Mr. Sadat have been strained to the breaking point since Mr. Sadat 's visit to Israel . Syria was expected to reject the Cairo invitation because it seemed : to bypass the P.L.O . and , above all , because the Syrian Government has Insisted that Israel must make some " substantial concession " on the two basic issues  --  withdrawal from the occupied territories and recognition of Palestinian national rights ? before a meeting is held . The Damascus radio commented sarcastically on Mr. Sadat 's speech to the Egyptian Parliament . The radio called the speech . " a desperate attempt to justify his shameful visit " and said that Mr. Sadat had declared Cairo " an opeii city " as of next Saturday so that all the parties involved In the Mideast conflict could send delegates to talk about preparations for a Geneva conference . The official newspaper Al Thawra condemnned the speech even before . it had been delivered , predicting that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " on his Israeli honeymoon " and would cooperate with the Israelis to reject the P.L.O . Syria 's Minister of Information , Ahmed Iskandar , declared last night that Syria doubted that there could be a Geneva conference " under the present - circumstances . " Accusing Mr. Sadat of " submission , " he said that Syria was engaged in intensive political efforts to promote " an Arab resistance front " against the Egyptian President 's independent moves . Arab-American Criticizes Sadat The head of an Arab-American group yesterday called President Anwar elSadat " a well-meaning fool " and said his speech to the Egyptian Parliament had been " a great disappointment . " Dr. M.T . Mehdi , president of the America-Arab Relations Council , said Mr. Sadat 's speech had been disappointing because " it did not contain any Israeli concessions . "                     