@@730069

txt When the southerly kona winds blow onto shore trapping auto exhaust , the mountains of this island of Oahu disappear in the haze , and this city , famed for its tropical splendor , is blanketed with yellow smog . The Pacific Ocean nearby is n't so pretty either . Only 3,500 feet from shore and less than four miles from Waikiki Beach , 55 million gallons of raw sewage churn into the sea daily , discoloring and polluting the water . The city 's principal means of waste disposal is a big pipe that dumps untreated effluent into the city 's Keehi Lagoon just 35 feet below the surface . Honolulu itself is jammed with cars , people and all the by-products of a nonstop building boom to accommodate new residents ( up over 20% in the past decade ) and tourists ( up sixfold in the 60s ) . The city and surrounding Oahu Island now house 645,000 residents-80% of the state 's population  --  and the area clearly suffers from " people pollution , " says Robert C. Schmitt , the state statistician . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't escape unscathed . In once-quiet corners of all the major islands , bulldozers are scraping the land for future subdivisions and sprawling resorts . Sugar-cane planters continue to burn cane fields , filling the air with smoke and ash , and to dump massive amounts of cane trash and soil into the water off the island of Hawaii , discoloring the Pacific for miles . A Different Brochure To some Hawaiians , all these are merely the inevitable signs of development and progress . But to a growing band of critical residents and visitors , they are omens of a distressing trend : a deteriorating environment and what they term an apathetic state bureaucracy that is failing to combat the pollution of land , air and sea . The controversy sharpened last year in the wake of a critical report on Hawaii 's environment by J. Davitt , an associate of Ralph Nader . Hired by the University of Hawaii Jo , develop . a31 ecology progratn , be created a statewide scandal by mailing a brochure to travel agents and others on the mainland . It pictured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that said , " Warning ? Polluted Water . " He asserted that " an environmental disaster will engulf Hawaii and all of its people " unless abuses are corrected . Mr. has returned to the mainland , but his criticisms continue to echo here . A militant ecology group , Life of the Land , has taken up the cause , along with a number of politicians and civic groups . Lawsuits and lobbying efforts by Life of the Land are forcing the state health department and the administration of Gov . John Burns to devote increasing time to pollution matters . Among the state 's new proposals : waste-water treatment facilities , primarily near Honolulu , estimated to cost $173 million over five years . Gambling on Federal Aid Thus far , however , the federal government has n't voted the 55%-share of the total cost that Congress has promised communities for improved sewage treatment . The state is considering borrowing the federal share and gambling that Washington will come through later . Richard Marland , the governor 's chief environmental adviser , predicts construction will begin on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ecologists and staff people1at the state health department are skeptical the program will begin anytime soon . The legislature is dragging its heels in the face of deficit state budgets . " Where are we going to borrow all this money when our credit is no good ? " asks one state health official . Many business leaders here disagree with the environmental critics . " There is less litter and mess in Hawaii than in almost any place in the world of comparable population , " says Henry A. Walker , president of Amfac Inc. , a diversified Hawaiian company . He said in a recent New York speech . " We are blessed with fresh northeast tradewinds which very effecttveiy keep our atmosphere cleansed . " Moot observers here would agree Hawaii remains idyllic by comparison with , say . Los Angeles or Newark . But President Nixon 's Water Pollution Control Advisory Board , on a recent visit to Hawaii , reminded the state that the worst could happen . Kaneohe Bay , just north of Honolulu in a highly developed area , is full of silt and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it had received about the ' dead sea ' areas off Newark and New York where man has fouled the oceans almost beyond belief , " the board said . " Steadily Worse " As for the cleansing effects of the trade winds on air pollution , many Honolulu residents testify that the northeast breezes are n't that reliable . Thomas Gill , an attorney and an unsuccessful gubernatorial candidate who lives in the mountains above the city , says , " As you drive down and hit the inversion layer of air at about 600 feet , it 's like diving through the scum on the surface of a lake . You can feel it and smell it , and it gets steadily worse  --  and this happens maybe 20% of the time . " State health department officials , charged with enforcing Hawaii 's generally tough antipollution laws , often seem to vacillate . Few actions have been brought against water or air polluters . Last June , Thomas M. Pico Jr. , the deputy state attorney general , dramatically resigned in a surprise statement to the President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Burns of abandoning enforcement of pollution-control laws . He focused on an alleged secret promise by the governor to sugar companies that they would not be prosecuted for water pollution of the Hamakua Coast and would be allowed to dictate terms of eventual compliance with the law . The nine sugar plantations involved , subsidiaries of C. Brewer &; Co . Ltd. and Theo . H. Davies Co . Ltd. , vigorously deny the state knuckled under to them . And they object to a recommendation by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to the Justice Department that they be criminally prosecuted for violation of the 1899 Refuse Act . " I do n't see why the federal government has to stick its bloody nose into this when we and the state have agreed on a solution , " says Brewer 's new president , Murray Stewart , a former executive with Brewer 's parent company , International Utilities Corp . He claims the dumping of cane trash off the island of Hawaii will end by next year . The Hamakua Coast sugar companies now are negotiating a settlement with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosecution exists , sources indicate the government likely will accept a settlement whereby the companies agree to eliminate almost all waste discharge within 36 months . In minor but perhaps important ways , the state 's health officials betray a concern for protecting the state 's image as much as its health . Consider the famous sign that once proclaimed that pollution made Keehi Lagoon unfit for swimming . A Honolulu Star-Bulletin photographer snapped a surfer coming in on a wave behind the sign ; Mr. reprinted the picture a year ago in his famous brochure . Since then , the sign and similar warnings have disappeared . What happened to the signs ? No one is certain . " They fell down and people took them away , " explains Shinji Soneda , chief of the health department 's environmental health division . " Personally , I do n't think there was any political pressure to keep the signs down . " He pauses and adds , But there was some sensitivity to them in meetings we had with the hotel people . " Mr. Marland , the governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safe for swimming , " despite the fact that the state 's experts say it remains polluted with excessive bacteria counts from human sewage and other waste . Nearby Waikiki Beach remains absolutely safe , state officials and industry leaders stress . But to a visitor , the famed beach , now dominated by skyscraper hotels much like Miami Beach 's , hardly seems in a pristine state ; and residents complain that the water is unpleasant to swim in . " I stay out of the Waikiki area because of the sediment and cloudiness of the water , " says a local journalist who likes to skin dive . Blame It on Kona One much-quoted health department study found Waikiki Beach exceeding federal permissible levels for water pollution on two days of a 37-day teat . " That 's only 6% of the time , and it was probably due to kona ( southerly wind ) weather , " argues one health department official . But federal officials have criticized the state 's water sampling effort and enforcement . And one environmentalist here asserts , " The state has no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minimum required by federal law . If there was something harmful off Waikiki beach , state inspectors would n't find it . " Dirty air , however , rather than polluted water is the hottest issue in Hawaii at the moment . The state last year adopted very rigid standards to prevent air pollution , but efforts to enforce these standards generally have n't been noticeable . This year , Hawaii faced a deadline in submitting a plan to the EPA to insure air quality , and the state chose to propose measures that are far leas stringent than its previously adopted standards . A federal official wonders " why the state should submit lower standards =hos it does n't intend to enforce the tougher original state code . " The plan submitted to Washington does require electric utilities here to burn lowouiphur fuel , a move that will prove expensive for Hawaii Electric Co . But it gave sugar companies a major break by backing away from a ban on cane-field burning by IND as it had originally proposed . Sugar companies protested the move would prove " dhastrues " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mills and plantations . So , the health department agreed to merely study the question of a ban . ( Cane fields are set on fire here to eliminate dense dead matter in the fields before mechanical harvesting . ) Going to Court Hawaii 's new air-quality plan is enforceable by the federal government if the state neglects to enforce its own measures . Nevertheless the fact that the new standards allow more pollution than previous regulations has infuriated local environmentalists . According to Tony Hodges , executive director of Life of the Land , his group intends to sue the state and the EPA over the plan . Sofia Iokai , Life of the Land 's president , says a changeover from the old plan to the new would " lead to a degradation of the environment because Hawaii 's air already is eight times cleaner than the federal standard . " Environmentalists are n't entirely disheartened , however , and in fact were recently cheered by what they consider a major victory . A report ordered by the 1970 Legislature from the state 's Department of Planning and Economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming to Hawaii . If such a limitation is imposed , environmentalists say , the effect would serve to halt what they consider over-exuberant land development and hotel building . The report asks for a moratorium on further rezoning of agricultural land to permit new resort areas . It notes that the state currently has 32,280 hotel rooms , most of them built in the 1960s . According to present zoning , triple the current number  --  or 105,000 ? could be built . The report urges that total hotel space be limited to only 52,000 rooms maximum by 1980 . " It 's about time , " says Mr. Hodges regarding the proposed zoning moratorium . " It 's really five years too late . "                     