@@732462

txt Campaigning for the April 12 municipal elections in the Israeli-ocCupied towns of the West Bank entered its last week with Israelis anxiously wondering what the outcome would be . For the results are expected to offer some indication as to whether the recent protest demonstrations in the area were the beginning of a continuing and mounting campaign ? with perhaps more serious confrontations yet to ' come . ( The - recent . protest demonstrations in this case were staged by Palestinians ? most of them young people ? who have been living un der Israeli occupation since the West Bank was seized from Jordan in the six-day war of 1967 . They shoUld not be confused with the protest demonstrations last week in Galilee by Arabs who are citizens of Israel and who till now have quietly accepted their position as a minority within Israel itself . ) Israelis would regard as a portent of further trouble on the West Bank significant victories in the April 12 municipal elections for- candidates backed by either the Communists or the Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) . The Israeli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ registered when the lists ' closed were either Communist or . PLO-backed . The other half are conservative and have a re*Please turn to Page 30 *Israel waits out West Bank votes // sidual loyalty to King Hussein of Jordan ? or are at least supportive of his foreign policy . In the view of Israeli military administration officials , these conservatives ? in any eventual plebiscite on the future of the West Bank ? would - vote for a reversion of the territory to King Hussein 's rule rather than for an independent Palestinian state on the West Bank . Since the Israelis would rather have King Hussein back on the West Bank than the emergence there of an independent Palestinian state , Israelis make no secret of their hope that the pro-Hussein conservatives will sweep the polls in the voting on April 12 . There has been an outcry about the summary expulsion from the West Bank into Lebanon of two Communist-backed candidates for the mayoralty in two of the most important towns under Israeli occupation : Nablus and Bireh . They were said by an Israeli military spokesman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both were expelled just before formal registration for the elections opened . They can not run in absentia since registration can not be made by proxy . Among those protesting at the expulsion was a justice of the Israeli Supreme Court who had agreedto hear and appeal staying the expulsion order . If West Bank Palestinian leftists have been deprived of two of their candidates , so too has the Israeli military administration ? at least in the sense that these , were candidates whom the Israelis would have Eked to see run and win . They are the incumbent mayors of Nablus and Hebron , both conservatives in the Hussein camp . Both declined to put their names forward as registered candidates . Israeli Defense Minister Shimon Peres , " boss ' . ' of the West Bank under the occupation statute , gave orders to extend the deadline for registration first by 2 hours then by 16 , so as to leave time to try to talk the two into a last-minute registration ? but in vain . Theirs is said to be no gesture of protest , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chances , particularly in the case of Mayor Jaabari of Hebron . He has been prepared to run , but only if unopposed as he had been for years . The Israeli . military administration tried to induce Mr. Jaabari 's opponents to withdraw . When the opponents refused , Mr. Jaabari himself withdrew . With him , one of the most picturesque figures of the West Bank will bid his political good-byes after a public life going back to the British mandate between the two world wars .                     