@@728577

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times To Mobilize Sanity To the Editor : President Nixon 's surprise move to invade Cambodia and North Vietnam has shaken this country and whatever remained o ' world peace to their very foundations . An ominous chain reaction begins to unfold domestically and abroad with quite unpredictable end results . An urgent question arises whether drifting events can still be stopped before they get out of control . A mobilization of sanity , common sense and decency must be mounted on a world scale to exert pressure on the runaway " hawks " in Washington and to reverse the suicidal course . An emergency special session of the General Assembly of the United Nations attended by the heads of states and governments can be convened on short notice on request of any member state , with the concurrence of a majority . Such an emergency special session could call on the parties concerned to resume the Geneva conferences on Indochina and to suspend fighting in the meantime . The Scandinavian , West European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for intense diplomatic efforts to stem the tide of escalation which threatens to engulf us all in a broadening foreign and an incipient civil war . ALEKSANDER WITOLD RUDZINSKI New York , May 5 , 1970 ? Horton 's Stand on War To the Editor : Your May 8 editorial " Youth 's Faith . . . " gets to the heart of the crisis facing this nation today  --  a growing feeling that the views of large segments of our people are not heard or heeded in Washington . In illustrating the dramatic effect of the concern and involvement of youth in the Indochina crisis , you stated that student concern had persuaded me to abandon my support of the Administration 's policies in Southeast Asia . This is not an accurate statement of my position . While I do agree wholeheartedly with students and others who feel that the situation in Cambodia was wrong and that it raises serious constitutional questions , I came to that conclusion before the President spoke by announcing my support in Congress on April 30 for the Reid amendment to prohibit funds for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President should not have assumed the risks of this decision without consulting Congress , his action has not altered my support for the program of withdrawal of American troops which he has undertaken . I urged de-Americanization or Vietnamization of this war as far back as 1967 and 1968 . I applauded President Nixon 's decision to implement this policy when he took office . My fear is that the Cambodian action , even if it is militarily successful , in a larger context of the American system of government and of our national and international priorities , raises serious questions . I have been extremely impressed with the attitudes and thoughts of students who have come to Washington this week and who have talked with me about Cambodia and the war . I was particularly impressed with the efforts of students at the University of Rochester and elsewhere to harness the concern of young people into positive and responsible action through a national petition aimed at winning broad public support for ending the war . My opposition to the Cambodian action and my fervent support for the implementation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in concert with the concerns of many of these young people , and I join you in hoping that their voices will be heard . FRANK HORTON Member of Congress 36th District , New York Washington , May 8 , 1970 ? Invitation to Workers To the Editor : I want to talk to the New York construction workers . They will know what I 'm saying . I grew up on the streets of Brooklyn , in a tough IrishItalian-Polish neighborhood . I talk Brooklynese . I march with the students , and I ' think that the construction workers should be marching with the students . What happens to me does n't matter . One Nobel laureate has already been killed . That was Martin Luther King . What happens to the kids  --  their kids , my kids ? matters very much . So I want to talk to them . Any time , any place . How about it ? GEORGE WALD Nobel Laureate in Physiology and Medicine Cambridge , Mass. , May 10 , 1970 ? Princeton 's Plans To the Editor : In your May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to shut down next fall just before the elections to let students work for candidates of their choice "  --  a step which he unfortunately later refers to as " letting the students skip class . " For Princeton , at least , this is a grossly misleading interpretation . The length of the academic term will not be reduced . This two-week recess , which will allow those who wish to do so to participate actively in the electoral process , will be compensated for by starting classes one week earlier in the fall , by giving up the three-day Thanksgiving recess , and by delaying the start of the Christmas holidays by three days . There is no intention of playing hookey from work to indulge in politics . We see this as a positive response to a grave national crisis , a response which facilitates constructive efforts by individuals while neither committing the university to any particular political position nor interfering with its prime educational responsibilities . We hope other universities and colleges will join us in this action . ROBERT F. GOHEEN President Princeton University Princeton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To the Editor : The present Social Security program is inequitable to married women who are working . Upon retirement , married women are entitled to receive a pension based upon their husband 's earnings . They are entitled to , and receive this , even though they have never contributed to Social Security . The working woman , upon retirement , is entitled to receive either the pension she is eligible for based upon her earnings or her husband 's dependent allowance ? which . ever is higher . Therefore , the married woman who has worked and contributed to Social Security receives the same amount of pension as the wife who never worked and never contributed to Social Security . Working women should be entitled to receive the pension to which they contributed in addition to what they would receive if they had never worked  --  never contributed . There are thousands of voting women who are wondering when someone will come to their aid . GAIL SLOANE Belle Harbor , N. Y. March 30 , 1970 ? War to End Wars To the Editor : President Nixon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Southeast Asia , asked the American people to support United States military activity there so that the sons and brothers of soldiers could live in a peaceful world . How often have we heard Presidents declare that this is a war to end all wars ? World peace will ensue only when men reject war as a means for settling differences . ALLEN HARTVIK Brooklyn , April 30 , 1970                     