@@729036

txt A chartered twin-engine jetliner carrying Marshall University 's football team , boosters and crew crashed in flames into a muddy hillside near here tonight , killing all 75 persons aboard . The Southern Airways DC-9 crashed in a light fog and rain midway up a hillside-10 miles west of Huntington  --  the last hurdle for planes on approach to the nearby Tri-State Airport . Worst U. S. 1970 Crash The tragedy was " the worst domestic air crash this year , " a Federal Aviation Administration spokesman in Washington said , and it was described as one of the worst in history involving an athletic team . The crash also was the worst in West Virginia air travel history . Positive identifications of those aboard were not made , pending transport of the bodies from the rural scene to a National Guard Armory at the airport , where a makeshift morgue was set up . A spokesman for Southern ; Airways in Atlanta said the $4.5 million craft , capable of carrying 95 , was carrying 70 passengers and a crew of 5 . He said it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , executive vice president and general manager of the carrier , left Atlanta for the crash site . Civic Leaders Aboard The plane also carried West Virginia civic leaders and legislators . The DC-9 was in communication with the airport until just before the crash . The control tower said " everything was perfectly normal and there was no indication of trouble . " All of this year 's fatal domestic airliner crashes were on charter or nonscheduled flights , none in commercial scheduled flights . It was the nation 's third airliner accident  --  the second this year  --  involving a college football team . Thirty-one persons , including 14 Wichita State University players , were killed Rick Tolley Oct. 2 when their plane crashed in the Colorado Rockies . In 1960 a plane crash at Toledo , , killed 22 persons . including 16 1 members of the California ; State Polytechnic College team . 6 Doctors Among Victims 1 The civic leaders and legislators aboard the ill-fated craft were members of a boosters ' club composed of prominent , wealthy citizens who aided the Marshall football effort financially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ club on the plane included six " prominent physicians . " The pilot was making an approach to the airport 's runway 11 when the crash oecurred at about 7:40 p. m. , after a 40-minute flight from Kinston , N. C. The Marshall team had played East Carolina College at Greenville , N : C. , and lost 17 to 14 . There was a 300-foot ceiling and visibility was five miles , the FAA said . A Kenova Fire Department official said " after the plane hit it seemed to explode . " Coach Was Aboard East Carolina Athletic Director John Montague said Marshall Athletic Director Charles Kautz and Marshall Coach Rick Tolley were aboard the plane . The Marshall team , depleted because of a recent recruiting scandal and Mid-American Conference suspension , opened the season with a 40-man squad . Only about a half-dozen players were from West Virginia . Others were from Florida , Texas , Massachusetts , Ohio , New Jersey and elsewhere . School on Probation Marshall was placed en pra ? bation because of recruiting methods and alleged payments to players . Players @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transferred to other schools . The team 's 1970 record was 3-6 . An area resident , Mrs. Don Bailey , said , " I heard the plane overhead . Then it made a funny sound . I went to the back porch and saw a streak of fire and then an explosion . My house shook . Then it seemed like there was nothing but fire in the sky . " In Washington , National Transportation Safety Board Chairman John H. Reed said he would head a 10-man investigative team leaving for Huntington tonight .                     