@@730549

txt Chancellor Willy Brandt scored a triumph - in West Germany 's parliamentary election today . In a record-breaking vote his Social Democratic Party for the first time emerged as the strongest party in the country . With its junior partner , the Free Democrats , it won a solid majority for the next f our years . Brandt , 58 , rode to victory on his policy of reconciliation with Communist Eastern Europe , for which he was awarded the 1971 Nobel Peace Prize . Inflation and other domestic issues obviously played a minor role in the voters ' decision . Bitter Defeat for Foes For the opposition Christian Democrats and their leader , Rainer Barzel , the election ended in bitter defeat . In the new Bundestag lower house they no longer will be the largest party , a distinction they bad enjoyed since 1949 when Konrad Adenauer was elected West Germany 's first government chief . The party will lose the privilege of appointing the speaker of the house from its ranks . Official final results gave the two governing parties a combined majority of 54.3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the total vole , a gain of 3.2 per cent from the last election . ? Other Results Listed The Free Democrats won 8.4 per cent , or 3.4 per cent more . The opposition Christian Democrats dropped 1.3 per cent to 44.8 per cent . Both the rightist National Democrats and the Communist Party failed badly and stayed below one per cent in voters support . The National Democrats were regarded as an omen of a Fascist revival in 1969 when they got 4.3 per cent . In the new Bundestag the Social Democrats will have . 230 seats , a gain of 6 . The Fr ee Democrats will have 42 , a gain of 12 ; and the Christian Democrats 224 , down 6 . The coalition will soar from its current standoff with the opposition to a solid majority of 48 seats . The election was called a year ahead of time after the government 's majority had collapsed in a dispute over Brandt 's Eastern policy . Despite cold weather , 90 per cent of the 40.8 million eligible voters cast ballots . It marked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hundreds of party friends and well-wishers crowded into the chancellory tonight to congratulate the smiling Brandt on his sweeping victory . " For me this is not a moment of triumph , " the chancellor said in a televised statement , " altho it is a moving moment of satisfaction and pride . " He said the vote was a clear mandate for the government parties to continue on the road they had taken three years ago . " We will participate with great intensity in the worldwide process of detente , and we will use every opportunity to advance our goal of European integration , " he said . New Tasks Seca Brandt referred to the new tasks that will arise when the two Germanys are admitted into the United Nations next year , and to the process of normalizing relations with Communist East Germany . He repeated that he was ready to travel to East Berlin before Christmas to sign Bonn 's treaty with East Germany . The chancellor said he would seek opposition cooperation for the great national tasks ahead . But there was a note of bitterness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lack of objectivity , the unfairness and the " flood of money " mostly spent on anti-government ads against which they had to fight in the campaign , Barzel conceded the outcome when computer projections con firmed early forecasts of a government victory , and cabled congratulations to Brandt .                     