@@733459

txt Long Island . 10,000 in New Jersey and more than 7,000 in Connecticut remained without electricity . A spokesmaR for the Long Island Lighting Company said it was expected that " many customers will remain without service for several days . " New Jersey and Connecticut utility officials said they were hopeful that power would be fully restored by late today . " The power outages are ongoing , " said Jan Hickman of Lilco last night . " The rain , is continuing . The temperature continues to drop . There is more ice and more lines going down . For the crews it is riot only freezing ' out , but road conditinns are extremely hazardous . " ' No Heat , No Lights ' The National Weather Service said the forecast for today was for occasional snow flurries and temperatures ranging from 20 to 30 degrees . Tens of thousands of homes on Long Island were left without heat as a result of the loss of electricity , and schools , firehouses and civic clubs were opened as shelters as nightfall approached . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said in midafternoon that his home had been without electricity for.18 hours . " We have no heat , no lights , " he said . " We have a fireplace and some kerosene lamps and we have a gas stove for cooking . " Volunteers from the Red Cross and the Salvation Army were offering coffee , soup and sandwiches at many of the shelters . In Suffolk County the Salvation Army mobilized two vans and a truck to distribute soup , coffee and hot chocolate door to door in the Huntington area , which was particularly hard hit . As of last night , many of the lines were , Still charged with electricity , according to the police , who warned that " tinder no. circumstances should they be ap- there had been heavy erosion on the North Shore . Many side roads were treacherously icy and many were also clogged with fallen trees and branches and tangles of power lines , the police reported . Traffic tights were not functioning in. many areas . This hazard , along with the slippery roads , led the police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In midafternoon and early evening , only a few cars were seen crawling cautiously along the main arteries in the vicinity of Huntington , L.I . The icing knocked out some signal and communications equipment on the Long Island Rail Road , causing delays of up to two and a half hours on the main line at midday . By early evening , a spokesman said , the delays had been reduced to about 30 minutes . The Western portion of Suffolk and northern Nassau Counties were the hardest-hit sections . Extensive damage was reported in the communities of East Northport and Commack on the North Shore . The power losses began to develop late Friday night . Stores reported a run on flashlights , candles and lanterns . In one large denartment stcre in East Northport , L.I. , fighting reportedly broke out as custotomers scrambled for the last remaining flashlights . Like much of the surrounding village , Syosset Hospital on Long Island was without power much of yesterday . But Edith Ryan , the nursing supervisor , said that the hospital 's emergency-power system was working and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Rockville Centre , on the South Shore , generates its own electriciy . During the regionwide blackouts in 1965 and 1977 , it had been a pocket of light , one of the few communities that did not lose electrical power . But the village was dark yesterday and indication were that electricity might not be flowing again until late today . In Manhattan , there were a number of reports of loss of heating and hot water . Partly in response , Mayor Kock visited the bureau of Housing Complaints in Harlem and declared that the city would spend " as much as necessary " for Mery ency repairs . , . A spokesman for the bureau said that staff members were on duty around the clock at 960-4800 to handle heating and . hot-water problems .                     