@@733709

txt Keeping your head when all about you are losing theirs : No phrase better describes Secretary of State Vance , as he showed again this week in a much-needed restatement of the . Carter Administration 's policies toward Africa . Elsewhere , both here and abroad , many usually calm heads have become rattled by visions of Africa as the new and great theater of confrontation between East and West . Mr. Vance took the right view of the threat to Africa posed by Cuban troops and Soviet arms . Their ' propping up of weak governments in Angola and Ethiopia may violate Western and some African sensibilities , but nearly all African governments defend the right of others to invite support from any quarter . And while Havana and Moscow support guerrilla movements against white-dominated regimes in southern Africa , the West also regards the present rulers of Rhodesia and Namibia as illegitimate , even if it draws , back from endorsing armed struggle against them . Although Mr. Vance set no limits to what he would regard as tolerable intervention in Africa , he left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even so , however , he would assign the primary responsibility for defense to those African states and to their Organization of African Unity . ? - The focus of American policy belongs where the ? Secretary placed it : on efforts to resolve the problems ' that " create the excuse for external intervention . " The most important are the conflicts of southern Africa . Mr. Vance wisely resisted the advice of those who would recognize Ian Smith 's " internal settlement " in ' Rhodesia merely to counter the Cuban and Soviet support of the Patriotic Front guerrillas . Endorsing either ? side , as he put it , would only inflame the conflict . And as he further indicated , that American policy should not change even if the Rhodesian civil war intensifies . Otherwise Mr. Smith and his present partners would have no incentive to negotiate the settlement that alone can end the bloodshed . Regarding Namibia the Secretary also reaffirmed the Administration 's policy . There it is the guerrillas who still reject Western proposals for United Nationssponsored elections . If they continue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Africa from imposing its own version of majority rule . As for South Africa 's vexing problems , Mr. Vance made clear that the Administration would propose no blueprint or timetable for major changes in relations among the races . He only warned again that the failure of the white Government " to begin to make genuine progress " toward racial justice would inevitably result in a deterioration of relations with Washington . Mr. Vance 's address was thus notable not for any new policy directions but for the affirmation that the United States intends to continue to rely on trade , aid ? and diplomacy to help African states achieve greater self-reliance . Even as he spoke , a senior Americarrdiplomat was on his way to Angola , whose Government the United States has not recognized , to discuss ways in which its Marxist regime might resolve a long-standing dispute with Zaire and help in negotiating a settlement in neighboring Namibia . That was the Administration 's effective  --  and encouraging ? answer to those who argue for clandestine or military aid to the Angolan regime 's domestic enemies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Neto , into still further dependence on the Cubans and Russians , the United States will belatedly seek to exert a constructive influence of its own . To those who shrink in alarm from such diplomacy because of Angola 's present Marxist coloration , Mr. Vance gave a reply that epitomizes the judicious nature of his ? and , we trust , the President 's ? approach to African problems : " We have not been preoccupied with labels or categories , " he said , " for these are particularly misleading in the African context . "                     