@@729670

txt A long list of improvements at the Attica state prison were promised to rebelling inmates before their five-day revolt was quelled . Whether additional time could have brought a compromise on the two issues upon which prison officials and inmates could not agree will never be known . These demands were total amnesty for crimes committed during the revolt and removal of the prison 's warden . The decision to use force to end the rebellion resulted in the Monday-morning onslaught inside prison walls by 1,700 national guardsmen and state troopers . Thirty-eight persons , including nine of the hostages , were killed . About half the hostages were rescued and about 100 prisoners wounded . The Monroe County medical examiner said that all nine hostages killed at Attica during-the four-day uprising died of gunshot wounds , the Associated Press reported . Dr. John F. Edland said , " There were no cut throats or any kind of mutilation " There was no immediate explanation of how the gunshots were fired , from where or by whom . On Monday , Jerry Houlihan , a spokesman for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slashed throats According to all official reports Monday , the only guns rebel prisoners Were carrying were gas projectile guns . Most of them were armed with clubs , firebombs , and makeshift knives , officials said . In Albany Tuesday , Deputy Correction Commissioner Wim Van Eekeren said there were witnesses to the throat-slashings . And he said it was proved the prisoners had homemade " zip " guns . " This is definite These weapons were found , " he said. // *Inmates won demands // But while the inmates held 38 hostages as their bargaining power ( unofficial sources report finding two more bodies , lifting the number to 40 ) , State Correctional Commissioner Russell G Oswald had agreed in writing to the following prisoner demands ? Grant administrative amnesty ( i.e , no - punishment from prison officials ) to all persons associated with the uprising Minimum-wage coverage ? Recommend the application of New York State minimum-wage-law standards to all work done by inmates . ? Allow all New York State prisoners to be politically active without intimidation or reprisal . ? Allow true religious freedom . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a narcotic treatment program . ? Provide a healthy diet and thereduction of the number of pork dishes ( this provision is particularly important to the Black Muslims in the prison , who do not eat pork ) ? Provide adequate medical treatment . ? Remove visitation screens as soon as possible . ? Give prisoners access to outside medical treatment at the inmates ' own expense . ? Refuse to charge paroled inmates with parole violations or receiving moving traffic violations or driving without a license when they are not connected with any other crime ? Institute a three-day maximurn-$ for segregation from other prisoners arising out of any one offense . Grievance commission ? Establish an inmate grievance commission ? Institute a program for the recruitment and employment of a significant number of Spanish-speaking officers . ? Modernize the inmate education system , including the establishment of a Latin library . ? Allow all inmates at their own expense to communicate with any one they please . ? Cease arbitrary censorship of newspapers , magazines , and books . ? Allow members of the observer committee ( a committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prison on a reasonable basis to determine whether all of the above provisions are being effectively carried out Compromise in- hindsight There is a painful feeling among many members of this committee that since such a list of demands could be drawn up and agreed upon by state officials , and that since some of the obviously unreasonable demands could be dropped by prisoners , a constant talking with the prisoners might have brought a compromise on the two unmet demands . One of the demands dropped by the prisoners was transportation to a " nonimperialistic " foreign country Many of the prisoners ' demands have been included in recommendations of learned committees which have studied the New York penal system . The reforms that will come at the Attica prison as a result of the rebellion and the prisoners ' demands will depend on the administration of these reforms as much as on the fact that they have been granted . For example , during the past week a local newsman mentioned to Commissioner Oswald that he had written a series on state prisons that had been omitted from newspapers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been commissioner only since Jan 1 , said he had not been aware of that . He said he would stop such censorship immediately and would instruct all other of the state 's 22 prisons to stop such censorship also . Some reforms already have been put through by Mr. Oswald . Prisons , for example , have been opened up more to the press . However , in writing his prison series , the local newsman said he was allowed to interview prisoners privately at the Auburn state prison , but at Attica a member of the state parole board sat in the room during the interview .                     