@@733451

txt The great drought of 1977 , the worst ever recorded in California and large portions of the American West , is slowly relinquishing its grip ? but it is not yet over . New and violent winter storms that have swept across California , Colorado , and the Pacific Northwest have alleviated conditions in severely parched areas and led some National Weather Service forecasters to proclaim the end of the crisis . But state water officials both here and elsewhere in the West disagree . " The drought is a long way from being over , " said Bill Clark , a spokesman for California 's drought information center . " To wipe out the effect of two years of parched conditions , we 'd need 225 percent of normal rainfall this year , and nobody 's predicting that . " Concerned state officials are about to gear up to continue fighting dry conditions . The newest plans would alter operations of the network of reservoirs and canals that make up California 's monumental State Water Project . If it works , officials here in Los Angeles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ project operations . The new plan , according to Herbert Greydanus , a member of Gov . Edmund G. Brown Jr . ' s drought emergency task force , would place greater emphasis on the levels of water in storage and use less optimistic assumptions when calculating deliveries . The results are expected to produce more frequent but smaller water deficiencies . // rom page 1 Drought in West easing its grip ; care persists - When I come to work sloshing in the rain . ' ? ( ' lark said . -I have to convince myself a trough ' is on . For some portions of this state he drought has definitely lessened . We have in air of optimism . but we 're also being realis.ic . I do n't care what anyone says , the rain so ' ar has only alleviated some of the panic situations . " Colorado report In Colorado , where Rocky Mountain ski resorts are boasting the best snow conditions in four years . National Weather Service hydrologist Solomon Summer said flatly : " No one 's saying the drought is over . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the snow pack in the high-level Cascade Mountains up to normal levels and the heavy month-long storms have swollen rivers to flood levels , the rain has also melted low-level snow destroying early and vital supplies that should be building up for spring runoffs to state rivers and streams . " In this sense . " . James Wakefield . a National Weather Service meteorologist in Portland . Oregon , said , " we 're not as well off as we might be despite the precipitation . . . . The big thing is piling up snow pack and having the stuff come along to fill our reservoirs . " Across the West , signs of easing drought include the following : - Coastal rivers in Washington . Oregon , and nothern California that nearly ran dry last summer are surging at flood levels . - In the lligh Sierra and Rocky Mountain regions . violent winter storm systems are building up the snow pack to nearly normal levels and drawing free-spending skiers . - Rainfall is running at - or above - normal depths across a large region of California @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other signs that the drought has not yet ended in the West , particularly in some areas in California : - So far this month , Denver has recorded a total rainfall of 0.03 inches . following the third-driest December on Record . " It 's been below normal for four months in a row , " observed Mr. Summer . " And that 's typical of the weather across the eastern plains of the state . . .. If this keeps up the farmers will have real trouble this summer . " - Groundwater in California remains at a historic low , with the statewide water table dropping eight feet since last summer alone . The biggest reason for the depleted groundwater supply , according to state weather experts , is that to combat drought conditions farms in the San . Joaquin Valley drilled 10,000 new wells this year . - Big California reservoirs are at only 39 percent of capacity . according to officials from the State Water Project and U.S. Bureau of Reclamation . The condition of these reservoirs is vital to southern California residents , because the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million acre-feet of water ( one acre-foot provides enough water for a family of three for one year ) from these reserves . - Since Jan. 1 , the Contra Costa water district , east of Oakland , has implemented rationing that is even more strict than that of the hard-pressed Marin County municipal water district ( just north of San Francisco ) . The reason : The district depends on f7oundwater for its supply , and district officials estimate that the city can count on only 25 percent of its normal supplies for 1978 . The result , industrial leaders there say , could be widespread layoffs in the paper product , steel fabrication , and other local industries . On . Jan. 6 National Weather Service forcasters in San Francisco issued an optimistic report that 11 straight days of storms over the northern two-thirds of the state apparently had broken the parched conditions .                     