@@731269

txt PreSident Nixon 's scheduled appearance in Houston gave every evidence of being a carefully calculated pincer movement in a two-pronged Operation Counterattack . On the one hand , Mr. Nixon is getting maximum national television exposure while he centers his appearance in certain critical political areas , and he is using a live question-and-answer format that permits an aggressive administration presentation . At the same time , back in Washington a shrewd , combative legal counterattack is under way by Watergate counsel James St. Clair who knows from experience in criminal law the importance of atmospherics around a jury . In this case the ultimate jury is the American people , whose emotional reaction finds immediate expression in a particularly sensitive Congress . Mr. St. Clair has taken these positions : He has sought to limit the scope of the impeachment inquiry by defining an impeachable offense in narrow terms , to argue that the presidency has unique judicial status , and finally , to question the actions and motives of the adversary lawyers , in this case the House Judiciary Committee under Rep. Peter W. Rodino @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ setting Mr. Nixon is out to show that in spite of all criticism he is still the country 's leader , with the reins firmly in his calm , competent hands . He is carrying his campaign into areas where his appeal goes to natural political allies , the conservative middle class and the South . In Nashville , Tenn. , he identified himself in folksy fashion with the popular radio program , " Grand Ole Opry , " in its new home and declared that peace of the world depends " maybe for centuries " on national character , " our love of country , our willingness to stand up for the flag ? and country music does that . " At Chicago , March 15 , before business executives , he struck a grimmer note in reminding the country of his leadership in foreign affairs when he sternly warned NATO and the Atlantic alliance that " the Europeans By R. Norman Matheny , staff photographer Nixon : Operation Counterattack can not have it both ways , " that if they receive military cooperation they must " cooperate on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words as " confrontation " and " hostility " in dealing with America 's partners , speaking in Chicago which , in past days , was the center of Midwest isolationism . Another of Mr. Nixon 's themes is the Democratic Congress . His implied criticism causes Democratic national chairman Robert Strauss to allege " a well-orchestrated Republican attack on the 93rd Congress . " Mr. Nixon 's scheduled trip to Houston came after a political blow : a call from conservative U.S. Sen. James L. Buckley ( Conservative-Republican ) of New York , whom he helped elect in place of Republican liberal Sen. Charles Goodell , that Mr. Nixon resign . The other prong of the pincer movement ? that by Mr. St. Clair against the Rodino Judiciary Committee ? has had mixed results . There is a remarkable degree of bipartisanship so far .                     