@@731298

txt The White House today let pass the House Judiciary Committee 's deadline for turning over addition &; tapes and documents in the impeachment investigation , but indicated it would surrender some of the material after the Easter recess . The letter from President Nixon 's special counsel , James St. Clair , irritated both Republicans and Democrats on the committee . " I am inclined to support a subpena for the materials we have requested , " said Rep. Tom Railsback Ill. , a senior Republican on the committee . R E P . ROBERT McClory R. , Ill. said he is " quite dis -- appointed . . . It does n't sound like the kind of cooperation I had hoped for . " But he said he would not vote for a subpena . " I prefer to wait until next week to see what comes in . " The Judiciary Committee is expected to meet tomorrow to discuss how to react to St. Clair 's letter . There was no immediate reaction from committee Chairman Peter Rodino D. , N. J.. St. Clair , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day , said the President " has directed me to advise you that a review of the materials in question is under way . We expect that the review can be completed by the end of the James St. Clair Easter recess , and that the additional materials furnished at that time will permit the committee to complete its inquiry promptly . " ALTHO SOME liberal Democrats have been growing increasingly restive with the White House tactics and have brandished the subpena , the committee generally has been trying to avoid a confrontation with the White House . Rep. Barbara Jordan D. Tex. underscored that feeling . She said she thinks the committee members will insist that the President turn over all the material , but also said the committee will probably wait to see what material the White House surrenders before deciding on a subpena . However , Rep. Jerome R. Waldie D. , Cal. said the committee " must now subpena all evidence we require that is in the hands of the President . " " 1VE SHOULD no longer tolerate his contemptuous attitude toward those seeking the truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an interview . White House sources said that altho the committee set today for the deadline , the deadline was only for the President 's response , not fir turning over the requested tapes and documents . St. Clair 's letter to House committee counsel John M. Door seemed to indicate that the White House plans to comply to some degree with the committee request for the 42 Presidential conversations on41 tapes , but this promise is only implied . Earlier in the day the Democrats on the committee appeared to have agreed to allow President Nixon 's lawyer to sit in on impeachment proceedings . ALTRO THE Democrats tentatively reached a consensus on the issue , the full committee still must decide on the role of St. Clair in the inquiry . In response to a question during a caucus of committee Democrats , Democrats quoted Doar as saying he will be ready to start presenting evidence May 7 when the committee holds its first hearings . " The general feeling is that we will make a presentation .. . in closed session and we expect him St. Clair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D. , Ohio . " I do n't see any necessity for Mr. St. Clair to be involved before May 7 . Another Democratic committee member , who asked not to be identified , said there was " a great deal of controversy " over the role of St. Clair . BUT REP . Robert F. Drinan D. , Mass. said there was a " consensus " among Democrats about St. Clair 's role . All three sources indicated it would take 5 to 10 days for the staff to present evidence , and only then would St. Clair be allowed to raise questions or offer his own witnesses . DURING THE closed session on May 7 , Seiberling said , the committee will review the impeachment charges against Nixon and decide what , if any , allegations should be dropped . After that , he said , the committee will conduct a " detailed presentation , c ailing witnesses . " In one of the White House letter 's four paragraphs , St. Clair appeared to suggest that White House compliance may be tied to the committee 's decision on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While asking for more time for the White House , St. Clair said , " I hope the committee Will decide on my role in its proceedings before the upcoming recess . There is much work to be done if the committee is to meet its timetable , and I once again urge that this vital issue be resolved as soon as possible . " REP . ROBERT McClory Ill. , who is leading the effort to win a role for St. Clair , said he is pleased by the . Democrats ' decision . But McClory and Drinan protested that St. Clair is apparently trying to link White House cooperation with whether the committee approves letting him sit in during the presentation of evidence . " He 's holding us up , " Drinan said .                     