@@734010

txt How different the triumphant return of the bearded and beturbaned ayatollah promises to be from the secret departure from Tehran in mid-January of the Shah  --  the powerful , absolute monarch whom the religious leader forced to leave the country . People are expected to turn out in their thousands , perhaps millions , to great Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini when he eventually returns . The Shah 's departure was not even shown on the nightly television news . What has happened in Iran has not been the work of the ayatollah single-handedly . In retrospect , Shah Muhammad Reza Pahlavi 's mistakes probably made this eventual upheaval inevitable . And the ayatollah has become the commanding figure which he now is largely because the people of Iran chose him in the end to be their champion and standard-bearer in their determination to bring about change . Radical change in Iran inevitably has world implications . This is because of the country 's strategic geographic situation . Since the time of the Russian czars , it has lain as a wedge between the Caspian Sea and the headwaters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gulf 's warm waters and the Indian Ocean beyond . In the early years of World War II , the first sign of a split between Hitler and Stalin came with Hitler 's refusal to acquiesce in recognizing Iran as being , in effect , within the Soviet sphere of influence . Today , the strategic importance of Iran on the map has not changed . Indeed , it has been enhanced . Iran lies on a kind of fault line be- tween Soviet and United States power , choosing under the Shah to put itself to a considerable extent under the American umbrella . Further , Iran is the world 's second biggest exporter of oil ? and those exports are the industrial life blood , if not of the United States , at least of its surrogates in Western Europe and Japan . And now this septuagenarian Muslim religious leader , who has forced a showdown with the Shah and has won , has become the symbol of possible consequent geopolitical changes which the United States and the rest of the world may have to face up to . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Western alliance ) of Iran as policeman in the Persian Gulf ? a role already renounced by incumbent Prime Minister Shahpour Bakhtiar , a moderate who may have to give way to somebody more acceptable to Ayatollah Khomeini . ? The gain to the Soviet Union of having henceforward in Iran a border state where the United States has lost its once overwhelmingly privileged position , including monitoring facilities ? and this without the Soviets lifting a finger or without Iran actually moving into the Soviet orbit , which could be burdensome for Moscow . ? Possible renunciation by Iran of its incipient role , decided by the Shah , as an Indian Ocean power , symbolized by the intended expansion of its navy to include Spruance class US-built destroyers and by the proposed development of Chahbahar as a major base beyond the gulf littoral and on the Indian Ocean itself . This should be seen in the context of Soviet gains at the approaches to the Red Sea ( South Yemen and Ethiopia ) . ? Possible renunciation by Iran of its proposed role , similarly decided . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alliance 's early warning system , symbolized by acquisition of special United States aircraft to make that possible ( AWACS ) . ? Loss of Iran as a seeming bastion of stability under the Shah and its joining with Turkey to the west and Pakistan to the east in an arc of instability stretching from the Mediterranean to the Himalayas . This is a reversal of the situation of a decade and a half ago when Iran , Turkey , and Pakistan were pillars of the US-sponsored Central Treaty Organization ( CENTO ) . ? With a question mark over the dependability of oil supplies from Iran , exporter No. 2 , an added importance to the United States and its allies attaches to Saudi Arabia , exporter No. 1 . This already has been hinted by the US dispatch earlier this month of a squadron of F-15 fighter planes to Saudi Arabia . ( The latter itself is no military substitute for Iran . ) ? New emphasis in the current lineup in the Middle East as it affects the Arab-Israeli dispute . Prime Minister Bakhtiar already has pledged a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil to Israel ( which has hitherto depended on it for the bulk of its sup . plies ) and closer alignment with the Palestinian cause . If Saudia Arabia gains in importance to the United States , this conceivably would make Washington even more responsive than now to the Saudis on Arab-Israeli issues . Against all these possibilities must be set two basic facts unlikely to change : 1 . In terms of outside threats , the Soviet Union ? with its long common border with Iran ? remains the only mortal menace to this country , as it was in the days of the czars . Despite their anti-Americanism of the moment ( because of their associating the United States with the now rejected policies of the Shah ) , Iranians , including Ayatollah Khomeini , know that . Consequently , they are unlikely irrevocably to renounce the option of a counterforce to that threat , which in today 's world can hardly be anything but the United States . ( France might have some limited appeal because of its hospitality to the ayatollah. ) 2 . The continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hitherto has been earning 90 percent of its foreign income . A market other than the West is not in sight . This in turn means the security of tanker routes into and out of the gulf ? against threats from the Soviets , Arab radicals or terrorist groups ? will remain a vital national interest for Iran . Ayatollah Khomeini 's involvement in the drama goes back to 1963 . He was then the leading figure at Iran 's prime center of religious learning at Qum , about 80 miles south of Tehran . In that year he spearheaded a surge of Shia Muslim opposition to the Shah 's so-called " white revolution " then beginning with such forcible modernization moves as land reform and enfranchisement of women . The Shah cracked down ruthlessly , arrested the ayatollah , and then exiled him . The ayatollah went first to Turkey , but pressure from the Turkish Government ( a CENTO ally of the Shah ) led to his soon moving to Iraq , which back in those days was at loggerheads with Iran . He moved between the Iraqi cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in all Shia Islam . He could not have asked for a better pulpit to pronounce his anathemas against the Shah and all the monarch stood for .                     