@@734226

txt The House Select Committee on Assassinations has gone substantially beyond the findings of the Warren Commission and has concluded that a conspiracy , perhaps involving organized crime figures , led to the assassination of President Kennedy After spending two and a half years and $5 million , the committee says in its final report , to be released soon , that the conspirators may have included organized crime figures , Cubans and James R. Hoffa , former president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters . But a source close to the committee said the investigation did not produce " a smoking gun . " " There is no evidence of a meeting where the murder was planned , there is no account of the details of the plot , " the source said . " There is a substantial body of evidence , a web of circumstantial evidence , to connect the death of the President to elements of organized crime . Not to a national crime syndicate , nor to one individual . " G. Robert Blakey , chief counsel and staff director of the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the details of the committee report . Asked if he had a personal opinion of the committee 's findings , Mr. Blakey , now a professor of law at Cornell University , said : ? " I think the mob did it . " According to the committee source , the report establishes that " no longer are we able to accept the judgment of the Warren Commission that President Kennedy was killed by a loner who was a lone assassin . " The report also will urge the Department of Justice to renew its efforts to try to determine who worked with Lee Harvey Oswald , named by the Warren Commission as the sole assassin , to plot and carry out the murder of President Kennedy . About six months ago , the committee // presented acoustical evidence that it said showed that two gunmen 1963 . But three members of the committee called the evidence into question and disagreed with its assertion that Oswald was not a lone gunman , as the Warren Commission insisted . Additional Evidence The New York Times learned today that the conclusion that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rests on more than acoustical evidence . According to sources familiar with the committee 's investigation and final report , to be made public by the end of this month , extensive electronic surveillance material accumulated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation showed that major organized crime figures were deeply disturbed by prosecutions , investigations and other actions carried out against them by the Kennedy Justice Department and vowed revenge against both the President and his brother , Robert F. Kennedy , who was Attorney General . The surveillance Was conducted between 1959 and 1965 , and thus covered years before and after the Kennedy Administration . Although the authorities have long contended that the Government 's surveillance covered all major rackets figures , the assassinations committee was surprised to find that it was not as comprehensive as generally thought . Two major underworld figures , Carlos Marcello of New Orleans and Santos Trafficante of Tampa , were not covered by the electronic surveillance . Oswald and Ruby Connections According to the committee source , extensive investigation of Marcello and Trafficante lieutenants disclosed that they were connected to the two principal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oswald and Jack Ruby , who shot Oswald to death as millions of Americans watched on live television . The report will contend that Ruby had stalked his victim from the hours immediately after the assassination until he fired a bullet into Oswald 's stomach two days later , and that he had had help gaining access to the assassin , perhaps unwittingly , from Dallas policemen . The committee report maintains that Ruby also had extensive associations among organized crime figures and discloses that his telephone records indicate a small number of calls , possible relating to criminal activity , to a variety of people connected with the underworld , including Sam Giancana , who subsequently was murdered in his home in Chicago , and strong-arm men tied to Mr. Trafficante . The committee discounts Ruby 's statement before his own death that he had killed Oswald so that the President 's widow would be spared a return to Dallas , where she might be forced to relive the shattering moments of the assassination as a witness at Oswald 's trial . That story was concocted by his lawyer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 30 volumes accumulated from public hearings , will also examine a variety of links between Oswald and the Soviet and Cuban Governments , anti-Castro Cuban groups and a small , amorphous left-wing group .                     