@@730153

txt For some time it has been clear that Harvey B. Scribner , Chancellor of New York City 's school system , and many principals did not see eye to eye on how the schools should be run . But last week the president of the Board of Education brought the conflict plainly to the surface by charging that some principals were using the issue of violence in the schools as a way of trying to get rid of Dr. Scribner . " The issue is not violence , it is Harvey Scribner , " said Isaiah Robinson . He contended that the principals were putting pressure on the board to " buy up " Dr. Scribner 's contract , which expires in 1973 . The issue came up during hearings on Mayor Lindsay 's 1972-73 operating budget before the Board of Estimate and the City Council Finance Committee , Some councilmen wanted more money spent on school security guards as a means of reducing violence in the schools . There has been violence and crime in some schools , but similar trends are reported from urban schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ councilmen asked what he was doing about it , he said : " The crime comes in off your streets . " The real problem of the schools , he went on , is that the budget squeeze has already eliminated 5,000 jobs last fall and another 3,000 , mainly in teaching , would have to go if the proposed budget goes into effect . Many of the principals link the violence to what they consider a climate of excessive permissiveness in the schools derived from Dr. Scribner 's philosophy of more power to the students and to community leaders . They claim he has weakened their ability to deal with unruly students . Albert Shanker , the teachers ' union chief who has not always been in agreement with school administrators , supported the principals ' position , saying Friday , " It 's like having a Police Commissioner who believes there are no criminals . " When he assumed his post in 1970 , Dr. Scribner became the first chief administrator to preside over the system under its new policies of decentralization , Many of the principals and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered the new powers given local communities a threat to their authority , and even their job security . They had hoped for a chancellor who would share their views . Dr. Scribner , however , was appointed by the board with the specific mandate to implement decentralization and his own ideology tended in that direction . He believed that greater student participation in running the schools would defuse rather than increase violence . Dr. Scribner agrees that there is violence ; he favors the use of security guards ; and he insists that the principals do indeed have disciplinary powers , including that of transferring and suspending students , provided they do not violate the rules of due process . The conflict thus is less over specifics than over ideology . Dr. Scribner agrees that the authority of the school is in trouble , but he believes that the remedy is in educational and management reforms rather than in primary reliance on discipline . ? FREE . M. HECHINGER I                     