@@733006

txt Public concern about the sound administration of labor-management pension funds is growing aim ' s.vith the multibillioodollar reserves of the funds . Analysts now estimate that pension funds control from 15 to 35 percent of the stock of major corporations and predict that their investments could give the funds control of more than half of the stock of publicly owned businesses in the 1990s. tme management expert . Peter Drucker , has termed this " pension-fund socialism ' ' an important development in the U.S. economy since 1950 . The implications of the pension fund explosion are staggering and ? many in the government say soberly ? dangerous . That is why pension funds now are under close federal scrutiny . and it is why Frank Fitzsimmons. president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. and three other trustees announced March 13 that they planned to quit as administrators of the union 's largest and wealthiest pension fund . The Teamsters Central States pension fund . with a reported $1.4 billion in reserves , has been a particular target of federal investigations . It has been scandal-ridden for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , improper and perhaps fraudulent use of funds . and manipulation of loans for union purposes . Last October , William Presser resigned as a union vice-president shortly after quitting as the Central States fund trustee because he had taken the Fifth Amendment when federal probers sought information on his activities as head of the fund 's loan committee . One month later , a former official of the fund was indicted in Chicago on charges that he solicited and got a // From page 1 Alarm sounded on big U.S. pension funds $200,000 kickback in connection with a $1.3 million loan by the pension fund to a Chicago cemetery . Some federal investigators say these two situations are " a drop in the bucket . " Other activities are pending . The Teamsters leadership in Washington , Mr. Fitzsimmons in particular , has been embarrassed by the accusations . The union is still trying to clear itself of charges of links with the underworld , and some of the present criticism of pension fund abuses echoes these old charges . Mr. Presser reportedly was forced out of the IBT vice-presidency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the union 's ongoing campaign to improve its public image . The pension fund situation is also an embar ? rassment ? and a possible political hazard ? internally in the Teamsters . An active dissident group , the Professional Drivers Council , which uses the initials PROD , has been seeking without success to force the Fitzsimmons leadership out of office in the 2 million-member union . Recently PROD has been warning the union 's rank and file that pension fund assets were being dissipated , endangering retirement benefits . Frank Fitzsimmons , who succeeded James R. Hoffa in the presidency , so far has not been linked directly with any pension fund abuses . The only criticism that has surfaced against him is that he failed to prevent  --  or stop  --  abuses that he should have known about and acted against as a fund trustee . The same criticism has been brought against others who announced March 13 they will quit as trustees , including Teamsters vice-president Roy Williams , John Spickerman , and A. G. Massa . Restructuring ' sought Recently , Labor Secretary F. Ray Marshall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restructuring " that would put loan policies into the hands of a " bank of recognized national stature " and a mortgage banking firm to protect the interests of 400,000 truck drivers covered by the fund . The Labor , Treasury , and Justice Departments have all been involved in the investigation of the Central States pension fund . Under the resignation agreement the remaining six trustees will supervise benefit payments , and professional managers will take over investment policies by April 30 . In exchange for the resignation , the government agreed to drop a threatened lawsuit , discontinue some phases of its investigation , and restore the fund 's tax-exempt status , withdrawn by the Internal Revenue Service last summer . The government stipulated that if there have been violations in the administration of the fund , those responsible will still be prosecuted .                     