@@729273

txt The World Mideast : Cauldron of Pressures Over the Cease-fire Extension WASHINGTON Ever since late 1969 , Israeli diplomats have been expecting a showdown with the Nixon Administration over the terms of an Arab-Israeli peace settlement Some thought the time had arrived last week . But the Soviet Union , after playing a low-key role for months ' , surged into action ands paradoxically , diverted the Ad , ministration from the looming , confrontation with Israel to a diplomatic tug-of-war with Moscow instead . The forum was the Big Pour meetings in New York . The issues were how to handle Israel and how to prevent the Middle East cease-fire from collapsing after the midnight deadline last night . The irony was that the Americans and Russians had a similar objective : Persuading Israel to make concessions to Egypt in their negotiations through the United Nations intermediary , Dr. Gunnar V. Jarring . Indeed , one prominent pro-Israeli lobbyist printed the warning last week . end that , as in 1967 , the big powers were about to insist jointly that Israel withdraw its troops from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tactics and on the role of the Big Four , and the pressures on Israel eased teme porarily . Tha Soviet delegate , Yakov A. Malik , wanted quick Big Four action , including a strong condemnation of Israel for its refusal , in a note to Dr. Jarring on Feb. 26 , to give up the Sinai and go back to the 1967 lines . Since Egypt had met Israel 's demand for a peace agreement , Mr. Malik reportedly argued that the Big Four should insist on Israeli withdrawal from all Arab territories occupied in ' 1967 , as Egypt demanded . The Soviet high-pressure tactics met strong American objections . Washington prefers a more subtle course . It wants Israel to agree to , Dr. Jarring 's suggestion for see return to the 1948 borders on . the Sinai ( the same as in 1967 ) , with the proviso that Israel get satisfaction on security arrangements at Sharm el Sheik , guaranteed passage through the Suez Canal and the establishment of demilitarized zones . Ultimately , the Americans reason , they will have to cajole , plead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the sake of an over-all peace agreement . As leverage , at the moment of truth , the Nixon Administration could slow down arms deliveries or economic aid to Israel . Or , more likely , the United States could use the promise of new economic , or military aid as an enticement for concessions , as it has in the past . But the risks of a real confrontation with Israel are great , and Washington is extremely cautious about taking them . The high-pressure . Soviet approach , Americans felt , would kill any chance for friendly persuasion . It would arouse all the old Israeli hostilities toward , the Big Four and revive charges of an " imposed settlement . " Also , with the cease-fire deadline imminent , there was too little time for the Israeli Cabinet to reconsider its stand . The Administration obviously felt the movement was not ripe for a major American campaign to change the Israelis ' minds . Moreover , acting on earlier pledges to Tel Aviv , the United States insisted that the Big Four play a secondary role to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U Thant . Washington felt that only after they  --  as authorized agents of the Security Council ? had spoken out could the Big Four issue a mild and ! moderate statement on the Arab-Israeli negotiations . In several long meetings with the Russians , British and French , tall , handsome George Bush , the new American Representative at the United Nations , was reportedly willing , to have the Egyptian peace concession praised publicly , along with an appeal for an equally positive move from Israel . But there was to be no strong condemnation of Israel , no insistence by the Big Four on the old 1967 lines , because that would be an unwarranted intrusion into the substance of negotiations . Instead , Mr. Bush argued that the Big Four should urge an extension of the cease-fire to ease the time squeeze on the Israelis . Pilo Inc . U Thant , Secretary General of the United Nations The Russians objected , apparently because this would make it look as if it were up to Cairo , instead of Israel , to make the next move . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Egyptians and Russians on Israel and the United States . To step up the pressure , Syrian and Egyptian forces were reported on the alert in mid-week . But these moves were discounted in Washington . At his news conference Thursday night , President Nixon took a seemingly relaxed view , saying that the truce , could be extended either formally or tacitly . Convinced that both Cairo and Moscow were really in the mood to pursue the negotiations for at least another round , rather than take the risk of renewed warfare , Washington was not to be hurried . At the United Nations , the Russians and the Americans could not break their deadlock . Mr. Thant finally , issued a personal appeal for prolonging the cease-fire . In language more acceptable to Washington than Moscow , he praised the Egyptians for their " positive " step and urged Israel to " respond favorably " to Dr. Jarring 's request for " a commitment on withdrawal to the international boundary of the United Arab Republic . " The mere publication of that request once again placed on Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ events that could lead to that long expected showdown between Israel and the United States . ? HEDRICK SIVICITE                     