@@733421

txt Prime Minister Menahem Begin said today that President Carter regarded Israel 's latest proposal for movement toward a Middle East peace settlement as " a fair basis for negotiation . " Mr. Begin said , however , that he had not asked the President for , and did not receive , an American endorsement of the plan , which will be presented to President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt within 10 days . American officials , while reiterating what they had said last night  --  that Mr. Begin 's ideas were " constructive " and showed new " flexibility " ? agreed with Mr. Begin that the United States had not endorsed them because they clearly raise problems for the Arab nations . One official said they provided good " openers " for negotiations . Celebration in U.S. Suggested Appearing on the CBS-TV program " Face the Nation " at the conclusion of three days in Washington , Mr. Begin said he would meet Mr , Sadat in Egypt  --  the place is expected to be Ismailia  --  late this week or early next . He said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carter should invite them both to Washington to celebrate . He said the three of them would make a " circle of friendship and faith  --  a Christian President , a Moslem leader and a Jewish Prime Minister  --  and this would represent an event in the heralds of mankind . " Mr. Begin said he had come to Washington not to gain an American " Commitment " to his ideas , but rather to obtain " good will and understanding . " " That we got , " he said . " Therefore , it ' I came here a hopeful man , 1 am leaving a happy man . " Characterizing President Carter 's reaction to his proposals , Mr. Begin said , " I can say that he considers the proposals I brought to him to be a fair basis for negotiation to achieve peace . " Two Aspects to Proposals There were two basic aspects to the ideas that Mr. Begin brought to Washington . The first dealt with Israel 's relations with Egypt . Mr. Begin reportedly told Mr. Carter that as part of an overall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Sinai , restoring full Egyptian sovereignty to the area occupied since the 1967 war , but would negotiate the right to maintain an Israel security corridor there near the Israeli border . The other and potentially more controversial aspect of the proposals was discussed in some detail by Mr. Begin . It calls for giving Palestinian Arabs living in the occupied West Bank of the Jordan and the Gaza Strip the right to internal autonomy , but with Israeli forces remaining there to protect Israel 's defenses . Mr. Begin has won strong praise from pro  --  Israeli Senators and from spokesmen for American Jewish organizations whom he briefed on his plan . He said on the television program that it would give the Arabs in Gaza and on the West Bank self-rule for the first time . He said that the West Bank had been ruled by Turks for centuries , by the British for decades , by Jordan for 20 years and by the Israeli military tor the last 10 . Mr. Begin also said that since the West Bank embraces the ancient lands of Judea and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlers would have the right to inhabit this predominantly Arab area and that Arabs , in return , would have the " mutual " right to live in what is now Israel , As for East Jerusalem , including the walled Old City , which is in Jordanian territory , Mr. Begin ruled out a new division , saying that Jerusalem was the capital not only of the Jewish nation but also of the Jewish people . Free Access to Shrines He promised , however , free access to the Moslem and Christian holy shrines in eastern Jerusalem and suggested willingness to continue to allow the various religious groups to control their own shrines . Mr. Begin said that he would take this proposal to Mr. Sadat because the Egyptian leader , when in Jerusalem last month , had said he wanted to negotiate not only a basis for an accord between Israel and Egypt but also a basis for settling a pan-Arab issue , such as the future of the Palestinian Arabs But Mr. Begin 's plan , while going farther than any earlier proposals by his Government , falls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdraw completely from the occupied territory and turn the West Bank and Gaza over to the Palestinians , under the leadership of the Palestine Liberation Organization , to form the basis for a Palestinian state that could be linked to Jordan . In the past the United States has supported the concept of " self-determination " for the West Bank . Last summer , Washington proposed a joint Israeli-Jordanian trusteeship of the area for five years to be followed by a plebiscite , but Israel rejected this because of concern that it might lead to the creation of a separate state dominated by the P.L.O . Today , Mr. Begin was asked if his term " self-rule " meant also " self-determination , " and he replied that " I think one can say so , synonymous they are . " But officials here doubted that he actually had in mind self-determination if it included the right to expel Israeli forces or to allow the P.L.O . to take power . For these reasons , aside from a desire not to take sides , the United States has carefully not approved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said privately that they believe it could provide ground for negotiations . Mr. Begin met this morning with former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger and later with former President Gerald R. Ford . He attended a luncheon at the Israeli Embassy with Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance and other officials . He flew to New York late this afternoon and will meet there tomorrow with Secretary General Kurt Waldheim of the United Nations before flying to London tomorrow night . Last night , Mr. Begin and President Carter and their aides met for two hours , after which Mr. Vance said that the President had told Mr. Begin that the United States appreciated his " constructive approach . "                     