@@733278

txt by specialists within and outside the Government as a signal that the United States would look favorably on the sale of the products of technology sought by the Chinese . China 's defense-related technological needs are broad , and include components for radar , jet engines , advanced satellite reconnaissance systems and military equipment . Pentagon officials contended that Mr. Brown 's decision , described as an interim policy pending final Administration approval , had nothing to do with China ' policy and was merely part of an overall discussion on the transfer of technology abroad . But several China watchers contended that the issuance of the memorandum was linked to China policy . This policy has been the subject of intense debate among the Pentagon , State Department , White.House , Commerce Department and Central Intelligence Agency . Some officials have opposed the sale of the end-products of military technology to China on the ground that it would undermine American-Soviet ties . Others con // tend that the United States would gain diplomatic advantage over the Soviet Union by selling military items to China . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstances . It was abruptly distributed late Friday afternoon , when most reporters - and officials had departed for the Labor Day weekend . The memorandum was virtually ignored by the press , but in the last few days word of the document spread among China watchers . Its issuance preceded the arrival of a Chinese trade delegation surveying American technology . The mission , headed by Wang Yao-ting , chairman of the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade , met with Vice President Walter Mondale on Friday , and plans to visit cities in the South , the Midwest and on the West Coast starting next week . Mr. Brown 's five-page memorandum is based on the recommendations of a oneyear-old report by- a Defense Science Board task force dealing with controls on the export of technology . The issue has emerged in the last few years amid concern that the United States was haphazardly transferring its industrial and militarily significant technology and manufacturing skills to allies as well as to the Soviet Union . According to China experts , the report stirred interest at China 's Liaison Office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on self-reliance , they need the end-products that our technology produces , " said one Government source . Chinese Interest Reported Aroused Chinese interest was said to have been aroused by recommendations that eased the licensing procedures , the paperwork and controls on the sale of commercial end-products . China 's interest in the report of the task force , which was headed by J. Fred Bucy , Jr. , a physicist who is president of Texas Instruments , Inc. , of Dallas , was stirred , too , by the document 's recommendations to curb drastically the export of sensitive production skills to the Soviet Union . Mr. Brown 's decision to issue the Interim policy on export controls is now viewed " as a very quiet signal in U.S.-China relations , " said one China specialist . Another said the policy is viewed " as a green light " to the Chinese to press negotiations for the products of American technology . An earlier signal was given in July when Adm . Elmo R. Zumwalt , former Chief of Naval Operations , told Chinese leaders that Zbigniew Brzezinski , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make clear " that the United States had not decided to bar weapons sales to China .                     