@@730221

txt Forty Senators  --  only two-fifths of the membership but a slim majority of those present and voting  --  have dealt another blow against the credibility of the United States and the prospects for building an effective United Nations . On the spurious arguments of Senator Harry F. Byrd and others , they have voted in effect to require this country to continue to breach the sanctions invoked with American support by the U.N . Security Council against the white racist rulers of Rhodesia . This makes the United States an international lawbreaker , an offender not only against a Security Council decision but against the U.N . Charter itself . such an action will help propel the United Nations down the road to extinction taken by the League of Nations after its failure to halt Fascist Italy 's aggression against Ethiopia in 1935 . The 40-to-36 vote , rejecting an effort by Senator of Wyoming to return the United States to the side of international law , reflected racism , pique at the U.N . for ousting Taiwan , and clever lobbying by the Rhodesian regime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mineral Company , both importers of Rhodesian chrome . Most of all , however , the Senate behavior reflected a double game by the Nixon Administration . It tried to placate liberals , blacks , U.N . backers and African governments with a State Department letter supporting Mr. while refusing the minimal White House initiative that would have brought him victory . The letter to Mr. from Acting Secretary of State John N. Irwin refuted all the arguments advanced by Mr. Byrd for breaking the sanctions to permit chrome imports : there is no shortage of chrome but 2.2 million tons of excess in the strategic stockpile ; the Government hopes to sell off 1.3 million tons ; the United States is not dependent on the Soviet Union for any of its chrome needs . But especially in this Administration the lawmakers pay scant heed to the State Department ; a White House follow-through was plainly required . Prior . to the vote , Senator telephoned Presidential assistant John D. Ehrlichman to report that six Senators in doubt on the issue had promised to support his amendment if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Ehrlichman assistant later called back to say Mr. could expect no further help in the matter . After his amendment lost by four votes , , Mr. told the Senate of this exchange and warned of the high cost for America of a hypocritical stance on such matters of principle . " The time has come when the African nations no longer accept doubletalk and hypocrisy from this country as it concerns their vital interests and needs , " k said . " Either we believe in their aspirations or we do n't . Either we believe in the United Nations or we do n't . We can not have it both ways . " It would be comforting to be able to believe that these words had impact on forty Senators who had just voted to tarnish the honor of the United States for a supply of excess chrome and the preservation of white minority rule in Rhodesia :                     