@@734398

txt Letters NATHAN Z. DERSHOWITZ ABRAHAM S. GOLDSTEINRONALD M. GREENRICHARD J. FRANCES , M ... pg . A26 Letters High Time to Scrap the Anachronistic Logan Act To the Editor : The recent call by 14 Congressmen for Logan Act prosecutions of the Rev. Jesse Jackson and other black activists highlights the absurdity and danger inherent in this 180-year-old laW . Passed in 1799 , the Logan Act was a response to the action by one Dr. George Logan , who traveled to Paris to speak with French Government officials in an attempt to improve relations between America and France . Congress , resenting such action , passed the Logan Act , giving the Government a monopoly on international negotiations . The statute makes it a crime for any citizen " without authority of the United States " to communicate with a foreign government intending either ( 1 ) to influence that government with respect to a controversy with the United States or ( 2 ) to defeat the measures of the United States . There has never been a conviction or even a trial under the Logan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in 1803 against Francis Flournoy , a Kentucky farmer , for an article he wrote in the Frankfort To the Editor : Peter Passell , in his commentary on the inequities of the present tax system with its " marriage penalty " ( Editorial Notebook Sept. 24 ) , quickly dismisses the simple alternative of making everybody pay taxes as an individual earner . He presents the hypothetical case of a Mrs. Jones , who earns $60,000 a year , while her spouse stays home , and the case of a Mr. and Mrs. Smith , a working couple who each earn $30,000 a year . Under a system of individual payment , Mr. Passell observes , the Jones family would owe about $20,600 in taxes while the Smiths would have to pay about $16,800 . " Can a simplifying reform with results like that be regarded as fair ? " asks Mr. Passell . Why not ? Mrs. Jones has the obvious advantage of having a spouse available to do the many odd tasks a married working couple must share . Mr. Jones ( and , of course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases ) can cook , iron , sew and shop for his spouse . He can also pursue those little money-saving tips suggested by magazines for the house-husband . He can chauffeur the kids and meet Mrs. Jones at work or at the station ( saving the family a second car ) . And , of course , by staying at home Larcenous Limits On Savings Interest To the Editor : Your Sept. 23 editorial " The Federal Pickpocket " was exactly on the mark ? with one exception : the assumption that banks support Regulation Q. To the contrary , the American Bankers Association has been on record since 1975 as opposing Regulation Q on the basis of economic , competitive and consumer considerations . A.B.A. 's membership includes over 90 percent of the nation 's full-service banks . The reason why the Senate Banking Committee has taken the initiative to phase out this stifling regulation is that today 's inflation rates finally have driven home the point that savings-interest limits make no sense . During the past 10 years the gap between realistic market interest rates and Regulation Q @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in lost interest . That 's more than picking pockets . It 's grand larceny . The A.B.A. is actively supporting the Senate Banking Committee 's bill . JOHN H. PERKINS President American Bankers Association Washington , Sept. 28 , 1979 Guardian of Freedom in which he advocated a separate western nation allied to France in what became the Louisiana Territory , The Louisiana purchase mooted the controversy . In 1917 , American citizens who wanted to attend a Stockholm peace conference called by socialist parties of various countries were prevented from attending the conference because Secretary of State Robert Lansing denied them passports , using the Logan Act as the basis for his action on grounds that quasi-official agents of other lands would possibly also be attending . Since then , whether during the cold war and the McCarthy period or during the domestic opposition to our foreign policy involving Vietnam , there have been occasional calls for prosecutions under this anachronistic law , plainly motivated by hostility to the cause being expressed rather than genuine concern about subversion of our diplomatic efforts . There are , of course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amendment free speech and Fifth Amendment vagueness he spares the family those many nontax-deductible expenses ( additional clothing , commutation , outside meals ) associated with working . In view of all this , why should the tax system subvene Mr. Jones 's leisure and service to his spouse ? Perhaps it is time we recognized that the stay-at-home spouse is a luxury which those who can afford it should pay for ? without appeal to the public till . RONALD M. GREEN Associate Professor of Ethics Dartmouth College Hanover , N.H. , Sept. 24 , 1979 To the Editor : The Administration 's appalling conduct in applying a double standard to the consuming public must be strongly condemned . On Oct. 4 you reported that the Government permitted the Soviet Union to purchase a record 25 million metric tons of American corn and wheat in the next 12 months . You reported also that prior Russian purchases had sent our grain prices to record levels . Your story further noted that the U.S. International Trade Commission states that ammonia imports from the U.S.S.R. were hurting local producers and would recommend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is self-evident that when we sell our excess grain or other products in quantity overseas shortages are arbitrarily created and local prices will inevitably rise . The greater the foreign sales , the higher the prices here . Statements by sundry Government officials that this would not occur are without substance . Then , when we impose duties against imports to protect our producers , the ultimate victim is again our lowly consumer ? who happens to be issues , which require that this remnant of the 18th-century sedition hysteria be eliminated . We are taking this position notwithstanding our profound belief that Mr. Jackson 's attempted interventions in the Middle East are inimical and damaging to this country 's welfare and national interests . Mr. Jackson is not an official representative of the United States , and he has no authority to suggest that this country will not continue to honor its commitment to refuse to negotiate with the P.L.O . until the P.L.O . recognizes Israel 's right to exist and accepts United Nations Resolution 242 . Our recommendation that the Logan Act be repealed in no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts to deal in the foreign policy of the United States have done enormous harm . NATHAN Z. DERSHOWITZ ABRAHAM S. GOLDSTEIN New York , Oct. 4 , 1979 The writers are , respectively , director and co-chairman of the American Jewish Congress 's Commission on Law and Social Action . If Liquor Machines Get Into Hotel Rooms To the Editor : I am writing in opposition to the proposed modification of regulations that would allow dispensing of alcoholic beverages in hotel rooms . I am concerned that the proposed regulation would dangerously increase the availability of alcohol to children and adolescents . It may be possible for children to gain access to a parent 's key to a room with vending machines containing alcoholic beverages if this regulation were to be approved . In addition , though a bartender might refuse to serve an intoxicated person intending to drive a car , a vending machine in a hotel room would not be able to make this sort of judgment . Finally , the regulation invades the privacy and places a temptation on the recently recovering alcoholic who is traveling , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bar by staying in his hotel room . I am concerned that the regulation may be followed by more widespread vendingmachine sales of alcoholic beverages , as is already the case in countries such as Japan , that are already experiencing an increase in teen-age alcoholism . RICHARD J. FRANCES , M.D. Unit Chief , Alcohol Treatment Service N. Y. Hospital-Cornell Medical Center New York , Sept. 26 , 1979 everybody . One way or another the consumers get the dirty end of the economic stick . Let those in Washington who shed crocodile tears for the consuming public finally stop betraying it . RALPH OBER New York , Oct. 3 , 1979 Dollars and Marks To the Editor : News item : " Mark-denominated investments have been more attractive than the dollar to international speculators , triggering huge flows of money into marks . " To those who recall the German inflation of 1923 , such news items have ominous overtones . In that time of what one poet has called " undernourished millionaires " one prayed for an American dollar from a relative to afford the price of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of our own undernourished millionaires covet the lucky possessor of a German mark ? MILTON HINDUS Newtown Centre , Mass. , Oct. 2 , 1979 The Subsidized Stay-at-Home Spouse Foreign Trade Designed to Hurt Americans Teeth for H.U.D. to Combat Housing Discrimination To the Editor : The series of cross burnings in the New York area are extreme demonstrations against racial integration in this part of the country . Most acts of housing discrimination are far less obvious and , according to a recent study by the Regional Plan Association , are widespread throughout the New York metropolitan area . The factors that have crammed more than 60 percent of greater New York 's black population into less than 2 percent of its residential acreage are complex . Black poverty would seem an obvious explanation , but the R.P.A. study shows that only 6 percent of black families are too poor to live in an integrated community . Reluctance to leave one 's old neighborhood , Initial moving expense and lack of information on other localities all play a part , the study finds , but simple discrimination is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Of course , there are laws against discrimination , going back to the 14th Amendment , which guarantees equal protection of the law to all Americans . The 1968 Civil Rights Act specifically deals with housing in Title VIII , but the administration of its provisions is assigned to the Department of Housing The Times welcomes letters from readers . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we are unable to acknowledge or to return ' unpublished letters . and Urban Development with no enforcement powers except " conference , conciliation and persuasion . " H.U.D. can not even instigate its own investigations but must await complaints . No wonder its track record in the successful resolution of cases of bias is poor ? less than 9 percent in this region . Clearly , H.U.D. needs legal teeth if it is to do battle with those who prey on popular fears and mores in order to prolong housing segregation . The enforcement weapons so badly needed by H.U.D. are being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Act ( H.R.2540 /S.506 ) , now before Congressional committees . The bill would enable H.U.D. to initiate investigations and impose stiff penalties in cases of willful discrimination based on race , color , religion , national origin or physical handicap . Would this bill add an unnecessary layer to Washington bureaucracy ? The League of Women Voters believes that it would not . We can not accept the failure to provide enforcement of a law which grants freedom of choice to every American . We urge your readers to consider the compelling need for the Fair Housing Amendments Act and to relay their support to their members of Congress . JOAN A. CROWLEY BETSY HEDCEN ELIZABETH HUBBARD Montclair , N.J. , Oct. 3 , 1979 The writers are the presidents of the Leagues of Women Voters of New Jersey , Connecticut and New York , respectively .                     