@@729254

txt The Democratic National CommitI tee 's Policy Council charged today that President Nixon 's State of the World Message offered the " prospect of an endless war " in Indochina . Reflecting a developing Democratic line of attack on the Administration 's Vietnam policies , the Democratic officials urged that the United States adopt a firm , unequivocal policy that all American forces would be withdrawn from Vietnam by the end of this year . The Democratic rebuttal to the President 's message was offered in a critical analysis by W. Averell Harriman , chairman of the Democratic Policy Council 's committee on international affairs , and Paul C. Warnke , former Assistant Secretary of Defense and chairman of the I council 's committee on arms control and defense policy . Their analysis was issued by the Democratic National Committee . Meanwhile , Hugh Scott , the Senate Republican leader , accused Senate Democrats of trying to " hitchhike " on the President 's program by advocating withdrawal of all American troops by the end of 1972 . Senator Robert C. Byrd , the assistant Democratic leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdrawals by the Administration , they were fearful that the President 's program meant that the forces would not be withdrawn for some time . In the 1,500-word statement on behalf of the Democratic National Committee , the two former officials in the Johnson Administration said the Nixon Administration 's policies of Vietnamization ? turning over the fighting to the South Vietnamese ? " offer the prospect of endless war . " In support of this assertion , they pointed to the statement in the President 's message that the'policy of Vietnamization , in the absence of a negotiated settlement by the Communist side , " can not , except over a long period , end the war altogether . " While the President , in his message , tools credit for reducing American troop strength in Vietnam , he said there was " no assurance of the withdrawal of all American forces . " Although American casualties have declined under the Administration 's Vietnamization program , the statement said , " South Vietnamese are dying in larger number and civilian casualties continue to mount " and " it is callous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The statement urged that there be " a firm , unequivocal declaration that all American forces will - be withdrawn by the end of this year . " It argued that a policy of complete withdrawal  --  rather than the program of Vietnamization  --  would obtain the speedy release of prisoners of war . On the President 's message in general , the Democratic statement said : " The report 's 180 pages of uninformative rhetoric are filled with unstinting selfpraise , and , absence of candor and a distortion of results . " " Generalities and well-meaning declarations attempt to conceal the failure to formulate ' definite policies or to take effective action , " the statement said . " The . President is correct in saying that the world is changing , but too many of his policies are drawn from the attitudes of past decades . " Henry A. Kissinger , the President 's national security adviser , reaffirmed meanwhile the ' Administration 's opposition to a specific deadline for withdrawal of all American forces from Vietnam . " We have every intention of continuing to wind down the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C.B.S . television news . The United States troop commitment in Vietnam , he said , " is not open-ended just because we do not give a particular time frame for it . " The Administration intends to continue troop withdrawals as South Vietnam takes over more of the war effort , he said , but to announce a deadline for withdrawal would remove an incentive for North Vietnam to negotiate a peace settlement . The exchange between Senators Scott and Byrd on the Senate floor was another step in defining what is becoming a central political question in the Vietnam debate  --  whether the President 's Vietnamization program means that all American troops will be withdrawn in the foreseeable future on a definite time schedule . Earlier this week the Senate Democratic caucus adopted a resolution calling for withdrawal of all troops by a fixed date . This was interpreted by Democratic leaders to mean before the end of the 92d Congress on Jan. 3 , 1973 . Senator Scott took the Senate floor to denounce the Democratic resolution as " sheer politics " and plagiarism of the Administration 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Senator Byrd said , " I hope the , President has a certain , time in mind . " . But on the basis of the President 's state of the world message yesterday , Senator Byrd said , it would appear that withdrawal of all troops would " not be in the next year " but rather would " be a long way down the road . "                     