@@732743

txt Churches , clubs , and charity groups that rely on bingo and other games of chance for fund raising are taking a much bigger gamble than they realize . Experts warn that such so-called " social gambling " and the many " Las Vegas nights , " carnivals , and raffles staged in the name of charity and other worthwhile causes hide some of the biggest gambling " ripoffs " across the United States . Most clergymen and other sponsors are not aware of the fraud involved in the games being played , but are themselves the dupes of professional " outsiders " brought in to operate the roulette wheels , crap tables , and other betting paraphernalia . // From page 1 *Charity gambling : ripoff ? Law enforcement officials complain that mobsters and professional gamblers have moved into these " harmless " social activities in virtually every state . Because of the worthwhile causes they represent , the games have wide public support , which makes regulating and controlling them almost impossible . " We 've opened a Pandora 's Box , and we realize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referring to the state 's inability to keep professional gamblers from taking advantage of amateurs at such " legal " events . States can not afford the large numbers of investigators necessary to police such activities , and although a handful have made serious attempts to clamp controls on social gambling , most gaming officials admit they are forced to " look the other way " and the games operate virtually unregulated . " Bingo in this country today borders on outright theft , " says James Ritchie , executive di rector of the National Gambling Commission . " I 'd ban it if I could . " In a two-year study of gambling , the commission found that bingo has become a big business ? with nearly $2 billion spent annually on the game , which is legal in only 34 states but is played in all of them . The commission found bingo games to be grossly unfair to sponsors and players , with the chances of either of them coming out ahead extremely slight . The percentage of money going to the charity or sponsoring group is generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profits for themselves , according to state officials . The National Gambling Commission is recommending that states make no distinction between charitable and commercial bingo for licensing purposes and that tight controls he tied on bingo to ensure honest games and protect consumers . In New York City , where high-ranking mobsters have been arrested at church and synagogue " Las Vegas nights , " Consumer Affairs Commissioner Eleanor Guggenheim er is struggling with the added chore of policing thousands of pin ball machines recently reintroduced after an absence of many years . Commissioner Guggenheimer says that some charity groups have been discovered operating roulette wheels with 25-to-1 odds , which , she says , " I understand is highway robbery . " She complains that gambling is a poor substitute for people financially supporting their churches and synagogues as they should . In Washington State , which has what is considered one of the best systems for controlling " social gambling , " William Bjork , executive secretary of the state gambling commission , says a major problem is that " most charity groups have no good system of keeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illegal skimming . " His state insists on a detail accounting of all gambling activities by charity groups . Mr. Bjork says " Las Vegas nights " are outlawed in Washington and that his office does not hesitate to revoke licenses of churches , clubs , and others for violation . Gaming commissioners frequently complain that when violations are uncovered , prosecutors are reluctant to press charges against a chUrch or charity .                     