@@728529

txt Gov . Claude Kirk , personally running the Manatee county scliools to forestall a forcedbusing integration order , stood in the administration building today and loudly dared the federal government to arrest him . " Whoever wants to arrest the governor must rassle the governor , " said the flamboyant Kirk , and added that he would ignore a federal judge 's order to appear personally in court tomorrow to answer contempt charges in the matter . Surrounded by 30 Guards Kirk was surrounded by about 30 plainclothes guards during his several-hour stay in Bradenton and not a federal marshal appeared . Earlier , the marshals tried to arrest several of Kirk 's aids , but with the sheriff and some of his deputies they locked themselves in a room in the school administration building and refused to come out . The marshals declared the 10 men in the locked room under arrest , // Gov . Kirk raps government after visiting newborn son . United States Atty . John Briggs told newsmen in Tampa tonight that someone in the locked room threatened to open fire on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dooley Hoffman , a special assistant to Kirk , said " that 's ridiculous , ludicrous . " He said any such threat " certainly did not emanate from this office . " In Washington , a justice department spokesman said Atty . Gen. John N. Mitchell had been on the telephone to Mirk a dozen times in the past week " imploring him to stop this . " Far from being ready to stop , however , Kirk appeared to be enjoying himself . Son 's BIrth Delays Take-Over His personal take-over of the schools was delayed by the birth of his second child , Eric , in a Tallahassee hospital today . He rushed away to the hospital , telling newsmen " the world can live without me for 90 minutes , that 's all . " Before leaving for Bradenton , he likened himself to Mohandas Gandhi of India and said the federal government was like the pharoah ? and if " they say we must kill our first male child , I will hide Eric in the bullrushes . " When he strode into the administration building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for arrest . " There ai n't nobody better put a hand on 01 ' Claude Jr . " Kirk . has been ordered to appear in Tampa tomorrow before United States Distric t Judge Ben Krentzman to show cause why he should n't be cited for contempt tor taking over the schools to defy Krentzman 's busing order . Kirk retorted that Krentzinan had no right to " order a soveriegn head of a soveriegn state to appear personally . " Kirk left Bradenton at dusk for Tallahassee and said he would be back to the helm of the Manatee schools early tomorrow . His stand appeared to be massively popular in the county . " If Claude Kirk tells the voters of Manatee county tomorrow he is running for God , he would get 95 per cent of the vote , " one resident said . A car drove around the administration building with a sign reading " Give ' cm Hell , Kirk . " " I hope things get settled soon , " said Col. Phillip Doyle , assis t a n t superintendent of schools and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Three governor 's aids , Sheriff Richard Weitzenfeld , six deputies , and 12 state troopers with riot equipment showed up early today to see that Kirk 's wishes were carried out and that the court-ordered desegregation did not take place . Lock Door of Office It was the second time this week that the governor 's maneuvering had halted implementation of an order from Judge Krentzmann to carry out a desegregation plan he approved Jan. 29 . The plan required large-scale busing of students , a policy Kirk says is " illegal . " Things ran smoothly until shortly after 11 a. m. when United States District Marshal Mitchell Neuberger , flanked by two deputy marshals and Assistant United States Atty . Oscar Blasingame , strolled to the school administration center . The three governor 's men , Lloyd Hagaman , Richard Warner , and R. D. Hoffman , ushered the federal officials to a large room across the hall and shut the door on newsmen . About 30 minutes later , Hagaman walked out , followed by the other two aids . " They 're trying to arrest us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three sidled into the school superintendent 's office and closed and locked the door . The sheriff and his deputies already were in the office . The marshals went to the door . Deputy .1 o li n n y Barr shouted : " Let us in , " but got no response . Blasingame asserted the marshals had authority to force open the door , " but we choose ; at this time . not to destroy school property , " Blasingame said the three governor 's aids , the sheriff , and his six de put ies inside the locked office were considered under arrest even tho they had not been taken into custody .                     