@@731326

txt Newspaper heiress Patricia Hearst reviled her father today as a " pig " and her fiance as a " clown " and declared she willingly had robbed a bank with her Symbionese Liberation Army comrades . " To those people who feel I am brainwashed I see no need to further defend my position . I am a soldier in the people 's army , " the 20-year-old coed said in a tape recording received by San Francisco police thru an intermediary . The tape was received by police Community Relations Director Rodney E. Williams along with half of Miss Hearst 's driver 's license . A Hearst family ' spokesman said the message was authentic , and Miss Hearst 's father said he still believed she was speaking under coercion . " AT NO TIME did any of my comrades point their guns at me . We forced the corporate state to help finance the revolution , " said Miss Hearst , who was photographed by bank cameras carrying an automatic carbine in the April 15 bank robbery . The S. L. A. members escaped with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Miss Hearst has been named a material witness in the robbery . There was no immediate comment from the FBI on whether her apparent admission of responsibility would change her status in the case . " To the clowns who want a personal interview with me ? Vincent Hallinan an attorney 1 , Steven Weed her fiance ! , and the pig Hcarsts  --  I prefer giving it to the people in the bank , " she said . " It 's absurd to think that I could surface to say what I am saying now and be allowed to freely return to my comrades . The enemy still wants me dead . " " AS FOR my ex-fiance. " she said in a calm , firm voice . " frankly I do n't care if I ever see him again . " In the last few months he has shown himself to be a " sexist pig . . . . Frankly , Steven is the one who sounds brainwashed . " Her father , newspaper executive Randolph A. Hearst , said : " The only good thing is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me , if she has been brainwashed , and I firmly believe she has , then it 's not surprising she would say something like this . " No matter what she says , we still love her . The girl we 've known all her life would not say something like that of her own free will , " said Hearst , president and editor of the San Francisco Examiner . Weeks earlier , Hearst had established a $2 million food giveaway for the poor as demanded by the terrorist S. L. A. THE BITTER tape recording was the first since April 3 when Miss Hearst renounced her family and said she had taken the name " Tania , " after a slain revolutionary woman who fought with the late Cuban guerrilla Che Guevara in Bolivia . The S. L. A. claimed it kidnaped Miss Hearst Feb. 4 from her Berkeley apartment and held her as a " prisoner of war against the fascist state . " The S. L. A. said she was free to return , but refused . Williams said the tape and license were irf a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poster depicting hands and a clenched fist . Also in the package was a brief letter to a community action group , the Western Addition Project Area Committee , asking that the bundle be hand-delivered to either one of two local radio stations . THE STATIONS , KSAN and KPFA , have received communiniques from the S. L. A. in the weeks since Miss Hearst was dragged screaming from her apartment . Williams said a second voice on the tape identified himself as Cinque , the purported leader of t h e multiracial guerrilla group . He denounced the citywide police hunt for the black " Zebra " killer or killers of 12 whites in the past six months .                     