@@733264

txt Letters Letters On the Limits of a Constitutional Convention To the Editor : Dorothy Dunbar Bromley in her Aug. 29 letter objects to the calling of a constitutional convention for the purpose of recommending to the states for ratification an amendment to the United States Constitution to protect the unborn . She quotes two professors who express opinions in opposition to a constitutional convention as her principal authority for this opposition . In 1974 , a unanimous report of the Special Constitutional Study Committee of the American Bar Association said : " Our two-year study of the subject has led us to conclude that a national constitutional convention can be channeled . . . to be .. an orderly mechanism of effecting constitutional change when circumstances require its use . The charge of radicalism does a disservice to the ability of the states and people to act responsibly when dealing with the Constitution . " A future constitutional convention can make no change in the Constitution ; it can destroy no right nor infringe any liberty . Anything that a constitutional convention proposes for ratification by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states before it becomes a part of the Constitution . In short , a constitutional convention can not amend the Constitution ; it can merely propose an amendment for ratification and nothing more . Not a comma or a period can be inserted in the Constitution until threefourths of the states have solemnly ratified the proposal . To Use Mediation In Nature Disputes To the Editor : In your Aug. 31 editorial " Out-ofCourt Environment " you said that to settle environmental disputes by mediation rather than through the courts should by all means be encouraged but that " there is good reason to doubt that the proposal will become a reality on a major scale . " Your conclusion is overpessimistic because it ignores recent developments in dispute settlement techniques . Mediation has traditionally been used after a deadlock has occurred and the positions of the parties have become frozen . In environmental disputes , where there are often many parties and where the issues are exceedingly complex , impartial procedures , including but not limited to mediation , must be introduced early in the problemsolving cycle to  --  be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem to be solved , not a pie to be cut . Modern dispute settlers have a battery of tools , each to be used in sequence and with skills that are being developed . For several years , the American Arbitration Association , a national institution devoted to settling disputes , has recognized that energy-environmental controversies are a new breed of conflict requiring new approaches . The procedures we are now using have these ingredients : ( 1 ) Early detection of controversial decisions that must be made . ( 2 ) Early identification and involvement of the parties who must participate in making and in accepting the decision . ( 3 ) Gathering the basic facts and assumptions employing mediation ( we call it data-mediation ) to achieve consensus on what data are valid . ( 4 ) Finally , the use of more traditional mediation techniques after the previous steps Save been followed , to seek consensus of the solution to be chosen . When set in this sequence , one can be more optimistic that a successful mediation of environmental disputes may indeed become a " reality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Research Institute American Arbitration Association New York , Sept. 1 , 1977 Philippine Pledge To the Editor : Your Aug. 25 editorial " Promises , Promises in Manila " indicates you may not have been aware of what President Marcos said in his address during Memorial Day services at the American Cemetery in Greater Manila on May 30 , 1977 : " Our commitment to human rights and the welfare of our people , like our commitment to our sovereignty and territorial integrity , is an irrevocable one , It is a commitment that has led us into making hard and controversial decisions in the ordering of our national priorities and the restructuring of our institutions . Yet we shudder less at the thought that we would not always be understood and more at the possibility that without a will , our best means might ultimately fail . " Some of the things we have to do today , particularly when seen to be new and unfamiliar by those who do not share either our faith or our conviction , will tend to disturb even those who sympathize with our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rather as we reach out to you for the secret of your progress and achievements , reach out also for the secret of our torment . For we have been stunted by weakness , hobbled by underdevelopment . Our paths may sometimes separate , but I am sure they shall converge again , for our final destination is the same : the full rendering of human dignity and human The fact that we have not had a national constitutional convention since 1787 does not diminish the people 's right , guaranteed by the United States Constitution , to have a constitutional convention if they wish . There is nothing new or startling in an application for a constitutional convention ; there have been over 400 in our nation 's history , with at least one emanating from each of the 50 states . As I have traveled from state legislature to state legislature all across America , I have observed that the principal opposition to an application for a constitutional convention comes from a mixture of political activists of the right and of the left  --  the A.D.A. , the A.C.L.U. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups are noisy in their opposition , they , in fact , represent an insignificant spectrum of public opinion . As James Madison said , " A constitutional convention guards equally against that extreme facility which would render the Constitution too mutable ; and that extreme difficulty which might perpetuate its discovered faults . " DAN BUCK LEY Chairman , Americans for a Constitutional Convention New York , Aug. 29 , 1977 ? To the Editor : In her Aug. 29 letter Ms. Dorothy Dunbar Bromley attributes to me the . view " that , given the wording of Article V , a new constitutional conTo the Editor : I was a resident of New York for 33 years , and for the past 16 years have been working in the Times Square section . I walk to Penn Station ( 34th Street ) from 45th Street and Seventh Avenue every working day . The deterioration of this city is appalling . The filth in the streets is a lb OhIsson disgrace . I remember New York City when it was clean . That does n't go back too far-10 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like we used to ? There is nothing demeaning about a " pay job " well done . Years ago if a storekeeper did n't keep the sidewalk in front of his store swept every day an inspector would give him a summons . He would then pay a fine . That surely would be a good source of revenue for this city . I have listened to all the wonderful things the mayoralty hopefuls are . promising . No one talks about the filthy streets and a simple plan to clean them  --  brooms and fines for not wielding them . Actually if they start with cleaning up ( physically ) this city , we might have some psychological inTo the Editor : The recent overturning of the Port Authority 's ban on the Concorde SST will inundate New York City with painful Concorde noise and vibration . The Federal Government long ago pre-empted authority to issue SST noise standards , so no authority or obligation exists for the Port Authority to do so . Earlier decisions in Concorde litigation in Washington , D.C. , exonorated the Federal Government for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Why is the Port Authority 's delay of only seventeen months " excessive and unjustified " ? The Concorde tests at Dulles are incomplete  --  therefore , that ban to avoid exposing 100 times more people to excessive Concorde noise and pain is only humane and just . That is protection of public health , not disregard of public health as practiced by the Federal Government . The only discrimination and unfairness lie in the Federal tactics . Is Washington playing the devil 's advocate ? The Federal Government said these tests could be stopped in one hour if dangerous to the public health . That danger was proven at Dulles in the first two weeks of SST operation , but it 's still flying over a year later with increased flights . F.A.A. monitoring reports show complaints of pain ( ear , head , heart and chest ) from Concorde vention could propose whatever amendments it might choose . " Though I agree with much in Ms. Bromley 's letter , I have to correct this attribution . I have never , as far as I know , expressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do so in my article in Volume 82 of the Yale Law Journal , at p. 189 , which Ms. Bromley cites . My view , expressed and defended in that article , is that a state 's application for a subject-limited convention is entirely void , on the ground that such a limited convention is not what Article V authorizes the states to petition for . If I am right in this , then , since 34 times zero is zero , 34 such applications are each and all void , and Congress is not obligated to call any convention at all , because the applications from the 34 states are not applications for the thing Article V authorizes them to apply for . On this view , of course , the question of a " runaway " convention ought never to arise , since Congress need not call any convention whatever , when applied to by the states far a subject-limited convention . The view that states may , under Article V , force the call of a subjectlimited convention is the product , so far as I can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twentieth century . But , for space reasons , I must refer those interested to my article referred to above . CHARLES L. BLACK Jr . Sterling Professor of Law , Yale New Haven , Conn. , Aug , 30 , 1977 centive for everyone to feel good about living in a clean place . I ca n't think of a better way to make people come to New York and like it . The filth here now is repelling and deters everyone . Unless we get after the Sanitation Department and get some people assigned physically to clean up small sections at a time we are doomed to filth and to people hating and leaving New York . LIL LIAN FREY ER Great Neck , L.I. , Sept. 1 , 1977 Deterring Crime To the Editor : I salute your moderation in regard to opposing violence with violence , but doubt your facts and logic . You say categorically the death penalty is no deterrent to crime . I say equally bluntly no one yet knows . That you should know ! When a convicted murderer knows that " life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , and he is told that the death sentence will not be sought if he is " psychopathic , " has not most of the deterrent been removed from murder ? Throw in the fact that often some legal or police technical error may impede the course of justice , and there is n't much left . Will law and protection of the public depend forever on the judgment of court psychiatrists unable to make a decision on any truly scientific basis ? I hope not . IRVINE H. PAGE , M.D. Cleveland Clinic Cleveland , Aug. 30 , 1977 noise on almost 100 separate days through May 1977 . But F.A.A. omits the quantity of such complaints . Over 1,300 total Concorde complaints in a year  --  averaging more than two complaints each SST operation , compared to one complaint every 540 flights of other aircraft . SST arrivals can equal or exceed takeoffs in severity . Police arrest burglers , but when Concorde noise invades a home and assaults those inside to unconsciousness , F.A.A. ignores even the complaints . In the first 1,000 complaints F.A.A. admitted investigating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do so . F.A.A. downplays complaints in its reports , omits almost all noise readings where most people live , where most complaints originate , and where Concorde noise can be four to five times worse than any other plane , far worse than even E.P.A . predictions , 30 miles away after takeoff . As one of thousands around Dulles Airport forced by Federal thoughtlessness to suffer this Concorde noise for over a year , I have personally witnessed repeatedly the pain it causes , but the Federal Government ignores our " human rights " to freedom from this torture . One hopes the Appellate Court will have wisdom toward humanity , and restore the ban on the SST . ROBERT D. THURSTON Herndon , Va. , Sept. 2 , 1977 The Filth in the Streets Is a Disgrace ' Restore the Ban on the SST ' welfare . " . ERNESTO C. PINEDA Consul General of the Philippines New York , Aug. 25 , 1977                     