@@728509

txt Opposition to the Supreme Court nomination of G. Harrold Carswell intensified in the Senate today , but his supporters still contended they could block an effort to send the nomination back to committee . Opponents of the nomination gained assistance ? in various forms  --  from Oregon 's two Senators , Mark 0 . Hatfield and Robert W. Packwood , both Republicans , , and from J. W. Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas . 49 for Recommital A New York Times count found that supporters of recommittal had , at their most optimistic level , 49 votes . This would " be either one or two votes short of victory , depending how many Senators are on hand for the vote . However , one Republican Senator who strongly supports Judge Carswell said he believed the nomination was lost unless President Nixon turned on pressure . So far there has been virtually no evidence of the White House 's attempting to influence votes on the nomination . Senator Hatfield , who was almost certain a week ago that he would vote to confirm Judge Carswell , sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdraw the nomination to help resolve " the crisis of confidence that confronts our governmental process . " Mr. Hatfield said he would support the motion to recommit the nomination to the Judiciary Committee . A vote on that motion is scheduled for April 6 . Mr. Hatfield refused to say whether he would vote for or against confirmation on April 8 if the motion to recommit is defeated . Senator Fullbright , in a break with his Southern colleagues , announced in a floor speech that he favored sending the nomination back to the Judiciary Committee for further exploration of recently raised issues regarding Judge Carswell 's professional competence and support . Mr. Fulbright emphasized that he did not share " the lack of enthusiasm in some circles for the appointment of a Southern judge " or any " distaste for strict constructionists " on the Supreme Court . But , he said , he believes that further , information is necessary before a vote . ' Less Than Enthusiastic ' Senator Packwood , in a statement that threatened to divide the campaign for recommittal , announced that he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote , but was " less than enthusiastic " about sending the issue back to committee . " There are probably six to eight Senators who do n't want him and who do n't have the guts to vote against him , " Mr. Packwood declared , " These six to eight Senators have those of us opposed to Judge Carswell over a barrel . They 're prepared to vote for recommittal , but are they prepared to vote for confirmation if he is not recommitted ? " If recommittal fails , " Mr. Packwood continued , " I doubt if they will vote their conscience and deny to Judge Carswell the right to become a member of the Supreme Court . The right thing , the courageous thing , for members of the Senate to do is to vote their own conscience . " Republican critics of Judge Carswell remained convinced , however , that Mr. Packwood would vote for recommittal , although they feared his statement might alienate some wavering Senators . Also partly countering the surge of support for recommitting the nomination was Senator George D. Aiken , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action as " ducking the issue " and preferred to vote the nominee up or down on the merits . He said he was undecided on confirmation . Senator John Sherman Cooper , Republican of Kentucky , was reliably reported to share Senator Aiken 's distaste for recommitting the nomination . If Senator Karl E. Mundt , Republican of South Dakota , who has been absent for months following a stroke , remains out , 50 votes will pass the recommittal motion . If the Carswell forces get Senator Mundt to the chamber , the opposition will . need 51 votes . ? Senator Richard B. Russell ; Democrat of Georgia , has also been out of the Senate for some time because of ill health , but he is expected to participate in the vote . The New York Times tally showed 44 Senators opposed to recommitting the nomination and six undecided . As things now stand the Carswell opposition will have to recruit one or two of the six undecided Senators to win . Ziegler Cites Confidence . At the White House this morning , the ? press secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nomination was in trouble . " The President , " he said , " is firm in his support for Judge Carswell in all aspects of the debate , and he is confident Judge Carswell will be confirmed . " If the nomination should be sent back to committee , some Senators believe it would then be withdrawn , either by : the President or by the nominee himself . Senator Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania , the Republican minority leader , maintained today that the Carswell supporters had enough votes to block recommittal and said that he would vote against such a motion . If the motion should succeed , however ; it , could save Senator Scott some political embarrassment . Having demonstrated his loyalty to the President throughout the debate , he could then be spared voting for Judge Carswell , a move unlikely to be popular wi th his Pennsyvania consistuents to whom he must appeal for re-election next fall . Criticism of Judge Carswell , who sits on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit , in New Orleans , has centered mainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his career has been undistinguished.                     