@@729549

txt A welfare fraud ring involving at least 16 county public aid employes has allegedly bilked the state out , of more than $160,000 , THE TRIBUNE was informed yesterday . The ring allegedly forged the names to checks sent to hundreds of deceased welfare recipients and welfare families that had moved from Illinois months ago , The disclosures are contained in a preliminary report , which implicates four supervisors in the scheme , that was turned over to county officials this week by county investigators . The fraud scheme was confirmed by George Dunne , president of the Cook County Board , and David L , Daniel , director of the County Public Aid Department . Two Eniplayes Transferred But both denied they have information that points to widespread thefts , saying the matter is still under investigation . Daniel did say that two employes have been transferred as a result of the preliminary reports . " We do n't intend to tolerate this sort of thing , " said Daniel , " We just ca n't afford it . " It also was learned that federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ checks cashed from a North Side nursing home after the patients had been dead for months . Caseworker Cashed Checks Among the findings during the early stages of the county investigation are : 1 . A public aid caseworker continued to pick up and cash welfare checks sent to a family living in a North Side apartment hotel for nearly a year after the recipients returned to Kentucky in June , 1970 . When the caseworker went on vacation in March , sources reported his supervisor went to the hotel and picked up the checks . 2 . A South Side grocer is cashing many of the checks and receiving $25 for every $100 in forged checks . 3 . Welfare checks continued to be delivered to the address of an elderly , disabled North Side resident who died in May . The checks arrived at the residence in the 500 block of North Milwaukee Avenue and were later cashed on the Far South Side , sources reported . Another source said the $100 , - 000 figure was " extremely conservative , " and that dozens of employes may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to dean up the scandal quietly in an effort to avoid an investigation by the Republican-controlled state welfare agency . Daniel said that , based on information developed by his office , two public aid investigators are making a random check of all canceled checks returned to the agency in an effort to find more clues to the fraud scheme . Sources reported that the preliminary estimates of the number of persons involved and the welfare funds lost are based on a study of checks issued since October . Check Cashed After Death Daniel ordered his own investigation after an employe noticed a canceled check that had been issued in May to a recipient who died in January . The investigation disclosed that at least two checks for $10 ? each had been cashed since the man died . Daniel said his office is In the midst of setting up a new program to tighten up procedures on handling encashed checks returned thru the mail .                     