@@732695

txt Arab hijackers seized a Dutch DC9 jet with 84 persons aboard over France Saturday night . The plane refueled at Tunis , took off toward the east , and landed at Larnaca in southern Cyprus early Sunday , airport sources said . The sources said the plane appaiently was bound for Syria or Libya . The-hijackers , whose number was not known , spoke Arabic and were believed to be Palestinian extremists , TUNISIAN police said the plane apparently was bound for Damascus , Syria , but did not rule out the possibility of a landing In Libya , where the regime of Col. Moammar Khadafy has received several Palestinian hijackers in the past . A Greek airport control tower official in Athens said the plane had been spotted in Greek airspace and confirmed that it appeared to be headed for Damascus . The Athens official added , but we do n't know for sure yet because these people seemed still to be consulting each other . " The Royal Dutch KLM plane , filled with Dutch tourists returning home from vacation , was enorute from Malaga @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a stopover in Nice , France . It was seized 20 minutes after leaving Nice . The plane stopped in Tunisia just long enough to refuel and to repair its landing gear , damaged in a short , rough touchdown at Tunis-Carthage airport . TUNISIAN OFFICIALS had closed all airports In the North African country when they were informed of the hijacking , but the plane came in anyway and its landing gear struck empty gasoline drums that had been used to block the runway . The plane was refueled at the demand of the hijackers and two mechanics were allowed to repair the landing gear . KLM officials in Amsterdam said the number of hijackers and their demands were not yet known . " However , in Cyprus it was reported that the pilot said there were three hijackers . Aboard the jet were " 78 passengers plus a baby , the commander P. A. Janssen , the second pilot , a purser and two stewardesses , " KLM said . KLM officials said two children , in addition to the infant , were on the flight . The children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Spain and the others came on board In Nice . A KLM SPOKESMAN said the Tunis airport commander had established contact with the hijackers and " learned that all the passengers are in good condition , " The airlines declined to release a passenger list , but officials said most of those aboard the hijacked flight 366 " City of Madrid " were Dutch citizens . Relatives awaiting the scheduled midnight arrival of the plane at Amsterdam 's Schipoi Airport were informed of the hijacking and told to return home . After the plane left Nice , sources at Schipol Airport said , the hijackers demanded the pilot turn the plane southward . The pilot convinced the hijackers to land in Tunisia because the jet might run out of fuel , the sources said . Tunisian officials , led by Interior Minister Tahar Belkhodja , rushed to the airport control tower but it was not ' known if they established contact with the hijackers or tried to negotiate with them . A " CRISIS CENTER " was set up at the interior ministry in the Dutch seat of government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrived to take charge , ministry officials said . It was the second hijack of a KLM plane . On Nov. 25 , 1973 , three Palestinian commandos seized a KLM Boeing 747 en route from Amsterdam to Tokyo with 247 passengers and crew . The Palestinians demanded that Holland abandon its pro-Israeli policies and that KLM stop transporting arms to Israel . KLM denied it had ever done so . That plane landed at Malta where the passengers were released in exchange for a high KLM official and fuel . On Nov. 28 the official and crew were freed in Dubai and the plane returned to Amsterdam the next day . The hijackers disappeared .                     