@@730440

txt A House-Senate conference committee approved today legislation that would set the goal of eliminating all pollution of water in this country by 1985 : The compromise , a product of 39 days of negotiations that began May 11 , would establish a program of permits that Would limit the discharge of industrial wastes in sewage into the nation 's waterways , The bill would authorlze , $24-billion , most of it , for the construction of waste treatment plants . The arnbunt of money that would ietnally be ? available to the states and communities would depend upon subseqttent appropriation legislation . Nearly all the , money would be pledged to states and localities for specific projects within the next three years , although it would be spent over a nineyear period . The money would be apportioned do the basis of the special needs of the applicants . Environmentalists generally ' praised the legislation today , ' although there were some ' points in the compromise agreement that they felt did not require enough action by polluters . The mere fact that the bill came out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for large industrial polluters many of which had vigorously lobbied to keep the . measure tied up in negotiations . The bill is scheduled to go to the House and Senate for final passage before adjournment this year . There is little doubt that both chambers will approve the conference agreement , ' buti ; some . Senate lexperts on pollution control expressed concern tonight ' that President Nixon Might veto the bill , The ? President lid sought only $6-billion to control water pollution Over the next three years . In. addition to the increased cost , the bill would give more power to the Environmental Protection Agency and less to the states than the Administration would have liked . Besides quadrupling the amount of money the President asked for , the bill was much more strict in its timetable and enforcement procedures than the Administration wanted . The key provision requires all industries discharging into the nation 's waterways to use the " best practicable " technology to control pollution by 1977 and the " best available " technology by 1983 . Originally , the House and Senate had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were pushed back , partly as a concession to the House position that would have allowed a two-year extension of the final deadline and partly because the deliberations over the bill took so long . Industrywide Rules The Senate passed its version in November 1971 , and the House acted last March . Furthermore  --  the House bill would have needed passage of further legislaton before . putting into effect : the final requirement of applying the " best available " technology . The  --  conIference agreement would ' put Ithis deadline into effect withlout additional legislation . The final standards for what would be requlred of . ' polluters would be applied on an industrywide rather than on a plantby-plant basis . Under the bill , each plant that discharged wastes into a waterway would have to obtain a permit to do so . States could set up their own permit programs , under Federal antipollution guidelines , but the Federal Environmental Protection Agency would have the authority to take over the issuance of permits if a state 's program was not satisfactory . Before Federal guidelines were established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permit issued by a state . Once the guidelines were established , the Federal Government could reject a specific permit only if the state had not conformed with the law or if one state complained that its waters were being polluted by discharges for another state upstream , Any violator of the law would be subject to a maximum $25 , - 000 fine and one-year prison term for the first conviction and a $50,000 fine and two years in prison for subsequent convictions . Persons or groups could sue under the law only if they were specifically harmed by the pollution involved . Under the bill , the Federal Government would contribute 75 per cent of the cost of constructing a community 's waste treatment plant , with the state and localities providing the remajning quarter , At present , the Federal share or-construction costs is 55 per cent . Under a 1966 law , the states were given the primary responsibility for setting water quality standards for rivers and lakes . The standards were not aimed to prohibit effluents but rather to set a maximum amount of discharge that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protested that this system does not work . Barely half the states have established standards that have been approved by the Federal Government , and few cases of violations have reached the courts . The purpose of the permit system is to forbid the discharge of pollutants entirely and to require industry to employ advanced equipment to meet this goal . In determining the " best available " technology under'the standards , the Government could consider the cost of the equipment to an entire industry , but it could not waive the requirement for any specific plant on the ground of cost :                     