@@732065

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 20 Letters to the Editor Environmentalists vs . Economic Justice To the Editor : The Times charges ( in its July 24 editorial , " No Growth or No Waste ? " ) that I have created a straw man in criticizing some " liberals " who would sacrifice economic growth on the altar of environmentalism . In The Times ' view , the environmentalists have drawn a sharp distinction between growth ( which they support ) and waste ( which they oppose ) . It is an elegant but false distinction , since nobody but a straw man would be for waste . The real issue is whether the environmental lobby has carefully assessed the economic consequences of the legislation it has backed , and whether leading environmentalists have shown a careless , even reckless , attitude toward the whole problem of economic growth . Many in the environmental lobby , in a hysterical effort to reverse the effects of the industrial revolution in a few years , have supported sweeping and uninformed legislation which has had unnecessarily harmful economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It has resulted in the closing down of hundreds of plants , from drop forges to specialty organic chemical plants , The environmental damage of the plants forced to close had been minimal and could have been easily corrected . The economic damage of the legislation has been severe . The Chemicals We Eat . To the Editor : In " Healthier Than Life Itself " ( OpEd July 7 ) Elizabeth Whelan inveighs against the " self-appointed consumer advocates " and their criticisms of food technology . Ms. Whelan seems to present herself as a self-appointed defender of the food industry . In a manner reminiscent of those experts who attempted to deny the harmful effects of tobacco smoke , she offers us all the facts in favor of her assertion that chemical food additives are harmless and chooses to remain silent about their dangers . Most artificial food colors are synthetized from coal tar , which has been proved for many years to induce cancer . Yet many food colors have not been subjected to long-term tests for carcinogenicity . Two insecticides , aldrin and dieldrin , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumed by us in bur daily bread . After both insecticides were shown to induce cancer , it took four years of legal battles to stop the production and sale of these poisons . Aldrin and dieldrin will Toward a National To the Editor : Current difficulties in managing New York City problems should revive a proposal for a research organization like a National Institute for Urban Affairs . Such a concept was considered too briefly several years ago during the Lindsay administration . At the time several research organizations , such as the Rand Corporation , were being given contracts for research in some problem areas of the city . It is logical to extend this practice and envisage a permanent research establishment for urban problems similar to an institute of the National Institutes of Health . Scientific results would be available to all cities , so it would be appropriate for the Federal Government to foster the development and maintenance of the institute . Provided with a carefully selected staff from a wide variety of disciSchomburg Center : The Preferred Site To the Editor : You recently published a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from William B. Liebman . Had Mr. Liebmann checked with the New York Public Library , he would have received direct and positive information concerning the points which he raises about the neglect of the Schomburg Center and about the proposed new building for the center . The New York Public Library rescued the Schomburg collection fifty years ago and brought it and Mr. Schomburg into the 135th Street branch library , augmenting its small collection of nonclrculating materials on black history . Housing for the collection has expanded and been improved orr several occasions during the period of custody by the library , and the library initiated steps for a new building in the 1960 's . The building program has been intensively planned with the full involvement of the black community , and various city budget complications now appear to have been resolved with building planI did not create a straw man in criticizing elitist enemies of growth . Anti-growth economists , right and left , like Profs . Edward E. Mishan and John Kenneth Galbraith are among those most respected by many environmentalists . Mishan has advocated towns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Further , he has proposed a ban on all international air travel . I did not create Mishan , and , given the respect he enjoys in many quarters , he can scarcely be considered a straw man . Beyond this , the speeches and fund appeals of Democratic Presidential hopeful Morris Udall are a good example of the distorted priorities I had in mind . The poor black in the ghetto or the unemployed white worker would not find very much with which to identify in Udall 's semi-revivalist call that we must no longer " overindulge ourselves " or seek " to satisfy unlimited greed and desire for luxury . " They would agree that " we must change our way of life , " but they would take this to mean rather more luxury than they have been accustomed to in the past . The good and sweeping intentions of many environmentalists are now an obstacle blocking those lessfortunate Americans who desire economic justice . BAYARD RUSTIN Pres. , A. Philip Randolph Institute New York , Aug. 1 , 1975 probably be replaced by chlordane , which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's warning against some " natural " foods is well founded : human milk now contains five times more aldrin and dieldrin , 45 times more DDT than cow milk . The concentration of pesticides residue found in human milk is several times the maximum concentration considered safe by the World Health Organization . Ms. Whelan 's assertion that the chemicals added to our food are both safe and functional can not be supported . In this country , chemicals added to our food are assumed to be harmless until proved otherwise . Thus cyclamates were absorbed by the consumers for twenty years before they were removed from the market . Now saccharin has replaced the cyclamates as the artificial sweetener even though 5 to 7 per cent of saccharin added to the diet of rats produces cancer . The time has come for all consumers to become " self-appointed consumer advocates . " GEORGES R. REDING , M.D. Red Bank , N. J. , July 27 , 1975 plines , including basic and applied scientists , a number of solid factual sources of information could be developed in areas where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now make decisions relatively unaided by critically derived facts . Local universities , of course , often contribute such assistance , but the problems are so numerous and so intricately interrelated that part-time episodic research just wo n't do . A permanent , full-time research staff is required . If our representatives in the two houses of Congress are fully aware of - today 's problems in the cities of the nation , they could make a worthwhile contribution by exploring legislation in this direction . Our problems here should certainly alert them . WILLIAM Gri BEADENKOPF Brooklyn , Aug. 1 , 1975 ning proceeding ' and no further delays anticipated . The suggestion that the new building be located on 125th Street was fully explored with the local community and rejected by it and the library . The preferred site on Lenox Avenue between 135th and 136th Streets has since been acquired by the city for the new building , and any change in site at this time would seriously delay the construction of the center . The New York ' Public Library is proud of the Schomburg Center and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the collection . We agree with Mr. Liebmann that is the greatest library of rare material on black history ever assembled in this country , and it has been added to severalfold by the New York Public Library . We are certain that Mr. Schomburg will be appropriately honored by proper housing of the collection in the new building , and that the combined interests of the users and administrators of the collection will be well served . JOHN MACKENZIE CORY Director , N. Y. Public Library New York , July 31 , 1975 Destructive LSD To the Editor : In his July 22 letter . Walter Clark laments that the publicity from the Frank Olson-LSD-C.I.A. incident may revive popular fears about LSD and other unspecified " psychedelic " drugs which could interfere with research into their therapeutic potential . He denies a significant relationship between LSD ingestion and suicide and asserts that LSD is useful in the therapy of suicidal patients . As a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who has had extensive opportunity to observe the effects of LSD , I should like to rebut Clark 's thesis , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by people like Alpert and Leary nearly two decades ago . The publicized version of Frank Olson 's suicide superficially resembles eiAarvaceltire a not-infrequent response to LSD ingestion : destructive action prompted by delusions of omnipotence and grandiosity . LSD intoxication has preceded many jumps from heights based on the victim 's conviction that he can fly ; others have walked fearlessly into traffic , secure in the belief that they could will it to stop or that they were invulnerable . Other manifestations of the paranoid psychosis LSD induces in some . include delusions of being plotted against and terror of being attacked ; both have led to suicide and to homicide . But beyond the destructive acts which may occur during an acute LSD psychosis is the appalling deterioration of thinking and functioning characteristic of habitual LSD users . As for the so-called therapeutic action of LSD , I know of no convincing evidence . Some amelioration of suffering in terminal cancer patients is reported , but this as well as the alleviation of suicidal preoccupation which Clark alleges may relate to the fact that the psychotic state insulates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that suicide or homicide appear to be the only solutions . Surely this does not make psychosis induction an ethical or responsible form of therapy . Moreover , there is no way the LSD " therapist " can make the misleadingly neat dichotomization of " normals " and " mental patients " which Clark suggests might minimize adverse effects . Severe reactions to LSD administered for so-called therapeutic purposes during the 1955-65 decade were common . In summary , the data on LSD are overwhelmingly negative . It should be enshrined with opium , heroin , cocaine and mescaline , to name a few of the substances which cults in our society in search of oral utopia have mistakenly. exalted . It is my opinion that the factor muddying the waters , to borrow Professor Clark 's metaphor , is not publicity adverse to LSD , as he suggests , but rather publicity of views like his , which provide unnecessary illustration of Santayana 's thesis that if we do not learn from history we may be fated to repeat it . MICHAEL ROBBINS , M.D. Newton , Mass. , July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Editor : As a survivor of the Auschwitz concentration camp , I was astonished and surprised at your lack of sensitivity in your reporting of President Ford 's visit to the most infamous of German concentration camps . As most civilized people so well know , Auschwitz was the main extermination center  --  where almost four million Jews were put to death . Accordingly , there is no other name that has as much meaning to Jewish survival as " Auschwitz . " Yet your report made no mention whatsoever of it . I believe you have been negligent in your reporting and , even more important , insensitive to the feelings of those few of us who were fortunate enough to survive the camp . ERNEST W. MICHEL New York , July 31 , 1975 ? Marianas Reflections To the Editor : Although I wholly agree with your July 28 editorial " Destiny Unmanifest , " I can not agree that " steam-rolled " is a correct version of " steam-rollered , " unless you intended to imply that humid , hot air is-a major facto , . in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manifest , although their ciestiny mev not be ? witness the current Panama Canal Zone protracted debate as indict. tion of the sullen resentment against being further pushed , to move in for a change instead of a constant moving out . The Marianas may be the semblance and not the substance , but their annexation may very well he a Teddy Roosevelt-like wish-fulfillment , even though it may he anachronistic at three-quarters past 1900 . EMIL GREENBERG Brooklyn , July 28 , 1975 Institute on Urban Problems                     