@@729643

txt The president of the Patrolmen's-Benevolent Association said yesterday that the changes instituted by Police Commissioner Patrick V. Murphy were causing " the systematic destruction of the finest police department in the world . " The union leader , Edward J. Kiernan , denounced Mr. Murphy 's performance as " not merely inadequate , but fright. , ening " and suggested that the ' Commissioner resign . Mr. Murphy , asked to comment on Mr. Kiernan 's - statement , replied that he was now " in the seventh month.etwfivei. year term which I meet : to complete " Mr. Kiernan 's denunciation of Mr. Murphy came after an unusual series of promotions and demotions aimed , at reshaping the Police Departnierit . Mr. Murphy 's notions followed an earlier warning that he . was " fed up " with the way his corn -- manders had reacted to his orders to root out corruption . Yesterday he promoted 11 commanders to higher rank . In another development ; Commissioner Murphy ordered , yet another captain removed ? from his command . - The reassignment of Capt . William E. Tango from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced , pub- , hely . ' He is the seventh captain to be relieved of command re , sponsibility , this ' Week . Before going to Harlem , and after a brief tour at the Police Academy , Captain Tange Was the commander or the unusually sensitive special- investigating unit of the narcotics division . The unit is responsible for trying to arrest wholesale heroin dealers . Mr. Kiernan criticized Commissioner Murphy sharply at a news conference in the union 's headquarters , 250 Broadway . He said : " A New York City policeman today has to keep one eye out for assassins , the other out for departmental spies waiting to catch him in technical violations . It 's a neat trick , but it 's a hell of a way to protect the public , and protecting the public is the name of the game . " In response to a question , Mr. Kiernan said : " Corruption is not the No. 1 priority of the Police Commissioner . His job is to enforce the law and fight crime . " Recalls Murphy 's Words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of what he said on Monday : If , as he gets older , a man finds that he can not do an effective job , then he ought to step down and give it to a man who can . " Asked whether he was thus calling for Mr. Murphy 's resignation , Mr. Kiernan replied that if the shoe fit , the Commissioner should wear it , and that in his opinion the shoe fit . Commissioner Murphy , asked whether he felt his efforts were destroying the department , replied that he happened " to be of the belief that eliminating corruption strengthened a department , rather than destroying or weakening it , " " 1 do n't know what can be of higher importance than integrity , " he continued , " If the department does n't have integrity , if the department does n't have the basic confidence of a citizen , then we can not survive as a free city . " In response to a comment by Mr. Kiernan that he was making too much of an occasional cup of coffee , Mr. Murphy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my attention on much more serious problems than that " The Commissioner 's comment came after a ceremony at the Police Academy at 235 East 20th Street during which he made his promotions . Those promoted and their assignments are : Assistant Chief Inspector , Charles E. McCarthy , 51 years old , Patrol Borough Queens . Assistant Chief Inspector , Arthur B. Hill , 49 , now the highest ranking Negro in the department special operations . Deputy Chief Inspector , Jules Sachson , 54 , commanding , Narcotics Division . Deputy Chief Inspector , Louis Cottell , 57 , detective commander , the Bronx . Insepctor , Henry Morse , 44 , head of the Planning Division . Inspector , Hyman Lipson , 55 , First Traffic Division . Inspector Daniel Courtnenay , 45 , Commander Operations Division . Inspector Vincent Agoglia , 51 , aide to Commissioner Murphy . Deputy Inspector , Robert Krell , 46 , Internal Affairs Division . Deputy Inspector , Walter Burns , 55 , commanding 26th Precinct on the upper West Side . Deputy Inspector , Francis McCormack , 47 , commanding , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceremony , Commissioner Murphy told the officials that though there were very real limits on the extent to which the police could control crime , it still was the most important task . " The No. 1 problem is crime on the street , crime off the street , wherever it is found , organized or unorganized , the name of the game is crime , " he said .                     