@@731521

txt To the Chinese you do n't bestow gifts colored white . To the Arab nations you should n't send crystal cordial sets . In India you would n't give cowhide . That is , not if you are a president of the United States . Each of these items would cross a national custom ? as well as a national leader . And it is this diplomatically delicate game of presidential gift-giving that Gerald Ford will break in on prior to his trip to Japan later this year . But knowing that white symbolizes mourning to the Chinese , that Muslims do n't drink , and that the cow is considered sacred in India is just part of the elaborate protocol he will need to consider . Besides custom-consciousnesses , there is also the art of selection . Each gift , given both when a president visits or hosts a foreign leader , must be original , representative , useful , impressive ? and all for under $1,000 . What are some recent presidential gifts ? Objets d'art have been big , including malachite-based pieces bearing U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; jewel boxes or clocks ; reproductions of early American cabinets ( given Yugoslav President Tito ) ; bound collections of paintings of Andrew Wyeth , and of speeches by Presidents Lincoln , Wilson , and Theodore Roosevelt . Personal touches Steuben Glass has been another popular item during several recent administrations . Presidents Truman , Eisenhower , and Nixon liked to give large pieces of the American crystal-ware . President Johnson prefered personal touches , often drawing from his native Texas hill country . Among the things he had especially ordered for a foreign dignitary was a set of precision-made golf clubs . The Kennedys were also big on Steuben Glass , hooks , and large objects fashioned by New York jeweler David Webb . But whenever possible , JFK gave ship models , the research on which he often supervised himself . Probably the most talked-about recent gift was the VIP-style Sikorsky helicopter former President Nixon gave Egypt during his Mideast trip . It proved to be original , representative , useful , and extremely impressive  --  but it also cost the U.S. some $3 million , according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like this as well as publicity over other rather generous " summit " gifts have angered taxpayers and led many to question the process behind them . Mr. Nixon , for example , made the helicopter a gift after a simple admiring remark by Egyptian President Sadat . The " It 's yours " bestowal was a shock even to his aides . But the process usually is not that haphazard . In fact , the State Department has an entire office devoted just to checking out customs , preventing duplications , and generally trying to balance diplomatic egos against domestic restraints . The job is not an easy one either . According to Nicholas Ruwe , Assistant Chief of Protocol for ceremonial affairs , gift-giving quadrupled over the past 25 years , mainly because jets have enabled presidents to be more mobile . The Office of Protocol also is responsible for gifts given by the secretary of state , the vice-president , and often the first lady . // *Gifts at the summit // The process differs with each occasion ? and with each president . Under the Nixon system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of 40 to 100 gifts kept in the State Department or ask for something specially ordered or even specially made . The ideas do not always start at the State Department , however , The silver-gray Monte Carlo for Soviet party leader Leonid Brezhnev is a case in point . Mr. Brezhnev dropped a less than subtle clue via the Soviet Embassy about the exact make , model , and color of the automobile he wanted to add to his collection of detente cars ? a Cadillac Eldorado and Lincoln Continental . If the recipeint is n't that specific , the State Department must make up a list , and the president will select from that . Of course , presidents also receive gifts , and the Office of Protocol job does n't stop with the giving . The office also has to deal with recording , distributing , and storing many of the gifts from foreign chiefs of state . Free of charge The job also entails liaison with the retailers interested in having their items sent as gifts . " It 's considered very prestigious to have your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is deluged with catalogs , lists of new publications , and representatives out to promote their wares . The president of Steuben Glass , for example , stops by often to make sure rapport is good , he says . So prestigious in fact that many firms provide gifts , without charge , much to the delight of the State Department . The three automobiles given Mr. Brezhnev were donated by the manufacturers , as were the porcelain Swans of Peace given the Chinese . Mr. Ruwe says two-thirds of the gifts are provided free of charge by the various companies . Thus the financial side of the operation is not really the sticky one . More difficult is the question of duplications , especially to personalities like King Hussein of Jordan or Ethiopian Emperor Haile Selassie , who visit the U.S. frequently . There is also the question of topping the gift given during the previous exchange . After all , it will be hard to top a helicopter .                     