@@730240

txt A clear and often surprising portrait of Mars as a distinctive , dynamic planet is emerging from the pictures and data transmitted back to earth by Mariner 9 , the spacecraft that has been circling Mars twice a day for the last seven months . Scientists are discovering Mars to be a varied world of sharp relief and many contrasts , a world that has been shaped in part by water and therefore may be or may have been suitable for some forms of life . They are seeing , as never before , a world of high winds , great temperature extremes , clouds of water vapor as well as of dust , towering volcanos , chasms larger and deeper than the Grand Canyon , glacial terraces , moon-like craters and meandering channels that were probably cut by the flow of water . And the scientists are concluding that they were wrong when , after Mariners 4 , 6 and 7 discovered such bleak vistas , they figured Mars must be a dead world , more like the moon than anything else . They were misled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of the surface , the part that happened to be the older cratered regions , and Mariner 9 is now surveying about 85 per cent in remarkable detail . At a news conference here , Robert H. Steinbacher , the project scientist , said : " Mars used to be likened to earth in science fiction , and was compared to the moon after the first pictures from Mariner 4 in 1965 . Now we are seeing that Mars has a character all its own . It is not earth-like or moon-like , it is Mars-like . " At the news conference and in a series of interviews , Mariner scientists agreed that the most important discovery thus far involved the growing evi-J dence that water has played an active role in the planet 's evolution . The scientists believe that the south polar ice cap is partly frozen water , not all frozen carbon dioxide ( dry ice ) . They have also detected water vapor in some of the fluffy white clouds capping some of the volcanic mountain peaks . But Harold Masursky of the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that the most convincing evidence was found in the many photographs showing deep , winding channels that may have once been fastflowing streams . " We are forced to no other conclusion , " Mr. Masursky said in an interview , " but that we are seeing the effects of water on Mars . " Moreover , Mr. Masursky said , some of the water erosion may be fairly recent , geologically speaking ? perhaps within the last 50,000 years . Theories on Water Release Mr. Masursky and other scientists suggest two explanations for how enough water could be released on the planet to cause the apparent rains and'floods . Since the axis of the planet slowly wobbles , or precesses , as Mars travels around the sun , the polar regions are sometimes exposed to increased doses of sunlight . This occurs in cycles of 50,000 years . As a result , the polar caps may melt completely , ' releasing enough moisture into the thin Martian atmosphere to cause heavy rainfalls all over the planet . , Another theory is based on Volcanic heat melting water ice stored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water sprang from volcanic vapors , and the new evidence of past volcanic activity on Mars suggests that the same processes may have been at work there ? except that most of the water froze and was trapped below the surface . - Since volcanic activity seems to have extended over a long period of time on Mars , the scientists said that there might have been occasions when the heat thawed the permafrost , producing sufficient water to etch out many of the canyons detected no " cleancut indications of heat sources such as from active volcanoes . " The second province is an equatorial plateau region marked by deep canyons and great cracks , or faults , in the Martian crust . This is evidence of significant tectonic and sinuous " riverbeds " seen in so many of the Mariner pictures . Questions About Life " The presence or absence of water is obviously central to our studies , " Mr. Masursky said . " Has there been in the past water on Mars , and is it there now ? The answer is central to the question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of life . " Without answering directly the question of life on Mars , Mr. Masursky said that Mariner 9 's results increased the likelihood that future missions to land on the planet might find some signs of life , or at least fossils of past life . The United States plans to land two Viking life-detection robots on Mars in 1976 . The Soviet Union has indicated that it may attempt such landings as early as 1973 . Mariner 9 has transmitted nearly 7,000 television pictures of Mars since it swung into an orbit of the planet last November , the first spacecraft ever to circle the red planet . It has now completed 428 revolutions , following a course ranging from 1,000 to 1,200 miles from the surface . The project , is directed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory , which is operated by the California Institute of Technology for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration . At the news conference , the project scientists displayed a detailed map of the complete Martian equatorial region , encompassing surface features over territory ranging from 30 degrees north to 30 degrees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the south polar region and is now aiming its cameras on the North Pole . From the photographs , which have been enhanced by a cornputer removing blemishes and sharpening contrasts , the scientists have identified four " major geological provinces " on Mars . The first is the volcanic province . The most prominent of the volcanic peaks is Nix Olympica , whose summit Caldera is twice as wide as the volcanoes that formed the Hawaiian Islands . It is apparently a fairly young feature , since there is little evidence of meteorite impacts in the region . But scientists said that Mariner 9 's remote-sensing instruments had detected no " clearcut indications of heat sources such as from active volcanoes . " ? The second province is an equatorial plateau region marked by deep canyons and great cracks , or faults , in the Martian crust . This is evidence of significant tectonic activity  --  the cracking and slippage of the crust as in earthquakes ? during the recent history of Mars . The greatest of the canyons in this region is reported to be 10 times the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It runs from west to east along the Equator , covering nearly 2,500 miles . Scientists point to a network of tributaries to the canyon and a delta-like region extending from its eastern end as evidence of possible water erosion . The third geological province , which seems to extend over half of the planet , is a heavily cratered region that looks much like the broad plains of the moon . one of the impact basins , Hellas , is reported to be larger than any similar basin on the moon . Great sand dunes are also seen in this area . The cratered terrain is thought to be the most ancient feature on Mars , since many of the craters appear to have been eroded by wind , subsequent impacts and other forces . The three earlier Mariners , which flew by Mars but did not go into orbit , photographed this region . The fourth province ism spectacular expanse of stair-step terraces and deep grooves radiating from the south polar region . Scientists suspect that glaciers moving out from the polar ice cap gouged out the grooves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is expected that the north polar region , when it is completely photographed , will consist of similar terrain  --  indicating that Mars ; like Earth , has had its ice ages and- is now in a warmer period . Other Findings Other Mariner 9 results include the following : ' I The North Pole temperature is about 200 degrees below zero Fahrenheit , much colder and dryer than the coldest place on earth , which is Antarctica with 125 degrees below zero . In the more temperate equatorial zone , the temperatures reach 80 degrees above zero in the early afternoon . , 41 Atmospheric winds reach speeds of up to 115 miles an hour even in relatively calm periods . During the dust storms the winds reach 300 miles an hour . 41 Ozone , probably produced in a reaction between water vapor and solar radiation , has been detected over both polar regions . On earth , ozone in the upper atmosphere screens out the lethal ultra-violet tadiation from the sun , making life possible . On Mars , however , the amount of ozone is less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atmosphere . .41 Mars bulges at the Equator , is flattened at the . poles and is more smoothly circular in between . There are wide variations in the planet 's gravitational pull along the Equator , indicating " large stresses at work on the planet 's crust . " The south polar cap recedes from about 2,000 miles in diameter in the winter to about 200 miles in the spring . For some reason , the residual cap is not centered at the poles  --  but is some 100 miles to the side . Mariner 9 is expected to con ? tinue collecting data and taking pictures until it runs out of gas to control its flight position . Flight controllers here estimate that it could remain active until the end of the year , if fuel is carefully husband . Although Mariner 9 has provided many surprises , Dr , Rudolph A. Hanel of the Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt , Md. , one of the project scientists , said : " We have not seen any sign of life on Mars . We dee n't expect to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the pendulum of hope , the scientist said , has now swung back toward the prospect that Mars may yet yield evidence that some life exists elsewhere in the solar system .                     