@@731219

txt Egyptian President Anwar Sadat predicted today that Secretary of State Henry Kissinger probably would succeed In achieving a disengagement of Israeli and Syrian forces during his upcoming Middle East mission . " Dr. Kissinger is coming to the area again , and what happened in the disengagement on the Egyptian front , I think can be done on the Syrian front , " Sadat told a news conference . at the end ' of , a twoday visit to tho 30 ? nation Islamic summit . BUT THE Kuwait newspaper Al-Rai Al-Aam reported from Lahore that Syrian President Secretary of State Henry Kissinger leaves today for another peace mission In the Mideast . Frank Starr , The Tribune 's Washington bureau chief who will accompany Kissinger , explains what the mission may achieve . Page 2 . Hafez Assad said he was not optimistic about prospects of reaching a disengagement accord with Israel . It quoted Assad as declaring his " Irrevocable determination to obtain complete Israeli withdrawal " from occupied Arab territories . The Moslem leaders today adopted a resolution that called for unilateral Israeli withdrawals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States . The , resolution called Israeli withdrawal from Jerusalem a " Prerequisite for peace " in the area . THE MOSLEM leaders also pledged economic cooperation in a final closed session . Sadat warned that ' the Geneva conference would not be resumed unless the disengagement took place , so that Syria could join the peace talks . ? " If there is no disengagement on the Syrian front , there will be less chance , or no chance , of peace , " ho warned . But Sadat expressed optimism about Kissinger 's mis- clnn and said disengagement on the Syrian front " will be a very good step " toward lifting the Arab alt embargo against the United States . He said that decision would be taken when Arab oil ministers meet next month . HE ALSO cautioned against " overlinkIng the lifting of the oil embargo with , disengagement " and said that other Arab leaders had to be consulted . ' Sadat indicated his Arab allies might insist that Washington should first demonstrate it is changing its policy toward the Arabs before the embargo cap , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are considering that when practical steps are taken by the United Slates , they would take practical steps toward the United States , " he said . Sadat was asked what practical steps the Arabs wanted Washington to make . IIE REPLIER : " The United States always has been aligned with Israel , and provided Israel from the loaf of bread to the Phantom jet fighters . So when the United States changes its policy toward justice , not to be on aar side but for justice , and I think they are changing , I think then everything will be eased . " Asked what evidence he had Of U. S. policy changes toward the Arabs , he said : " I have had more than four or five meetings ' with Dr. Kissinger . I can feel It , that there is a change , especially after the very dark era Of the . Johnson administration . " t In Cai r o , the semiofficial : newspaper Al Abram said Syria will give Kissinger a list of Israeli prisoners of war when he visits Damascus Tuesday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circles had the ' complete con. victims " that Kissinger will I bring such a list with him front Damascus to Jerusalem . ! The Israelis had insisted they would refuse to negotiate with Syria unless Damascus provided such a list and permitted the POWs to be visited by the International Red Cross .                     