@@734253

txt The figures look good , but for the wrong reason , as they roll out of Department of Energy ( DOE ) computers . The United States is consuming less petroleum than it did a year ago , says the DOE , both as crude oil and in the form of gasoline , diesel fuel , and heating oil . Energy Secretary James R. Schlesinger thus tells other industrial nations the US is living up to its pledge to cut oil consumption by 5 percent this year . In the four weeks ending June 1 , for example , reports the DOE , domestic demand for all petroleum products averaged 17 million barrels a day , 6.2 percent below the level for the same period of 1978 . Gasoline consumption dropped 10 percent below last year 's level , while distillate fuel oil ? including diesel fuel and home heating oil ? was 4.1 percent below the 1978 mark . ? , , ? , turn SR Page II , From page 1 US heeds ultimate gas saver : shortage But as American truckers and motorists both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflective of real demand . If supplies of gasoline were ample , would Americans ? now lining up to fill their tanks in early morning hours ? drive more , despite higher prices ? In the first quarter of 1979 , demand for gasoline was greater throughout the United States than in the equivalent period of last year . This was before supplies grew tight . Now gasoline prices pierce the $1-a-gallon mark in some parts of the US and , on average , have climbed 18 cents a gallon so far this year , according to industry experts . Assuming supply was no problem , how high would the price spiral have to go , before " price conservation " induced true gasoline savings ? An answer to this may not come until the world 's current daily shortfall of 1.5 million barrels of crude oil disappears . This could come about in either of two ways : ? Oil-consuming nations might cut back their demand for OPEC oil by 5 percent yearly , as the 20-nation International Energy Agency has agreed to do . ? The 13-member Organization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prevent the industrial world from sliding into recession . A question mark here is Iran . Is the Shah 's former kingdom producing 4 million barrels daily , as the Iranian Government claims , or isactual output considerably lower ? Reports are current that Iran 's daily production is in the 2.8 million-barrel range , in which case the global shortfall , in fact , is 2 million barrels a day or higher . Given chaotic conditions prevailing in Iran , said a top petroleum analyst , there is no way to know exactly how much oil Iranian wells are pumping . Ahmed Zaki al-Yamani , the Saudi Arabian Oil Minister , holds out the possibility that his country might raise production by 1 million barrels a day , from the present 8.5 million to 9.5 million ? if consuming nations " cut their consumption drastically . Most US analysts believe OPEC 's overall purpose on the eve of a cartel meeting in Geneva , is to keep production low enough to stabilize World oil prices at a very high level . Meanwhile , the energy conservation picture in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , reports the American Petroleum Institute ( API ) , have reduced the amount of energy required to process a barrel of crude oil by 19.6 percent compared with 1972 . This , says the API , is equivalent to a savings of about 330,000 barrels a day of crude oil ? enough to meet New England 's annual home heating oil needs . ? Member firms of the Manufacturing Chemists Association achieved a year early their goal of reducing by 15 percent , compared with 1972 , the amount of energy needed to produce a pound of chemicals .                     