@@729208

txt 36 Die in California Quake 900 Hurt ; Thousands Flee Damage Set at More than $100 Million Fr.iin Tribune Wire Services ) LOS ANGELES , Feb. 9 ? A powerful earthquake and a series of aftershocks staggered the southern California area around Los Angeles today , killing at least 36 persons and forcing the evacuation of thousands of persons from their homes because of a leaking dam . More than 900 persons were injured . At least 21 were killed when the earthquake , striking at dawn , flattened a three-story Veterans hospital in the town of San Fernando and buried 85 victims , at least 35 of whom were pulled out alive from the wreckage by rescue crews . Twenty- More Pictures on n ine persons remained trapped in the debris at 2 , 3 , 4 , Back Page the hospital tonight . Three fresh tremors jolted emptied into the Los Angeles the Los Angeles area tonight , River . // A five-story wing of Olive View Tuberculosis Sanitarium lies on its side as a patient is removed , from the area after earthquake . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours after the first quake . The first of the new tremors hit at 9:10 p. m Two mon shocks followed in quick succession . Chief Richard Houts of the Los Angeles County fire department said the death toll at the hospital could rise to 50 . Kenneth Hahn , a Los Angeles County supervisor , said it was the first hospital disaster in California history . After touring the disaster area , he said the earthquake damage would be more than $100 million . 80,000 Flee Homes The residents evacuated were those in front of the Van Norman Lakes dam in the San Fernando Valley northwest of Los Angeles . At least 80.000 were ordered to leave their homes , and state officials said 250.000 persons living in a wider section of the valley ultimately may have to be evacuated . The dam , an earth-fill barrier , was cracked and leaking . It was holding tonight as rescue workers frantically drained the lake behind it into a sister lake , which was itself being The evacuated area south of the dam was like a ghost town tonight . Residents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They took light clothing and their household pets with them . At dusk the National Guard moved past the silent houses with their windows shuttered to prevent looting . Three looters were arrested late in the afternoon . Property Damage Extensive Property damage was extensive thruout the stricken area as walls collapsed , streets buckled and caved in , and windows shattered in heavily populated areas . More than 400 buildings were damaged in downtown Los Angeles alone . The sidewalks of Hollywood Boulevard were strewn with broken glass . Hundreds of fires from broken gas and electrical mains lit the horizon as the sun rose . Nixon Sends Agnew President Nixon declared California a disaster area and dispatched Vice President Agnew to meet with Gov . Ronaid Reagan in Los Angeles tomorrow to coordinate federalstate rescue efforts . Reagan went to the scene today and agreed to seek emergency appropriations from the state legislature quickly . The quake was registered at 6.5 in magnitude on the openend Richter scale , releasing energy equal to the explosion of a million tons of TNT . It was felt over 300 miles in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to the Mexican border . Aftershocks registering up to 5 on the Richter scale jarred the area for hours afterward . The quake was slightly more powerful than the one in Long Beach in 1933 when 120 were killed and millions of dollars of damage resulted . That one measured 6.3 on the Richter scale . A tuberculosis sanitarium near the Veterans Administration hospital was another major disaster scene . At least five persons were killed there . Three persons were crushed to death when two freeway overpasses collapsed . One man was crushed in rubble in downtown Los Angeles , and nine persons died of heart attacks which authorities said were brought on by the quake . Run Into Streets The shock was centered in the San Gabriel Mountains , 26 miles northwest of Los Angeles . The towns of Saugus and Newball , 10 miles from the center , were extremely hard hit . Virtually every building in Newball was damaged . Seismologists blamed the Soledad Canyon Fault . A scientist who reached the scene found evidence of vertical cracking , with one side higher than the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and all could be stepped over . Thousands of residents ran terrified into the streets when the earthquake hit and shook the area for more than a full minute at 6:01 a. m . Pacific time . " I 've lived in California all my life , but this was the hardest quake I 've ever felt , " said Travis Greenlee , a state police officer who lives in Newhall . The county 's nearly 7 million residents were asleep or preparing for the day when the shock came  --  sudden shakes for those close , a strong rolling motion for those more distant . Indescribable confusion ensued . Residents awoke to find their beds tossing like ships at sea . Windows shattered , furniture flipped over , chimneys crumbled , roofs fell in on some old structures , and their walls felt outward . Telephone service was knocked out in many areas . It was almost impossible to make a telephone call from Chicago into the Los Angeles area . Callers found themselves listening to recorded messages , telling them that lines to the coast were tied up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the evening . Firemen and utility worlters brought emergency situations under controi quickly . Evacuation centers were set up in the San Fernando Valley . Tells of Fires A spokesman for the Los Angeles city fire department said there had been " so many damn fires its unbelievable . " H. estimated that there were at least 150 fires , most of them set off by broken gas lines and falling power lines . The interiors of two major supermarkets in San Fernando were destroyed . Freeway bridges developed cracks , and there were fissures in some roads and highways . The state Division of Highways tallied at least $5 million damage to major routes . The Golden State Freeway near Newhall buckled , with , slabs tilted as much as five feet above the roadbed . Major damage was reported to seven freeway structures . Tell Closed Highways Major highways closed included the Golden State Freeway Int . Hwy. 5 ; the San Diego Freeway Int . Hwy. 405 ) near San Fernando due to a bridge collapse ; Int . Hwy. 210 near Newhall ; Cal . Hwy. 14 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canada . Lockheed Aircraft sent home 18,000 day shift workers from its plants in Burbank , Van Nuys , Watts , and Saugus-Newhall while firemen and guards inspected the buildings , cleaned up broken glass , and checked on gas leaks . The main runway at Hollywood-Burbank Airport buckled , and planes bad to use a smaller runway . Incoming craft landed with full flaps to slow ground speed . Eerie Flashes in Sky Some radio stations were off the air briefly . Short-circuited power transformers caused eerie flashes in the morning sky . Ground communications for Apollo 14 were interrupted for one to five minutes , but officials switched to backup links and were never without flight control capability . The quake was felt in Leisure World , Laguna Hills , 50 miles southeast of Los Angeles , but there was no major damage . The area 's population of 13,000 includes about 1,000 from Chicago . Residents , many experiencing their first severe earth tremors , reacted almost uniformly with surprise and some degree of alarm . " I ran into the dining room and saw $400 of china @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Glendale . " The record collection toppled . Cracks opened in both the dining and living room walls . Everything fell out of the cupboard . Tells Woman 's Screams " The woman from upstairs came down screaming . She said even the bolted-down toilet seat flew off . Then she got into her car and drove away . " Mrs. Jerome Stone of suburban Diamond Point related : " The window s rattled like someone was pounding them with a sledge hammer . I thought our house was going to slide down the bill . " " You felt like you were on a ship even after the rolling motion stopped , " said Elston Francis of Redondo Beach .                     