@@729771

txt The underground hydrogen bomb blast ? which regrettably the Supreme Court refused to postpone at the last minute yesterday  --  was conducted at grave peril not only to the environment but , also in the broadest . sense to world peace by giving another boost to the arms race . This latest and most dangerous in a persisting pattern of advance weapons testing  --  by the Soviet Union as well as the United States  --  lends urgency to Senator Muskie 's recent challenge to President Nixon to move forward toward negotiations with the Russians on a comprehensive treaty banning all nuclear tests . The basic issue is whether progress in seismic means of detecting and identifying underground explosions at long range would permit underground atomic blasts to be added to the limited nuclear test ban treaty of 1963 without the on-site inspection that is anathema to Moscow . The 1963 treaty banning nuclear tests in the atmosphere , in space and under water relies upon national means of verification . As chairman of the Senate Disarmament Subcommittee , the Maine Democrat has held hearings on this issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report contending that with the " enormous advances " made since 1963 in seismic detection methods , " it would seem that a comprehensive test ban resting on seismic verification means alone would provide a high degree of assurance that high-yield violations were not occurring . " The Defense Department 's two top scientists a few days ago revealed hitherto secret data to the Joint Congressional Atomic Energy Committee confirming the extraordinary progress made in seismic detection . Underground tests as small as two kilotons  --  one-tenth the size of the Hiroshima bomb  --  will be detectable by the worldwide American seismic network , when completed . This is ten times better than could be done a few - years ago . The Pentagon scientists argue , however , that a nation determined to test surreptitiously , at great expense and considerable risk of detection , could test somewhat larger warheads in giant underground excavations , in soft soil or under the cover of earthquakes . On this basis , the Nixon Administration insists that on-site inspection remains necessary to verify an underground nuclear test ban . Canada , Sweden and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many nongovernmental scientists in the United States consider the Administration argument , a rationalization to cover the desire of the Pentagon to continue developing and testing new weapons , as in Cannikin . Their view is that the race in nuclear overkill now under way is more likely to endanger than to increase American security . A comprehensive test ban would reduce the risk of a new breakthrough in weaponry that might upset the present nuclear balance . A slowdown in the qualitative arms race would save money and stabilize mutual deterrence . A total test ban would reinforce the nuclear nonproliferation treaty in halting the spread of nuclear weapons to additional countries . All in all , Senator Muskie 's study argues that the risks of evasion are far outweighed by the benefits of halting all nuclear tests in the Soviet Union , the United States and elsewhere . Moreover , even If there is evasion , it would favor smaller warheads that would not affect the ' strategic nuclear balance . The Senator from Maine has done the country a service in bringing these issues into the open . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Administration , is clearly in order . Without it , the test ban could again become a major campaign issue , as in 1956.                     