@@734416

txt PATRICK V. MURPHY , who Mayo ? Byrne once said was her top choice to head the Chicago Police Department , will not apply for the post , The Tribune learned Tuesday . Murphy , 58 , a former New York City police commissioner , had said after meeting with Mrs. Byrne in April that he was " very interested " in becoming police chief here . But he has decided not to submit his name to the Chicago Police Board , which will screen candidates for tile job . " He has not applied and he will not apply for the job in Chicago , " said Thomas Brady , a spokesman for Murphy , who now serves as president of the Washington-based Police Foundation . Although Brady refused to comment on the reasons for Murphy 's change of heart , local sources close to him said they believe the " deck is stacked " in favor of acting Supt. Joseph DiLeonardi and have informed Murphy of that belief . MRS . BYRNE , who had maintained for months that an outsider like Murphy was needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and backed DiLeonardi as her candidate to succeed James E. 0 ' - // New York ex-cop Murphy wo n't seek police post // rady , who resigned April It . Her remarks were expected to have an impact on the police board , which theoretically selects what it considers the three most qualified candidates as finalists , but traditionally has included the mayor 's choice . The mayor must select a superintendent , subject to City Council approval , from the police hoard 's list of nominees . " I do n't think there is any question hut that she wants Joe I ) and she is going to get . toe D , " said a source close to Murphy . Moreover , some sources said , Murphy has been monitoring news accounts of the strong role City Hall has played in police matters under Mrs. Byrne . These developments may have raised questions in his mind about the degree of independence he would have if he were superintendent here . THE MAYOR PLEDGED to Moo , phy that he would have a free hand as superintendent when they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked him to apply for the top post here and strongly suggested that he was her choice . But resistance to Murphy limn policemen familiar with his reputation as a stern reformer , and protests from blacks , who favored then-acting Supt. Sam Nolan , immediately surfaced . Mrs. Byrne said on the night of her election that only a superintendent from outside Chicago , without tics to Patrick Murphy local pm erS , could end the political influence she draw ( ' was pervasive ou the department . Since that time , however , the mayor has taken steps of her own , overseeing several major shakeups of police personnel and removing from the hierarchy several officers with ties to her political opponents . tier endorsement of DiLeonardi was seen as a sign that she has accomplished the changes she had sought and that she no longer sees a need for an outsider she might not be able to control .                     