@@732636

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor Mining the Seabed for All Nations To the Editor A disturbing rift between the industrialized and third-world nations has developed at the Law of the Sea Conference , which opened this week at the United Nations . Economically advanced nations are inclined to use their technology to mine valuable minerals from the sea bottom , while the developing nations want to share in the benefits from these resources . Perhaps some old principles might help to bridge the rift . In 1941 , Franklin Roosevelt and Winston Churchill pledged in the Atlantic Charter " to further the enjoyment by all States , great or small . . . of access , on equal terms , to the . . . raw materials of the world which are needed for their economic prosperity . " They encouraged " the fullest collaboration between all nations in the economic field with the object of securing , for all , improved . . . economic advancement and social security . . . . " A program based on these general , but still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations , as well as the landlocked and " geographically disadvantaged " states , rightful access , along with the industrialized countries , to these resources . The world 's raw materials under the high seas which are well removed from the territory of any nation should be fairly directed toward the economic development and increasing living standards of the men and women of all nations . .40.411,00 " - ? vrf4 .. Dangers to Whales To the Editor : Your editorial on " The Whale Quotas " ( July 28 ) was a fine examination of the whaling issue . The strong stand of The Times against commercial whaling has been instrumental in convincing Japan and the Soviet Union that international public opinion against their depredations can not be ignored . There was an error in your facts about the declining quotas set by the International Whaling Commission . In fact , the overall quota has been reduced by 40 percent over the past three years , not one . In 1973 the quota totaled 45,673 whales . The 1976 quota is 27,939 . The quota reduction over the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The International Whaling Commission has refused to address one issue vital to the survival of the great whales . There are seven nations practicing whaling that are not members of the I.W.C . These countries , operating outside any regulation , are Peru , Chile , Spain , Portugal , South Korea , mainland China and Somalia . Japanese whaling interests own the To the Editor : For over three months West Point has been beset by the largest cheating scandal in its history , the eighth to strike a service academy in 25 years . The public has been led to believe that the academy is seeking the facts honestly and responsibly . The accused cadets are portrayed as a disgraceful lot unfit for salvation . These points are simply untrue . The commandant , General Ulmer , has suggested those cadets facing charges are the only ones who cheated on this exam . Yet , the only charges pending are based on a comparison of exam papers . One Congressman , two prosecuting attorneys , two electrical engineering instructors ( serving as government expert witnesses ) and numerous other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 823 cadets who took the exam collaborated . One attorney testified that he told the superintendent , General Berry , if properly investigated , 300 to 600 cadets could be referred to trial . General Berry 's only response has been to stop the most effective means of conducting a proper investigation  --  the grant of immunity which he had already extended to five cadets and which the commandant had offered to three . I have never been charged with ( 2 ) Lay a foundation for world peace and stability . Any unilateral attempt by the United States or any other individual nation to mine the sea floor might pay off in short-term profits , but would lay the basis for international ill-will and possible strife . An agreement on mining the deep-seabed , on the other hand , would allow American companies to operate free from problems of international uncertainty and chaos , and would thereby protect their heavy investment needed to begin mining , The spirit of collaboration that brings the delegates of nations to this conference might be perpetuated in a new International Authority of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both developing and developed states , to regulate the use of the sea 's resources . Though specifics must be hammered out through negotiation , this agency could protect the interests of all by licensing government-supported companies or agencies , and collecting revenues to be paid into a new international fund , thus ensuring a fair share to all nations . Moreover , it would set an example of continuing icooperation between the industrialized and thirdworld nations . Such an example would be a significant development in determining the future of international relations in an interdependent world . DONALD W. WHITE New York , Aug. 4 , 1976 Peruvian whaling station , where more than 1,800 whales are killed each year , many of them undersize and highly endangered species . The Japanese whalers purchase the whale meat from the South Korean , Spanish and Somali whalers , as well as importing the Peruvian whale meat . Japan is hypocritical when it states it will abide by I.W.C . regulations but then allows its whaling companies to own or support non-I.W.C , whaling operations . When the United States introduced a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the move and led a majority of the 15-member commission in defeating the resolution . Although there has been progress , the great whales still need all the help they can get to survive on Earth . CRAIG VAN NOTE Washington , July 29 , 1976 ? Wrong-Way Cyclists To the Editor : The cyclist has become a menace to the safety of the pedestrian . The Times has called attention to this problem previously and I believe your paper can make a real contribution by once again calling attention to the danger . We are accustomed to one-way streets and traffic lights . When the cyclist rides the wrong way and goes through traffic lights , the safety of the pedestrian is threatened and injury may and does occur . I have treated several people injured in this way , but I have yet to see a wrong-way cyclist stopped by a policeman . I am not opposed to bicyclists on our streets . I am opposed to the cyclist menacing life and limb by flagrant disregard of the law , H. R. NAYER , M.D. New York , July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , through ' proper channels , that General Berry conduct an investigation of my allegations of widespread cheating . I provided him with a list of 74 cadets I suspected . To date General Berry 's only response has been to call the allegations , " filth , garbage , sewageunhealthy and unproven . " The academy represented my classmates as moral degenerates . But , even a cursory examination reveals that the involved cadets represent nearly a perfect crosssection of the corps . They have worked as hard , have the same desire and dedication that has served the academy , the Army and the United States for so long . They support the Honor Code as strongly as any cadet , they only ask for the opportunity to learn from their mistakes . If the system is " alive and well " as General Ulmer claims , then surely it can stand some constructive criticism from those who live under it . Before the academy can " dispose " of its " bad apples " surely , a full understanding of what has happened is necessary . If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of time before America will be faced with the ninth scandal . TIMOTHY D. RINGGOLD U.S. Military Academy , Class of ' 77 Washington , July 29 , 1976 War Against Sludge To the Editor . The- recent and apparently continuing fouling of the South Shore beaches of Long Island and Fire Island by sludge and other matter is a shocking example of what we are doing to our environment . But , even more shocking is the lack of action , the exchange of accusations between involved parties and the continuation of the dumping by all parties involved . The warning came a few years ago that we were about to be attacked by this " dead sea " in the Atlantic just off our coast . We stand prepared for ? . an enemy attack with modern weapons and technology . Is this not an enemy attack against our health and property ? Has anyone investigated what the results would be if we treated this , growing invasion with counterattack by deep sea and surface bombing ? We could napalm Vietnam and destroy its environment and yet continue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do ? Would it force this matter to the surface ? Airate it , expose it to the sun , force it to decimate itself in the ocean currents ? Could depth bombs containing an anti-matter create any . significant effect ? We are scooping up the soil from Mars and avidly studying the reports as they come back to learn about the surface and environment of that , planet . It looks red and barren , but it may be where future generationswill have to go if the scientists of today look to the heavens and ignore the earth . This movement to the coast is an invasion and should be treated as such . No foreign vessel could get so , close without a declaration of war . This is no different and I propose we do declare war and use everything at our disposal to win . JOHN DOWLING - New York , Aug. 3 , 1976 , ? On the Handicapped To the Editor : Walter Ridder 's July 29 Op-Ed piece " Minority ' Tyrannies ' " argues that while handicapped persons should have access to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first-class taxes although they are second-class citizens ) it 's nevertheless not fair to , inconvenience the ' normal majority by closing such facilities until they accommodate the handicapped as re- : quired by law . I am at a loss to understand why Mr. Ridder , himself hantli --  , capped , is so generous about giving away the rights for which many handicapped people have fought so hard . Mr. Ridder 's reverence for majority rule verges on embracing totalitarianism , not democracy . Minority pressures may be irritating ... and inconvenient to the majority , but they hardly qualify as tyranny . There , is nothing tyrannical about the fact that my wheelchair-bound son believes that he is being discriminated against because he can not enter the children 's room of his hometown library , use the facilities of the local Y.M.C.A. or even visit his own pediatrician 's office when he is sick . It is in the very nature of the . majority that it is not inclined to give up its prerogatives without a tough , hard fight . It is in the very nature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lacks in force of num- ? bers . Tax-paying blacks who used to . ride in the back of buses know this .. It would be lovely if the majority could be moved to moral behavior by . gentle persuasion . Unfortunately , a little inconvenience seems to work better . The civil rights movement had its . Uncle Toms . It seems that the handlcapped movements will have to endure its Tiny Tims . MARY-LOU WEISMAN Westport , Conn. , July 29 , 1976 ? Senatorial Politics To the Editor : I have read Joseph Clark 's critique of my July 13 Op-Ed article . I have also reread the original article . Comparing the two , I find it hard to believe that Mr. Clark either read the original piece or was present at the various Platform Committee meetings he refers to . Aside from being in stark factual error in almost every item he deals with , Mr. Clark is engaging in the slickest kind of politics in his attempt to intrude himself into the New York Senatorial race in support of Representative Bella Abzug . To indicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought connected with the Democratic Platform or Pat Moynihan or Senator Jackson or me is , or was , supportive of " an international . military crusade " is reminiscent of the same sort of character assassination that liberals like Joseph Clark once . upon a time fought against with dignity and honor . Now , Mr. Clark has apparently joined forces with a new breed of McCarthyites-of-the-left  --  the " Moynihan-baiters . " My article dealt with the idea that " freedom " was something that once again Democrats of all stripes could endorse with vigor , and that this should promote party harmony and national well-being . After reading Mr. Clark 's missive from the fringe , I guess I was wrong . Some Democrats will apparently still see evil intent in the policy of standing up for the free societies . BEN J. WATTENBERGI Washington , July 29 , 1970                     