@@733509

txt A New York State law that requires pharmacists to fill many prescriptions with relatively inexpensive drugs continues to meet , intense opposition from the drug industry and local pharmacists . The industry contends that consumers risk getting drugs that are neither safe nor effective . The pharmacists want to . keep the law from going into effect on April 1 ? at . least until malpractice liability questions are resolved . These issues were considered during a protracted legislative battle . They should not be allowed to weaken or postpone a long-overdue effort to bring consumers some relief from drug costs . The new law requires that all prescription forms contain two signature lines for the physician . If he signs on the right , the usual spot , the pharmacist must fill the prescription with a low-priced " generic " drug even if the doctor has written in a higher-priced brand name . If the doctor signs on the left , the pharmacist must fill the prescription as written . The wholly admirable goal is to break the cycle by which drug companies heavily promote certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and patients end up paying far more . The tranquilizer meprobamate , for example , costs $10.99 per 100 units when ' sold as Equanil , the Wyeth brand name , but as little as $2.99 when sold generically . The centerpiece of the new procedure is a list of interchangeable drugs , compiled by the State Assembly and maintained by the State Department of Health . It is the first such list ever put together  --  a model on which other states are patterning their own drug regulations . It has been validated by the Federal Food and Drug Administration as " an accurate guide " to drugs that are " safe , effective and equivalent in therapeutic performance . " The pharmaceutical industry contends that though ' products on the list may be chemically equivalent , it can not be assumed that they will produce the same therapeutic effects . Subtle differences in manufacturing processes , for example , can change the rate at which a drug dissolves in the body . The industry also . questions the competence of many manufacturers on the New York list . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others have been cited for poor manufacturing practices . But in fact , the F.D.A. says there is no significant difference between large and small firms or between brand-name and generic products . Virtually all companies are inspected at least once every two years . And while there is indeed doubt that all drugs with the ? same chemical formulation produce the same therapeutic effects , that doubt hangs over even the best-known products and companies . New York 's list has been scrubbed clean of drugs that must be precisely equivalent ? unless there is positive . evidence that they are so . The remaining drugs are assumed to be therapeutically equivalent . If there , is evidence to the contrary , it can be addressed without invalidating the whole effort . ? The complaints of the pharmacists stem in large part from their fear of malpractice liability . Until now , pharmacists have been little more than robots carrying out " doctors ' orders , " and they have been covered for liability by the major drug companies . They now will be required to pick lower-priced generics whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state to assume the liability . That issue , too , can be addressed in hearings without blocking implementation of the law . The new law will place a greater burden on the consumer  --  to question his doctor as to why a particular brand is prescribed , and his pharmacist as to why a particular substitution is made . The major drug companies are moving rapidly into the manufacture and distribution of generic drugs , asserting that their generics are superior to those marketed by some lesser-known companies . But the price of these " branded generics " can be two or three times higher than the lesser-known kind . " We ca n't see any quality reason for that difference in price , " asserts the F.D.A. Commissioner , Donald Kennedy . in sum , the prudent consumer will still have to shop around for savings at the drug counter .                     