@@730042

txt The number of reported acts of crime and violence in and around city schools increased ' from 333 in 1970 to 580 last year , according to Board of Education figures . These incidents involved assaults on teachers and students , including rapes , attempted rapes and molestations ; robberies and purse snatchings ; the setting off of smoke and fire bombs ; and telephoned and written threats against school staff members . Among the " untoward " incidents reported to board headquarters during the 1971 calendar year were 285 assaults on teachers and other school personnel  --  two fewer than in 1970 but well above the figures for previous years . Last January and February there were a total of 170 such incidents reported , including 88 assaults on school personnel . If this rate continues , headquarters officials said , the 1972 totals will far exceed those for last year . 197 Arrests hi 1971 The headquarters records show a total of 197 reported arrests of youngsters and adults last year in connection with school incidents , compared with 102 in 1970 . However , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks after the incident and are often not reported to headquarters . Parent and student complaints about violence in the schools and attacks on youngsters going to and from school have become a recurring theme at recent public-agenda meetings of the Board of Education . At these sessions , unlike the regular calendar meetings , speakers can bring up any subject they wish . At last Tuesday night 's board meeting , a group of parents and elected officials from the northeast Bronx said that about 350 students had ' been kept home from Adlai E. Stevenson High School since last September out of fear for their-safety . A parent spokesman said that students were being " mugged , robbed , intimidated , harassed and stabbed " by other students , who were members of south Bronx gangs . Although the board 's figures are generally regarded as an imprecise barometer ? many school , incidents are never reported to headquarters ? such groups as the United Federation of Teachers , the High School Principals . Association and the Council of Supervisors and Administrators have asserted that school violence was increasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently also said that while school violence and unrest have been a persistent problem in this city as well as elsewhere for many years , there was a different , character to the problem today . Dr. George Patterson , an assistant superintendent at headquarters , who handles school security matters , said : " A few years ago , there were more group confrontations. , Now we largely have pretty vicious Individual assaults . " Similarly , George Altomare , the United Federation of Teachers ' vice president for academic high schools , said : " The schools are not the focal point of violence aimed at change . School issues are not involved , as they were some years ago , when students organized protests , peaceful and violent , to bring about change . Now it is student against student . " Although there was sometimes a racial or ethnic element ? one Manhattan high school has been torn by conflict between blacks and Dominicans ? in many schools , Mr. Altomare said , the problem was " essentially nonracial . " Edward Muir , the U.F.T. 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the School Chancellor , Harvey B. Scribner , noted that there has been a re-emergence of " fighting gangs " in such areas as the south Bronx and northern Manhattan . These gang conflicts , he said , frequently spill over into the schools . Handguns Proliferate " The tragic element that distinguishes this from earlier gang activity is the proliferation of handguns among teen-agers , " Mr. Muir said . " The ' Saturday night special ' a cheap , smallcaliber gun has hit the high schools . " He added that he had heard of four shootings in and around schools in recent months . Dr. Patterson also said he had heard that an increasing number of students were carrying guns . " Some carry guns out of bravado , some for business  --  a stickup ? and some for selfdefense , " he said . Scribner Voices Concern Chancellor Scribner , who in the past has emphasized that violence in the schools was , to a degree , a reflection of the violence in society , said yesterday that he was very concerned about the problem . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to school in safety and without fear for his safety , " he said . Dr. Scribner said that he was planning to implement new measures to enable the high schools to cope more effectively with problem youngsters , including those who persistently refused to attend classes but congregated in school buildings and , in some instances , endangered the safety of others . He said these measures would be disclosed soon . ' Untoward Accidents ' Listed The record of school incidents Is compiled by a unit of the Office of Educational Information Services at central headquarters . Each school day the office gives Dr. Scribner and other top officials a " Log of Untoward Incidents " reported by the schools . Among the incidents reported recently were the following : An English teacher at a Brooklyn junior high school was assaulted by two intruders he had encountered in the hall . They hit him on the head with a hammer and knocked him down a flight of steps . The teacher was taken - semicon scious to a hospital . 9 Students from a Bronx high school were attacked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Several students were injured . 9 Two students sitting in the lunchroom of a Manhattan high school were attacked by four unidentified assailants . Both youngsters suffered stab wounds of the back and other injuries . 9 An 8-year-old boy , on his way back to class from the lavatory , was " accosted by a male intruder who dragged him to the fourth-floor landing leading to the roof and sexually assaulted him . " 9 A Queens principal was robbed at gunpoint in his office by a young man , shortly after the end of the school day . Occasionally the reports contain assertions from parents that teachers have assaulted ' their children , Pupils Express Fear Many school ' officials who were interviewed recently said that the daily reports gave only a fragmentary picture of the situation . One Board of Education official , who did not want to be identified , said that in many schools pupils were afraid to go to the toilet for fear that they would be accosted by other youngsters , who will demand or take their money , or be " molested " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and teachers also shunned deserted corridors and stairways during the school day and that principals often advised teachers not to remain alone in their classrooms during free periods or after school . Deputy chancellor Irving Anher recently Issued a directive to principals that women secretaries should not be asked to remain in the school office alone after , school hours . The directive , issued in response to complaints from secretaries , said that when secretaries were asked to work after school , adequate protection must be provided for them . An analysis of school incidents made a year ago by George Lent , who kept the headquarters log until he went on leave last.fall , found that 70 per cent of the Manna on school personnel were committed by students , ? 10 per cent by parents Of students and 20 per cent by intruders . Sehool officials generally report ; that intruders are a steadily growing problem . Some of the outsiders are adults , often drug addicts seeking something to steal , But ' a number of them , Dr. Patterson said , are truants from other schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an old . ' scOre . High school students , he noted , sometimes invade junior high schools and junior high school pupils may go to nearby elementary schools . , Lent also estimated that 30 to CO per cent of all school incidents ' are not reported to headquarters . Albert Shanker , presitient of . the teachers ' union , said that many teachers , parents and students do not report incidents to local school officials because they " have no confidence in the school system 's procedures for dealing with violence " and fear that a complaint could possibly lead to another assault . He said that " the question of safety and working without fear " would be a major item in the union 's forthcoming contract negotiations with the Board of Education . Not included in the board 's tally of untoward incidents , although mentioned in ' the log , were bomb threats received by schools ? a headquarters aide said that these had become " almost too numerous to count " ? and acts of vandalism , fires and thefts occurring . during nonschool @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city schools were targets of bomb threats , including one Brooklyn elementary school that received five threats In a 85-minute period . Some schools have also been plagued by fires of suspicious origin . At tine Bronx high school recehtly , there were four false lire alarms one day . The next morning a fire was discovered in a classroom closet , forcing the evacuation ' of the building . An hour after classes resumed ; another fire was discovered , this time in a lavatory , and again the building had to be evacuated .                     