@@729367

txt With speed and obvious relish , President Nixon has joined Communist China 's Premier Chou En-lai in the new game of diplomatic ping pong . Their moves open the way toward establishing a new balance of power and civility in the Pacific , between the United States , Japan , China , and the Soviet Union . It is potentially a boon to Mr. Nixon 's program for withdrawal from Vietnam . With the dragon smiling instead of emitting flame , Hanoi just might be less eager to launch a major military attack next year , when American forces become thin . Any such expectation must necessarily be tentative at this point . Hanoi 's reaction to the Peking-Washington moves is not yet evident . President Nixon has been working and waiting for this moment when China gave the first clear response to a long , carefully constructed Johnson-Nixon campaign to reopen relations . Mr. Nixon held in his hand , approved by the National Security Council and ready to announce , his five-point easing of the American embargo on trade with China . When Premier Chou @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ team  --  that " a new page in relations " between the two peoples had been opened , and " I am confident that this beginning again of our friendship will certainly meet with the majority support of our two peoples "  --  the Nixon announcement of multiple improvements in trade was released within hours . There was no longer any doubt that far more than an exuberant burst of sports enthusiasm over table tennis was involved . Deep-laid plans by leaders on both sides , acutely conscious of their military and political rivalry but needing stability even more , had ceased to be fragments of rumor and had become fact . Temptation for aggression The White House hopes to have a Chinese ping-pong team here , complete with Chinese newsmen , in the near future and to open up a series of cultural exchanges which could be as exciting as the earlier appearance of the Bolshoi Ballet in the United States . Beyond this , the White House looks forward to a major opportunity and a proportionately high danger . The opportunity is to establish a balance in the areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's philosophy , the route to stability and the easing of conflict lies through such a balance , whereas war in his view comes from military imbalance heightened by noncommunication  --  a situation which tempts an aggressor to strike . Hence the series of carefully orchestrated moves , begun under President Johnson and continued in the Nixon regime . Their aim is to ease all forms of nonmilitary contact and to keep the military rivalry carefully acknowledged but under restraint . The great danger in the present moves is discussed here only in private . The Soviet Union has publicly and repeatedly warned both the United States and Communist China , in recent months , not to conspire together against the Soviet state . Meanwhile , the chief motive of the Chinese Communist rulers is considered here to be economic . The United States and the Soviet Union have plunged ahead with industrial development at levels far greater than China , which actually had to call off much of its development program due to capital limitations and the political turbulence of the " cultural revolution . " With quiet returning , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be a great power without a major effort at industrial expansion . For this they need a period of stability and explicit help from the big industrial powers . In the context of these larger considerations , the series of events culminating in the triumph of table tennis over an era of isolation becomes clearer . Secretary of State William P. Rogers minimized the early March visit of Premier Chou to Hanoi , where Mr. Chou made statements countering the threat of President Nixon to bomb North Vietnam heavily in the event of a major attack . Washington arranged a crescendo of leaks to the press on trade relations which it was prepared to construct , if Peking responded to the repeated approaches of Mr. Nixon . They were calculated to offer a strong temptation in view of the returning appetite for industrialization in Peking . The new Nixon actions , taken unilaterally. are calculated both to show that the President means what he has said , and to increase the Chinese desire for more of the same . They take more items off the embargo list , make American-owned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China , and place trading dollars directly at the disposal of Chinese commercial interests and persons . These are considered here to be powerful inducements , to increase the momentum which began so gracefully on the ping-pong table . AP Photo Premier Chou En-lai                     