@@731595

txt AN EMERGENCY plan to allow the Chicago Police Department to ease its personnel shortage by hiring blacks , Latinos , and women has been submitted to the Federal District Court by the Justice Department . The plan , which may be ruled on Tuesday by Judge Prentice Marshall , proposes that two-thirds  --  or about 500 ? of the existing police vacancies be filled with qualified blacks , Latinos , and women . The plan would take effect only if Judge Marshall rules that the current eligibility lists are discriminatory and the Police Department documents that the shortage of police " is critical to the effective operation " of the department . Judge Marshall is expected to rule on the eligibility lists Tuesday . THE PLAN ALSO stipulates that half of the 500 mi .. Tray positions be filled by blacks or Latinos , presumably to prevent the hiring of 500 white women to the force . In June and July , Judge Marshall heard 17 days of testimony on a Justice Department suit seeking a preliminary injunction to throw out the 1971 patrolmen 's examination results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - contended that the tests discriminate against blacks and other minorities . On Jun/ 19 , Judge Marshall said that if he bars further use of the teats , it would be up to the department to find other ways of selecting personnel . THE POLICE department stopped hiring male recruits in August , 1973 , when the federal suit was filed , and has said none will be trained until the lawsuits are settled . The department now has about 750 vacancies . The emergency hiring plan was filed in September as a recommended solution to police shortages by Assistant United States Atty. , liana Romer and Donald Patten , a Justice Department attorney from Washington . It suggests that , if Judge Marshall signs preliminary injunction , the city would have to disclose , after 15 days , the numbers of policemen and policewomen it plans to hire in the next six months , as well as the number of black and Latino candidates who remain . on the disputed eligibilgy lists . THE CITY would have to report to the judge 30 days later how many of the eligible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The 1971 eligibility list still hap about 1,500 patrolmen 's jobs on it , while about 2,000 patrolmen are on the 1973 sergeant 's eligibility list . Charges in the federal suit alleging departmental discrimination against minorities in assignments and discipline still remain to be heard .                     