@@732001

txt POLICE SEARCHED the Mason Federal Building , 219 S. Dearborn St. , Saturday after a " federal building " was identified as the third intended target of bombers who hit two other Loop buildings early Saturday . No bomb was found . Members of a Puerto Rican terrorist group , possibly from San Juan , P.R. , or New York City was blamed for the blasts , which injured four persons . The bombs , equipped with timing devices , were placed outside two downtown banks Friday and set to explode Saturday , the day of the Puerto Rican Day Parade on Slate Street . TILE PABADE went on as planned . with festivity and folly , despite the bombings . Police searched the Dirksen Building after a letter was found taped to the bottom of a public telephone in Union Station , 210 S. Canal St. In Puerto Rico , Mayor Carlos Romero Barcelo of Sail Juan denounced the bombings . fie said those who " senselessly destroy property and endanger lives , .. in a society that allows other forms of protest are enemies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is believed members of F.A.L.N. , a Puerto Rican nationalist group , sent operatives to Chicago from either San Juan or New York City , where the group has been responsible for other terrorist acts . The FBI offices in those cities joined the investigation and were checking into the movements of F.A.L.N. leaders . Besides listing the three bombing targets , the letter condemned " Yankee imperialism " and demanded freedom for Puerto Rico , a United States commonwealth . It was typewritten on the organization 's stationery , bearing a five-point star on top . Police Supt. James M. Rochford called a meeting of his top commanders , and additional patrolmen were assigned to duty along the parade route and at banks and government buildings . THE BOMBS exploded at the And-Continental Plaza building , 55 E. Monroe St. , and the United of America Bank , 1 E. Wacker Dr. , shortly after midnight and shattered windows in those buildings and others nearby . No one was injured seriously . The bomb at the Plaza had been placed in a leather bag outside the First National Bank of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who later tossed it away after examining its contents . The bomb ex-plotted at once , injuring three of them . police said . The second blast occurred just 10 minutes later at the United of America Bank , injuring one , The FBI was investigating reports that immediately before the explosion a ear pulled up , two moll can from it and placed something in shrubbery before returning to the auto and fleeing . WITHIN THE hour , the Associated Press in Chicago said a female caller , who identified herself as a member of RAIN. , said the organization was responsible for the bombs . The anonymous caller told AP , " We have just planted three bombs at capitalist institutions in Chicago . You will find a note explaing our actions In a phone booth at Union Station . Free Puerto Rico now . Free all political prisoners . " More than 50 policemen checked the train station , without finding the note . Other downtown banks were warned of the threatened third bomb , tho none was found after a five-hour search , police said . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parade was called Saturday . Police were expected to increase the number of officers assigned to the parade route , along State Street fro m Wacker Drive to the Congress Parkway . In January , the group claimed responsibility for the bombing of an exclusive Manhattan club in which four persons were killed and 90 others injured . The group had demanded the release of Puerto Ricans being ? held in federal penitentiaries . Chicago police and the FBI said F.A.L.N. had not been active in Chicago and there had been no intelligence information warning authorities of the attacks . OTHER TERRORIST acts were committed by the organization In San Juan , according to the FBI . The group objects to Puerto Rico 's status as a Commonwealth of the United States and has demanded independence . F.A.L.N. are the initials for the Spanish words meaning Armed Forces of National Liberation . NO EXTRA POLICE were assigned to the parade because of the bontings , but there was " a tactical redeployment , " said Chicago Pa lice Capt . Leonard Kody . About a dozen uniformed police were around the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group of 200 radicals approached , police formed a wall between the stand and tbe marchers . The marchers , from the Coalition for the Right of a Democratic Party of Puerto Rico , carried signs and banners in Spanish . ONE SIGN CALLED ' Mayor Daley a crook . Others demanded the freeing of Puerto Rican " political prisoners " and proclaimed " Countrymen ? Y e s , Yankees  --  no . " They were booed by some arida. tors.                     