@@728647

txt Letters : There 'll Always Be an England pg . 382 Letters : There 'll Always Be an England To THE EDITOR : I THINK that a number of your readers planning to go to Britain this summer will be interested in a new banking regulation that went into effect the beginning of May . There is now a charge for every traveler 's check cashed , no matter how small , of 5 shillings ( 60 cents ) . The tel. er could n't explain why , but said the charge was the same , whether the check was $10 or $1.00 . There is no charge for changing American bills . RAP . V. MAYER . Highiand Park , Ill. tKepresentatives of British banks in New Vo1rk report that when traveler 's checks in ' foreign currencies are cashed in Britain , a charge of 2 shillings and 6 pence ( 30 cents ) is levied for each amount up to ' ? 100 ( $240 ) . The charge is not made for each check , but for a complete transaction . No charge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in sterling ? Ed . THOSE CHINA DELIVERIES To THE EDITOR : In answer to your reader 's complaint about the delay in china deliveries from England ( Travel Section , May 24 ) , I had the same experience . But my husband and I still laugh whenever I use my coffeepot . I had ordered a Royal Crown Derby coffeepot while on a visit to London . After waiting six months , I wrote a letter of inquiry to the shop where I had bought it . Its reply arrived , and I quote : " Madam , Your pot is in the works . . . " Loved it , loved every word of it . And sure enough , a few months later we received it . LOIS CHASE BRODY . Cherry Hill , N. J. BRITISH INTEGRITY QUESTIONED To THE EDITOR : We purchased and paid for shipments of glass from Sweden and porcelain from Copenhagen and Germany , all of which arrived within four weeks after our return home last September . We also purchased fine china from a leading store in London last September @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the States , we endeavored to take the china with us ; however , the store refused , saying there was n't any stock and that it could not sell the display item . We were assured of prompt dispatch of our order and told that delivery cpuld be expected in four to six weeks . We inquired in December , 1969 , and in January , February , March and April of 1970 , and can state that all the British reliability one hears about is ? just that  --  hearsay ! We got the biggest runaround , from not only the store , but also from one of England 's leading manufacturers of fine china . Delivery was finally made in late May . If one could estimate the sum of United States dollars held for prepaid orders such as ours , I am sure the total is astronomical and interest-free to the British , whose integrity we do n't seem to question but perhaps should . The eight - month wait was annoying , but the double-talking correspondence we received from the store and the manufazturer was appalling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ONWARD FROM DURHAM To THE EDITOR : Coming as I do from Northeast England , I read with delight that someone had " discovered " and appreciated the beauty of that region ( " Durable Durham , More English Than Oxford , " Travel Section , May 31 ) . May I suggest to those contemplating a visit to that area that they extend their journey to the coast and over the moors to the section between Guisborough and Scarborough . There are some very attractive little fishing villages , among them Saltburnby-the Sea , Stdithes and Robin Hood 's Bay . Also , the seaside towns of Whitby and Scarborough abound in history and local tradition . MRS . LAVINIA M. MCGLASHON , New York . DOWN IN THE BAYOU COUNTRY To THE EDITOR : Tired of the hectic , Kennedy Airportdelayed exits and custom checks ? Why not try La Guardia Airport and an enjoyable domestic flight ? Being a house and garden buff , I tried a midweek economy flight . to New Orleans and other parts of Louisiana this spring . Avoiding the known touristtrap restaurants , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other seafoods ( all of which were in season ) at extremely reasonable prices . Four additional days took us by rented car through south-central Louisiana and the bayou-plantation country , where many important antebellum homes were visited . It was great ! From a guesthouse in the French quarter of New Orleans to up-country motels , there was hospitality , helpfulness and interest all along the way to St. Francisville , a noted house and garden area . In spite of advance warnings in New Orleans that there were no ' accommodations in the St. Francisville area , further inquiry and investigation proved otherwise . Some homes provide overnight accommodations . Other than a storm over La Guardia , our return flight was oft time . Imagine ! We still have a great country out there . Just try it . WILLIAM D. EPPES . New York . PACIFYING THE CANADIANS To THE EDITOR : In his letter of May 31 , Mr. Coleman S. Williams recommends Canada to American travelers . To this , I give hearty endorsement , based on experience of many years . However , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large and important segment of the Canadian people . To speak of Canada 's " British heritage " is to overlook entirely the Province of Quebec and the other parts of Canada that cherish their ancient French heritage . Canada is a country of two great cultural heritages , the English and the French . This cultural pluralism , sometimes a cause of conflict , can be a source of great strength . Certainly , it is a fact of life that must be recognized by every American who plans to ? travel in Canada . While other parts of Canada may not be much different from the United States , the Province of Quebec has a charm of its own , which is derived from , its French heritage , and offers Americans something unique . SAMUEL H. ABRAMSON . New York . ANOTHER SCENIC RAIL TRIP To THE EDITOR : Your Letters Column on May 31 carried two letters on scenic railroad " trips left in the eastern United States . If I may , I would like to suggest another scenic run that is all but unknown to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Penn Central Railroad for pretending it does n't exist . This is the daylight run between Buffalo , N. Y. , and Harrisburg , Pa. ( one train in each direction ) , which traverses some of the most beautiful mountain scenery in Pennsylvania . On the run from Harrisburg , the train goes north along the Susquehanna River to Sunbury and Williamsport , westward , to Lock Haven , Renovo , Driftwood and Emporium , and then north through Olean to Buffalo . This Northern Tier section of Pennsylvania continues to remain relatively uninhabited , and the scenic beauty is some of the finest in the state . Each train , leaves its terminal between 9:45 and 10 A.M. , arriving at its final destination at about 6 P.M. They pass between Lock Haven and Renovo . This trip needs much more publicity than it gets , which is zero . PETER I. ROEHM , Regional Chairman , Northern Massachusetts Association of Railroad Passengers . Rockport , Mass.                     