@@734426

txt Protests and scattered fighting between black and white students embroiled several Boston high schools for the third day today as school administrators met with students in a search for a way to end the latest racial tension . A group of about 150 white high school students rampaged through East Boston this morning , overturning two cars , smashing a window of a police cruiser , and injuring two police officers with thrown objects , the police said . The group had earlier surrounded and pounded two buses carrying black students as the buses arrived at East Boston High School . Students crossed Boston Harbor by subway and gathered in front of City Hall , where they were dispersed by the police , and then marched on School Corn mittee headquarters . There , about a half dozen representatives met with school officials and complained about what they contend is favoritism toward blacks in the schools . Since the fighting broke out at South Boston High School three days ago and The Government plans to sue the Chicago school system unless it comes up with a plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to other schools in the city , one student has been stabbed , a number of black and white students have been cut and beaten , and at least 13 persons have been arrested . Federal officials said the last three days of violence were among the worst in the racially tense city in two or three years . At the heart of the issue is court-ordered school busing that began five years ago and has been strongly opposed in white ethnic neighborhoods such as South Boston , a largely Irish-American enclave , and East Boston , which is predominantly Italian-American . The School Department reports that this year there are about 63,000 students enrolled in Boston 's public schools . Blacks outnumber whites by 45 percent to 38 percent . Seventeen percent are listed as " other minorities , " such as HispanicAmericans and Orientals . Roughly half the students are bused . South Boston High School , which in the first years of school busing here became the symbol of opposition to busing , was closed down yesterday for the first time in three years . The school reopened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It 's a wave , " Robert C. Wood , Superintendent of Schools , said . " I say you 'll see another week of high tension . But I think the students are strong enough not to self-destruct . " The tension has been high since a black football player from Jamaica Plain High School , Darryl Williams , was shot from a distance and paralyzed as he was huddled with his coach and team members during a football game at Charlestown High School three weeks ago . The bullet , fired from the roof of a nearby housing project , struck his spinal column , and he remains in critical condition at Boston City Hospital , paralyzed from the neck down . Two white teenagers have been arrested in the shooting . Angry demonstrations erupted over the shooting , but their impact was diminished by the publicity surrounding the visit of Pope John Paul II to Boston three days later . Both black students and white students , in protests , have been demanding better police protection against attacks they claim have been made by members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adults defied a ban on large demonstrations ordered by Mayor Kevin H. White and rallied in front of City Hall . Then they marched to within one block of the Mayor 's home on nearby Beacon Hill , where they met a cordon of police officers and obeyed an order to disperse . The march was led by the South Boston Information Center , an anti-busing group , after Mr. White shut down City Hall yesterday in order to block the group from meeting in the City Council Chamber . James Kelly , president of the anti-busing group , called the meeting to air the views of whites on racial violence . The acknowledged leader of the antibusing forces in the city , he charged that the media , political leaders , and govern . ment and police officials are biased in favor of blacks and ignore whites who are the victims of racial violence . This afternoon , about 30 black and white student leaders representing all but three of the city 's 19 high schools ? South Boston and East Boston High Schools were among the three absent schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems . The meeting was requested by the students , who said that representatives from all the schools had been invited . " It 's an adult climate we 're facing , not a student climate , " Mr. Wood said , claiming that adults were largely respon. sible for fanning the violence . Many of the students said that the presence of police and school security officers in the schools added to the tension . The security was ordered for the schools by the Federal District Court here when busing began . " I feel a lot of the tension , " said Silvia Dillard , a junior at Charlestown High School , one of the most racially torn in the city . " The police are there . The blacks are scared . The whites are scared . You ca n't go to class and expect to learn that way . " The students said that they called the meeting " so that everybody in the city can see that we 're getting together , " as Bryant Mahoney , a senior class vice president , put it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for adults , including parents , politicians and the media . " A lot of the tension is being fabricated , " said Gail Latouf , a senior . " We 're constantly being told about racial didtarmony , and it is being drummed into our minds . " Since the Williams shooting and the Pope 's call for social peace , a number of " racial summits " involving business , political and community leaders have been held . Humberto Cardinal Medeiros , who has spoken out strongly against racial violence but has taken little direct action to quell it in this largely Roman Catholic city , held an interdenominational meeting of black and white clerics last week to draw up plans to become more directly involved in cooling racial tensions . The church meeting and the broadbased " summits " are believed to be among the first of their types since school busing began here .                     