@@732879

txt Letters Letters Soviet Defense Buildup : The Focus on Peking To the Editor : It would appear that amid all the clamor over the Soviet Union 's program of civil defense , as well as its development and emplacement of antiballistic missiles , there has been no mention of what probably is the chief reason why the Soviets have undertaken such a seemingly ambitious ef-fort to protect their cities from nuclear attack : fear of China 's comparatively small but nonetheless lethal nuclear arsenal . If I recall correctly , such fear , on the part of the U.S. Government , was the most widely advertised reason for its own , ultimately abandoned , attempt to create an anti-ballistic-missile defense in the 1960 's . Surely , it is improbable that the Soviet leaders , who in the past generally have been at least as rational as our own , really believe that antiballistic missiles and a program of civil defense can save their population from virtual annihilation in the event of a nuclear war with the United States . More likely , those in charge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chinese from launching their limited number of warheads or , if such an attack actually occurs , will reduce substantially the resulting losses . American fear of China was groundTo the Editor : Mayor Beame 's recent comments on the dismantling of the " superagen ? cies " ( a misnomer ) must not be overlooked by the urban planners ' sector of the City . The idea of merging several planning and operating departments with the same objective into a single , coordinated agency was not born as a whim of former Mayor Lindsay . It was the culmination of many years of thought and deliberation among urban planners . The goal was efficiency and economy . Lindsay merely had the courage to attempt to put it into practice . Let us take transportation as an example ( this could also apply to other areas in city government ) . Although , regrettably , in 1968 the operation of mass transportation was . relinquished to the M.T.A. in another emergency situation under a Lindsay-Rockefeller deal , the Transportation Administration still made sense . Its office was in charge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as coordinating the Departments of Traffic , Highways , and Marine and Aviation , and the Parking Violations Bureau , all having basically the same objective  --  to provide for the movement of people and services in the most expedient and safest wag . To group all of the aforementioned departments under one management umbrella is not only a sound concept but also the most efficient and suitable system for today 's urban society . The endeavor failed . Missing in the initial process of implementation was the necessary overhauling of the existing departments to eliminate obsolete practices . And there was no gradual integration of all the functions of transportation . Thus , instead of cenTo the Editor : In response to E. Grebinar 's Dec. 4 letter , I should like to state that voting by the mentally retarded in New York State is regulated by statute . To qualify under our Election Law , a voter must be a citizen at least eighteen years of age on Election Day , duly registered and possessed of residency qualifications . Excluded from voting are limited classes of persons , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to civil rights and persons " adjudged incompetent or committed to an institution for the care and treatment of the mentally ill or mentally defective by order of competent judicial authority . . . . " There is no authority tp exclude persons from voting unless there has been a judicial determination of incompetency or judicial committal to an institution . Approximately 85 percent of the patient-residents in State Department of Mental Hygiene facilities are there voluntarily in the legal sense , not having been committed by formal court proceedings . Since it is no longer lawful to impose literacy tests and since only those judicially disqualified may be prohibited from the suffrage , the law does not permit the exclusion of persons of limited mental capacity . However , only about 10 percent of those in mental facilities actually vote . Participants in a recent seminar conducted by the State Board of Elections and State Department of Mental Hygiene agreed there is need for legislation to assure secrecy of voting and prevent undue influence upon those who vote by absentee ballot from places where those in authority might exert undue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nursing homes and jails . less and even ridiculous ; Soviet apprehensions may be equally unjustified , but they certainly are very much greater than were our own , not only on account of China 's nearness but also because of Peking 's obsessive hatred of the U.S.S.R. , the militant , often bellicose stance of its guards along the long Sino-Soviet border and at least what appears to be an increasingly unstable political situation within China itself . In Moscow , such instability must conjure up the nightmarish vision of China 's nuclear arsenal falling into the hands of a faction of irresponsible anti-Soviet zealots or perhaps even some latter-day warlord with Bonapartist ambitions . Yet since this same instability also creates the possibility that there will emerge in China a leadership favoring a reconciliation with the U.S.S.R. , the Soviets are unwilling to admit iiiat their ABM 's and civil-defense measures are aimed at China , which , after all , remains a fellow socialist country and by far the most populous Communist nation in the world . Nevertheless , an objective evaluation of the situation confronting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major reason for Russia 's efforts to protect its urban tralizing the various offices , the new appointees proceeded to cultivate super-layers of red tape , often in conflict with the old ones . Rivalry and friction among administrators and commissioners became unavoidable , and a breakdown in vital cooperation ensued . As a result , we have greater bureaucracy , more red tape and higher budgets . However , to blame the innovative plan because unqualified men mismanaged it is like blaming medicine when the patient flagrantly countermands the doctor 's instructions . MAX M. TAMIR New York , Jan. 5 , 1977 The writer is the city 's former director of transportation research . Many professionals in the mentalhealth field contend that participation in the electoral process has significant therapeutic value for the residents . In addition , significant civil rights are involved . The State Board of Elections is committed to protecting the rights of the mentally retarded while safeguarding the overall integrity of the elective process . STEPHEN MAY Chairman , State Board of Elections Albany , Dec. 30 , 1976 Scandal at West Point ' To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my office , I have been the object of much harassment , good-natured and otherwise , about the recent so-called cheating scandal at my alma mater . My defense thus far has been that there is no scandal , since the expulsion of cheaters is not scandalous . The only way that it would be a scandal would be if the cheaters were allowed to stay . Now my defense is gone . Today there is a scandal at West Point . ( Capt . ) JOHN F. CULLEN Aberdeen Proving Ground , Md . Jan. 5 , 1977 population from nuclear attack is China , and not the United States . And it would be foolish indeed for the incoming Carter Administration to allow itself to be bludgeoned into escalating the already insane arms race with the U.S.S.R. , because of the anti-Soviet hysteria currently being aroused here by General Keegan and other partisans of our military-industrial establishment . DONALD G. GILLiN Chairman , East Asian Studies Vassar College Poughkeepsie , N.Y. , Jan. 4 , 1977 ? To the Editor : David Binder 's Jan. 3 news report on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jr . makes more sense regarding the U.S.S.R.-U.S.A. strategic relationship than anything else I have seen in print . Let us only hope that there is time to make ourselves less vulnerable . Over twenty years ago one of Pretident Eisenhower 's Civil Defense aides in charge of vulnerability reduction told me that if werefused to construct underground shelters we deserved the consequences . At that time the Pentagon had published " Underground Plants for Industry , " long since out of print and forgotten . Ike 's old friend was a former E.T.O. combat general . " Too bad , " he said , " that only those who have been bombed seem to know what I 'm talking about . " We had both been bombed during World War II . General Keegan has pointed out that the U.S.S.R. is prepared to function under conditions of total war . We are not . This will he President Carter 's defense problem Number 1 , A. H. WHITELAW North Stonington , Conn. , Jan. 3 , 1977 A Rug Under Which People Can Be Swept ' To the Editor : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in every respect the most isolated part of the criminal justice system . Much of it is physically isolated , with thick walls , grate-covered windows and heavy , locked doors . They are often located in rural areas , miles from the courts where the inmates were tried and from the communities where they live . The correctional facility is isolated in the sense that its officials do not have everyday working relationships with officials from the system 's other branches , like those that commonly . exist between the police and the prosecutor 's office , or the prosecutor 's office and the judges . It is isolated in the sense that what the facility does with , to or for the people under its supervision is seldom governed by anY but the most broadly written statutes , and is almost never scrutinized by appellate courts . Finally , and most important , it IS isolated by the fact that the correctional facility is'very often used . or misused by both the criminal justice system and the public as a rug under which disturbing problems and people can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today is that , although the rehabilitation of criminals is presently its major purpose , the custody of criminals is actually its major task . Using Mercer County , New Jersey , as an example , the population of this institution is approximately 145 men , with an average age of 23 years and a recidivism rate of approximately 65 percent . What can the citizens of our society do to help better our correctional system ? RICHARD NASH Secretary , Inmate Committee Mercer County Correctional Center Trenton , Dec. 26 , 1976 Criminals and Victims To the Editor : Agreed , " Advocates of capital punishment should each take a brief turn sitting in the large , straight-backed wooden chairs that bring swift death to their official guests . " ( Richard M. ' ? Cohen , Op-Ed Jan. 6 ) . To that let us ? append , " Opponents of capital punishment should take a brief turn being stabbed , raped or beaten . The experience is not like settling into a deep , , comfortable lounge chair . " The issue is fraught with complicated ramifications which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ childhood . There are two realities ? that of the criminal and that of the victim . Let us not sacrifice one to the other but seek to do justice to both , as well as to the wellbeing of the society as a whole . BARBARA KESSEL ,                     