@@732700

txt The death of Mao Tse-tung Thursday at the age of 82 raises a state of uncertainty about the future of China and its relations with the rod of the world . There is no designated nen* to the leadership of one-fourth of mankind . None of Mao 's subordinates can command the awe and adoration that was heaped on him by 800 million Chinese . Who eventually takes over may ' deter-Mine the Asian giant 's relationships with the Soviet Union and the United States and changes in such relationships could dramatically alter the international balance of power . ANTICIPATING a power struggle , the Communist Party Central Committee Thursday called on the Chinese people Mao Tse-tunA seemed defiant of illness and intirnilty to the end . For a word and picture look at his life , ace back page . to uphold the unity of the party and to " carry on the cause left by Chairman Mao . " It also said China must " continuue to carry out Chairman Mao 's revolutionary line and policies in foreign affairs reso , Central Committee urged the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former Vice Premier Teng Hsiao-ping , toppled last April In the power struggle that followed the death of Premier Chou Enlai . With Mao 's death , the highest rank in China is now held by Hua Kuo-feng , 57 , a little-known administrator who won Mao 's favor 20 years ago fix ' work in the Chinese Communist Party chairman 's hometown . Hutt became China 's premier and party first vice chairman when Teng was removed from power . But global political considerations in China Thursday came secondary to sorrow and mourning over the loss of the man who had guided their nation from being a backward peasant state to being the world 's fifth nuclear power , with satellites in space and a burgeoning industrial base . MAO DIED AT 10 minutes past midnight Thursday C11:10 a.m . Chicago time Wednesday after a long illness . The announcement broadcast to the nation 16 hours later did not specify the illness , but the end of Mao 's career had been expected for some time . All of China went into a period of mourning for Mao . Black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the heart of the capital . Flags fluttered at half staff . Authorities set an eight-day period of official mourning to begin Saturday and said a mass memorial service would be held on Sept. 18 in Peking 's huge Tien An Men Gate of Heavenly Peace Square where Mao had some of his greatest triumphs . At 3 p.m. on that date all 200 million Chinese are to stand in silence for three minutes . PEKING RADIO and the New China News Agency said Mao 's body would lie in state in the Great Hall of the People , Chinese leaders , workers , peasants , and soldiers  --  but no foreigners  --  will be invited to pay their respects to the moon-faced leader with the cloth cap  --  the peasant poet who became one of the century 's outstanding leaders . " The Internationale , " the world Socialist anthem , echoed over the city from loudspeakers at dusk as bicyclists made their way home from work . Some were so blinded by tears that they could not see their way . The air was thick with the scent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaves a massive gap In the Peking leadership . His personality is irreplaceable . The death in January . of Chou , Mao 's closest ally , ignited a leadership crisis that spilled into political violence in the streets of Peking , sparking a divisive political campaign between moderates and radicals . The 195-member Central Committee will choose the new chairman from among the factions . Hua , some analysts believe , will become the central figure in a transitional collective leadership based on current party ranking . Diplomatic observers believe that it rapid decision on the . succession is made , either Hua or Wang Hung-wen , II , a radical from Shanghai , could take over . Wang is No. 3 in the party , But if a power struggle breaks out , most observers agree that Vice Premier Chang Chun-chino , 55 , would be a serious candidate . The bespectacled Chang , another member of the " Shanghai set , " has widespread party , state , and military support . THERE IS EVEN an outside possiblity that Mao 's fiery and radical fourth wife , Chiang @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A final possibility is that the leadership post could be made an honorary one to avoid political friction .. This would mean the Chinese recognized that no one could replace Mao . Whatever happens , China faces a difficult test . The outside world may have to wait long before a new leadership is confidently established here and it can be seen what path the country will follow without the guidance of its greatest helmsman . HOW MAO 'S PASSING will affect China 's foreign policy is a subject diplomats here have debated for years , with little consensus , Peking 's dispute with Moscow seems too deep-seated to be resolved easily , based , as it has been , partly on ideological disputes , partly on national differences , and partly on Mao 's fights with Stalin and other Russians during his rise to power in the 1920s and 1930s . In China , there has been little visible controversy over foreign policy in recent years . But there have been growing signs of impatience with the U.S. over Taiwan , and it should be remembered that it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union and who initiated the invitation to Nixon . The Radio Peking announcement of Mao 's death to the waiting millions was a simple one . OVER LOUDSPEAKERS and radios , It said : " Mao Tse-tung passed away et 0010 hours on Sept. 9 because of the worsening of his illness and despite all treatment , although meticulous medical care was given him in every way after he fell 111 . " The announcement did not specify Mao 's illness , which bad kept him out of the public gaze for months , but it was believed in Peking that Mao had Parkinson 's disease . The disease usually strikes its later life and causes progressive rigidity of the body 's muscles .                     