@@731253

txt Kompong Thom , Cambodia Refugees reaching this town in central Cambodia say that life under the Communist-led insurgents has grown increasingly harsh and regimented . According to refugees from several different villages under Khmer Rouge control in the area , villagers who openly disagreed with the methods being used by the insurgents simply disappeared . " We did n't have the right to ask questions , " said an old woman from a village located to the west of Kompong Thom . The refugees said that there were no public " peoples tribunals " such as the Communists organized in Vietnam . Instead , dissenters or those accused of other " crimes , " they said , were taken from their homes and told that they were going to see higher authorities . They seldom returned . Graves seen Some villagers said that they had seen the graves of persons who had been taken away in this manner . But most executions were apparently carried out in secret , so it was difficult to get an idea of just how widespread they were . Under the Khmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long hours with only a brief break at midday . Despite the hard work , they were limited to two meals a day , they said . The refugees complained that the rice and salt rations that were distributed to them were inadequate . Rice was kept in a community stOrehouse . The Khmers Rouges banned cosmetics , new clothing , gambling , and drinking and organized the people into labor teams to dig irrigation canals . Sensibilities offended The two things the villagers apparently objected to most were restrictions on marriages and religious ceremonies . Buddhist monks were made to work like everyone else on labor projects and in the fields , and this seemed to offend some people 's sensibilities . In some places limited religious ceremonies were permitted . But in other places none at all were allowed , according to monks who were among the refugees . Refugees from several widely separated villages indicated that life under the Khmers Rouges had grown more difficult over the past year . In the first year after the war started in 1970 they were allowed some freedoms , refugees said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past year . Disciplined troops The refugees also said that during the first year of the war they often saw Communist-led Vietnamese troops in their villages . They indicated that the Vietnamese had treated them better than the Cam*Please turn to Page 4 *Leaving terror behind // bodian insurgents who were allied with the Vietnamese . The Vietnamese were described as highly disciplined troops who never took anything from the villages without paying for it . The Rev. Robert Venet , a Roman Catholic priest who lived in this area with a small community of Cambodian Christians 25 years ? nearly half his life ? described the Vietnamese Communist cadres as being better educated and more politically sophisticated than their Khmer counterparts . The balding , bespectacled French priest was captured by North Vietnamese troops in 1970 but later escaped from them . Survey made Before his escape , the North Vietnamese made a house-to-house survey in the village where the Catholic priest lives to determine people 's attitudes toward him . Afterward , the leading North Vietnamese cadre in the village came to the priest and told him that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The cadre also revealed for the first time in the months since he had known Fr . Venet that he could speak French . " Your followers love you very much , " he told the Catholic priest . " We are not going to kill you . " Fr . Venet said that in villages where the North Vietnamese were in control , they made carefully calculated efforts to win the sympathy of the people . But in contrast he described the Khmers Rouges as " savage . " The Catholic priest said that his own interviews with refugees indicated that the local Khmers Rouges had executed 22 Cambodian Christians . The priest was told that in one case a village girl was ordered to beat to death with a bamboo pole a Cambodian Christian who formerly had worked closely with the priest . The man was accused of preaching an ideology to Khmer children that was alien to the Khmer culture .                     