@@729365

txt North Vietnamese troops used flamethrowers against South Vietnamese forces in heavy fighting on two sides of Fire Base 6 in the Central Highlands yesterday . As the siege of the base began its third week , some of the weary South Vietnamese defenders attempted to flee the outpost on the landing skids of a United States helicopter lifting out American advisers . One American adviser was reported killed and another missing in the latest fighting . New Weapon in Fight Capt . Le Van Phue , a spokesman for the South Vietnamese Second Corps headquarters in Pleiku , said North Vietnamese forces used flamethrowers for the first time since fighting broke out around the base March 31 , The United States helicopter took out four of the five American advisers at the frontier base near the border juncton of Laos , Cambodia and South Vietnam . At the hilltop fire base about 40 South Vietnamese soldiers swarmed around the United States helicopter that evacuated the four Americans . Eight of them jumped aboard and were flown with the advisers to a rear headquarters . Others tried to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way some South Vietnamese troops did during the recent withdrawal from Laos . But the helicopter 's crew shoved and kicked them off . No reason was announced for lifting out the four American advisers . Correspondents in the fighting sector speculated that they were exhausted by the siege , and were brought out for a rest . The lone remaining adviser , an officer , volunteered to stay behind with some 500 weary South Vietnamese defenders , newly bolstered by a 4,000-man relief force that is deployed nearby . A lead element of the The Film York Times April 15. 1571 South Vietnamese relief force fought the enemy near fire base ( cross ) . relief force reached the base Tuesday night . It was one of the units of the South Vietnamese relief force that engaged the North Vietnamese a half mile northwest of Fire Base 6 . The South Vietnamese command in Saigon reported 96 North Vietnamese were killed in the 16 hours of fighting . A command spokesman , Lieut . Col. Le Trung Hien , said about 50 of the total were killed by United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Colonel Hien said South Vietnamese losses were 4 killed , 6 missing and 37 wounded . He said 32 enemy weapons were captured . From Tancanh , seven miles northeast of Fire Base 6 and headquarters for the South Vietnamese forces in the highlands , it was reported that enemy gunners had fired two rockets into the headquarters base , wounding two Americans and several South Vietnamese soldiers . Paratroopers Flown In Reports from Pleiku , where the United States support helicopters are based , said the reinforcement unit sent in was a South Vietnamese paratrooper battalion . It reportedly was lifted into a landing zone two and a half miles southeast of Fire Base 6 by American helicopters , and drew no fire from the North Vietnamese . The reinforcements brought to eight the number of battalions now committed by the South Vietnamese command to the relief of the base . The action in the Central Highlands dominated the war situation in South Vietnam but Saigon headquarters reported fresh enemy shelling of South Vietnamese forces in eastern Cambodia . Headquarters said enemy gunners fired more than 200 rounds of mortar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a South Vietnamese task force and two field positions along Route 7 and north of it . A communiqu ? said the South Vietnamese had suffered light casualties but no fatalities .                     