@@731134

txt The Illinois Civil Service Commission ruled today that Gov . Walker 's administration acted illegally in attempting to eliminate civil service protection for 5,000 state jobs . The commission said Nolan Jones , stale personnel director , had no statutory authority to remove 32 job categories from personnel code protection . The decision was made by John D. Foster , chairman , and James Hatcher , both Democratic members appointed by Walker . The lone Republican , Alfred Langenhach , was vacationing in Florida and did not participate in the ruling . IN A STATEMENT , Jones said he will comply with the decision and has already ? circulated a new memo rescinding his original action . However , he called the commission verdict " a significant victory " because it recognized that civil service exams do discriminate against minorities . Controversy over the job switchover arose last November when Republicans charged OA it was a move by Walker to increase his patronage power base . During the 1972 campaign , Walker pledged to rid the state of " political bossism " as practiced thru the patronage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and reiterated that he did not consult with Walker or the governor 's top aides before making the decision . Jones said he took the step to enable more minority group members to obtain state employment . Civil service tests required for the jobs , mostly unskilled , were not job related and discriminated against blacks and other minorities , he said . IN ' ITS OPINION , the commission said that Jones did not show that taking the jobs out of civil service " was the only or even the best way of accomplishing this , worthwhile and laudable program of affirmative action " to recruit more minorities for state employment . " The commission is convinced that flexibility exists within the code and rules made thereunder to make possible selection procedures which are simple and nondiscriminatory . " In a hearing yesterday , Foster suggested the tests could easily be made more job relatetl . Jones had maintained that such changes were too complicated and would take years to accomplish . This afternoon , Jones said his department now will try to find a way to alter the exams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some observers , but others indicated they had expected it . Walker wanted to end the controversy and could not allow his own commissioners to put a stamp of approval on Jones ' plan , they said . Shortly after Jones issued the original memo , Republican lawmakers charged that Walker aides were offering some of the jobs to legislators In return for favorable votes on the administration 's plan for a Chicagoarea Regional Transit Authority . The 5,000 jobs at issue were placed under the merit umbrella in April , 1972 . The switchover would have meant about 750 new patronage jobs each year , since those already employed would not have been removed and the positions would have been filled under normal attrition.                     