@@731885

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 38 Letters to the Editor To Break the OPEC Cartel To the Editor : As a co-sponsor of legislation which would establish a Government purchasing agent to break the OPEC cartel and drive down the price of foreign oil , I was somewhat disappointed by Prof. M. A. Adelman 's categorization , in his March 25 letter , of this proposal as a " weak and counterproductive variant " of his plan for breaking the OPEC cartel . Both the professor 's plan and the Congressional proposal perceive that the time is right for exerting some kind of competitive pressure on the oil-producing nations to drive down the international price of oil . Both plans constitute legitimate approaches to achieve this end . However , they do differ in one major respect . Essentially , Professor Adelman would have the Government establish an import quota and then sell import rights using a system of sealed bids . The idea is that the sealed bids will encourage the various members of the cartel to cut their price in order to increase their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that my colleagues and I have advanced would also use the sealed bid system . It would also provide the opportunity for the cartel members to lower their price without the other members knowing it . The major difference is that instead of auctioning off import tickets , under our plan the Government would simply require bids on the orders for oil , take title to the oil and resell it to domestic refiners and marketers who then would physically import it . Thus , under the quota ticket approach , the benefit of any price cutting Question of Amnesty To the Editor : If the appropriate resolution to the fundamental problems of the " amnesty issue " were to be found in extending and/or modifying the details of the President 's amnesty program , then Senator Gaylord Nelson 's views ( OpEd March 31 ) would likely play a useful role in that process . What the Senator and so many of his colleagues consistently overlook are the massive presumptions involved in a process to administer " understanding and mercy " to draft resisters . The picture is one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways . In other words , in order to participate in this clemency program , one must admit error , if not cowardice or treason . The fact of the matter is that it is not at all clear that " mercy " has The Study of Love To the Editor : The recent outcry by Senator Proxmire about the fact that the National Science Foundation has funded projects relating to the study of love has been picked up and seconded by many columnists and newspapers . In these troubled times it would seem that we can ill afford such research when many are unemployed and the country is in such dire economic straits . Appearances in this case are deceiving because this attack is completely unjustified and reveals more of Senator Proxmire 's limitations than that of the research . First , it should be noted that the grants In question were proposed several years before the present economic crisis and at the time no one could foresee where the country 's inept leadership and the oil barons would lead us . Second , I would defend the proposition that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Any knowledge that we can obtain that furthers our understanding of this concept would be invaluable . The use of experimental research methodology to explore this vital domain may help to provide further insight into the nature of attraction and love . This is not to deny the insights and contributions of poets and authors , but it is clear from the instability of many marriages and relationships that we have a long way would go , not to the consumer , but to the U. S. Treasury . Importers would very likely end up bidding progressively greajer amounts for their share of the import rights which would be sold by the U. S. Government . The U.S. Treasury would thus benefit from this upward bidding , and the importers could pass on these higher prices to the American consumer . Under our plan , the Government would solicit sealed bids from the same entities that could bid for quota tickets under the professor 's plan ? i.e. , the OPEC countries ' national oil companies , the multinationals , independents , brokers , and anyone else who has oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U. S. Government as the sole purchasing agent for imported oil , the benefits of any price competition would be passed on directly to the American consumer . Our energy problems are real , and they are serious . The immediate shortterm objective of our national energy policy must be to reduce our dependence on extremely expensive foreign oil without damaging an economy already in the throes of a recession . Our bill , by driving down the price of foreign oil and by passing on the benefit of this price reduction to the American consumer , will do just that . It does not preclude intensified efforts to encourage or to expand research and development on alternative sources of energy . It simply seeks to provide some immediate relief and some added flexibility to an economy which is in a very delicate and precarious state of transition . BERKLEY BEDELL Member of Congress , 6th Dist. , Iowa Washington , March 28 , 1975 a function here , and if it does , who should be administering it . It is clear that a good number of those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be recanted in order to participate in this process . On this basis , it is not surprising that " fewer than 20,000 have taken advantage of the opportunity . " Senator Nelson concludes by observing that " at some point Congress is going to have to resolve the question of unconditional amnesty . " What reason is there to shelve the fundamental issue until a later date ? WILLIAM H. DOUGLASS Chatham , N. J. , March 31 , 1975 The writer served in Vietnam with the Marines in 1968 . ? The Energy Wasters To the Editor : It has come to my attention that the Battery Park City Development , like the Roosevelt Island Development , is committed to the use of electric heat as an energy and heating source . What unmitigated gall that these quasipublic U.D.C. developments should use a source of energy that requires twice as much oil to produce and transmit at a time of oil crisis . Will New York State be called upon time and again to bail out U.D.C. because of high operational expenses ? It 's a farce that average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then have their electric bills raised to subsidize these all-electric developments . Chalk this up to another ripoff by Con Edison , to the Public Service Commission and to a more bankrupt U.D.C. ' LOUIS CZ1TROM Hollis , N. Y. , March 24 , 1975 to go in understanding adequate pairing of couples and the knack of harmonious relationships . Had Senator Proxmire stated that the research was faulty , weak and incompetent , and proceeded to demonstrate support for this statement , we might all have acknowledged that his objections were valid . As an individual who was consulted by the National Science Foundation about one of the grants and who recommended support , I would have been interested to see what arguments he presented . He has not done this because he probably realizes his incompetency in this area would betray hiin . Instead he has resorted to demagoguery and played up to an ignorant readership who in their current frustration are only too eager to believe that the National Science Foundation is as incompetent as our " leaders " in Washington . It will be a sad day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seek to study it are denied financial support by a publicityseeking Senator who intimidates grant officials . Is there such an abundance of love everywhere that we are satisfied with it ? Better that Senator Proxmire should stick to jogging than to resort to blubbery spoutings about love . ( Prof. ) BERNARD I. MURSTEIN Dept. of Psychology Connecticut College New London , March 31 , 1975 Military Pay Myths To the Editor : Indicative of these times of economic hardship is the increasingly popular view of the military as a gluttonous devourer of our national resources , a scapegoat for our national ills . Compensation for military personnel has been focused upon as a juicy plum ready for pruning . The claim that servicemen are overpaid and inundated with lucrative ? frin.e benefits must not go unchallenged . The fringe benefits are now being targeted since supposedly the military has achieved pay comparability . But how " unfair " are the benefits when compared to workers in the civilian sector ? Military personnel receive a 50 per cent pension after twenty years of service , for which Congress has justified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be received in a contributory system . Housing for mili ? tary families is viewed as a rich benefit , but is it ? Substandard housing ( often converted barracks ) is common , and often in unpleasant and isolated locations . This " benefit " also denies the serviceman the investment and tax advantages accessible to the civilian homeowner , as well as pride of ownership . Medical care is another benefit , albeit increasingly eroded . But how different is this care from the health insurance programs provided to civilian workers and their families ? The commissary ( a food store ) and PX 's ( variety type stores ) are also benefits purported unjustly to enrich the military . The PX 's are totally self-sufficient , and the commissary will likewise be in the near future , without the support of appropriated funds . We must also consider the disadvantages which a serviceman must contend with . The frequent moves across the country and the world , with accompanying family dislocations , and the necessary but nonetheless unpleasant family separations are aspects of the work environment alien to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called another significant benefit of a military career , and it is . But with the security goes the loss of opportunity to resign or retire at the individual 's discretion . Furthermore , who is the civilian counterpart of the soldier when assessing pay comparability ? There is no comparable model In civilian life to the battalion commander with his life and death responsibilities , or the medic in combat making decisions  --  which in civilian life are the sole prerogative of the physician . Surely the medic is not to be compared to a hospital orderly , and just as surely he does not earn the income of the least risk-taking civilian doctor . Military pay and its comparability is a highly complex issue , one which is not limited to dollars , but must include the real hardships of military life , and the role society has cast for the soldier . When analyzing the risks and benefits , the pay and the hardships , can not the soldier , too , enjoy the fruits of his labors ? DAVID HOWARD West Point , N. Y. , March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : In his letter Prof. Edward Whiting Fox indicates that Egypt and Israel are both responsible for the recent breakdown in Kissinger 's mediation efforts . Does Professor Fox really believe that an Egyptian declaration of an end to the state of war with Israel is the diplomatic equivalent of a qualified Israeli withdrawal from a third of occupied Egyptian territory ? Moreover does Professor Fox think that Sadat or any other Egyptian leader could survive such a " trade-off " ? A fair quid pro quo would have involved an Israeli declaration of withdrawal from all occupied Egyptian lands in return for an Egyptian declaration of non-belligerency , terms which , in fact , Sadat seems to have been willing to consider . I am surprised at the lack of foresight shown by a historian of Professor Fox 's stature in counseling such continued Israeli intransigence . Would Israel have a more secure future if she heeded such calls for non-negotiation than if she gambled on a peace with Egypt ? Would Professor Fox care to guarantee indefinitely the continued American economic and military support necessary to maintain such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N. Y. , April 2 , 1975 ? On ' Selling Out ' Israel To the Editor : We are appalled at the rate with which the United States is able to sell out a country , even if that country is a good friend and ally of ours . We would like to urge President Ford to " reassess his reassessment " of our relationship with Israel and remember that a strong , democratic Israel is still in our best interest in the Middle . East . Tens of thousands of Americans died in active duty for corrupt , non-democratic governments in Southeast Asia ; so where is the logic in denying our help to Israel for self-defense ? JULIE AND ALLAN VARDY Brooklyn , March 28 , 1975 ? Opera-Goers ' Penalty To the Editor : As an out-of-town patron of the arts , I wish to comment about the overpriced parking facilities at Lincoln Center . It seems that subscribers to the opera and the other facilities ought to be entitled to a discount parking rate , for just the subscription performances . Such an arrangement would encourage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and consequently pull it out of deep financial MADELINE MALICK trouble . Englewood , N. J. , March 22 , 1975                     