@@731886

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor Vietnam 's Refugees : Two Views on U.S. Aid To the Editor : President Ford 's humanitarian announcement of American ajd to expedite the evacuation of 2,000 Vietnamese children in process of adoption in this country was welcome . American adoption agencies have made sound and dedicated efforts to find homes for Vietnamese children fathered by Americans , or for children whose parents are known to be dead . We are apprehensive that the President 's initiative may trigger an illadvised chain of events . A " total effort " to bring many thousands of Vietnamese children here is already being demanded by many . This would not be in the best interest of the Vietnamese children nor should it relieve our national conscience . The Vietnamese have a strong sense of family obligation and have shown themselves willing and capable of caring for their own children . Our responsibility is Ito enable them , in their time of tragedy , to do so . The President 's genuine concern to do " much , much more " will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least $1 billion for these children . This aid could be sent through international relief organizations or directly to whatever government is finally formed in Vietnam . It could be used , in part , for a relocation program . Past experience with children made homeless in time of civil war shows the success of such efforts . During the Nigerian civil war , over 50,000 " war orphans " were separated from their families . More than ten European countries and the United States sent adoption agency personnel to Nigeria and offered to place these children for adoption with families in other countries . Both Biafrans and Nigerians rejected this concept . Through the work of the International Union for Child Welfare of Geneva , with the help of international aid , all but 27 of these children were rejoined with their immediate and extended families  --  all inside Nigeria . Would n't it be better for the Vietnamese children to be cared for in their own culture ? The 4.00 agencies , of the Child Welfare League of America will do their best to help the children being brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support for help to all Vietnamese children and families in their homeland . This may be our last opportunity to help insure peace for the coming generations in that tragic country . JOSEPH H. REID New York , April 4 , 1975 The writer is executive director of the Child Welfare League of America and deputy president of International Union for Child Welfare . To the Editor : I agree with the April 1 editorial on Vietnam , that we must put humanitarian considerations above those of politics , diplomacy , or military consequences . In addition to doing everything possible to prevent further bloodshed and privation in Vietnam , we should also consider steps beyond the immediate evacuation of refugees to safer areas . These safer havens in a matter of days or weeks may continue to develop into new areas of chaos and horror . It is difficult to determine how many people in South Vietnam bed lieve that life under a Communist regime would be intolerable . Whatever the number , I believe the Free World nations , particularly the United States , owe sanctuary to any Vietnamese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatively small number of these will be the corrupted and the corruptors . But many of those who have profited from the war have probably already made arrangements to buy their way out . I ain thinking of the many Vietnamese who , in a sense , have been fighting our war , the war of the Free World against totalitarianism . These are people who hate neither the means nor the influence to leave the country . Many , nurtured by Western ideals , have been not only anti-Communist , but critics of the anti-democratic practices of the various regimes in the South . Many are northerners who migrated south in 1954 in feat of political , economic , or religious persecution . It is possible that those who might seek haven in the United States might in the long run be assets rather than burdens , contributing their talents and industriousness in somewhat the manner of many Cuban refugees . But whatever the cost , and whoever wishes to leave Vietnam , we must salvage the victims of the debacle to which ere have contributed so much . DAVID @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Promise on Suez To the Editor : Egypt is opening the Suez Canal but will not allow cargoes for Israel despite ( 1 ) a promise to the United States Secretary of State when he negotiated the withdrawal of the Israeli army from the canal that Egypt would open the canal at least to cargoes for Israel , and ( 2 ) despite the fact that we bore much of the costs for making the canal navigable again . Yet there is no sign of protest by the United States . Is all our anger reserved for Israel ? Apparently the United States Secretary of State expects to help bring peace in the Middle East by substituting Egypt 's word to him for any sign of movement toward peace by Egypt itself . Why should Israel risk its security for such a word when the last word given in secret is broken with impunity ? NATHAN GLAZER Cambridge , Mass. , April 2 , 1975 ? Queens Rapid Transit To the Editor : It appears that after waiting perhaps too patiently for a taste of the soup the residents of southeast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clairol , in his letter of March 21 , raises a number of questions about our study . dealing with the mutagenicity of hair dyes . I believe his letter is extremely misleading and irresponsible and I would like to clarify the main points . 1 . We have developed a rapid and sensitive test ( using bacteria and animal tissue ) for identifying mutagens ( chemicals that damage the genetic material ) , which is now , in use in a large number of drug and industrial companies throughout the world . Data obtained with this test have ' shown that over 80 per cent ( out of 140 ) carcinogens tested show mutagenic activity while very few chemicals in general , or non-carcinogens , are mutagenic . From these data we conclude that chemicals positive in this test have a high probability of proving to be carcinogens . We find that 150 out of 169 oxidative-type hair dyes tested , most of the semi-permanent type dyes tested , nine of the components of hairdyes , and several oxidation products of hair-dye ingredients , are mutagenic. 2 . Hair-dye components @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At least a hundred chemical ingredients are used in hair-dyes and a large number of others are formed in peroxide-oxidation dyes , yet relatively few of these chemicals have been reported to have been tested for carcinogenicity or for mutagenicity in be disappointed once again in their quest for adequate rapid-transit linkage with the rest of the city . The Mayor 's office announced March 20 that the southeast subway extension will be shelved again for at least another six years despite the fact that the area through which the proposed subway would pass is largely residential composed of middle-income families with one or two breadwinners who need fast , convenient transit to get to work . Midtown Manhattan is over an hour and a half and a bus and subway away from many of the homes in this area and travel times to other sections of the city by public transportation can be prohibitively high . A car is ' often the undesirable , but unavoidable alternative . One of the dividends of such an expenditure of city resources on southeast Queens would be a re-enfranchisement of this estranged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for years boasted the worst roads of the city ( riding the bus to the subway can be a jarring experience ) and which feels both physically and economically isolated it would be nice to feel that Manhattan cared about its extremities . MARTIN EVANS Laurelton , N. Y. , March 21 , 1975 animals . The studies sponsored by industry are models of inadequacy for assessing safety for humans according to the many cancer experts we have consulted . 4 . There is no requirement that hairdye chemicals be tested for carcinogenicity or mutagenicity . The November issue of the " F.D.A. Consumer " states : " They were specifically exempted from the Federal Food , Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938 by Congress after industry persuasively argued that the dyes could not meet safety standards of the Act but should nonetheless be sold to meet popular demand . " 5 . The industry has already guessed wrongly twice on safety : a ) 2,4-Diaminotoluene , which was used in hair dyes for many years , was first shown to be a carcinogen in rats in 1955 , again in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the National Cancer Institute . Hair-dyes containing this chemical were still being sold as late as 1971. b ) Vinyl chloride , which was used as a propellent in cosmetic spray cans until it was banned recently , is a carcinogen in humans . 6 . No proper , epidemiological study has been done . It is essential to determine if this zoo of mutagenic chemicals has caused breast cancer or birth defects . BRUCE N. AMES Berkeley , Calif. , April 4 , 1975 The writer is a professor of biochemistry at the University of California , Berkeley , and a member of the National Academy of Sciences . To Improve Crime Control To the Editor : An editorial in The Times of March ? 24 identified a serious problem , disd satisfaction with the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration . Because . ' crime continues to increase , as dramatically noted in the most recent . ' F.B.I . Uniform Crime Report figures , this dissatisfaction could weaken a Federal program that needs to be t strengthened . At best , a Federal ' assistance effort can be only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation 's , ominous crime problem . Yet it is an important part . Disappointment with the L.E.A.A. 's weaknesses to date should not blind us to its potential , and need , for the future . New York City , in particular , should be grateful for the assistance the L.E.A.A. has provided . In 1971 , during a budget freeze , as attrition reduced personnel at the rate of 2,000 police department employe 's a year , the New York City Police Department organized its Street Crime Unit . The unit was intended to fill the gap between the duties of the uniformed officer and the detective . The blendingand decoy tactics used by the unit " have been successful in achieving high-quality arrests for violent street crime while maintaining public safety and respect . It should be noted that . ' L.E.A.A. funded the purchase of equipment for the unit . To date , the New York City Police Department 's Street Crime Unit has been the only police field operations project to red ' ceive the Justice Department 's " Exemplary Project National Award . " More @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control at the state and local levels . ' - PATRICK V. MURPHY ' President , the Police Foundation Washington , April 1 , 1975 ? In Defense of Dog Race To the Editor : The April 3 letter from Mr. Flintrop seriously misinterprets the nature of , and philosophy behind , the Iditarod sled dog race in Alaska , and Atlantic , , Richfield 's support of it . The event , . rooted in Alaskan history and tradi- , tion , is carefully monitored by veterin- , arians and the A.S.P.C.A. who see that animals are not abused . Stiff penalties attach to violations . Veterinarians have absolute author-. ity along the trail to pull out dogs . that appear overtired or injured . They examine each animal before the race .. and travel along the trail throughout " the race to observe and re-examine the teams . Withdrawn dogs are ex- ' amined by a vet , and then returned , . home . Any dog that dies along the . trail must be brought back for . , autopsy , to determine if it was mistreated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precautions were key factors behind Atlantic Richfield 's .. : sponsorship of this year 's event . Since . they are willingly instituted and completely observed , we feel pleased to have been a part of an event that ' . means so much to our 49th state . HOwAtto SLACK Vice President , Atlantic Richfield Co . . Anchorage , Alaska , April 4 , 1975                     