@@732045

txt The Soviet press is hailing the joint Soviet-American space flight as the harbinger of cooperation and peace on earth . And Moscow television is featuring a round of film of preparations at the Soviet launch site at Baikonur and the Houston control center . On the eve of the July 15 Apollo-Soyuz flight the space spectacular is pushing other news aside in the Soviet media . The massive advance coverage is especially striking in contrast with the usual secrecy of Soviet space shots . This is the first time that Moscow has announced a shot in advance , let alone described the details of its mission . And it will be the first time that a Soviet launch &ns; ever been shown live on Soviet TV . Soviet space shots are customarily announced only after they succeed , and their missions are mentioned only in the vaguest of terms . In large part the unaccustomed abundance of information is a necessary price the Soviets had to pay to cooperate with the U.S. in the venture . Since details would be made public by the American side in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than have its citizens find them out from the Voice of America ( the U.S. Government radio station that broadcasts to the U.S.S.R. ) . In areas where information would not get out from the American side the Soviet Union still remains secretive . Despite the Soviet-American agreement on reciprocity in coverage of the joint flight , for example , no American journalists are allowed to visit the Baikonur launch site before or during the launch . Foreign reporters are given access to the Cape Canaveral launch site by the Americans . By Moscow 's decision , however , Soviet journalists will not attend the American launching at Canaveral . . In part the unusual advance Soviet publicity results also from the prestige the Soviet Union sees in the joint flight . Soviet commentators have repeatedly stressed that the project is cooperation between the world 's two leading space powers . In a long article July 14 a leading Pravda commentator , Yuri Zhukov , again made a familiar assertion : The Soviet Union is not behind the U.S technologically , and Washington wants the joint flight as much as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ television coverage // Moscow has been sensitive to charges in the U.S. that the Soviet Union ? which has experienced several docking failures in its own space program ? would gain the most from the joint venture by learning from America 's superior docking and other engineering . Mr. Zhukov disputed such accusations by " demagogues in the U.S. who stand against scientific cooperation with the U.S.S.R. " And as his clinching argument he adeed , " It is not accidental that U.S. firms are buying ever more licenses for inventions from us . " Similarly , at an eve-of-launch press conference in Moscow July 14 , Soviet space officials referred proudly to the time spent by men in space as increasing from hours to days to weeks and " now months . " A separate Soviet space lab crew ? which will remain aloft during the Apollo-Soyuz flight and will return to earth at the end of this month ? has taken Soviet manned space flights past the pervious Soviet three-week record , though it is unlikely it will match the American 84-day record in space . According to Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crews and the Salyut space lab crew . The 350-kilometer high Salyut and the 225-kilometer high Apollo-Soyuz will be positioned within 125 kilometers , one above the other , about once every two days , however , and will be able to communicate by radio . The Soviet Union also sees the Apollo-Soyuz flight as a symbol of peaceful coexistence and of the correctness of the policies of the Soviet Communist Party . The press conference opened with conspicuous praise for party chief LeOnid I. Brezhnev and his " tireless activities " for detente . In this vein Mr. Zhukov quoted Mr. Brezhnev as saying the Soyuz-Apollo flight would show how small earth appears from space ? " too small to subject to the threat of nuclear war . "                     