@@731692

txt President Ford 's long-awaited White House reorganization , giving every senior aide a specific area of responsibility and in effect outlawing freewheeling troubleshooters , has been completed and will probably be announced Tuesday . Under it , there will be four " super assistants " with cabinet rank and another five who will have direct access to the President anytime they feel it is necessary to see him . The plan has Donald Rumsfeld  --  who probably sees Ford more than any other aide  --  as head of White House administration , but it takes great pains not to picture him as the all-powerful chief of staff . Besides Rumsfeld , the other " super assistants " are Robert Hartmann , Ford 's long-time adviser , who will concentrate on supervising the speechwriters and serving as chief political adviser ; John Marsh , a former Virginia Democratic congressman , who will handle liaison with Congress and special interest groups , and Philip Buchen , Ford 's long-time friend and now White ? House counsel . THE OTHER five aides who will en joy instant access to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ? James Lynn , now Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and soon to be named director of the Office of Management and Budget . ? The still unnamed new head of the Domestic Council , replacing Ken Cole , who has announced he is leaving in March shortly after helping to prepare the State of the Union address . ? Press Secretary Ron Nessen . ? The head of the Economic Policy Board , who is currently Treasury Secretary William Simon . PAUL THYSE , executive editor of the speechwriters , will work under Hartman , as will Jack Calkins , the director of the Republican Congressional Campaign Congressional Campaign Committee , whom Hartman is bringing into the White House as his administrative assistant . Mai Friedersdorf , the new assistant for congressional relations , will report to Marsh along with William Baroody , the assistant who keeps tabs on such special interest groups as the U. S. Chamber of Commerce and labor unions . Hartmann is expected to move down the hall in the White House west wing to occupy the suite that was held by William Timmons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The move by Hartmann was prompted by the President himself wanting to take over the office . which is adjacent to the Oval Office . The President plans to use Hartmann 's office as a " hideaway office , " White House sources said , where he will do the bulk of his work . The Oval Office will be reserved primarily for ceremonial functions . Ford 's decision was prompted by uneasiness by his top aides over Presidential papers being scattered across the top of his desk when reporters and photographers were in the Oval Office to record a Presidential meeting with a dignitary . T H E REORGANIZATION was drawn up by Rumsfeld , who even without portfolio is head of the White House staff . Fie insisted , sources said , that there be no freewheeling troubleshooters  --  a role that many felt Hartmann would be playing , and a role he did , play etiroanl.y in the Ford administraRumsfeld reportedly became soured on such positions when he held one himself briefly during the Nixon administration . " Everybody will have a functional responsibility , " said one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personnel changes , but rather a definition of responsibili ; ties . "                     