@@729891

txt With fears of a new outbreak in the Middle East surprisingly diminished , the new year has brought with it a fresh surge of hope for some kind of peace settlement . Historically , there is not much basis for the encouragement . The record over the past four years of negotiating shows little if any concrete progress . When pressed for evidence of forward motion , most experienced observers here point to increased clarification of the admittedly still far apart Arab and Israeli negotiating positions . Rhetoric cools However , the cease-fire has held over the last 19 months and Egyptian President Anwar al-Sadat 's threatening " year of decision " has passed without incident . The strong United Nations General Assembly vote of Dec. 13 , essentially renewing the bid to make Israel commit itself to withdrawal from territories occupied in the course of the 1967 war , arms Egypt with fresh moral support . ' Israel has been assured of a continuing supply of F-4 Phantegn jets from the United States , as in Washington 's opinion the Middle East 's shifting military balance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amenable to compromise for the added security . // *Mideast : cooling off the war talk // Also , even the rhetoric in the Middle East , usually at the boiling point , has cooled somewhat in the last few weeks . The Israelis have not touted the fact the " year of decision " promised by Egypt did not materialize and the Egyptian reaction to the U.S decision to resume Phantom deliveries . There is every indication that the Soviet Union , which sent the bulk of its 1971 military shipments to Egypt before the middle of the year , has urged restraint on its Arab ally . Both Egypt and Israel are on record as favoring a resumption of talks under the auspices of the UN envoy Dr. Gunnar V. Jarring . Launched in November , 1967 , the talks have focused on achieving an overall , final peace settlement in the area . Basically the mission has tried to get enforcement of the Nov. 22 , 1967 , Security Council resolution which calls on Israel to withdraw from Arab territories it occupied during the June war . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the rest of the year , when the UN envoy tried last February to extract a promise from Israel that it would withdraw from the territories in the eventual peace settlement . Precondition charged Israel has maintained that such a commitmept constitutes a precondition on what shduld be a negotiated point in settlement . Dr. Jarring , who is also Swedish Ambassador to the Soviet Union , then returned to Moscow but was due back at the UN Jan. 10 . In New York he is expected to talk with the Egyptian and Israeli ambassadors to the UN and to try to review his settlement efforts . Action is also expected on a second diplomatic front . The United States , which responded to a request from both sides last spring to serve as a mediator on an interim settlement aimed at opening the Suez Canal , has once again offered its services . In the last few months the U.S. effort has taken a considerable buffeting from both Egyptians and Israelis ? being accused of everything from procrastination to partisanship . However , officials here appear ready and willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canal settlement . Secretary of State William P. Rogers has made it clear he thinks the time is ripe for " close proximity " talks . As now envisioned , this arrangement would involve an Egyp tian and an Israeli delegation possibly occupying different floors of the same New York hotel with energetic U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Joseph J. Sisco as the go-between . With nearness of some sort , Secretary Rogers reasons that there could be more exploratory bargaining , with faster answers perhaps allowing more give and take . Ambassadors awaited How far any of this goes will depend of course on the Arabs and Israelis themselves.Yitzhack Rabin , Israeli Ambassador to the United States , recently returned to Washington from a home visit . Dr. Ashraf Abdel Latif Ghorbal , who heads the unofficial Egyptian delegation here within the Indian Embassy , is due back in mid-January . So far , only Israel is publicly on record as favoring resumption of the U.S. effort at an interim settlement " The gimmick close proximity is unimportant , " says a spokesman for the Israeli Embassy . " What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and I have a feeling we can be hopeful . " While the U.S. presumably would welcome some kind of endorsement of its good offices rule from the Egyptians at this point , officials here stress that it is " not waiting for a positive response . " Rather , it is reassessing the entire situation , they say . A spokesman for the Egyptian Embassy confirms that no particular comment on the subject has been or is expected to be made by Egypt in the near future . " We 're concentrating on the Jarring talks at the moment , " he says . Compromise hinted Egypt has insisted all alng that any interim agreement be firmly linked with a final agreement . Israel , more satisfied with the status quo than Egypt , has been less willing to concede this point . Recently some signs of a willingness to compromise on this have surfaced . One of the most persistent roadblocks to any canal settlement is the strong view held by both parties on what nature of personnel should stand on the east bank if the Israelis withdraw . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt has insisted that that is the only palatable answer . Certainly , there are pressures from many other countries on the parties in question , but there is every indication that both Israeli and Egyptian concepts of thir own national interests have played the paramount role throughout the negotiations . Peking and Cairo have been close over the years . Egypt was one of the first countries to recognize the People 's Republic of China and the only one to keep its Peking Ambassador during the Chinese cultural revolution . However , despite the fact that Peking 's new UN delegation stopped in Cairo on its way to New York last fall , Comunist China voted on the Dec. 13 resolution with such abstaining countries as Syria , Iraq , and Algeria , who favor a military rather than a political solution to the Middle Eastern problem . Egypt 's foreign ministerLis slated to visit Peking for - five days beginning Jan. 21 . However , China is not in a position to help Egypt militarily and sources here believe Egypt is well aware of this and that it will continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more radical Arab neighbors such as Syria and Libya also do not appear to have influenced Egyptian policy to any significant degree . Some have suggested that it is mainly rhetoric that stands in the way of a Middle Eastern settlement . Sources here dispute that theory , insisting that present hard-line positions have to give way before there can be progress . " More than semantic agility is required at this point , " says one knowledgeable observer . " There have got to be some compromises . " Even if these should come , it will not signify the end of the road . Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Dayan said Dec. 31 in an interview with the Jerusalem Domestic Service , " Even if a formal peace treaty is signed tomorrow , a long period will pass before true normalization will take place in the relations between us and the Arab states . "                     