@@732849

txt The South African Government 's squeeze on black journalists has reached out to the editor of the only dailyi newspaper in the country catering to a black readership . Most of these readers are , in fact , in Soweto , the vast black township outside Johannesburg , where the current ferment of protest and violence first broke out halfway through this year . The man now hauled in by the government  - -  albeit for only a few hours , but after a knock on his door in the middle of the night  --  is Percy Qoboza , editor of the World . Mr. Qoboza  --  whose home is in Soweto  --  returned there From page .1 *Arrest of black editor stirs storm earlier this year after a year at Harvard as a Nieman Fellow . His arrest by the political police in the early hours of Tuesday morning has touched off a storm of protest . The World is owned by the powerful white-controlled Argus Printing and Publishing Company , . owner of all the major daily afternoon English-language newspapers in South Africa . Caught in middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need to express the increasing militancy of the black townships of the , industrialized Witwatersrand urban area and the pressure of a whole range of security laws which make " incitement " a crime and lay down , penalties for offenses against the security of the state . To keep credibility with his readers and keep out of jail is like walking on a tightrope . Mr. Qoboza has managed to do this with remarkable success so far . During the Soweto riots last summer the daily circulation of his newspaper soared . Frequently his reporters , because of their color , could provide eyewitness stories that it was impossible for harassed white reporters to get to . Tensions build Four reporters on the World and a photographer were arrested some time ago . One of them , a deputy news editor , Godwin Mohlomi , was released last week after being held for 10 weeks . Increasingly , as tensions have increased , the World has taken a harder editorial line , urging the government to realize the gravity of the situation . The day before his arrest the World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister John Vorster still believes that there is no crisis in this country but a mere problem , then we can really suggest that he and those people who think like him are sleeping through one of the country 's momentous and dangerous times . . . . The time for enlightened and bold leadership is long overdue if we have to meet the commitments and responsibilities of an orderly society toward its citizens . . . . The barometer indicates we are fast reaching the danger point . " For heaven 's sake , is it not possible for once that people forget their superior racial nature and listen to the voice of black aspirations ? " the editorial continued . Raid called unjustified " For we have a crisis developing here and not just a problem . And Mr. Vorster and his supporters dare not forget it . " ? Commenting on the night raid on Mr. Qoboza 's home , the chairman of the Argus Com pany , Layton Slater ; said there was not justification for the police to call on him at that time . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men in South Africa today . While Mr. Qoboza was not afraid to raise his voice in protest against what he considered was injustice , he still wished to see a peaceful solution to the country 's problems . " He is a man of great intelligence and compassion ? precisely the kind of person whom the government should encourage and not alienate , " Mr. Slater added . Six policemen surrounded editor Qoboza 's Soweto home at 3 a.m . Tuesday , banged on the windows , then searched the house before taking him away . His wife Ann said : " The police dashed in and asked my husband about some books which were in the house . " Then they drove off with him . Eight hours later Mr. Qoboza was released again after " a lengthy interview . " Series of incidents The interrogation of Mr. Qoboza comes after a series of incidents involving members of the political police known as the Special Branch . ? Wellington Tshazibanzi , a graduate of the South African Fort Hare University and of England 's Oxford University , who was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported by the police to have been found dead in his cell , the next day . Police said he committed suicide . ? Some weeks ago , a judge acquitted four members of the security police who had been charged with culpable homicide after the death of another political detainee , but said that aspects of the evidence were unsatisfactory , and that the case should be investigated again and properly solved . ? Two white women in Port Elizabeth , claimed last week that they were " ruthlessly interrogated " by the security police after they had painted over signs on the beachfront which indicate separate beaches for the separate races . Brought to court , a magistrate fined them , and gave them each a one month 's suspended sentence .                     