@@730249

txt A British European Airways jet plunged into a field minutes after taking off from Heathrow airport today , killing all 118 aboard . ' It was Britain 's worst air disaster . The Trident-1 aircraft , heading for Brussels , fell near Staines , just four miles from Heathrow . One survivor , from the wreckage , died later ' in ' the hospital . The plane , its wheels up , apparently broke up when it crashed into the field . Eyewitnesses said the tail section snapped off and the rest of the ' fuselage plowed another 50 yards up to a line of trees . " The pilot got his undercarriage up , " said a spokesman for the British Airline Pilots Association . " This indicates he made a good take-off . But he landed with no undercarriage and it 's a complete mystery what could have gone wrong . " Of the 118 killed , 109 were passengers , including an inThe New York Times/Juno 19 , 1972 fant , and nine crew members . The full passenger list was withheld tonight , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans , 29 Belgians , 28 Britons and 12 Irish . Among the victims were several prominent Irish businessmen who were going to Brussels on Common Market matters . The pilot , Capt . Stanley Key , 51 years old , was one of the line 's most experienced captains . It was an unusually full plane for a Sunday Brussels flight . Officials said some passengers might have been trying to beat the worldwide pilots strike scheduled for tomorrow morning in protest against assertedly lax international measures against air // piracy . The crash , the first by a passenger-carrying Trident in its eight years of service , was the third major air tragedy in five days . A Japan Air Lines plane crashed in flames on Wednesday on Its approach to New Delhi , killing 87 . And , the next day , a Cathay Pacific plane with 90 aboard plunged into the Central Highlands of South Vietnam . The three-engine Trident took off from Heathrow in dull and rainy weather shortly after 3 P.M. and crashed Just a few hundred yards from the main shopping street of Staines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the runway . " Nothing was heard from the captain which would indicate anything was wrong with the aircraft , " said Henry Marking , chairman of the airline . Rescue workers and investd'gators worked through the wreckage tonight in a light rain . Bodies of the victims were carried on stretchers to the surrounding grass and then moved to a temporary mortuary at Heathrow Airport . Sightseers contributed to the chaos by trying to get to the crash scene . Roads were blocked for miles around Staines and those who reached the area were asked through police loudspeakers to leave . Most Died on Impact Rescue workers and clergyMen who rushed to the area said most passengers apparently died on impact . A policeman said that he pulled a young girl from the plane alive but she died before an ambulance could arrive . A passenger identified as a businessman from Dublin was rushed to a nearby hospital , but died there of head injuries . " I heard a plane circling overhead and then there was a sound as though the engines were cutting out , " raid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a clap of thunder and the windows in the house shook . ' Airline officials said tonight that the so-called " black box " flight recorder had been recovered and turned over to Government investigators . They said that the tapes would be replayed quickly to see if the cause could be determined . Until today the worst air disaster in Britain had been that of March , 1950 , when an Avro Tudor V , carrying passengers from a Rugby game in Belfast , crashed in Glamorgan , Wales , killing 80 . Last October a British European Airways ! Vanguard plunged into a field in Belgium , killing all 63 aboard .                     