@@732290

txt column missing tions are responsible for more than 300,000 deaths annually , raising diabetes to the thirdranking cause of death  --  behind cardiovascular heart disease and cancer , " said the commis ; sion report . At the current rate of increase , the number of Americans with diabetes will double every 15 years , the commission said . There are an estimated specialists seem to doubt that this is the entire story . In a summary of the facts developed by the commission 's work during the last year , the following points were made : ! Women are 50 percent more likely than men to have diabetes . ! Nonwhites are 20 percent more likely than whites to have it . ! The disease is three times as common among the poor as among middle income and wealthy people . ! The chance of developing diabetes doubles with every 20 percent of an individual 's excess weight and doubles with every decade of increasing age . The disease is often defined as an inability , of the body to dispose of sugar properly , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has never been satisfactorily explained . The commission said little progress had been made in treating the disease since the discovery of insulin more than 50 years ago . The life expectancy of the diabetic was estimated to be shorter by onethird than that lof the nondiabetic . The diabetic 's risk of blindness is 25 times that of the person who does not suffer from the disease , and the diabetic 's risk of heart disease is twice that of other persons , the report said . Lack of Accurate Data " Mortality statistics do not generally specify underlying or contributing causes of death , resulting in a lack of accurate information on the actual death rate from diabetes , " said the report . It noted that the 38,000 deaths directly attributable to diabetes in the United States last year made it the fifth-leading cause of death by disease ranking behind conditions of heart and circulatory system including stroke , cancer , influenza and pneumonia , and diseases of early infancy . Death by accident now . ranks third . ; When diabetes and its complications are considered together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause . To cope with the disease and its estimated $5.3 billion drain on the American Economy , the National Commission on Diabetes a Government-funded group , developed a long-range plan of broadened research , edu. cation and control programs . The plan calls for a tripling of Federal research spending on diabetes in the next four years . The total Federal research spending from the current year through the fiscal year 1980 would be about $548 million under this plan . Senator Richard S. Schweiker , Republican of Pennsylvania , who presided at a news conference at which the plan was made public , called the report " the most comprehensive and authoritative analysis of diabetes in history . " " To further postpone a massive and coordinated attack against the nation 's third-ranking killer would be a tragic waste of lives and resources , " 1 Senator Schweicker said . He and Senator Gale W. , Democrat of Wyoming , both members of the Senate Appropriations Committee , said they would make a strong effort to convince their colleagues that a major assault on diabetes was urgently needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Wisconsin , and Representative Guy Vander Jagt of Michigan , both Republicans , who are on the House Ways and Means Committee . Diabetes is thus added to those major disease categories that have been singled out for special political attention in- recent years in campaigns aimed at and within the Congress . Cancer and heart disease both attained special status and substantially increased research funding by this route . A large portion of kidney disease was brought under Medicare by Congressional action , which made the costs of kidney transplantation and artificial kidney treatment reimbursable by the Federal Government . How the diabetes effort will fare in the Administration 's stringent budget policy is not known . , The Department of Health , Education and Welfare 's . Forward Plan , intended as a blueprint for-health policy during the next five years , failed to give any special emphasis to diabetes . Support for Research Most of the research spending called for , in the commission 's proposal would be supported by the National Institutes of Health , a unit of H.E.W . and the Federal Government 's main @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diabetes have criticized the commission 's plan for allocating relatively little of the proposed spending to those institutes of the N.I.H. most concerned with the main disastrous consequences of diabetes ; notably afflications of the heart , eyes , kidneys and peripheral nerves . Dr. Oscar B. Crofford , of Vanderbilt University , chairman of the commission , defended the proposed allocations as being the best that could be made in view of the current state of knowledge and the probable opportunities for research.progress . ' The ' plan proposed - by the commission consists of four major parts : increased research , increased manpower training , increased diabetes health care , education and control programs , and the establishment of a national diabetes advisory board to evaluate progress and give advice to the Government and a yearly report to Congress land the Administration . The national commission has 17 members , including scientists , Government officials and laymen.                     