@@734073

txt President Carter and Prime Minister Menachem Begin of Israel met for two and a half hours today , but apparently failed to make progress toward resolving the issues holding up completion of an Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty . American and Israeli officials said that the atmosphere between the two leaders was as friendly as it had been last night during the first Begin-Carter session . But unless there is a major shift by either the Israelis or the Americans in the next two days , the peace effort may collapse , officials of both sides said . Later , President Carter , in remarks televised for a Democratic fund-raising dinner in Los Angeles , said Egypt and Israel were " within inches " of a peace treaty and that he was determined to help them reach a settlement . Page 9.1 Begin Gives Forcefui Defense In the morning session with Mr. Carter , Mr. Begin spoke forcefully of Israel 's desire to complete the treaty and to put into effect the Palestinian self-rule agreement , both of which were agreed to at Camp David last September . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endorsed by the United States , which he insisted went beyond the accords reached at Camp David and threatened to undermine them . Mr. Carter , for his part , stressed the instability in the Middle East that he said had been caused by the rise of radical forces and the collapse of the regime of Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi in Iran . He urged Mr. Begin to make it politically easier for President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt , the major pro-Western Arab leader , to accept the compromise ideas offered by the United States on the few but persistent problems . Mood of Aides Is Tense The inability of Mr. Begin and Mr. Carter to make any progress in their talks came as no surprise . The Prime Minister , in his arrival statement yesterday , strongly attacked the suggested compromises as making the peace treaty a " sham document . " Although in their appearances before reporters last night and today Mr. Carter and Mr. Begin seemed friendly and smiling , the mood of their subordinates was tense . The Americans feared that the months invested in the Middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israelis were alarmed at being blamed for the breakdown . Mr. Begin plans a major public-relations campaign in New York next week if the talks fail . The issues in question can be stated as follows : cBecause Egypt does not want to be accused by other Arab nations of signing a separate peace with Israel at their expense , Mr. Sadat wants the Israelis to give - assurances that the other Camp David accord , dealing with Palestinian self-rule , will be put into effect soon after the treaty is ratified . The United States , aware of Israel 's refusal to be pinned down to a fixed timetable , has proposed a good-faith effort to hold Palestinian elections by a target date one year after the treaty is ratified . Today Mr. Begin sharply attacked this plan , which is included in a three-page side letter drafted by Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance , as giving Egypt an excuse to nullify the treaty . CTo underscore the importance of linking the two Camp David accords , the Egyptians want Israel to agree to an interpretive note stating that section @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pact is only one part of a comprehensive Middle East settlement . The United States accepts that view , but Mr. Begin said today that such an interpretation would give Egypt an excuse to declare the treaty void if no further accords are achieved . cSection five of Article VI suggests that the peace treaty will have precedence over prior Egyptian accords . The Egyptians , to avoid being accused of breaking with the Arab cause , want it understood that this section does not bar them from coming to the aid of any Arab states attacked by Israel . The Americans believe this is a fair request , but Mr. Begin said it would permit Egypt to say that any conflict , even one started by Arabs , had been begun by Israel and then go To war against Israel . Ile Camp David accords call for normalization of diplomatic relations after an initial Israeli troop withdrawal from the Sinai Peninsula , which would take place nine months after the treaty is ratified . Mr. Begin said today that normalization must include an exchange of ambassadors , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not indicated when they would exchange ambassadors . Earlier , they said they wanted to wait until Palestinian autonomy was guaranteed in the West Bank and Gaza Strip , but the Americans persuaded them not to be so specific . Since the American and Israeli positions were reiterated at this morning 's meeting and at a follow-up working lunch for Mr. Begin by Mr. Vance at the State Department , the two sides saw no need for another session this afternoon . What frustrates Mr. Carter is that the draft text of the treaty has already been agreed to by Israel and Egypt ; the issues in contention are interpretive and auxiliary documents that he considers relatively minor but which Mr. Begin asserts are major problems for Israel .                     