@@732555

txt THE CITY OF CHICAGO will discontinue psychological testing of prospective police officers , a city attorney told federal Judge Prentice H. Marshall Friday . Earl Neal , a special assistant corporation counsel , said the testing is n't worth the cost . " It is our belief it is not necessary to give that kind of screen to each individual , " Neal told Marshall , The department 's present psychological testing program was implemented In 1974 after a ' Tribune series of articles on police brutality . The series disclosed that a sophisticated testing system which had won national praise had been dismantled by 1971 and that the department conducted no testing for emotional stability in 1971 and 1972 . POLICE DEPARTMENT officials believe that behavioral problems in prospective police officers will emerge in a new program of oral interviews and during the police academy training program , Neal said . Dr. Caries Pounian , director of the city 's personnel board in charge of police testing , strongly defended the new program , saying : The new procedure will be more efficient in terms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ screening of recruits during training Police Supt. James M. Rockford orders an investigation into charges that seven policemen were involved in a racial fistfight at Wrigley Field , Page 5 at the Police Academy and will continue through the one-year probationary period . " During that time , probationary policemen and recruits will be under the supervision of a psychiatrist , thus making it possible to screen out those with pychological problems more easily . " Neal made the disclosure in connection with the police discrimination case before Marshall . The judge found the city and the Police Department guilty last year of bias in the hiring and pro-meting of minority officers . As a result of that ruling , federal revenue-sharing. funds have been withheld from the city , and Marshall ordered that a new , nondiscriminatory screening process for police officers be developed . IiE HAD ORDERED the city to give him by June 1 the results of psychological tests on persons who were rated " well qualified " for police positions from last year 's patrol officer examinations . The city reported in court Wednesday that the testing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , But in an apparent surprise to the court , Neal announced Friday that the city will no longer employ psychological testing of prospective patrol officers , Although Marshall made no comment on the disclosure , Ilana Rovner , an assistant United States attorney who has prosecuted the bias case , said she was surprised by Neal 's statement . " AS ALWAYS happens when I come into this courtroom there are surprises , " Mrs. Rovner said to the judge . " I will wait for the transcript ( of the hearing to make sure I heard what I heard today . " The Chicago Police Department , as well as other large metropolitan police departments , have employed psychological testing to screen out persons unfit to he police officers , Marshall noted that of 900 police trainees who recently were hired , 13 were screened out after psychological testing . The judge asked Neal to submit his disclosure in writing for another court hearing next Wednesday . NEAL SAID the city has completed the background check as 215 of 617 persons who were found " well qualified " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said 20 of the 215 were disqualified as a result of the background check .                     