@@728505

txt In his second major confrontation  --  the first was the mass protest of last autumn against slow withdrawal from Vietnam  --  President Nixon has developed a pattern . Its aim is to deal temperately with the mood of rebellion against authority in the United States today , where even postmen hit the streets when they have a grievance and are frustrated . The method is to minimize the upset to public order while taking steps to meet the grievance . Therefore the President : ? Confined his use of the armed forces to New York City , avoiding a widespread national confrontation with troops at the outset . ? Conceded the main grievance of the postal workers and promised to remove it . He thereby sought to " preempt " the issue of adequate pay rather than fight it and to retain public sympathy instead of turning it away from the White House . ? Avoided any presidential attack on the unions or their workers , hoping to hold the confrontation at a minimum . He appeared in his television statement as a President whose main concerns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worked out . Knowing what the reaction of the strikers would be toward using the National Guard , he nevertheless tried to avoid making personal enemies out of postmen generally . ? Made no threats of reprisals or legal action against the strikers . He invited them to return to work without penalty , promising that troops would be withdrawn as fast as they reappeared at their posts . He thereby followed the maxim of former President Kennedy that an adversary should be given an honorable way out of the controversy rather than driven to the wall . ? Acted with decision and authority when he decided to act , avoiding muddle and half-measures . ? Kept emotion out of his public statement . Both in mood and appearance , Mr. Nixon sought to appear as a reasoning President dealing with a difficult situation , rather than a man of power using it against part of the American public . As this is written , it is still too early to appraise the degree of success or failure of the President 's approach . Various leaders of liberal stripe in both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how forcefully to take it . Not since the moratorium marches of last fall and the rising Vietnam protest in the Senate , the intellectual community , and the press , has Mr. Nixon faced such a dangerous situation as that touched off by the postmen . It blew up suddenly , releasing pent-up ' emotions that had been spreading in many less-advantaged sections of the economy because of inflation and the tight federal budget with which Mr. Nixon was trying to cool the economy . Some political observers here said the outcome of the postal affair could determine which way middle-ground political opinion toward the President would swing between now and the fall elections . In any event the President himself appeared to recognize that his actions and conduct in this first large-scale showdown on the domestic front , with a populist type of revolt by a group of men who felt mistreated and deliberately given the runaround by the government , could set the tone for similar events in the future . More are considered likely . Unless dealt with expertly , from the standpoint of the presidency , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front like those which unseated President Johnson over the Vietnam war . The precarious balance between law and revolt in today 's United States was illustrated in peculiarly dramatic fashion by the letter carriers . The young , the radicals , the Poor , the peace groups , the blacks , the ghetto people had all had their day in the streets , mostly before he came into office . But who would have expected the postmen to " hit the bricks " ? When many of them turned into wildcats , it was a sharp warning to a President who was especially anxious . to avbid public explosionS . // *Nixon antirebellion strategy unfurls // In the President 's first major public struggle with the peace groups last fall , he had seized the initiative and managed to come out on top . But this second time , the calm and order of the Nixon era was broken by a previously calm and orderly group of government workers . Persuasion attempted The President had first sought to avoid a showdown . As the Postmaster General . and the Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was trying to persuade Congress and the postal unions to support a fundamental reform . The legislation he recommended , like that of President Johnson , would take the Post Office out of politics , have it run like a business enterprise by a semiautonomous public corporation , and not incidentally give the postal workers a legal right to strike for the first time . Ironically , it was this effort which touched off the explosion . The largest postal union , through its president , James Rademacher , went along with Mr. Nixon when he insisted that a postal raise should be tied to passage of the reform legislation . The other unions , accustomed to playing politics in Congress , balked . The postal committees of Congress were therefore split , and both the pay rise and the reform were blocked . A strike , erupted in New York . When the union rank and file refused to accept a settlement largely drafted in the ' White House , the President seemed to corn- ' mit himself to a wholly stern response . This occasioned some surprise in Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself into an irrevocable position . In his press conference of last Saturday he laid down a non-negotiable de- ' ? mand that the strikers first return to work , as a precondition of beginning to talk . The President 's officers and aides have made it clear that in the postal affair Mr.-Nixon is setting a pattern for future in , stances of activist revolt , where there is recognized grievance and the methods ( ) revolt are not those of the dynamite stick . Where he has to take action like calling out the military , it will be done with decision ' but on the smallest possible scale . The line of defense of public order will be set with discretion rather than offensive ' valor . The ' grievance will be a concern of the President as well as the protesters . The pattern is being put to its first sizable domestic test .                     