@@732655

txt Hurricane Belle smashed into t Long Island early , Tues. day with hellish force , sweeping away beaches with mountainous waves , uprooting trees , and sending electric wires sparking along streets . It caused extensive damage on its way north toward Connecticut . The first reported death from the hurricane was that of a youth , killed by a falling tree on Long Island 's north shore , police said . The storm bearing gusts of 90 m.p.h. began moving across the island of 2.5 million population on a line from Jones Beach to Oyster Bay . Preceded by rain and wind , the storm aimed its most powerful punch at a point 25 miles west of where it was expected to strike and only five miles east of New York City . LARGE WAVES were penetrating the barrier beaches that separate the prosperous commuter and resort communities of central and eastern long Island from the wrath of the Atlantic . Winds sent waves across the dunes at Westhampton , one of the richest resorts of the Eastern Seaboard . As the eye of the storm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from 110 m.p.h. to 90 m.p.h . The - hurricane was described by the National Weather Service as . " a tight little storm , " ? its full force concentrated in a circle with a 100-mile radius . AS THE STORM headed for Long Island , officials in the metropolitan area were taking no chances , and thousands of residents in low-lying and coastal areas of New York and New Jersey were evacuated during the day . About 300 patints from the South Shore Psychiatric Center on Staten Island were transferred during the night as city officials braced for the first hurricane of the season and second tropical storm following Anna in late July . The landfall of the - storm 's eye was followed immediately , by an " eerie calm , " a police officer at the village of Long Beach said . OFFICALS SAID , high ocean waves broke through the dunes of Fire Island , most of whose summer residents had fled for higher ground , splitting the island in two as the ocean crossed its narrowest part and merged with Great South Bay . In the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lost electricity on Long Island . " All of a sudden it made a little wiggle toward the west and that means it 's moving across from the sea to the land farther west than we thought , " said Harold Gibson of the National Weather Service . THE HURRICANE  --  the first of the season and the second tropical storm following Anna ' in late July  --  approached Jones Beach off the southern tier of Long Island . Gibson said the storm 's eye struck Oyster Bay , where an already high tide was feared to reach iecord heights . Shortly before midnight , the storm 's clerk read six verdicts of innocent against both Harrises on charges of assault with a deadly weapon for the bursts of c automatic carbine fire that peppered the front of an Inglewood sporting goods store . The shooting in May , 1974 , and the subsequent 22-hour spree by the Harris-es and Miss Hearst , alerted police thatthe SLA was in Los Angeles and led to the discovery of the band 's hideout . At the hideout six hardcere " urban guerrillas " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cinque " DeFreeze  --  were killed in a fiery gun battle soon afterward . Miss Hearst was the only one to fire any shots at the sporting goods store , according to the Harrises ' defense in the three-week-long trial .                     