@@730819

txt Can the Soviet Union be trusted to adhere to an arms-control agree . ment ? The chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the temporary Secretary of Defense strongly ' disagree about the answer to : this controversial question , which is ? expected to figure strongly in talks next week between President Nixon and Soviet party chairman Leonid I. Brezhnev . Dueling over the reliability of Soviet promises in past and future arms pacts are Sen. J. William Fulbright ( D ) of Arkansas and William P. Clements , who is ? serving as defense chief until the Senate confirms the apointment of James , R. Schlesinger . Presumably both men have access to the best intelligence available . The Senator , ' in a speech to the Senate on Tuesday , ' alluded with a touch of sarcasm to fears expressed last year by Sen. Henry M. Jackson ( D ) of Washington . " What in . fact happened , " he asked , " to the big , terrifying new , SoViet missiles that were seen on the horizon , those missiles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ huge SS-9 missile ? - - " Whatever happened to those huge new holes mentioned in press accounts which were supposed ' to presage deployment of a new generation of still larger missiles ? " What ever happened to the tremendous Soviet throw-weight advantage mentioned last year ? Is the Soviet megatonnage now increasing ' or declining ? Is the megatonnage disparity between the two sides now growing or decreasing ? Much ? of the megatonnage in the Soviet force was centered in the approximately 200 missile WW-7 and WW-8 fleet . What happened to that fleet ? After similar questions about Soviet plans the Senator suggested the answers . " If those who were disturbed last year were to consider the answers to these questions they ' might now find themselves reassured as to ' the ' intentions of the Soviet Union to live up ' to the terms of the treaty and agreement . They might find themselves willing to take a new look at the importance of achieving further agreements in SALT and in related fields , such as the long-delayed comprehensive test ban . " He suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Congress to restrain the spending of billions of dollars on such items as the Poseiden ' missile , the B-1 bomber and Trident submarines and missiles . The Foreign Relations Committee on June 6 did approve a resolution calling on President Nixon to take prompt ' steps toward a total ban on nuclear tests by the United States and the SOviet Union . It proposes that , as a first step , a moratorium be considered , of the kind that in 1963 broke the negotiating logjam and led to the partial test ban of August , 1963 . While the prepackaged agreements and declarations for the Brezhnev visit have undoubtedly already been worked out they have been ' kept secret . The indications are that in the arms-control field the two leaders will endorse a statement of principles intended to give a boost to the SALT II talks on qualitative control of nuclear weapons the mutual balanced f6rce reductions talks on scaling down NATO and Warsaw Pact forces , and the European security talks , whose scope is still uncertain . Senator Fulbright 's remarks dismayed Deputy Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard liner when it comes to the Soviet Union . " I look with apprehension , " he said , " on what the Soviets have been doing in regard to their defense measures , the budget , the research and development , their great advances in technology . All these things are worrisome . " Noting that the Russians are ahead of the - United States in some fields of technology he said : " When they continue their missile programs the way they do and they continue to do the other things that they are doing in a military sense , well , I think I have good reason for apprehension . " Mr./Clements went on to assert that the Pentagon did not have " any indications or solid information that the Soviets have in fact taken down certain missile systems , and reduced their megatonnage and so forth .. . exactly the opposite is true . Missile capability known " We have good reason to believe and have been aware of their testing of new families of missiles . " He said American intelligence knows the size and capabilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said flatly that he personally " would not go along " with a total nuclear test ban . Pentagon officials explained that the new family of missiles to which Mr. Clements was alluding were the SS-16 , SS-17 and SS-18 . These are believed to be larger , improved versions , respectively , of the older SS-13 , SS-11 , and SS-9 , as was first revealed in former Defense Secretary Elliot Richardson 's posture statement of March 27.                     