@@729283

txt Striking back at Richard E. Friedman for calling him a liar , Mayor Daley said yesterday he will propose " in the next several days " a plan to build 7,500 to 10,000 housing units in Chicago and the suburbs . Interviewed by reporters at the opening of a new campaign headquarters at 333 N. Michigan Av. , Daley responded to charges by Friedman , his Republican opponent in the April 6 election , that the mayor knew of the proposed public housing sites in advance . " A lot of people engage in name-calling without any way of coming up with evidence or their own recommendations , " Daley said . Frustrated by Delays Daley expressed frustration with delays in federal housing programs . He said his administration was prepared to finance its own housing program if nececgory . Reporters asked Daley to comment on Friedman 's charges that the mayor picked the 275 proposed sites released last week by the Chicago Eonsing Authority and then publicly disowned them . " Anyone who says I had the list lies ; anyone who says I knew of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George Wallace lies . " The list of proposed public housing sites was submitted Friday by the Chicago Housing Authority to comply with a Federal District Court order that it build three public housing units in white neighborhoods for every unit built in black neighborhoods . Calls Issue Economic Friedman has charged that Daley had the list for more than a year but did not want to disclose it until after the April 6 election . An American Civil Liberties Union lawyer said Daley was " no ' better than George Wallace , " governor of Alabama and an avowed segregationist . The mayor repeated his contention that the economic effect of public housing on nearby homes , and not race , was the reason the proposed sites caused an uproar in many neighborhoods . " We 're tired of being kicked around and delayed and deferred by the federal government , " Daley said , " not only by HUD ( Department of Housing and Urban Development , but thru this court suit . " In the next several days , I will announce a program to build housing where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'll build the housing where people want to live if we have to do it ourselves " Speaking of his plan for 7,500 to 10,000 homes , the mayor said , " We hope to put some of it housing in the suburbs . " Daley said public housing should be built on the 298-acre site of the former Bridewell farm , just east of the Du PageCook County line , near the General Motors Electro-Motive Division plant near La Grange and in the vicinity of O'Hare International Airport industrial areas . The mayor said Monday that be favors building housing near industrial centers in the suburbs where jobs are available . Daley and his aides would not elaborate on the types of housing to be proposed . There were no details on financing . David Stahl , deputy mayor , only would say that several financing methods are being considered . Stahl said general obligation or revenue bonds were possible sources of finances . He also said help from private sources might be sought . " And we 're not walking away front these federal programs , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a halt in 1969 , when Federal District Court Judge Richard B. Austin ordered the city to begin desegregating public housing by bonding in white- neighborhoods . His ruling was on a suit filed by the A. C. L. U.                     