@@733667

txt ALBANY , Saturday , May 27 The Legislature this morning approved New York City 's emergency fiscal legislation , despite warnings from bank executives that they would withdraw from the city 's $4.5 billion financing package unless additional safeguards ate enacted to prevent the loss of powers by the Emergency Financial Control Board . In a long-awaited culmination to weeks of exhausting negotiations here and in the city , the Democratic - controlled Assembly passed the bill 99 to 41 at 11 P.M. last night , and the Republican-controlled Senate passed it two-and-a-half hours later by a vote of 35 to 16 . In both houses , the vote followed angry , bitter protests by black and Puerto Rican legislators who voted no in protest against policies by Mayor Koch and Governor Carey toward their communities . The Banks ' Demands The bill extended the life of the control board for at least 19 years and expanded the borrowing capacity of the Municipal Assistance Corporation by $3 billion , enabling it to continue to serve as the city 's chief financing mechanism in the next four years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Koch to meet demands from Washington that the city produce a fiscal package before Congress considers the Federal guarantees deemed vital to its drive toward eventual solvency . The control board bill is one of several matters that the city is trying to resolve to satisfy Washington . Another problem ? agreement on contracts with municipal unions  --  will remain hanging at least until after the holiday weekend because negotiators have said they will not go back to talking until then . The Legislature 's final adoption of the voluminous , 102-page bill  --  printed only hours before it was taken up  --  had a major cloud over it because of the banks ' demands , which had been conveyed yes- , terday afternoon to Felix G. Rohatyn , chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation . The demands were designed , to keep the control hoard from lapsing ! into a passive " sunset " status  --  in which it would lose the power of prior approval over fiscal actions  --  until the city regains access access to the credit markets . The Senate , a Republican aide said , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' demands , But the Assembly balked because its Speaker , Stanley Steingut , a Brooklyn Democrat , feared that giving in to lastminute changes might torpedo chances of approving the entire bill in his house , where blacks , Puerto Ricans , some liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans were voting against it . Mr. Koch and Mr. Carey  --  eager to produce . a package that would impress Washington  --  were ready to accede to the banks ' wishes . Hoping to persuade the Legislature of his view , Mr. Carey delayed sending a message of necessity to pass the legislation until he was assured by Mr. Steingut that the Assembly would be willing to consiler the Senate 's amendment  --  or some other version of it  --  next week to accommodate the banks ' demands . Such a move by the Assembly was viewed as likely , if the banks persist in their threats . The Governor 's delay in sending the message , without which the bill could not have been considered , created some drama and - tension to the day 's proceedings . It also frayed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case at having to pass it hastily after so little " We got this bill at 2:15 , and at the rate we 're going , by 100 ) weal ha . e changed the governance of New York City for at least 11 years , " shouted Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell . Tr. , a arlem Democrat . " We are abdicatine our power . " Like others , Mr. Farrell was furious that Mr. Steingut had cut shert debate and limited each member to only a few minutes to explain his or her vote . Some Other Objections Other objecions were raised by cm-Fier-1 vative Republicans , who felt the state should not increase its indebtedness on behalf o fNew York City . Several Republicans voted against the bill because it ' a tightened up arbitration proceedings along the lines negotiated between Mr. Koch and the nonuniformed municipal unions this week . Leaders of the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association and the Uniformed Firefighters Association lobbied here against the bill , but their were unable to win over more than a handful of their traditional Republican allies . The banks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with Assemblyman Perry B. Duryea Jr .  --  a Montauk , LI . Republican who is certain to he his party s gubernatorial candidate this year , ? taunting Democrats by pointing out that the banks were not " on board " the bill . " There are chapter amendments floating around this place that nobody has seen  --  nobody ! " Mr. Duryea shouted . " What kind of nonsense is this ? " Nonetheless , Mr. Duryea , the assembly minority leader , voted yes  --  and delivered enough Republican votes to provide the margin for passage . Even proponents of the bill said it was a " bitter pill " because of the concept of ceding the city 's fiscal controls to a aeven-member panel , headed by the Governer , that could last for decades . seized the issue vigarously . " Just about the only provision the bill does n't have is that the people in the city should wear ashes and sack cloth and walk around saying ' men culpa , ' " said Senator Franz Lcichter , a Manhatta Democrat . Pausing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me to look at Section " We can talk all we want to about things we like in this bill or do n't like . " said Warren M. Anderson , the Senate maicriay lender and a Binghamtcn Republi- ? can . He said the bill was the way it was because of the banks , the Federal Govern-. ment the other pa , ms to the city 's fiscal rescue . " We hay to listen to those farces , " he said . As in the Assembly , Republicans provided the margin for passage . Marchi 's View " It 's a disgrace , " said Senator John Ma chi , a Staten Island Republican , referring to the control hoard concept and the demands of the banks which he said had " willy-nilly " bought New York City securities in 1974 and 1975 , even though they should have known about its impending fiscal crisis . Voting yes , Mr. Marchi nonetheless said , " I holm ou- voices go Out loud and clear that we are profoundly disturbd . " At stake in the new dmands by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the commercial banks , savings bailie ; and insurance companies had agreed ei purchase over the next four years as pm- , of the city 's rescue package . It is tha package that also contains provisions Inc up to $2 billion in bonds with Federal guarantees being sought in Congress . Also approved by the Legislature night was a measure to enable ; hi ! Municipal Assistance Corporatien to issue short-term notes next month to get . the city over a $700 million cash shortfall . But the center of the controversy today was the Control Board legislation . As originally drafted , the hoard . would have strong powers of prior approval over contracts , budget allocations and other fiscal transactions over the city . These provisions were to remain for the life of the 30-year bonds that the city and the M.A.C , were planning to issue .                     