@@729040

txt A combination of new efforts by Federal and state governments and private industry may soon be helping to solve the city 's solid-waste problem , a problem that until recently was considered to be solely a municipal responsibility . The entrance of Federal and state authorities into the problem is a realization by them , they say , that the situation , which they generally agree has reached a critical stage , can no longer be solved by municipalities alone . Business has turned to the problem , knowing that it is a major producer of the waste that needs cleaning up . Its concern is spurred by fear that stiff new regulations will be laid down by government if business does not do the job itself . As William F. May , chairman and president of the American Can Company , told an industry group here last week : " We have failed in the past , in carrying out our business , to consider society 's environmental needs . " Mr. May 's company is a large manufacturer of containers that end up being a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. May warned his business audience at a meeting of the Packaging Education Foundation that they would have to expect some dislocations in the regular way of doing business . He said that some of the dislocations would mean a slowdown in growth . But he also drew the line on going overboard . " The ecologist who wants to solve the problems of our environment and solve them quickly , " Mr. May said , " often thinks of turning backward to a simpler time when the air was fresh and clean , the water was pure , and litter was much less prevalent . He does not recall that in those idyllic times our population was half what it is now , the death rate was double , and hardship lay everywhere . " Up to now , industry 's major contribution to solving the litter and solid-waste problem has been given through such organizations as Keep America Beautiful , Inc . K.A.B. ? it is referred to by its initials at industry gatherings ? was formed in 1953 by representatives of the brewing , glass container , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were closely associated with the types of packaging that often end up as litter . Trophies Awarded The organization gives out annual trophies to Boy Scout troops and women 's and civic organizations that have done notable work in picking up litter during the previous year . industry is now realizing that such litter drives are not going to be enough to solve the growing solid-waste problem . Some of the same industries that formed K.A.B. have now organized a new nonprofit organization called the National Center for Solid Waste Disposal , Inc . With headquarters in Washington , the center will undertake projects to demonstrate the technical feasibility and the economics of recycling solid waste back into something useful . To accomplish this , some way must be found to separate from the mixed mass of garbage that arrives at a collection depot such valuable materials as metals , glass and paper . Two methods of separation are already under investigation by industry ; one uses air , the other , water . In the air method , the garbage is fed into the top of a chamber with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the bottom of the chamber blow the lighter material like paper out of the channel at outlets near the top . The heavier the material , the farther down the chamber it goes before being blown out of the channel . Glass , the heaviest material , would sink to the bottom . Even metal cans . being lighter than glass . would be separated nut before they reached the bottom . In the water method , the ground , mixed garbage is stirred into a slurry where the red into a slurry where the organic material rises to the top and is used as , say , fertilizer , Paper fibers float just below the organic material and can be drawn off to be reprocessed into new paper . Heavier materials sink to the bottom . Recycling is a key part of the new Federal and state aid that is about to be extended to the city . On the Federal level . President Nixon signed into law last Oct. 26 the Resource Recovery Act of 1970. which authorizes a fund up to $463-million for use in the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this could mean a sharp increase in the activity of the Federal Bureau of Solid Waste Management . New York City environmental officials are concerned lest the Federal bill signed just before the elections might have been mostly campaign material , but Federal officials have emphasized since the election that there is every intention to carry through . Richard D. Vaughan , director of the Bureau of Solid Waste Management , said this could mean a rise in Federal spending on the solid-waste problem to $256-million in the fiscal year 1973 , about four times the current $65-million spending . Mr. Vaughan said in an interview last week that this would work a complete change in the program . Up to now , he said , his bureau could only dole out money for isolated demonstration grants . The new act would allow the bureau to guarantee up to 75 per cent Federal financing for a complete plan for a city that , would show specifically what solid-waste problems it faced and how these could best be solved . The 75 per cent financing would also apply to programs that would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be recovered , and of training local personnel to do sanitation work more efficiently . Mr. Vaughan said it was too early to tell how much of the Federal money would go to New York City but he noted that the city 's " problems of solid waste are as extreme as any place in the nation " because of the number of people and the amount of trash they throw away . He added , however , that the new Federal legislation was more of a lever to help the city with new methods and ideas and to get the city past the crisis . The act is " not designed to solve the financial problem , " Mr. Vaughan said . As a comparison , the current annual operating and capital budget for New York City 's sanitation department is about $300-million , a figure that is even higher than the highest annual amount authorized in the Federal program for the whole country . Higher Official Also Pleased New York City officials have been doing work on their own to get private industry involved in the solid-waste program . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in designing equipment that will enable a garbage truck to extend an articulated arm over parked cars to pick up a refuse container . Such a device would bypass much of the expensive manual labor that now goes into the collection process . Developing such devices , however , will take money . City officials are hoping to get this kind of money from Washington . Enthusiasm over what the new Federal program can do came also last week from Charles C. Johnson Jr. , administrator of the Department of Health , Education and Welfare 's Environmental Health Service , which is the parent body of the Solid Waste Bureau . Mr. Johnson said last week that the new money would be used to stimulate both municipalities and industry to clean up the environment . " Just how the money will fall out , no one can say now , " Mr. Johnson said . " But certainly some of it will go to carry out ' the desire of President Nixon to have industry participate in research to solve some of the pollution problems that industry has created . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money given to industry would not necessarily handicap municipalities in their efforts because generally every solidwaste problem that industry takes care of means one less problem for a municipality . Land Fill Space Vanishing Mr. Johnson said that until the new legislation was enacted in Washington nothing much could be done about collecting solid waste ? the phase that takes about two-thirds of the total cost involved . He said that " many of our collection systems just have n't changed over the past 50 years . " " But the city 's real problem , " says Jerome Kretchmer , the city 's Environmental Protection Administrator , who is also act ing sanitation commissioner , disposing of the end product . ' The city is simply runnirq out of landfill space to dispose of the 24,000 tons of waste that is produced here every day . St far none of this waste can be sent out of the city because nc one wants someone else 's garbage . Help for that problem may be on the way from new state programs that are being formulated to set up environmental facilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the commissioner of the state 's Environmental . Conservation Department , said these proposed facilities would be giant regional recycling and re-use centers where solid waste from large parts of the state would be brought to a central location , a place that would have around it industries that would manufacture new products from the reclaimed waste . The final part of the waste that could not be reclaimed would go to landfills to create recreational and other facilities . How would people in these regional landfill centers be convinced to take other people 's garbage ? " You 've got to bribe them , " Mr. Diamond said last week . " There 's no two ways about it . You 've got to offer them pay- ment in the form of something they want . You say to them ' if you 'll put up with the landfill for a few years eventually you 'll have a new golf course or a park or a ski slope . ' " Mr. Diamond said that the Rockefeller administration was now drawing up legislation that would for the first time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city 's capital investment in garbage trucks and other sanitation equipment . He said equipment to clean up the city 's solid waste might also be provided by the state 's Environmental Facilities Corporation , which might buy sanitation equipment and maintain it and lease it to the city at a nominal cost . The support for sanitation equipment is partly an effort to make sure that the $1-million already promised to the city by the state for an emergency clean-up of its dirtiest areas will not be wasted by having those areas slip back into a filthy condition because there was not enough collection equipment to keep the area clean . The $1-million offer . which also came just before the election , was described by Governor Rockefeller as just the " first phase " of the aid the state would give the city to clean up its problem areas . Mr. Diamond has said since the election that there will be future phases .                     