@@732066

txt But one of the sources , who termed the Security Index " a ridiculous thing , " said it was known jocularly within the F.B.I . as the " pick-up list . " The other source described its ostensible purpose as " to assist in rounding up people who might commit sabotage or espionage . " An F.B.I . spokesman , informed of the sources ' accounts , said at first that the bureau maintained " no Security Index . " Asked to check further , he later acknowledged that the F.B.I . does " maintain a list of individuals felt to be dangerous to the internal security of the United States . " He emphasized , however , that the list was " not for detention purposes , but is merely for administrative control within the F.B.I . " He would not elaborate on the uses to which it was being put , if any . Asked to characterize the individuals on the current list , one Justice Department official said that , in addition to suspected terrorists such as members of the Weather Underground , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissidents and members of Marxist organizations ranging from the Communist party to the Pro - Chinese Revolutionary Union . to the Security Index that has ever become public is contained in an F.B.I . report stolen with other documents from the bureau 's office in Media , Pa. , in early 1971 . The stolen report noted that a young woman , a student at the University of California , would not be recommended for inclusion on the Security Index unless information could be found to corroborate the assertion of an anonymous informer that she was " an inveterate Marxist revolutionist . " The report , dated Feb. 26 , 1971 , contained no indication that the woman was suspected of any , criminal activity or was being investigated for any other reason than her purported political beliefs . One former Government official familiar with the index , which he said was known within the bureau as the " special list , " conceded that the idea behind it " orobably was sound years ago , when we would know a few weeks or a month in advance if a country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said that , apart from the legal implications , the concept of " rounding up people who might commit sabotage or espionage " in time of war made less sense in the nuclear age . According to this source , until the late nineteen-sixties the Security index was compiled by the subversives control section of the F.B.I . ' s Intelligence Division , which spent a good deal of time keeping track of the addresses and occupations of those on the list . Because it was originally established as a " Communist index , " he said , a member of the Communist party " would go on there almost automatically . " But he and others said that the list was subsequently expanded to include members of other leftist organizations anti of some on the right . such as the Ku Klux Klan , that had no obvious connection with any hostile foreign power . The index was reportedly made up of three categories of individuals who were ranked according to the potential seriousness of the threat they posed to internal security ? leaders of allegedly militant or " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to violence or espionage , and other members of such groups . Not Warranted One of the sources said that , because of what he characterized as the F.B.I . ' s propensity for inclusiveness and its inherent reluctance to purge its files , the index " undoubtedly " listed some individuals whose views and activities did not warrant their inclusion under the nowdefunct language of the Subversives Control Act . The guiding principle under which the index was compiled , he C2 id " war who would be dangerous to the country . " " That 's a very nebulous concept , " he added , pointing out that , as late as 1971 , the index contained the names of " about a dozen " clergymen . According to this source and others , in the late nineteensixties officials of the bureau 's Intelligence Division became concerned that the index by then included a number of individuals who , if detained in the event of an emergency , could prove , a subsequent embarrassment to the F.B.I . As a result , they said , the index was pared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from which it has since declined still further . - The 10,000 or so names that were weeded out , the sources said , were placed in a " reserve index , " which for practical purposes served as an inactive file . It could not be learned whether the reserve index , was still in existence , or what its status was . Never Heard of It In a telephone interview , Melvin Wulf ; the legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union 's New York office , said that he had never heard of the F.B.I . ' s Security Index . But he called such a practice " **25;599;TOOLONG , " especially in the absence of any legislative authority to detain individuals in the event of an emergency . Under the First Amendment , he noted , " you 're supposed to have a right to any political opinion you want to have . " According to one high Justice Deparment official , a group set bp last March by Attorney General Edward H. Levi to study the F.B.I . ' s intelligence-gathering operations has " considered " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any emergency detention authority . It could not be learned , however , what recommendation the group had made to Mr. Levi on retention of the index . The Federal statute under which the index wa ? initially established provided that , in the event of an " internal security emergency " declared by the President , the Attorney General could detain individuals he considered likely to engage or conspire in " acts of espionage Or sabotage . " One Justice official recalled that , after the repeal of that provision in September , 1971 , the F.B.I . asked the department whether it could continue to maintain the index as a part of the bureau 's record-keeping system , despite the repeal .                     