@@729523

txt Mayor Lindsay contended yesterday that during his fiveand a half years in office he had urged his top police cornmanders many times to take " vigorous and firm action " against police corruption . The Mayor 's assertion came in response to a statement on Thursday by Whitman Knapp , the head of the Commission to Investigate Alleged Police Corruption , that as chief executive the Mayor " can not escape responsibility " for the widespread graft found among New York 's policemen by the panel . Failure to Move In a statement telephoned from Nassau , . the Bahamas , where the Mayor is vacationing , to Deputy Mayor Richard R. Aurelio , . Mr. Lindsay said : " I , have continually discussed allegations of police corruption with my police commissioners and their top commanders and urged upon them vigorous and firm action . " In an interview following a promotion ceremony yesterday morning at the Police Academy , at 235 East 20th Street , Police Commissioner Patrick V. Murphy was asked about Mr. Knapp 's criticism of his predecessor , Howard R. Leary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of years to implement a number of administrative changes to strengthen the integrity of the department , " Mr. Murphy replied . Mr. Leary , now president of a private security company in New York , could not be reached for comment yesterday . At a news conference Thursday marking the end of the commission 's investigative phase , Mr. Knapp said he personally felt that the former commissioner had a lot to answer for because he had " failed to exercise leadership in the field of corruption . " Mr. Knapp said the commission 's 11-month investigation had shown that a " substantial number " of New York policemen engaged in corrupt acts and that only a very small group " is actively trying to do something about it . " The commission now plans to spend the summer drafting a series of separate reports describing the evidence collected by the 30-man staff about corruption in a large number of areas including narcotics , gambling , prostitution , bars and restaurants , hotels , construction and tow-truck operators . Public hearings may be held in the fall . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agree more that the chief executive of this city bears the ultimate ' responsibility for the performance of the Police Department . " " Since assuming office , " he added , " I have welcomed that responsibility . " ' Persistent Interest ' The statement then noted his " persistent personal interest in all aspects of police operations " despite charges of " interference " whenever he expressed concern on police matters . Stating that this concern included police corruption , the statement said : , " That is why I established the Knapp Commission , the only time that a Mayor of this city has ever appointed an independent commission to investigate police corruption , appointed five distinguished men to serve on it , fought for its funding and for city council action granting its subpoena power . " The Mayor said he had continued to fight for the commission when it needed an extra six months and Federal funds to complete its job . " I am waiting with deep interest the specific findings and recommendations of the Knapp Commission so I can act upon them , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1970 , by Mayor Lindsay following publication of charges that there was widespread police corruption and that high officials in the Lindsay administration and the Police Department had not acted when informed of specific acts of corruption . Among those questioned by the Knapp Commission in recent weeks were Arnold G. Fraiman  --  now a State Supreme Court Justice , but until January of 1969 head of the city 's Investigation Commission ? and Jay Kriegel , one of Mayor Lindsay 's closest advisers . Mr. Aurelio was asked yesterday whether Mr , Kriegel had passed on corruption information given him by two policemen and if the information reached the Mayor what steps had been taken as a result . " I 'd prefer to let the Mayor 's statement stand by itself , " Mr. Aurelio said . Mr. Knapp , informed of the Mayor 's statement , said his commission " obviously never would have been appointed in the first place and never would have had our life extended if the Mayor had not supported us . " ' Rotten Apple ' Theory As he did at Thursday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission 's investigation of the actions . of Mr. Kriegel and Justice Fraiman . In the interview at the Police Academy , Commissioner Murphy denied that he had ever suggested that the removal of a few " rotten apples " would solve the corruption problem . The commission had cited in its report the " rotten apple " theory as a major stumbling block to dealing with corruption . Mr. Murphy said corruption was a problem of management and organization that could be reduced by such as his efforts to make commanders accountable for the actions of their men . But he then noted that even if 1 per cent of the policemen in the department were corrupt , that this would mean 320 dishonest policemen . " And even one corrupt policeman is too many , " he said . The over-all study of police corruption has been directed by the panel 's chief counsel , Michael F. Armstrong , a 39-year-old former assistant United States attorney . The members of the commission , in addition to Mr. Knapp , are Joseph Mon. serrat , a member of the Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commissioner for legal affairs , Cyrus R. Vance , former Deputy Secretary of Defense , and John E. Sprizzo , an associate pro ? fessor of law at Fordham University . The investigation has been financed by a $325,000 appro : priation by the City Council and a $215,000 grant by the Justice Department . It is the most extensive investigation of the problem of corruption in New York in 40 years since Samuel Seabury in 1930 began an investigation that two years later resulted in the resignation of Mayor James J. Walker                     