@@729126

txt The Christmas story is told in late 18th century Neapolitan ceramic and wood silk-clad figures which adorn a Christmas creche in the Martin D'Arcy art gallery at Loyola University . The Gospel According to St. Luke And it came to - pass ' in those , days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed . And this taxing was first made when Cyrenius was governor of Syria . And all went to be taxed , every one into his own city . ovViArooRov . And Joseph also went up from Galilee , out of the city of Nazareth into Judea , unto the city of David , which is called Bethlehem , because he was of the house and lineage of David . To be taxed with Mary , his espoused wife , being great with child . And so it was that , while they were there , the days were accomplished that she should be delivered . And she brought forth her firstborn son , and wrapped him in swaddling clothes , , and laid him in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the inn . Chapter 2 ; Verses 1-20 . And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field , keeping watch over their flock by night . irdworivoiv , And , lo , the angel of the Lord came upon them , and the glory of the Lord shone round about them , and they were sore afraid. ? And the angel said unto them : Fear not , for behold , I bring you good tidings of great joy , which shall be to all people . For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour , which is Christ the Lord . And this shall be a sign unto you : Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes , lying in a manger. 4vvoyee ) gre#0 And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host , praising God and saying : Glory to God in the highest , and on earth peace , good will toward men . And it came fo pass , as the angels were gone away from them into heaven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us now go even unto Bethlehem and see this thing which is come to pass , which the Lord hath made known unto us . And they came with haste , and found Mary and Joseph , and the babe lying in a manger . And when they had seen it , they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child . vir ooPir inPv And all they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds . But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart . And the shepherds returned , glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen , as it was told unto them .                     