@@733365

txt Israel 's retaliatory air strike against a Palestinian camp and other targets in southern Lebanon ? the first Israeli action of this particular kind in two years ? puts in greater jeopardy than ever the U.S.-sponsored plan for getting the area back to normal . The Israeli strike could also harden Arab and especially Palestinian attitudes toward President Carter 's efforts to reconvene the Geneva Middle East peace conference as soon as possible . Palestinians in Lebanon are making the point that the Israeli aircraft used against the targets in Lebanon were U.S.-supplied Sky-hawk and Phantom jets . According to reports from Lebanon , at least 68 people were killed in the attacks , which were concentrated on the Tyre area , with the Rashidiya refugee camp just south of the city particularly hard hit . Israeli naval craft were also reported operating offshore . The Israelis claim that Rashidiya camp is a Palestinian guerrilla training base . Their air raids were in retaliation for rocket attacks on the Israeli town of Nahariya , apparently launched by Palestinians on the Lebanese side of the Israel-Lebanon border . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the buffer zone north of the Israeli border which the Israelis want established to protect themselves from just the kind of Palestinian operation directed at Nahariya . During the 1975-76 Lebanese civil war , the Israelis took the law into their own hands and were instrumental in introducing hard-line right-wing Lebanese Christians ( who are pro-Israeli and anti-Lebanese Muslim ) into a wide swath at the inland end of the Israel-Lebanon border . In the weeks preceding a cease-fire last Sept. 25 , Israeli tanks were in fact inside Lebanon supporting the Christians . // From page 1 Israeli raids on Lebanon buffet U.S. peace efforts But at the seaward end of the frontier , a band of territory has remained under Palestinian control ; and the area north of this territory , through Tyre to the Litani River , is not policed by any effective security force . The Palestinians have virtually free rein there ; and from there apparently came the rockets which hit Nahariy a . Cease-fire provisions Under the September cease-fire plan , a newly reconstituted Lebanese Army loyal to Lebanese President Elias Sarkis , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the border area shared by the mutually hostile Palestinians and right-wing Lebanese Christians . The outline for this was agreed earlier in the summer at a meeting at Shtaura in the mountains above Beirut , in which the Syrians ? chief peace-keepers in Lebanon north of the Litani River ? took part . The Palestinians , suspecting that the Israelis intend to do ? everything they can to maintain their close association with ( if not control of ) the right-wing Lebanese Christians , are reluctant to give up what they hold in the coastal area of southern Lebanon . The right-wing Christians inland are reportedly just as reluctant to give up what they hold . Significant for the immediate future will be the Syrian reaction to the Israeli raids . To many Palestinians , Syria has seemed too willing to sacrifice Palestinian interests in the pacification of Lebanon . Lebanese gesture With the Palestinian fatalities in the Nov. 9 attacks , Syrian , President Hafez al-Assad could feel the need to make some gesture of support for the Palestinian cause . But the very weight of the Israeli punch is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And the Israelis may well have calculated that President Carter may be hesitant to chide them for their action because of his current need to mend fences with Jewish Americans , critical of him for his overall outline for a Middle East settlement . Monitor correspondent Francis Ofner reports from Jerusalem : The Israeli strikes , according to Israeli Chief of Staff Mordecai Gur , were intended to destroy " terrorist " facilities . General Gur emphasized when addressing the press that pilots ' reports " as well as other sources , " had quite clearly shown high-precision hits on the ground and that only " terrorist bases and training camps " had been bombed . But the issue goes deeper . General Gur also said " we are of the opinion that the terrorists carried out their attacks with the knowledge of the Syrian Army . " The question has been raised here whether the Syrians not only knew about the Katyusha attacks but also approved of them . If the latter is the case , it could change the situation entirely and induce the Israelis to redeploy their troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beirut : In mid-September , Israel and its Lebanese rightist allies launched a limited and unsuccessful offensive in southern Labanon . At the time many people attributed its failure to Israel 's reluctance to risk angering the United States by using American-made bomber-planes to back up the attack . Now , apparently Israel has no such qualms , and observers here speculate that the Nov. 9 bombardments may signal an Israeli defiance of the U.S. not only as regards south Lebanon ? American diplomats had been trying hard to secure Israeli approval of the July peace plan for the south ? but even as regards settlement of the Mideast issue as a whole .                     