@@729224

txt Premier Emilio Colombo , who will visit Washington for talks with President Nixon later this week , firmly ruled out today any possibility that the Communist party might come to power in Italy . The Premier said in an interview that Western fears about a possible drift toward Communism here were " understandable though exaggerated . " Speaking informally after a recorded question-and-answer session , conducted in Italian , ' ' the ' 50 - year - old Premier quipped , " With all due respect ' for the experiences of other nations , we do n't have to Iport chili for our spaghetti . " 1 This . was an allusion to concern voiced by commentators in the Western press that the Communist party might soon share government power in Italy in the same way that Communists are participating in the Government of President Salvador Allende Gossens in Chile . During the interview in his office in the Palazzo Chigi in Rome 's center , the Premier conceded that the Italian Cornfnunist party , the strongest in the West , was " a real force with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complex of historical reasons , that party finds itself representing various strata of the people and ruling local administrations , especially in some regions where Socialist tradition was strong at the beginning of the century , " he said . He was referring to Communist control of many municipal governments and the administration of three new orssocialod Press Emilio Colombo semi-autonomous regions ? Emilia-Romagna , Tuscany and Umbria . Nevertheless , he went on , " the model of development and international alignment that the Communist party proposes for Italy ? an industrially advanced country deeply embedded in the Western area and with its own system of alliances ? is the antithesis of what we propose and regard as valid . " I exclude the possibility that a government alliance between the democratic parties and the Italian Communist party may be created whereby the Communist party attains power . " He noted that the Italian Communist party , for which more than a fourth of the electorate voted in recent elections , was nov ? - experiencing " strong challenges on the left and defections while the contradictions within the international Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harrowing process and we do n't know where it all will end , " he continued . " We do know that a policy of accommodation would not make it easier for this process to reach positive results for Italian and European politics . On the contrary , full solidarity among the democratic parties making up the Government majority is an essential factor that can assure continuity for the development of democracy , a term of reference that even the Communist party can not evade . " Thus , while warning that at present any deals with the Communist party must be avoided , Premier Colombo hinted that Italian Communism might evolve into something like a genuine opposition party that one day might even be trusted to abide by the rules of democracy . Discusses Presidential Election Asked about the indirect election later this year of a new President of Italy , the Premier admitted that Communist votes might have a role in that choice . Anti-Communists here warn that behind-the-scenes deals by presidential candidates with the Communist party may increase its power . But Premier Colombo today cited past experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not dangerous . " Judging by the past , " he said , " presidential elections in Italy have an irregular character , meaning that coalitions that occur do not reflect the opposing positions that exist in our political life and do not later recur in it . Past experience teaches us that the alignment of Communist voles behind a candidate is not dangerous , oecause what counts most is the quality of the person who is elected , his prestige and the firmness of his democratic faith . " A left-wing Christian Democrat , Giovanni Gronchi , was elected President in 1955 with the help of Communists and served until 1062 . Communist votes are believed to have played a role in other presidential elections . The seven-year term of President Giuseppe Saragat , a Social Democrat , expires in December , and his re-election , although theoretically possible , is considered unlikely . Under Italy 's Constitution both houses of Parliament and representatives of Italy 's 20 regions elect a new head of state in joint session . If the center-left coalition supporting the Colombo Cabinet were able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be assured . The Government alliance consists of Mr. Colombo 's Christian Democrats and three smaller parties  --  the Socialist , Social Democratic and Republican . There is already a galaxy of unannounced candidates for the Presidency , and some of them are believed to be eyeing the Communist votes in the Assembly . The Communist party recently served notice that it intended to bargain before deciding whom it would support . To Start Talks Thursday An unemotional bachelor , economist and advocate of European integration , Mr. Colombo has been Premier since August . His administration took over at the height of an inflationary crisis and has been successful in strengthening the lira . President Nixon during a visit to Rome in October invited Mr. Colombo to come to the United States . The Premier is scheduled to start talks with President Nixon and other United States leaders in Washington on Thursday . Afterward he is to visit the space center and medical institutions in Houston . He is then to go to Boston and conclude his visit in New York next week . Today 's interview reflected the absence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States . Mr. Colombo stressed the close Italian-American ties and said he intended to speak in Wash ington " as an Italian and as a European . " The Premier acknowledged that his Government was facing " difficulties " in maintaining public order at home right now but said they should not be dramatized . He described Italian strains as a " crisis of growth " and hopefully pointed to the resilience of the Italian people and economy . Emphasizes Reforms Mr. Colombo strongly restated his Government 's commitment to enacting broad structural reforms in such fields as housing , health services , transportation and taxes . By eliminating injustices , the Premier said , the Government will ease tensions . " The reforms are the reason for the existence of this Government " the Premier asserted . " I have always said that the Government makes enactment of its program a condition for its remaining in charge . " The Premier , who comes from a middle-class family in Potenza in Italy 's underprivileged south , emphasized that the development of that part of the country must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said that up to 80 per cent of all public investments would be channeled to southern Italy . Discussing foreign politics , the Premier said he hoped ; Italy 's decision to exchange ambassadors with Communist ' China would contribute to leading Peking out of its isolation in the world . " We deeply believe in a peaceful international community whose members are all able to respect one another , " Mr. Colombo said . " To respect one another they must know one another . " The Premier voiced support for the policy of Chancellor Willy Brandt of West Germany of seeking better relations with Eastern Europe . But he stressed the continued need for Western solidarity in dealing with the East . Mr. Colombo , one of the archltects1 of European unification , expressed hope that the terms and timetable of Britains 's entry into the European Common Market would be known by next summer . Asked to comment on relations between the United States and Italy , Mr. Colombo spoke of " so many historical and blood ties " and " a deep friendship . " And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to maintain these ties on the present level while converting them , together with the other factors , into the emerging relations between united Europe and the United States . "                     