@@734366

txt Deny Teddy asked Carter not to run From tribune Wire Services WASHINGTON  --  President Carter on Sunday denied suggestions that Sen. Edward Kennedy had asked him to pull out of the IMO presidential race , and Democratic National Chairman John White said the idea that Carter would step aside was " pure horse manure . " Asked on the White House South Lawn at a gospel music sing-in whether the report was true , Carter replied , " No . That 's silly . " " I 'm not a candidate  --  yet . " the President shot over his shoulder as he walked away front reporters . Carter and White reacted to a newspaper report that Kennedy suggested the President not seek another term when the pair met at an unannounced White House luncheon Friday . The Democratic chairman said he had suggested a Kennedy-Carter meeting last month but flatly denied any Carter pullout . TWO DAYS AFTER the luncheon , the Carter-Kennedy meeting was still making waves , with journalists , presidential aides , and even First Lady Rosalynn Carter offering their versions of what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources , carried a story Sunday with the banner headline : " Kennedy suggests Carter withdraw from ' 80 race . " The newspapers said Kennedy believed Carter was a liability to fellow Democrats . Jody Powell , the President 's press secretary , later denied the Atlanta newspapers ' account of the meeting . " That 's not our understanding of what went on at the meeting , " Powell said . " It 's our understanding it was not that specific . " " The story is inaccurate , " said Tom Southwick , Kennedy 's press secretary . " The reporter did not speak to the senator . I do n't know who the sources were , but they 're not the senator , and they 're not people who are close to the senator . " Mrs. Carter , who said she spent about half an hour at the meeting , then gave her version to reporters during a gospel music sing-in on the South Lawn of the White House . " I JUST CA N'T believe that happened , " she said , adding that nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two men . Asked about Kennedy 's reported comment that the President is a " political cripple , " she responded , " I have no comment , " adding softly , " It 's not true . " The pleasures of the water were taken Sunday by Kennedy clan members off the family compound at Hyannisport , Mass . John F. Kennedy Jr. , son of the late president , went power boating on the eve of his enrollment at Brown University . Sen. Edward Kennedy and son Teddy Jr . took a sail , then strolled home . Kennedy , wearing a back jdrace for an injury from a 1964 plane crash , was on the mind of President Carter , who denied the senator asked him not to run again . Story on page 1 .                     