@@734218

txt WASHINGTON ( API  --  Service station dealers appear to be " taking advantage " of fears of gasoline shortages by rapidly increasing pump prices , a Carter administration official charged Thursday . Barry Bosworth , director of the President 's Council on Wage and Price Stability , told a Senate subcommittee hearing that " retail gasoline prices have increased far more than would be expected from crude oil increases . " In fact , he said , " the Increase is exaggerated by about 25 per cent . " Bosworth 's claim was challenged by Risque Harper , executive director of the National Council of Petroleum Retailers . " I do n't know where he is getting those things , " Harper said in a telephone interview . " Everyone has gone up to the maximum government price ceiling . But inflation has eaten up 50 per cent of the profit . " RETAIL GASOLINE prices nationwide currently average 85 cents a gallon , according to the authorative Lundberg Letter . The Los Angeles-based reporting service , which surveys some 16,700 service qCations for its data , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 66 cents . White House assails House Democrats for vote against oil price decontrols . Page 5 . ? State-by-state survey of gasoline availability for motorists over the Memorial Day holiday . Page 12 . ? Motorists traveling in Illinois can expect " tight , but adequate " gas supplies over the holiday weekend . Sec. 5 , page 1 . At least 5 cents represents higher crude oil prices charged since the first of the year by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries , energy experts say . An additional 5 to 8 cents is the result of a government policy that allows refiners to pass on more of the cost of producing gasoline . The rest , Bosworth suggests , is related to higher markups by service stations . The anti-inflation expert also told the senators that the council has asked for price data from 60 major oil companies and expects its analysis of wholesale // Gas dealers prey on fear of shortage : Carter aide // refinery prices to be complete in about two weeks , AFTER THE HEARING , Bosworth declined to comment on the gasoline shortage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long lines at service stations , Nationwide , he concluded , " it appears at the retail level they are taking advantage of the situation . " He also told reporters that the complexity of Energy Department rules on gasoline prices made it difficult for both the government and gasoline dealers to determine whether the rules were being violated . He said , however , that " the average gasoline station is not in compliance with the voluntary ( price I standards . " The standards , announced last fall by President Carter . call for price increases of no more than half a percentage point above 1976-77 increases , MEANWHILE , Gov . Thompson of Illinois and the governors of nine other Midwestern states were to attend an Energy Department meeting in Kansas City , Mo. , Friday to discuss diesel fuel problems confronting farmers in their states . It is the second step in a federal program to deal with fuel shortages affecting . farmers .                     