@@730533

txt President Nixon , promising the American people the rigors of self-reliance instead of the soft life , says he hopes to use the second term to lead the nation out of a crisis of the soirit . The President vowed to work to end " the whole era of permissiveness " and to nurture " a new feeling of responsibility , a new feeling of selfdiscipline . " .. We have passed thru a very great spiritual crisis in this country , " he said . He asserted that the Viet Nam War was " blamed for it totally " by many but he said the war was really " only part of the problem and in many cases was only an excuse rather than a reason . " A Puritan Fervor With a Puritan fervor he has seldom shown m public , Nixon seemed to be closing the door on a time during which he believed the nation had been pampered and indulged , leaving its character weakened . " The average American , " he said . " is just like the child in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to amount to something . He is going to do something . " If , on the other hand , you make him completely dependent and pamper him and cater to him too much , you are going to make him soft , spoiled , and eventually a very weak individual . " He had just been thru a campaign , the President recalled , in which he " did n't go out with a whole bagful of goodies . " Few Social Goodies And he made it clear that there will be few social goodies in his second administration . Nixon said that his general approach to the Presidency " is probably that of a Disraeli conservative  --  a strong foreign policy , strong adherence to basic values that the nation believes in and people believe Repeatedly , during the interview , Nixon indicated the conservative course ? he called it basically centrist ? he was charting for the next four years : ? " This , country has enough on its plate in the way of huge new spending programs , social programs , throwing dollars at problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this administration . ? " I honestly believe that government in Washington is too big and is too expensive . . . we can do the job better with fewer people . - ? " I am convinced that the total tax burden of the American people . federal , state and local , has reached the breaking point . It can go no higher . ? " It is our responsibility to find a way to reform our government institutions so that this new spirit of independence , self-reliance , pride that I sense in the American people can be nurtured . " Wide Range of Subjects The President dealt with a wide range of specific subjects . Some highlights : Viet Nam ? He is " completely confident we are going to have a settlement " there . " You can bank on it . " Election ? It was settled the day Sen. George was nominated by the Democrats . 's views " probably did not represent even a majority of Democrats . They certainly represented a minority of the country . " Foreign Policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  SALT 2 ? starting this month will be more important than SALT 1 . The Middle East " will have a very high priority . " Our policy toward Cuba will not change unless Premier Fidel Castro changes his attitude . . Domestic Policy ? He will " shuck off " and " trim down " social programs set up in the 1960s that he considers massive failures largely be . cause they just " threw money at the problems . " Taxes ? " There will be no solution of problems that require a tax increase . " He is convinced that the tax burden of Americans has reached the breaking point and can go no higher . The Courts ? He intends to continue to appoint conservative judges . " The courts .. . need men like Rehnquist and Burger and Blackmun and Powell . " His Aides ? Some healthy " friction , competition " between Henry Kissinger and the State Department headed by Secretary William P. Rogers , and John Ehrlichman and the domestic agencies is going to continue . " That is the way it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successors . " Nixon said Rogers put it very ' well when he said , " When the team is winning , you do n't . complain because the second baseman may be getting more publicity than the shortstop . " The President was firm in his statements but relaxed in manner as he talked . Wearing a maroon sport coat and gray slacks , he sat in a blue-upholstered easy chair and occa ? sionally propped a foot on a table in front of him as he faced a big picture window looking out over the Pacific Ocean . To emphasize a point , he frequently hammered a hand up and down . Government Too Big Nixon was perhaps most ern , phatic in asserting " I honestly believe that government in ? Washington is too big and it is too expensive . " He conceded that it is diffi ' cult to reduce the number of federal workers . But he said . " you can be sure that we are ? going to make an effort . " ? He said there are some areas ? in drug @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for example : where employe needs do grow as the population grows . He i also exempted " military per1 sonnel " and weapons from anything but " minimal " cuts . ? He Indicated hope that attrition thru retirements and resignations will make it unnecessary to fire many government workers . " We are going to try to do it in a way that will consider the individual , but we have to accomplish the objective , " he said . He made clear that he was talking about cutting some program work as well as workers out of such agencies as the Department of Housing and Urban Development , the Department of Health , Education and Welfare , and the Transportation Department that he said " are all too fat , to bloated . " These relatively new departments , he went on , " came in and they did some good things , but we have to look at not only what they are doing right but at some of the things that they are doing that have n't proved out . " Council Is Checking He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reformed . In programs to continue , be said , " we are going to find ways to do them with less people . " The President advanced no specific solutions to domestic problems in such areas as the cities , housing , education and health care , which some Americans believe defy conservative solutions . But he said that if he gets " proper support " in Congress his administration will accomplish " more significant reform " than any since Franklin D. Roosevelt 's 1932 reforms ? ' but " in a different direction . " Bigger , Bigger Power " Roosevelt 's reforms led to bigger and bigger power in Washington , " he said . " It was perhaps needed then . The country 's problems were so massive they could n't be handled otherwise . " The reforms that we are instituting are ones which will diffuse the power thruout the country and which will make federal government leaner , but in a sense will make it stronger . After all , fat government is weak , weak in handling the problems . " Nixon emphasized , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ca n't take an extreme right position that if you ignore them the problems will go away . " No Tax Increase Basic to his approach to future problem solving , the President made clear , is that " there will be no solutions of problems that require a tax increase . " Even if he felt that spending more money was the best way to solve a problem , he could n't take that line " because more important than more money to solve a problem is to avoid a tax increase , " he said . The total tax burden can not go higher , he said , adding that if it does " I believe we will do much to destroy the incentives which produce the progress we seek . " Nixon strongly indicated that he does not go along with the fear of some people that there is a dangerous swing to the right in the country .                     