@@729178

txt Major oil companies in Illinois yesterday urged bipartisan support for state legislation to protect consumers from unscrupulous service station operators using state sales tax schemes to cheat motorists . Donald Woodrick , executive secretary of the Greater Chicago Gasoline Marketers Association , warned that overcharges on state sales taxes by filling station operators is a statewide problem and insisted that immediate steps be taken to curb abuses . Seek Legislation It was learned that a meeting will be held here Feb. 9 to draft legislation based on Indiana laws governing sales tax on gasoline . The Indiana law provides that motorists pay the advertised price for gasoline and the state 's 2 per cent sales tax not be included in the price registered with each gallon sold . " The customer in Illinois must know exactly what he is paying for and the state should be entitled to collect its full tax , " Woodrick said . He said that gasoline is the only product sold in Illinois which is taxed in this manner . Woodrick said the bill is expected to be introduced soon in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TRIBUNE Sunday that motorists are being cheated onehalf-cent to four cents on each gallon of gasoline by dishonest dealers who overcharge and use the Illinois sales tax as an excuse for additional profits on purchases . Herbert Hugo , midwest bureau chief for Platt 's Oilgram , an oil price reporting service , backed Woodrick 's demand for state legislation . to protect consumers . " The honest dealers will go along with this legislation , " Hugo said . " The public is not expected to check the pump prices and relies on the dealer to give the full amount charged . " It is very unwieldy for the city or state government to check daily the prices charged in filling stations . " Woodrick said the investigation showed that cheating by dealers has risen sharply in recent months and has created a problem for honest dealers trying to compete in the fluctuating market . Dealers Deny Charge James Brewer , administrator for the Illinois Service Station Operators Association , the North Suburban Gasoline Dealers Association and the Du Page County Gasoline Dealers Association , yesterday denied charges that many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " This is not true , " Brewer said . " There are very few dealers who cheat , and we are taking issue with anyone who maligns the image of the majority of good dealers at the expense of a few chiselers. "                     