@@731127

txt Amtrak reported yesterday that patronage of its nationwide rail passenger system was up substantially in November and December , with Metroliner 1 passengers up 30 per cent . In its first survey of the effects of the gasoline shortage , Amtrak compared a five-week period , November through early December , with the like period in 1972 . In addition to . the large and continuing increase : in patron. - age of the speedy Metroliners between New York and Washington , Amtrak listed these other gains : Patronage on the New YorkBoston run increased 37 per cent ; on the Empire Service across New York State , 30 per cent ; on the New York-Florida trains , 26 per cent , and on the ( Broadway Limited between New York and Chicago , 13 per cent . Especially pleasing to Amtrak officials were the gains on the long-haul routes across the West , from Chicago to // California and to the Pacific Northwest . Ironically , just as Amtrak began to register large gains in patronage , several of its trains suffered major breakdowns and freeze-ups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the biggest gainers in passengers was the San Francisco Zephyr between Denver and the Coast , with 59 per cent more fares in November-December , 1973 , than in the like period the year before . Yet that train has experienced in the last few days two of the worst delays , in Amtrak 's brief history . On Dec. 31 , a westbound Zephyr had a 13-hour delay at Galesburg , Ill. , when one after another of its three diesel locomotives failed . One of them failed when a railroad employe unaccountably " refueled " it by putting water in the diesel tanks . Yesterday , the eastbound Zephyr was stopped in subzero weather at Ogden , Utah , for more than 12 hours when its steam generators and steam lines froze . Except for the Metroliner cars in the New York-Washington corridor and a few turbo trains , all of Amtrak 's passenger coaches , inherited from the railroads , are heated by steam . Breakdowns of the steam generators in the diesel locomotives can lead to quick freezing in the harsh winter weather of the Middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cars now on order by Amtrak will , like the Metroliner coaches , have electric heat . On-time figures for Amtrak trains continue to be far from satisfactory . In November for example , Metroliners using the best ' trackage of the Amtrak network were on time ( within 5 minutes of schedule ) just 70 per cent of the time . Amtrak complains that its trains are subject to the operating jurisdiction of the individual railroads , and that they have little interest in on-time performance . In the Metroliner corridor , for example , those trains can be delayed by heavy commuter and freight traffic . For the Amtrak system as a whole , trains were on time 64 per cent of the time in November . That was a big improvement over August ( 51 per cent ) and July ( 48 per cent ) . Turbotrains built for high speed but hampered by curves and poor track were on time only 42 per cent of the time on the New York-Boston route and 23 per cent on the Chicago-St . Louis run in November . New York-Kansas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that average daily passenger totals in December went well over the 50 , - 000 ' mark , Following are some of the daily averages reported by Amtrak for the first week in December in 1973 and 1972 : Hundreds of Amtrak passengers were involved in delays ranging up to 24 hours because of freight train derailments and by fuel and freezing problems in the last three days . Besides ? the delays at Ogden and Galesburg , there were delays at Klamath Fails , Ore . ( 24 hours because of a freight derailment ) and Jefferson City , Mo . ( up to 15 hours for some passengers after the National Limited 's engines broke down and the heat gave out ) .                     