@@728511

txt The Justice Department , in what antitrust officials said was an unprecedented case , charged today that the Cleveland Trust Company had violated the antitrust laws by controlling ? though only as a trusteesubstantial blocks of stock in four competing machine-tool coinPanies . The deparfment brought a suit in United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio that seeks to force the bank to sell the stock of all but one of the competing concerns . Officers of the bank serve as directors of three of the four companies and the suit also seeks to force the resignation of all but one of the directors . The chairman of the bank , George F. Karch , in a statement issued in Cleveland , challenged the suit as " a startling departure from existing law " and charged that it was " seriously inaccurate in certain material respects . " Mr. Karch noted , as did the Justice Department 's suit , that the stock in question was not owned by the bank but instead // represented holdings by individuals who had placed the stock in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the case that makes it a novel one in antitrust law . If the Justice Department wins the suit , it appeared likely that other , similar , suits might be filed against other banks which , acting as trustees , manage or control stock in other competing companies . Representative Wright Patman , Democrat of Texas , the chairman of the House Banking Committee , contended in a report he made in mid-1968 that there were at least five cases ? of which Cleveland Trust was one ? in which bank trust departments owned significant amounts of stock in competing companies . Two of Mr. Patman 's examples involved the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York . In most of his cases , as in the Cleveland Trust case , there were also interlocking directors . Ground-Breaking Suits The case against Cleveland Trust was the latest in a series of- suits aimed at establishing new principles of antitrust law that have been filed since the Nixon Administration came into office . Most of the other groundbreaking suits  --  those involving allegedly ' illegal reciprocal business practices and those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for example . ? were all filed some months ago , however . Thereafter , rumors had circulated widely in the business community that the Justice Department antitrust division , headed by Richard W. , had been ordered by the White House to stop annoying business with novel and strict antitrust enforcement . This is the first groundbreaking suit that has been filed since those rumors ? always denied by Mr. ? . began to be heard . Complaint Allegations Th Justice Department 's cmplaint in the Cleveland Trust case alleged - that the bank " consistently " voted the stock that it holds as trustee in the four companies " to elect directors and to influence important managementit and policy decisions . " According to the complaint , Cleveland Trust , in 1968 , had acquired 11 per cent of the stock in the Warner &; Swasey Company , the largest manufacturer of automatic screw machine tools , and had full power to vote 2 per cent of the stock and qualified . power to vote 3 per cent . In the same year , the complaint continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the AcmeCleveland Corporation , the third largest in the industry , and had full power to vote 20 per cent of the stock and qualified power to vote 5 per cent . In the third company , the Pneumo Dynamics Corporation , the industry 's fourth largest , the complaint alleged that Cleveland Trust had 14 per cent of the stock and full power to : tit ... ! all of it . Cleveland Trtist held less than 5 per cent of White Consolidated Industries , the industry 's seventh largest , the complaint said . It did not detail how much of this stock Cleveland Trust voted . The trust company 's holdings and its yotes and the interlock ? jng directorsnips may suly.:tan ? tially lessen competition among the four companies on several types of automatic screw machinery , a major category of machine tools for which the annual market in the United States is $166-million , the complaint said . Mr. Karch is a director of Warner &; Swasey , according tic the complaint , and Allan K ? Shaw , a senior vice president of Cleveland Trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Consolidated . The Justice Department 's in. qui* , into the case already had produced controversy as far hack as 1968 , when Cleveland Trust sought to prevent the de . partment from obtaining crr ? lain company files which it ha ( ' sought under a power , some ? what similar to the subpoena power , known as " investigative demand . " The company filed suit in Federal court to block the demand , alleging , among other things , that the inquiry had resulted from a political conspiracy between Representative Patman and Ramsey Clark , then Attorney General and also a Democrat . Wins First Round That suit has not finally been decided , although Cleveland Trust won the first round . The other situations that Mr. Patman asserted , hi his 1968 report , were ' similar to the Cleveland Trust case included the alleged control of significant blocks of stock by Morgan Guaranty in three airlines , American Airlines , United Air Lines and Trans World Airlines , and in two air conditioning concerns , Trane Company and the Carrier Corporation . The other cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Baltimore and two banks in Hartford , with allegedly extensive interlocks with major insurance companies . Representative Patman demanded at that time that suits be brought to break up the bank 's trust department holdings . The holdings that Mr. Patman cited for Cleveland Trust were somewhat different from those included in today 's case although holdings in Warner &; Swasey were involved in both . The Justice Department 's suit was brought not only under the anti-merger section of the Clayton Act , Section 7 , but also under Section 8 , which has been little used in recent years and which bars interlocking directorships . A Justice Department official said that Section 8 cases have been rare recently because most persons whose directorships were thought by the department to violate the law resigned with delay after being informed of the department 's opinion .                     