@@729735

txt The House , by a 353-to-0 vote , passed legislation today ordering the Administration to abandon its plan to eliminate Federal school lunch subsidies for as many as 1.5 million needy children : ' ? The action came only hours after the Administration , anticipating the sentiment of the House , had announced abandonment of the plan . But its new plan remains somewhat cheaper than that called for by the House . The bill now goes to the Senate , which has already decisively voted a similar , though narrower , measure . The principal question is whether the Senate will be satisfied With the Administration 's new position or order it to accept all provisions of the bill . Today 's revised Administration position came after President Nixon ordered the Department of Agriculture to clarify its subsidized lunch regulations immediately . This order was disclosed yesterday in a White House letter to 59 Senators who had written to Mr. Nixon to protest the Administration 's proposed cuts . " The President has long been committed to the achievement of a program which provides a school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . Action by the House came only 12 days after the Administration announced its second effort to restrict Federal lunch subsidies , despite their wide popularity in Congress . The " free and reduced price " program , a component of the national school lunch program , is designed to provide at least one decent meal daily to reedy children , Some 7.3 million are now served , On Oct. 6 , the Department of Agriculture announced a new , stricter definition of " needy . " Congressional studies showed that this could mean the elimination of 1,5 million children , 400,000 in New York alone . The House bill forbids the Administration to cut the number of children . It also requires sharp increases in the amount of Federal subsidy for each child . The prior subsidy level was an average of 35 cents a meal . The bill raises the amount to 46 cents and also directs that this be the minimum subsidy , not the average . This is one of three principal differences between the bill and the Administration 's new position , expressed in revised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 46-cent level , but as an ' average , not a minimum , Congressional observers said today that use of an average would be cheaper . Agriculture officials said that use of a minimum would be a departure and extremely difficult to administer Even a 46-cent average , however , would mean a jump in Federal spending for the program , from about $300-million to $525-million , The latter figure is " more than 100 times the $4.8-million that was available " three years a ' c ' , according to the White House . A second possible difference is whether the Agriculture Department will go along with states that allow cities to define " needy " children at a higher income figure than the statewide figure . The question affects 100,000 children in Philadelphia , Newark , Portland , Ore. , and 20 other cities . Conflicting interpretations of the House bill on this point were expressed on Capital Hill today . Also , the new regulations are unclear on the issue , Richard E. Lyng , Assistant Secretary of Agriculture , acknowledged . " They will be clarified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the regulations say nothing about the school breakfast pro ; : rani , while the bill would undo recent agriculture restrictions . I This program now serves about a million children . Mr. Lyng said that breakfast program regulations would be issued separately . These various issues could be resolved by Congress if the new bill is now sent to a HouseSenate conference . But it is possible , Senate informants said , that the House bill may be taken directly to the Senate floor , limiting the possibility for clarifications . The Senate bill , which passed 75 to 5 on Oct. 1 , directed the Administration to abandon its earlier plan to restrict the subsidized lunch program . That plan , announced Aug. 13 , would have limited the amount of subsidy for each child . The Senate bill did not refer to restrictions on the number of children covered . The Administration first proposed that plan five days after the Senate vote .                     