@@733952

txt Jon Nordheimer presents a well-written narrative of the chronology of the strange case ? N of Ted Bundy ( " All-American Boy on Trial , " Dec. 10 ) . However , some points should be clarified . I was living in Aspen during the Colorado phase of Mr. Bundy 's imprisonment . His capture there after his first escape was hardly dramatic . He was pulled over by a sheriff 's deputy for erratic driving . Only later did she realize Ted Bundy was the driver . The sheriff was humiliated ; so were a host of others . But the sheriff 's office was n't , and probably still is n't , equipped to deal with big city crimes and criminals . As for the residents ' reaction to Ted Bundy 's escape from custody , is it so peculiar for frightened people to deal with a potentially dangerous situation in a manner of jest ? Do you honestly believe that the females in Aspen spent much time outside during that sixday period in hopes of running into the latest antihero ? DEBORAH PELLOW Associate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A Ghost From the Stalinist Past It is important to realize that Nikolai Bukharin 's example ( " Why Bukharin 's Ghost Still Haunts Moscow " by Stephen Cohen , Dec. 10 ) does offer an alternate model of development for the U.S.S.R. At the same time , however , it is well to remember that yet another ghost haunts Moscow and the Soviet Union ? that of Joseph Stalin . Where Bukharin 's appeal is limited primarily to a segment of the dissident movement , that of his rival and assassin extends to many layers of Soviet society , including elements in the party and security apparatus . The retrospective admiration of such ghosts is significant because it has serious implications for the future . If Bukharin 's spectre beckons toward a more " liberal " or " human " version of Communism , Stalin 's suggests a darker possibility . NEIL B. WEISSMAN Professor , Department of History , Dickinson College Carlisle , Pa . Battered Teachers I suppose it is comforting to know that all sorts of people are at work on the problem of how to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Patricia O'Toole , Dec. 10 ) from their students , but what we really need is some thinking about why our schools have become such dangerous places , why one more thread of the social compact is becoming unraveled . GARA LAMARCHE New York City As a school security guard with four years ' experience in the New York City public schools , I feel that the belief in the use of guards to solve disciplinary problems is naive . School guards are not properly trained for their sensitive jobs . Yet we are often the first to come in contact with the problem student . How we handle such students may determine whether or not violence occurs . Unfortunately , though , there have been many incidents of school guards assaulting students because of their own frustrations on the job . And while teachers and principals have associations to safeguard their rights , students often do n't know their rights . Feeling frustrated and powerless , they sometimes erupt into violence when protesting real or imagined injustices . ELIZABETH BROWN New York City Patricia O'Toole has cata ? loguecl , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon teachers and students . Her findings are , to a certain extent , correct : The responsibility for violence must rest with the principals who turn a deaf ear and a blind eye to daily outrages . But we ought not to gloat over the misfortunes of our principals . We should take to task our elected and appointed officials who have allowed our schools to become the dumping ground for the petty thieves , the thugs and the rapists , whose sole desire it is to destroy our institutions . ARTHUR GUY HANAU Beach Channel High School Rockaway Park , N. Y. Patricia O'Toole describes an assault by a parent upon a teacher . P.T.A . can document many examples of cooperation between its volunteers and teachers , administrators and students to lessen violence and vandalism in their schools . In an effort to help solve some of the problems of education in the cities , the National Congress of Parents and Teachers has created an Urban Task Force which is now holding public meetings nationwide . It is only by everyone working together in a spirit of harmony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neighborhods places where teachers can be safe and where children can grow into healthy , contributing citizens . JOAN LEVIts4 State Treasurer , New York State Congress of Parents and Teachers Roslyn Heights , N.Y . Security personnel , expensive surveillance equipment and counseling for battleweary teachers deal with the results rather than the causes of school violence . There is evidence that indicates that when students are allowed to play a significant role in devel- ' oping solutions , the atmosphere on campus can change dramatically . In several California schools , students have been allowed to enter the school 's decision-making process and have helped develop strategies to improve the learning environment . The results have been impressive . Principals have reported significant reductions in the number of conflicts and amount of vandalism . KENNETH G. NOCHIMSOM Director , Student Involvement Project , Open Road San Francisco Patricia O'Toole , I salute you . A sound teaching environment is indeed a sound learning environment . Society can not afford to keep its teachers and its students waiting any longer . MARY B. O'HARA Teacher , P.S. 208M Woodside , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least in the eyes of the administration , achieved perfect discipline by beating with slats from the hack of a chair any child who made a sound . Ironically , it is not teachers like her who are the recipients of student violence but , as your article stated , the passive , idealistic teachers who are desperately trying to do their job . MIRIAM GREENWAI.rI Merton , Pa . Defense Spending , More or Less ? Granted that defense spending ( " Beating ' Swords ' Into Subways " by Seymour Melman , Nov. 19 ) can be wasteful when not actually needed for defense . 11 can also be inflationary , but no more so than the deficit spending for welfare , education , social services , subsidized housing or mass transit . Like imported oil , defense spending is made a scapegoat for the fiscal irresponsibility and corruption in several Administrations , the Congress , and city hall . Aside from the economic effects of defense spending , its prime relevant aspect , the defense of the United States , is at least as important as construction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somehow disappear . While . food stamps and giveaways have become virtues , our armed forces are outmanned and outgunned at sea , m land and in ( hi ' B.DANIK North Caldwell , N.J. Now that we 've heard from Professor Mel man , arewe as a nation going to implement some of his soberly thoughtout proposals , or will we just heed his suggestion to shift from military to civilian production as if it were only hot words in the wind ? MARK RASPOVICH New York City Demon Rum , Gentleman Rum Frank Prial states ( " Rundown on Rum , " Dec. 24 ) that " in colonial times rum was the drink of sailors and ne'er-dowells . " Rum was drunk by the Virginia Tidewater aristocracy almost as much as brandy and wines . II was quaffed mixed in punches and toddies and straight . I have in my possession a colonial recipe for Fish House Punch which calls for two parts rum to one part brandy , dashed liberally with peach brandy and poured over a mixture of water , brown sugar and squeezed lemons and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N.J.                     