@@734172

txt Many of the nation 's 170,000 gasoline dealers say they are being caught in an increasing three-way squeeze :  --  An angry motoring public , charging them with price gouging , has prompted federal officials to step up a crackdown on illegal overcharging by some dealers .  --  Oil companies are sharply cutting back allocations to dealers .  --  The US Department of Energy ( DOE ) , in the wake of repeated attempts by dealers to get DOE to let them pass through more of their costs to customers , has taken no action . As a result , dealers from New England to the West Coast are fighting back in these ways : - The Northern California Gasoline Dealers Association is calling for a nationwide shutdown of dealers May 17 through May 20 to bring attention to their plight . A spot check of other dealers assocations reveals that they may also close down . - The National Congress of Gasoline Retailers , based in Washington and representing some 60,000 dealers ( both independents and outlets for major oil companies ) , is meeting April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Regulatory Administration , to press its petition for another 3.4-cent-a-gallon increase in the retail price of gasoline to help offset increased costs . - Legislation is pending in 16 other states that would prohibit gasoline refining companies from also selling gasoline at the retail level , a move which many dealers say will cut them loose from arbitrary and unfair wholesale price increases . Lawmakers in Maryland and Virginia already have passed this type of bill . Carl Olson , president of the Bay State Gasoline Retail- From page 1 Gas dealers get their dander up ers Association in Massachusetts , where such a bill is being considered , says that if dealers there do not get some relief from tight sup plies , high wholesale prices , and government restrictions , " We ought to go fishing " ? walk off the job . Sunday closings Already , he reports , about 25 percent of his trade group 's approximately 1,600 dealer members are closed on Sundays because of cutbacks by the oil companies . " In the past year there have been quite a few gas stations which have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has curbed gasoline allocations to dealers for the month of April by 14 percent compared with last April . A spokesman for the Shell Oil Company said that Shell 's lower allocations to dealers , already 15 percent below last April 's , will most likely continue next month . Oil company executives blame the Ira-Man oil curtailments earlier this year and the resulting chaos in the world oil market for the limited allocations . Risque Harper , executive director of the National Congress of Gasoline Retailers , says the chief reason dealers are " fighting back " is " because they ar ? not making enough per gallon . " Under federal Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act of 1973 , dealers ' price margins are limited to the margin of profit they were making in 1973 , plus 3 cents and rent increases for the station . The cost of labor and other items that have soared upward with inflation are not included in this complicated price formula . Thus , the trade group is petitioning for the additional 3.4 cents-a-gallon . Even though the Gasoline Retailers Association is meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 3.4-cent-a-gallon request , one knowledgeable Economic Regulatory Administration spokesman says it probably will be " sometime down the road before this the increase happens . ... At this point there is not even a formal proposal to amend the regulations . "                     