@@732798

txt The election of Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale marks the start of a new political era . For the first time in eight years , the Presidency and Congress - are under the control of the same party , providing hope that legislative stalemate and government-by-veto may be finished . If the new President and Congress cooperate effectively , the years ahead can be a time of progress . To seize this opportunity , Mr. Carter can best begin by recruiting men and women of outstanding ability and by acting swiftly on the drifting economy . The President-elect has projected an ambitious agenda that includes health ' care , welfare reform , tax reform , Government reorganization , and a new energy policy . fle explained at Thursday 's news conference that he has riot decided on the sequence in which he will send these proposals to Congress . But his first priority must be attention to the faltering economy , as any new initiatives will depend for their success on a favorable economic climate . There are three lines of attack that the new Administration can follow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A modest easing of interest rates and a larger flow of Government credit would stimulate construction and put the building trades back to work . Housing remains the most depressed sector of the economy despite a mild upturn . Second , useful public works projects could reduce unemployment among manual workers , particularly in cities in the Northeast and Middle West where the jobless rate has been persistently higher than the national average . President Ford vetoed most of the proposals put forth by Congress to deal with that problem . Presumably , Mr. Carter and the Congressional leaders can reach quick agreement on a job-creating public works bill . More broadly , there is the possibility of a general tax cut to spur consumer spending . Without committing himself , Mr. Carter indicated he is receptive to this idea . It would be a mistake for the new Administration to recommend another permanent reduction in income taxes . What seems more suitable is a move to provide temporary relief as a quick economic stimulant . Such a strategy would fit Mr. Carter 's long-range plan to accomplish a comprehensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The immediate test faced by Mr. Carter is the selection of a Cabinet and other senior officials . He must strike a balance between two competing values ? bringing fresh minds and talents into Government and getting his Administration off to a fast start to make optimum use of his honeymoon with Congress and the press . In a period of grave crisis , such as Franklin D. Roosevelt faced in the spring of 1933 , a new President can recruit an untried team and experiment boldly . But Mr. Carter is not taking over in any such emergency . To take long , rapid strides in the early months of his Administration , he needs to mix some experienced people with his new recruits . Otherwise , much time will be expended as newcomers learn the arts of managing the bureaucracy and negotiating with Congress . Experience , however , need not be equated with grayness . A sufficient number of men and women have served in the Federal Government in the past who could bring imaginative and innovative ideas to the task . Although Mr. Carter won with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to achieve the desired mandate from every region of the country . Strong Presidents , however , create their own mandates . By their persuasiveness , political skill and sound judgment , they transform themselves from mere winners into leaders . Harding and Nixon won landslides and failed in office . Lincoln and Wilson squeezed into office with a minority of the vote and became great Presidents . The voters have done their part . The responsibility for success or failure now rests with Mr. Carter .                     