@@733289

txt The Federal agency responsible for protecting the public against the hazards of radiation does not know the scope of the problem , does not have the resources to find out and for the last six years has failed to issue a single standard that is currently being enforced , the General Accounting Office has charged . About 22,000 Americans develop leukemia , other forms of cancer and serious genetic disorders each year because of exposure to various forms of radiation , and the sources of such radiation are growing , said the G.A.O. , an investigative arm of Congress . However , the six-year radiation control effort of the Environmental Protection Agency " has not effectively accomplished its goals of preventing radiation contamination to the environment and protecting the public , " according to a draft of the 52-page report , a copy of which has been obtained by The New York Times . Edward F. Tuerk , acting assistant administrator for air and waste management at the E.P.A. , said in response to an inquiry that the report contained an " inadequate description " of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " about it . He said a more detailed response would be completed next week . One example of the agency 's alleged lack of concern about radiation hazards , the G.A.O . said , was the rapid decline in staff and funding allocated to that program . In 1972 , $8.8 million and 335 staff positions were assigned to overall responsibility for the nation 's radiation control efforts . For the fiscal year 1978 , the agency requested only $4.8 million and 184 positions . Another alleged weakness in , the Federal control program was the agency 's Environmental Radiation Monitoring System , which the report said did not measure the radiation exposure for 40 percent of the American people " and provides only educated guesses for the remaining 60 percent . " The auditing office quoted agency officials responsible for managing the monitoring program as saying that existing information about radiation levels was " minimal " and that " E.P.A . does not currently understand the radiological dangers to our health and environment . " The G.A.O . said that the agency finally issued its first and only environment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not yet taken effect and for the most part was " less severe than prevailing industry practices . " While noting that several separate agencies , such as the Nuclear Regulatory Commission , have established radiation standards for their particular jurisdictions , the report said that E.P.A . efforts to issue guidelines to reduce unnecessary medical X-rays or to protect the one million workers who are exposed to radiation " have resulted In jurisdictional ellsputes with the Labor Department and the Department of Health , Education and Welfare . " The report said that the vast majority of American people appeared to be unaware of the radiation that bombards them . Sources of radiation may include consumer items such as watches with radium dials , smoke detectors with tri tium devices , microwave ovens or oranges exposed to radiation from phosphate fertilizer , as well as nuclear power plants , uranium mining operations , dental and medical X-rays , television and radio transmissions and high-voltage electrical wires . Radioactive Waste " Levels of radiation are increasing , which affect not only the health of the current population , but of future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report said . One specfic example of the growing danger of radiation is the radioactive waste created by nuclear reactors generating electric power and by the Government 's facilities manufacturing nuclear weapons . The report said that at present there are seven million cubic feet of such wastes and that by the year 2000 there will be more than 11 million cubic feet . All of it will give off measurable radioactivity for decades . The G.A.O . said problems had developed in disposing of the nuclear waste materials , adding ; " In some instances , the dangers were not understood until after contamination had already taken place . In others , technology is not sufficiently advanced that permanent disposal is possible . And in still others , accidents have occurred . The threat of irreversible radian tion damage to our natural resources continues to grow larger . " The E.P.A . was granted overall authority for setting national radiation standards and providing guidance to other Federal agencies when it was created in 1970 . These responsibilities were expanded by a 1973 executive order and , more recently , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . admits that it does not know the scope of the radiation danger , that it does not have the resources to find out , and that its limited staff is unable to develop needed standards and guidance based on what it does know , " the report said . " Agency officials admit that what it has done may not be the result of public need , but rather reflects a crisisoriented approach to the problems . "                     