@@730283

txt The lower level of British Army activity in Northern Ireland has proved highly successful in one direction : major armed clashes with the outlawed Irish Republican Army ( IRA ) are a thing of the past . But the altered British Army role naturally permits an increase in sectarian clashes . Fewer British Army patrols mean that Roman Catholic and Protestant crowds meet more frequently . Often the crowds are armed only with insults and sticks , but guns are never distant . // *Ulster clashes reduced as Army 's role declines // Over Saturday night four men were killed and six others wounded by gunfire  --  largely because the two religious communities are confronting each other without a British Army cushion between them . Where the troops did intervene , their duty was not pleasant . In Belfast 's borderline Suffolk District , the Army found itself forced to defend a dozen abandoned houses . Protestant families fearing intimidation had moved out . But . when homeless Catholics attempted to squat in the area , the extreme Protestant Ulster Defense Association ( UDA ) ordered them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . and to guard empty houses . It was a further embarrassment that uniformed ranks of the UDA stood just behind the Army line , claiming that the troops were carrying out UDA wishes . Bullets and gas used In Portadown , the Army had to use rubber bullets and riot gas to break up a Catholic crowd in this predominantly Catholic town . The Catholics had wanted to prevent a Protestant parade ; but the parade was legal , so troops arrived to clear a path . The Army is faced with two poor alternatives . Either it can expand military patrols again , with the consequent risk of alienating the Catholics recently won over . Or else it must accept increasing sectarian intimidation , confrontation , and killings . British proconsul William Whitelaw has meanwhile set up the PPA , the Public Protection Agency , in an attempt to bridge the gap between these alternatives . It will deal directly with the mounting problem of intimidation , by rehousing homeless families and trying to keep other frightened people from leaving their homes . The intimidation normally takes the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in the religious minority in a particular district . Windows are broken , anti-Catholic or anti-Protestant slogans are , daubed on the house walls , threatening notices are delivered  --  and in the extreme , Molotov cocktails are used to burn out the offending families . Surge called normal The recent surge in intimidation is normal for the month of July , which brings the principal Protestant celebration of July 12 , as well as being the dangerous time when most Northern workers take their two-week annual holidays . In Londonderry , the precarious nature of the cease-fire was emphasized , when the provisional IRA reported capturing two British Army officers who ventured into the Bogside no-go area . They were later released  --  with an IRA warning . The two officers were reportedly off duty , unarmed , and in civilian ? clothes when they entered the Bogside . Clearly the British Army still faces a powerful threat from the IRA militants . Just as clearly , the UDA poses tremendous problems for the British authorities . Former provincial Home Affairs Minister William Craig , who now leads the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and calls for increased UDA activity . Mr. Craig explains that there are " half a dozen " commando-type Protestant organizations who are fully equipped for an outareak of civil war . In an interview with John Shaw of the Press Association , Mr. Craig explained that the present danger of civil war " has been iaused by the policy of the British Government . It will only be lessened by the restora tion of Parliament to Stormont ( site of provincial self-government , now suspended ) . There will be civil war next year if Stormont is not restored by the British Government . " -  --  " Because of this growing threat , the British Army is hard pressed and the PPA has been created to share some of the Army 's load in dealing with sectarian clashes . But there is some doubt whether the tide of intimidation and growing fear can be turned , either by troops or by civil servants .                     