@@733911

txt Letters C.I.A. : ' Irreplaceable ' Officers Religion : To Separate The Good and the Bad To the Editor : In his Nov. 30 letter , " America 's Spy Gap , " Representative Samuel S. Stratton expresses his concern that our intelligence collection efforts are now almost exclusively technical and that we have cut off classic , person-toperson intelligence collection operations . I can assure you that this is not the case , and that the C.I.A . ' s recent reorganization and reductions in the Operations Directorate in no way downgrade the continuing and vital importance of what Mr. Stratton rightly calls " that ancient art . " When I reported to Congress and to the agency on the need and rationale for reductions in the Operations Directorate , I said : " We need the capabilities of this directorate as much today as ever . Although new technical means of collection permit us to extend our collection efforts , they only complement , they do not supersede human collectors . Only human collectors can gain access to motives , to intentions , to thoughts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country 's security . " I said then that there would be no meaningful reduction in overseas To the Editor : Your Dec. 6 editorial on the Jessica Kats case is most troubling . Certainly , accuracy and credibility must be the cornerstone of the Soviet Jewry movement . That has always been the policy of responsible organizations concerned with the issue . The Times paints with a broad brush when it smears an entire movement on the basis of distortions in a single case , which were made by isolated groups . The Times did report ( May 27 and Nov. 16 ) that Jessica was improving and had gained weight . It is incongruous that you expected to see a child still suffering the extreme symptoms of malabsorption syndrome . More disturbing , however , is your casual equation of alleged " misleading propaganda " with the use of " trade restrictions " ( Jackson-Vanik Amendment ) as an unjustified means of counterattack . The one should always be ' avoided . The other is a responsible form of leverage , whose efficacy should be debated among rational men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that my aims were to insure operational efficiency and full utilization of talent . At the time it was almost universally perceived within the agency that to further these aims , and to provide for the continuing hiring and training of new operational personnel , an overstaffed Operations Directorate had to be pared down and streamlined . I share Mr. Stratton 's concern that the U.S. have the best and most effective intelligence information possible . To insure this , we must attract and retain the best possible intelligence officers , support them in their tasks and see that they have the understanding and appreciation of their employers , the American people . Human intelligence collection is an inexact science and relies heavily on the courage and ingenuity of our operations officers . Give them a climate of public opinion which is supportive within rules that are sensible and not unduly restrictive , and they will continue to provide the irreplaceable element of human intelligence in our collection program . STANSFIELD TURNER Director , Central Intelligence Agency Washington , Dec. 6 , 1978 In addition , the editorial 's apology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correctly reported by The Times , Jessica 's improvement resulted not from Soviet medicine but from a steady supply of Pregestimil , provided by friends in the West . The Soviets arbitrarily withheld visas from the Kats family and continue to harass other Soviet Jews , regardless of extenuating circumstances . To them the Soviets owe an apology . This week The Times gave excellent coverage to the statement made by President Carter in connection with the 30th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , that magnificent document which , among other things , guarantees to all people the right of free emigration . If Moscow had lived up to the principles of this declaration and to other international convenants to which it is a party , there would have been no Jessica Kats case . MERV/N RISEMAN Chairman , The Greater New York Conference on Soviet Jewry New York , Dec. 8 , 1978 issue with reference to subtle and corn.plex differences in infant behavioral development are no more justified or useful than Arthur Jensen 's attempt to do the same with reference to supposedly innate differences between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any simple explanation of racial differences on " biological " grounds alone , and this holds with equal force for " liberal " and " conservative " theorists . Finding implications for social policy in these supposedly " biological " differences is a dangerous enterprise where more caution than Morgan shows should prevail . DAVID G. POST Assistant Professor of Anthropology Columbia University New York , Dec. 1 , 1978 Back to the Environment To the Editor : With the bulldozing of the houses in Fire Island National Seashore , we finally have an example of the " balance " people are so often advocating in environmental matters . For once something is being given back to the environment rather than being taken from it . The Superintendent of the National Seashore is greatly to be congratulated . PHILIP SAUNDERS JR . Weston , Mass. , Dec. 4 , 1978 To the Editor : The conventionally religious are concerned about the cults , most recently that of Jonestown , but , as Prof. John E. Smith states letter Dec. 4 , we know that the problems of investigating religion and distinguishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we all started as troublesome sects to begin with . Perhaps the necessary distinction between good and bad religion , legitimate and illegitimate for governmental tax purposes at least , can be settled on the basis of cleanness and , openness . Whatever their thoughts , if the people in any religious group will open their books to responsible auditors and if their dealings are not found grossly improper , they have a right to their religion and its diffident treatment by the state . However , if there is a suspicion of shenanigans , and they wo n't put all their cards on the table , we of the conventional religions worry as much as the local D.A . ' s office . We tremble because we know that if religion is not protected by the state as well as separated from the state , many problems can arise to finish us off . The economics of the late 20th century are not only horrendous for the little guy but also for the little church . If the churches will all be honest and open in making their financial books @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know may be reassured that , however backward or , inefficient legitimate religion may seem , it is a part of our society " without guile . " If the government will honor religion , religion in turn should do the honorable thing . A number of the standardbrand churches are already willing to do just that ? and it is poverty , not proud riches . that they must reveal WILLIAM D. EDDY Rector . Christ Episcopal Church Rye , N.Y. , Dec. 4 , 1979 Easy ElectionTo the Editor : Those clever Japanese ! They have just elected a new national executive ( Prime Minister ) by a simple , brief , inexpensive and effective process that contrasts so markedly with our own complex , long , expensive and chancy Presidential elections . Within about two weeks , Japan 's majority party held a two-step election for a party leader , who then almost automatically won the election in Parliament to be the new Prime Minister ? for as long as he is supported by the majority of the Parliament . He is , of course , a long-time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than one national cabinet . In contrast , in 1980 we will go through an ordeal of primary elections , nominating conventions , months of noisy , exhausting campaigning and then a distorted count of the results by the Electoral College . We might well cast ' an envious glance at the Japanese system . Japanese ? No , it is also the system of almost all other . advanced Western democracies ? except the United States . RICHARD M. PERDEW Bronxville , N.Y. , Dec. 6 , 1978 To the Editor : I am sympathetic to the difficulties of presenting complex biological or ' psychological issues , along with their implications for social policy , in an Op-Ed format ; nonetheless , Prof. Harry Morgan 's discussion of the rela. tionship between comparative developmental rates in black and white infants and educational policy ( " Teaching Blacks , " Nov. 29 ) is so seriously flawed that it must not pass uncriticized . While it is true that researchers have found differences between black and white infants in the timing of developmental events , as Professor Morgan points out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a less-active environment during their normal development " or that " white schoolchildren require lower levels of social interaction than blacks " are to my knowledge completely unsupported and unsupportable in those vague and ambiguous terms . ' Beginning sentences with " From these data we conclude that ... " does not make what follows true , and I deplore Morgan 's uncritical use of racial - categories in describing behavioral differences ( what , for example , is the " lessactive parenting style of whites " ? ) . There is a larger issue here at well : Racial differences in school performance are indeed a serious problem that needs attention from educators , but Morgan 's attempt to " biologicize " this Of Soviet Jewry'and the Jessica Kats Case On Tiologicizing ' Racial Differences The Benefits of Increasing the Number of Autopsies To the Editor : Several of the points made in Lawrence K. Altman 's excellent Dec. 5 article , " New Attention on Autopsies , " need all the emphasis they can get . The autopsy is indeed vital to the advancement of medical knowledge , for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pervasive lack of appreciation for this procedure which the handling of the recent tragedy in Guyana only underscores . In the case of Charles Whitman , mentioned in the article , who killed 16 people and wounded 30 others from the tower of the University of Texas , the body had already been embalmed and was at the railroad station on its way home when the Governor of Texas learned that there had been no autop-sYHe immediately ordered one . It revealed the pecan-sized tumor in the emotional center of the brain . Ironically , Whitman himself had left a note asking that an autopsy be done after he was killed , for he felt that there was something wrong with his brain . Other , similar tragic occurrences could be cited . The most unfortunate , perhaps , is the Kopechne-Kennedy tragedy at Chappaquiddick . The failure to perform arrautopsy in this case , it is now conceded , gave rise to unbridled speculation that was cruel to the Kopechne family and to Senator Kennedy . The autopsy is essential if physicians are to confirm and correlate diagnoses , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provides organs for transplantation . It is also essential in assessing the effects of new , potent and often hazardous drugs . The evaluation of such newer diagnostic procedures as computerized axial tomography ( CAT scan ) , the subject of a recent provocative article by Jane E. Brody ( Nov. 24 ) also must rest ultimately with the autopsy , as has been the case with earlier procedures , such as the electroencephalogram , the liver scan and others . Statistics show a lack of correlation between ante mortem diagnosis and post mortem findings in some 30 to 50 percent of autopsies . In other words , as the old saw has it , " Many mistakes are buried with the dead . " The number of autopsies performed could no doubt be increased if Medicare and health insurance firms provided some compensation for the procedure to hospitals and pathologists . One could argue that an increased autopsy rate would tend to lower medical costs in the long run . Physicians would gain more insight into the true incidence of a number of diseases and attain a better appreciation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medicine . With physicians better aware of their true batting averages and hospitals more mindful of diagnostic discrepancies , the length of hospital stay and the use of unnecessary and expensive diagnostic equipment might be lowered , with ultimate savings to private insurance carriers , the government and , of course . the general public . JOHN PRUTTING , M.D. New York , Dec. 6. 1978                     