@@733224

txt A MANDATE ORDERING the Archdiocese of Chicago to . bargain with a union representing lay teachers at two Roman Catholic seminaries has been struck down by a federal appellate court . In the ruling disclosed Thursday , a three-judge panel of the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said the National LaL her Relations Board , ' which issued the mandate , has no jurisdiction in teacheremployer ' relationships in parochial schools and its orders violated the constitutional separation of church and state . ' The justices asserted that " an evenhanded approach to justice might seem to suggest that the religion clauses , serving as they do as a buckler to stop financial aid to these schools , should not now be any less effective to ward off the inhibiting effect of the governmental regulation here involved . " The NLRB bargaining order had been appealed by the archdiocese . Involved in the ruling were the Quigley Preparatory Seminaries , North and South , operated by the archdiocese ; and five Catholic high schools in South Bend and Ft . Wayne , Ind . DON if . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precedent-setting : " If this case is followed by other appellate circuits , which it probably would be , there would be no teachers ' unions in religious schools in this country . " The union , encouraged by the NLRB decisions , believed its successful efforts at the seminaries were a prelude to organizing more than 6,000 lay teachers in the Chicago archdiocese . Alexander Barbour , NLRB regional director , said the case eventually could go // to the Supreme Court through NLRB or union appeals . The court said it was unable to see how the NLRB could avoid becoming embroiled in doctrinal matters if an unfair labor charge was filed following the dismissal of a - teacher for teaching a doctrine favored by the general population but at odds with the Roman Catholic religion . " THE REAL difficulty is found in the chilling aspect that the requirement of bargaining will impose on the exercise of the bishops ' , control of the religious mission of the schools , " said the decision , written by Justice Wilber F. Tell . After a 15 ? month battle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , despite John Cardinal Cody 's protests , to d e t e r m in e union representation among 46 lay teachers at the seminaries . The faculty voted to align with the Quigley Education Association , A year later , the Community Alliance filed a petition to represent the lay teachers at the Indiana schools , but employers refused to bargain with the groups . The NLRB issued its bargaining orders June 18 , 1976 . NLRB attorneys argued that the Quigley schools were not " completely religious " because their curriculum was similar to that in public high schools . The court , however , noted that the seminaries ' secular education ' ' does not detract from the fact that the religious mission is the only reason for the schools ' existence . "                     