@@730128

txt If Sen. George McGovern fails to win today 's Democratic primary there will be a lot of surprised political " experts . " Even most of the die-hard boosters of his opponents concede that . he is the front-runner in the scramble for votes and , more importantly , for the Bay State 's 102 delegates . The South Dakota Senator got what could be two major 11th hour boosts April 23 : ? Publication of results of a voter sampling showing him with a better than 2-1 lead over Maine 's Sen. Edmund S. Muskie , his closest rival in the Massachusetts primary . ? Senator Muskie 's cancellation of a campaign foray into the Bay State late Sunday and early Monday . The cancellation was a disappointment to Muskie backers here , including some of the state 's highest-ranking Democratic officeholders who are running as delegates committed to his nomination . Holding the bag Suddenly they find themselves holding what may be a fast-emptying " Muskie-forpresident " bag here , while their political hero continues his major primary campaign focus in the Pennsylvania primary  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today 's primaries  --  to Senator McGovern here and to Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey in Pennsylvania  --  would be a heavy blow to the Maine Senator . // *McGovern win ? A clean sweep is unlikely ... // Meanwhile , Senator McGovern , who has campaigned extensively in Massachusetts for nearly three weeks , may well run first in today 's balloting but still fail to win all 102 of the state 's Democratic National Convention delegates . Prospects for a clean sweep of delegates were weakened earlier this year when zealous McGovern boosters in the State Legislature pushed through election-law reforms . Intended to expand grass-roots voter participation in the process of choosing presidential nominees , the reform wiped out the familiar " winner-take-all " feature of the Bay State primary . Now the winner statewide among the presidential aspirants is assured only the support of the state 's 20 at-large delegates . Delegates to capture The other 82 delegates will go to winners of the preference votes in the 12 congressional districts . Under this arrangement a candidate other than the statewide winner could capture some delegates in sections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voter appeal . Thus to emerge with all Massachusetts ' delegates , Senator McGovern or any of the contenders must top the field not only statewide but also in each congressional district . When McGovern-for-president lawmakers were pushing for the new setup , it appeared that Senator Muskie would be the statewide winner of the Massachusetts primary . For this reason some backers of the Maine Senator were none too pleased with the proposed change . But , in the interest of strengthening the democratic process , they went along with the measure . Now Muskie backers may be glad they supported the legislation since instead of hurting their candidate it could help him politically in Tuesday 's balloting here . Efforts limited Although 12 names are listed on the Massachusetts presidential-preference section of today 's ballot , only two ? Senator McGovern and Rep. Wilbur D. Mills of Arkansas ? appeared to make anything approaching a major campaign effort here . New York Rep. Shirley Chisholm was around for a considerable time but attracted less attention . Sen. Henry M. Jackson of Washington and Senator Muskie also came into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been expected . Except for a press conference held in Boston yesterday , Gov . George C. Wallace , of Alabama passed up campaigning in the Massachusetts primary . Connecticut social worker Edward T. Coll also campaigned somewhat for Bay State voter support . The other five Democrats whose names are listed on today 's ballot  --  Senator Humphrey , New York Mayor John V. Lindsay , former Minnesota Sen. Eugene J. McCarthy , Indiana Sen. Vance Hartke , and Los Angeles Mayor Sam Yorty  --  did no in-person campaigning here . Messrs . Hartke , Lindsay , and Yorty have abandoned their presidential candidacies after poor showings in earlier primaries . Meanwhile , Bay State Republicans will pick 34 delegates-10 at-large and two from each of the 12 congressional districts . The Republican preference ballot lists three names , President Nixon , California Rep , Paul N. McCloskey Jr. , and Ohio Rep. Johr M. Ashbrook . Only Mr. McCloskey has cam ? paigned here .                     