@@734067

txt The only reliable information about China 's invasion of Vietnam comes these days from reconnaissance satellites high in space . It is worse than watching a football game from a blimp . No American seems to know for sure how the battle is going or whither the Chinese are pointing . Peking has told the Carter Administration that the attack will be limited in time and scope , but nothing more . There remains a strong possibility that the Soviet Union will feel compelled to strike at China in ways that it , too , thinks are limited , or that Vietnam will dare to escalate the battle in ways designed to force the Russians ' hand . Washington 's routine statements , therefore , that the United States is not and will not be involved and that it deplores both the Chinese attack and the Vietnamese invasion of Cambodia can be only the start of a prudent response . The United States is deeply involved in Chinese efforts to undermine Soviet influence in Asia . And the daily Soviet charges that President Carter encouraged the Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent visit can not be dismissed as mere paranoid propaganda ; Soviet fears about China are excessive but real . So the future course of Soviet-American relations , too , is involved in the intramural Communist wars . ? One thing is sure : Peking and Moscow are in no mood to interpret American attitudes fairly . The position of the United States needs to be vigorously asserted to both Communist powers , and every real or imagined suspicion of an American tilt toward one or the other needs to be rebutted . Neither nation can be allowed to think that a few words of reproach to China and feeble gestures at the United Nations represent the total American position . Both still recall the loose talk out of the White House about how China and the United States share " strategic " objectives around the world . Both know that the United States has agreed to join other Western nations in building up the Chinese economy and to let its European allies sell modern weapons to Peking . These are factors of no small consequence in China 's aggressive challenge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may be to cause the Soviet Union some difficulty in its far-flung bid for influence , Washington should now be offering Moscow reciprocity in restraint , not trouble-making . In the present situation , President Carter 's public And apparently private counsel of restraint to President Brezhnev can itself be misinterpreted . Does the United States seek merely to shield the Chinese while Soviet power and a Soviet ally are humbled ? Is Treasury Secretary Blumenthal visiting Peking this weekend to reassure the Chinese that the promised trade and credits will be unaffected by their aggression ? Maybe nothing said by Washington can now relieve the fever in the Kremlin , but the effort has to be made . Some of the West 's future help to China , at least , should be contingent on its conduct beyond its frontiers . Deplorably , Mr. Carter and Mr. Brezhnev do not know each other and have no record of quick understanding in the face of crisis . The chances of winning Soviet help to arrange a neutral government for Cambodia seem already lost . The next casualty may be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the hopes for a more stable Soviet-American relationship will be the psychic scars that Americans and Russians carry away from their present Asian traumas . Whatever happens next on any Chinese front , the highest interest of the United States is to insulate its most vital ties with Moscow from all the world 's other turmoil .                     