@@729524

txt Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor , former ambassador to South Viet Nam and , former chairman of the joint chiefs of staff , said today Hanol 's latest peace proposal contains no guarantee for the release of American prisoners of war . He said the proposal is really an ultimatum that , if agreed to , would force the United States to leave South Viet Nam under " humiliating " terms . " f see nothing in it , altho obviously it should be explored , " Taylor said on the television program Issues and Answers . " It is an ultimatum to us that we are to get out , we 're to take our equipment with us and we ca n't even discuss it . I do n't see anyplace where it ' ays we get our prisoners back . There are references to that possibility but also clauses which would cause me to worry if I had the task of making the official decision . " During the program Taylor criticized past American efforts at negotiating an end to the war as overdone . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anxious to establish honest contacts with the other side . " " Actually , I thought we overdid it , " Taylor said . " We paid with our shirts to sit down eventually in Paris and be insulted for two and a half years . Wrong Approach Used " We went around , hat in hand : Please come and negotiate with us . ' And that 's not the way to get an Asian to sit down and talk seriously with ' , you . " Taylor has been outspoken in his criticism of the publication of the Pentagon papers . Today he said they were no more revealing than the talk or " coa cites in , the dressing room ; " of " players in the huddle . " " This is old stuff , " he said . " What was important was the play , the game and outcome . " He said frank debate among senior officials , such as that disclosed by the papers , , is necessary for the proper functioning of a government . But the people need not be told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morale Problem He said one of the most important lessons of the Viet Nam War was the failure of the policy of " gradualism . " He said this slow escalation of the conflict allowed war weariness and Communist propaganda to take a toll on the war effort . The general said it also discarded such effective military tactics as surprise and hardhitting plunges against the enemy . An interviewer told Taylor , " Well , the Army 's morale is pretty well shot , " Taylor responded : " The Army 's morale has never been shot as I know it , the entire Army . You can get the demoralized soldier before your camera with marijuana in his hands . But there have been two million men fighting out , there , more than that , and their performance has been magnificent . "                     