@@733405

txt Many Latin Americans are likely to be marching to new drummers before the end of the 1970s . In a number of countries , military men are moving out of the drivers ' seats and returning rule to civilian hands . The latest example is Bolivia , where a succession of military men have ruled since November , 1964 . There , Gen. Hugo Balmer Suarez has announced a plan to relinquish power and restore constitutional government with presidential elections scheduled for mid-1978 . The Bolivian step follows similar announcements in Ecuador and Peru , with Ecuador scheduling presidential balloting in perhaps February of next year . Peru will follow with elections about the same time as Bolivians vote . And Uruguay has set up a timetable for elections in 1980 . The reasons for the changeover are as many and varied as the countries themselves . In some instances , such as Bolivia , the step is being taken because the military feels it has gotten the country back on a stable economic path and because General B ? nzer himself is thinking of being a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the military has in a way tired of the responsibilities of government . Frustrations , disappointments , turmoil , and disagreements have soured the experience of rule . Whatever the reasons , however , the military cycle appears to be winding down . Over the yeirs , almost by the decades , Latin America // From page 1 Military rule waning in Latin America has gone through civilian and military cycles of government . In the 1950s , it was military rule ; in the 1960s , it was civilian rule ; and in the 1970s , it was back to ' the military , while in the 1980s , it appears to be time for the civilians again . The current wave of military rule actually began in 1964 , when Brazil 's military unseated the civilian government of the late President Jodo Goulart ; then came the Bolivian military 's ousting of President Victor Paz Estenssoro later in 1964 and the Peruvian military 's coup against President Fernando Belalinde Terry in 1968 . There followed military takeovers in Ecuador , Chile , Uruguay , and Argentina ? leaving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the 1970s . Paraguay has been under the thumb of Gen. Alfredo Stroessner since 1954 , although he has won re-election to that country 's presidency in a succession of controlled elections since then . Brazil likewise has gone through a succession of controlled elections to ch000se military men for the presidency . But there have been four different men in the post and next year 's voting is likely to continue the pattern . That military man could be Brazil 's last soldier in the presidency , given the growing civilian clamor for a return to constitutional rule . That leaves Argentina and Chile at the tip of South America , both more recent additions to the military portfolio . Chile 's military took over in a tough coup that ousted the constitutional government of Salvador Allende Gossens in September , 1973 . Then Argentina 's soldiers came to power in a long-awaited takeover in March . 1976 , which ousted the battered and buffeted civilian government of Maria Estela Martinez de Per6n. the inheritor of the mantle of Juan Domingo Per6n , a soldier who epitomized military rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in a hurry to relinquish power . Chile 's Gen. Au-gusto Pinochet Ugarte has announced a timetable for controlled elections for a new legislature that would name a new president somewhere along about 1985 . And in Argentina , the military have been in power perhaps for too short a time to plan to relinquish it . Gen. Albano Harguindeguy. the Minister of the Interior , said recently : " I want to say to all of those that are listening to me. to the whole country , that once and for all you should stop listening to the siren 's call and forget about election contests : :                     