@@733228

txt Chime Tribune Prase Service PALO ALTO , Cal . ? In the beginning there was the promise that eventually they would be better than human brains , a mechanized intelligence That would ' dramatically change modern society for the better . But after 20 years , the computer scientists still are a long way from coming up with a machine that can think , or indeed one that can do anything except what it is programmed to do by a human . For instance , in the early 1950s work began on a computer program that could translate a text from onelanguage to another . The technicians confidently predicted an early breakthrough . Now , after years of frustration , they concede the problem is vastly more complex than they at first assumed . Likewise , efforts to create a computerized chess genius that could outwit the masters have been disappointing , Computers have competed in chess tournaments , but they do n't do very well ? they 're too methodical . RECENTLY , HOWEVER , ' there have been some modest advances in the field that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signs of real reasoning have been found in the printouts , there have been examples of what the experts refer to as " cleverness . " This discovered cleverness has led to new predictions of computers that will be able to diagnose diseases , predict earthquakes , and even supplant the psychiatrist and . his couch . And this time , the promises seem to be rooted a little more in reality . At Stanford University Medical Center , work Is well advanced on a computerized program to diagnose meningitis by simply typing in a patient 's symptoms and test results , and getting back a suggested treatment . Similar research on other diseases is taking place at half a dozen oilier medical schools around the country . ANOTIIER STUDY recently found that a computer fed large amounts of data about earthquakes could predict at least minor tremors with some accuracy , although 10 to 20 per cent of its predictions were false alarms . Finally , there was the effort by an East Coast scientist to devise a computer program that would simulate a psychiatrist at work . I The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ computer could always respond with " please go on " if it did not understand what was being said . At other times , the machine fell back on a supply of canned responses that it had been fed when it heard words which it " recognized . " The scientist , Dr. Joseph Weizenbaum of the Massachusetts Institute of Tech // Column 1 Computers gain , but people still brainier // nology , was distressed after unveiling his program that a number of his colleagues failed to recognize it as the parlor trick it was clearly meant to be . INSTEAD , THE computer world was soon alive with talk of a possible breakthrough for mankind ? the bringing of computer psychiatry to large numbers of people not now able to afford treatment . Weizenbaum became so disturbed that he wrote a book saying the whole concept of artificial intelligence is fundamentally unsound , partly because the computer 's and the human 's methods of thoughts always will be alien . There is also the danger , argues Weizenbaum , that knowledge itself may someday be limited to what a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Power and Human Reason , " created a raging debate within the artifical intelligence community , a tiny fraternity stung by an attack from one of its most respected peers . One expert , Dr. Herbert Simon of the Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh , responded that Weizenbaum in essence was arguing that knowledge about man 's ability to think was somehow dangerous . THE DEBATE DOES touch upon some fundamental questions . How do human beings know what they know ? What are the limits of human knowledge ? What are the limits of a digital computer ? At Stanford , research physicians and computer experts have been wrestling with these puzzles for nearly four years as they try to perfect their computerized diagnosis program . Under two separate federal grants , the team of researchers interviewed a panel of doctors with special expertise in treating meningitis cases . Based on these Interviews , the computer was taught over 400 " rules " regarding the disease . Basically , these rules consist of symptoms and other clues to look for in order to accurately diagnose meningitis . DR . RANDY DAVIS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interview that the team has found that it must constantly add new rules to cover situations which had not arisen before . As the computer is fed more data , it begins to operate in what Davis calls a " chaining fashion " in order to research a diagnosis . In other words , the machine is forced ? as a physician is forced ? to weigh various criteria before reaching a conclusion . While this may not constitute intelligence , Davis and other experts argue that it is at least a step beyond standard computer programming where nothing more comes out than you put in , Another innovative feature of the program is the computer 's ability to explain why it reached its diagnosis . " We felt this was essential if it was to be accepted by the doctors , " said Davis , whose own Ph.D . is in computer science . PROJECTS SUCH as the one at Stanford have caused some concern within the medical profession . Physicians express the fear that they may ultimately be replaced by a machine in a field where to err can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not see the computer ever taking the place of the doctor , but rather acting as a " consultant " much as human medical authorities already function at large medical centers . " And even that is a long way away , " he added . EVEN THOUGH in its infancy , computer diagnosis does hold considerable promise , particularly for developing countries and even rural areas of the United States where physicians often lack the consulting guidance of a specialist . Eventually , a doctor in a small town should be able to telephone his patient 's symptoms into a computer in a distant major city and receive an opinion on a diagnosis , along with an explanation , almost Instantly . It wo n't exactly be a robot ? a computer with a brain ? but it will be a resourceful use of many human brains packed into one machine .                     