@@733072

txt Letters Letters Big-Car Tax : Thoughts on Its ' True Purpose ' To the Editor : The Carter Administration 's plan to tax purchases of big , low-mileage automobiles and subsidize ( via tax rebates ) purchases of small , high-mileage ones has received surprisingly little criticism . Either its implications are not yet understood , or its political motivations are very different from what they - are said to be . The professed goal is to change the public 's car-purchase and car-use habits and thereby to reduce overall gasoline consumption  --  in short , to twist , as well as suppress , the auto demand structure . Does n't this seem like an efficient and fair system , whether we believe in behaviorist reward-punishment methods or just in ordinary thrift-minded social responsibility ? Hardly . Gasoline prices are to increase sharply , both because of market pressure and because of the contemplated gasoline tax . So all automobile drivers will , most likely , soon be paying more than the production costs of the gasoline they consume . Why should big-car users be subject to an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expenditures ? What principle lies behind this plan ? Perhaps the true purpose is to redistribute real - income away from the big-car people over to the small-car S. Harmon people . This would be a populist , egalitarian step  --  and should honestly be so advertised . One must then add that the plan will encourage various conditions associated with small-car use , including the breakup of families , the abandonment of large car pools and multiple small-car purchases  --  often with an increase in total gasoline requirements . Some of these effects will hit the wealthy ; others will not . And Administration economists surely know that price itself is generally an efficient and equitable rationing device and that income redistribution , if truly warranted , is best achieved through direct income support to those in need , regardless of their personal consumption habits . Or perhaps the Administration is looking for a big moral cause , " equivalent to war , " around which to build its claim to " leadership " and " activ : ism . " If this is the case , we should be aware @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And war should note the planned introduction of a new type of public discrimination among consumer groups . Would people accept a special tax , on large containers of coffee , just because there seems to be a " shortage " ( i.e. , upward relative price pressure ) in the coffee market ? Should there be , a special penalty on large-family dwellings ( on top of the free-market. , rent ) , because of the housing short- . age ? Should fat men pay a surcharge. on their necessarily large woolen suits whenever wool producers across . the world decide to hold back their . exports to us ? One would hope not , regardless of whether large coffee . containers , large apartments or large .. suits can be shown to be partially correlated with high incomes . ( Assoc . Prof. ) KAJ ARESKOUG Finance , Pace University ; New York , May 2 , 1977 ' ? A Case Against Arms Aid for Turkey Antivivisectionists And the Museum To the Editor : The Carter Administration 's proposals on arms aid to Turkey should be rejected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Turkey ever since the invasion of Cyprus m July 1974 . Almost three years later there has been no sign or flexibility or compromise on the part of Turkey , which continues to hold , by force of arms , 40 percent of the island . The Administration endorses the four-year , $1 billion arms aid/bases agreement but will not push for a decision yet in Congress . Instead , an interim $175 million cash and credit program is proposed for this year ? plus extra for Phantom IV aircraft . In the three years since the invasion there has been time for compromise and it has n't come . We can , however , afford to wait and see the results of the Turkish election in June , since elections continue to be an excuse for inaction by that government . lf , by the third anniversary of the invasion , there has been no sign of change , we should maintain whatever pressure we can to persuade Turkey to accept a reasonable adjustment of territorial limits to the Turkish Cypriot portion of a " federated " island . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form of island-wide government which , as a minimum , would permit freedom of movement of people and reintegration of the economy of the island . At a time when we speak forcefully of human rights in all quarters of the globe , we can not be indifferent to the fate of the quarter-million displaced persons on the island  --  both Greek and Turkish Cypriots  --  all of whom await some change which will permit them and the rest of the populace a chance to rebuild shattered lives and insure a decent future for their children . The United States can and should To the Editor : The Times has occasionally carried items on foreign language study . It may be tonic to see how this issue is perceived in another country , for example France , four-fifths the size of Texas , with about one-quarter of the United States population . A recent article in a French magazine was headed " Anglo-American is swallowing us up whole , " a caption motivated by the fact that the proportion of French public and private school pupils opting for English as their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the private school group it was 92 percent . The seeming ubiquity of English ( its presence is felt virtually everywhere ) is perceived by the French as a political phenomenon . In the minds of many Frenchmen , the fact that the English language has made such inroads in their country can not be separated from the fact that it is the official language of the- U.S. , the strongest world power , that it is the scientific and commercial language of the entire V. est , the language of the multinational corporations , and hence the language of power in Europe today . There is no doubt that the whole Issue of foreign language study is necessarily a political one . It involves present and future relations with foreign countries and requires significant financial investment . It is well known that European students are more profoundly politicized than American ones . I have never heard a single American student make a connection between the muchattacked policy of American imperialism and the spirit which supports the widespread U.S. renunciation of foreign language study . It is curious to see so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counterparts in foreign countries should learn English . They expect it . But perhaps the example is being set for them by American political , economic and cultural leaders . " American do more than dole out money for relief and rehabilitation of refugees . We must not make it easier for those who are satisfied with the status quo in Cyprus . TAYLOR G. BELCHER Garrison , N.Y. , May 2 , 1977 The writer served as United States Ambassador to Cyprus , 1964-69 . The Lesser Evil To the Editor : Your recent editorial on hospital cost inflation was an accurate and well-balanced presentation of a very complex problem . To bring this problem into perspective in these inflationary times , I would like to point out that the figure you give for the cost of an average hospital stay is still less than the cost of an average funeral . JAMES R. MERIKANGAS , M.D. Pittsburgh , May 2 , 1977 Terror and Tolerance To the Editor : A question for Irving Louis Horowitz ( " Dangers to Liberty in Fighting Terrorism , " Op-Ed April 30 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Nazi thugs and street gangs who plagued Weimar Germany in the 1920 's and who were the forerunners of a regime which , in Horowitz 's own words , gave us " the genocidal benchmark of our century ? " PAULA SUTTER FICHTNER Associate Professor of History Brooklyn College Brooklyn , May 1 , 1977 imperialism " ? Some might call it " provincialism . " It is , at the very least , embarrassing that governmental and educational leaders have allowed foreign language studies in our educational institutions to fall off as they have . American diplomats , economic , technical and medical experts attend international meetings where foreign colleagues speak to them in English and converse among themselves in other languages , leaving our representatives " deaf and dumb . " The decline of foreign languages in America is profoundly impoverishing . Are Americans really so blindly arrogant that they feel they and their country lose nothing by their lack of curiosity in this area ? " Anglo-American " appears to be swallowing the French up whole . Our culture might appear ( and be ) a little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more American mouths , including those of diplomats and businessmen , occasionally spoke a language other than their own to those who share the globe with us . EVE KATZ Director , Middlebury College School in France Paris , May 1 , 1977 To the Editor : On May 3 , The Times printed an advertisement by the Millenium Guild , Pegeen Fitzgerald , president , which re= peats charges and statements against the American Museum of Natural His ; tory that Mrs. Fitzgerald and others have made several times during the past nine months . The museum has responded fully and openly to every ' allegation made by Fitzgerald , and every investigation of ? the museum 's work by Federal , state , city arid independent agencies has found her allegations to ' be either grossly misleading or groundless . In her latest advertisement , Fitzgerald makes the additional claim that , the museum has been untruthful about the conditions under which Dr. Lester Aronsun 's work with cats will terminate . These statements in the advertisement are incorrect , as are many others . Plans to terminate Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several years ago , and they have not been changed . Dr. Aronson has requested a no-cost extension of his Federal grant past its termination date , in order to permit his associates to work part-time with him in retirement in analyzing the results of his ' work and in preparing his findings and conclusions tor publication . No additional experiments were planned , nor will any be carried out after the end : of August 1977 . The museum has never refused to comment on charges made by antivivisection groups , and it has demon , strated repeatedly that its ' work conforms to eery required standard of animal care and welfare , of relevance and of significance . If your readers ? wish to learn the truth in this matter , they may write to the museum . I would like to assure your readers that the American Museum of Natural. ? History is , and will remain , an institution maintaining the highest standardsof decency and integrity in all its endeavors , and that it will continue to encourage the highest levels of scientific achievement by its staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ History New York , May 4 , 1977 An Insult Unchallenged To the Editor : One has waited in vain to see any editorial reaction to Mr. Moynihan 's recent remarks in Playboy about India : " After all , what does it export ' but communicable disease ? " When General Brown made a remark about . Jews and Secretary Butz spoke about blacks , reaction was immediate , but this insult to a quarter-million Indians in this country whose contribution is certainly not small goes unchallenged . That Mr. Moynihan should make such a remark is not surprising , considering his bias and hypocritical rhetoric against the " third world " during his recent tenure at the U.N . But what about the " liberal press " ? Is your liberalism based on expediency ? Do the feelings of Indians not matter ? ' FARUK B. PRESSWALLA ' Vice President , Friends of India ' Virginia Beach , Va. , May 2 , 1977 Of Foreign Languages and Politics                     