@@732609

txt The United States and Japan are disputing the skies over the Pacific again ? this time with the rich regional travel market at stake . The " air war " has heated up because of a number of verbal potshots fired by Japan Air Lines ( JAL ) at what it claims to be unfair competition by the leading U.S. carrier , Pan American World Airways . An attempt to restore good feelings will be made this fall when officials of the Japanese Civil Aviation Bureau and the U.S. Civil Aeronautics Board review the contents of the air transport agreement between the two countries . // *Japan pressing U.S. on air routes // Japan has waited many years for this opportunity to amend what it insists is an unequal treaty signed at the close of the American occupation in 1952 . At that time the American carriers dominated the Pacific routes and JAL was just a fledgling airline , so the agreement had built-in advantages for the U.S. fleets . Since then JAL has become the world 's sixth largest airline and the " ethnic factor " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reversed in favor of Japan . Meeting forced on U.S. The U.S. Government , which prefers to keep the rules unchanged , had to agree to the meeting . When it negotiated the return of Okinawa to Japan , it committed itself to a review of the pact in exchange for a five-year perioh during which the American carriers would retain their original rights in the island . The phaseout period will end next year . Japan claims to be encumbered by inequalities in three areas ? the number of destinations served by the U.S. and Japanese carriers , the " beyond " rights , and the carrying capacities . Its basic demand is to change the agreement leaving route-sharing arrangements entirely to the flag carriers to one that predetermines traffic rights like those that many other ' Asian countries have with the U.S. JAL claims to have a strong ease to present at the autumn talks . " The existing agreement has given the Americans complete freedom to come to Japan and raid our market , " a spokesman said . " Those are mostly our nationals they are flying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carriers to the U.S. , compared with 174,000 Americans who traveled to Japan . The Japanese travel boom has reversed this flow , and Japanese passengers now outnumber the Americans by two to one . - The Pacific capacity , however , still breaks down into 60 percent for the U.S. , 30 percent for JAL , and 10 percent for third-country airlines . Japan also claims an imbalance in benefits in that the U.S. carriers have traffic rights to 18 cities against only 7 for JAL . The American carriers fly to many points beyond Japan with rights to discharge and pick up passengers along the way . Japan currently has " beyond " rights from the U.S. to Europe , but is not exercising those . To correct the imbalance , JAL wants to fly to more American destinations , like Chicago and Houston , and beyond them to South America . There are 600,000 Brazilians of Japanese descent and smaller communities of Japanese stock in Argentina and Peru . Three lines to one ' The U.S. has three airlines serving Japan ? Pan American , Northwest , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the U.S. The multiplicity of U.S. carriers makes it harder for Washington to predetermine traffic rights . A further legal complication on the U.S. Government 's side is that its own anti-trust laws prevent private companies from dividing up the market among themselves . Although the American companies are tightlipped about where they stand , Pan American 's special circumstances would not seem to allow for any major concessions to Japan . According to Pan American 's own accounting , it suffered a net loss of $35.5 million in the first half of this year . Pan American chairman William T. Seawell is counting on getting the airline out of the red this year . But pressures to reform the world route map are building up , and the U.S. may have to give in a little for the sake of international harmony .                     