@@730791

txt Former Atty . Gen. John N. Mitchell says somebody is trying to make him " the fall guy " in the Watergate scandal , but the effort will fail because " I never did anything mentally or morally wrong . " Mitchell , already indicted by a federal grand jury in New York and mentioned frequently in testimony this week before the Senate 's Watergate Investigating Committee , made his latest comments by telephone late last night after his wife , Martha , initiated the call from their Manhattan apartment . Mitchell did not identify any individuals in claiming there was an effort to make it appear he was responsible for the Watergate bugging affair , saying only : " Somebody has tried to make me the fall guy , but it is n't going to work . " MITCHELL , 1V110 was Nixon 's campaign manager from March until two weeks after the June 17 , 1972 , Watergate burglary , said he felt " great " and had a " clear conscience , " adding : " I 've never stolen any money . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President reelected . I never did anything mentally or morally wrong , " Mrs. Mitchell repeated her claim that John Mitchell the White House was trying to make her husband a " fall guy " in the scandal and " I predict there 'll be a resignation or he 'll President Nixon be impeached . I think he 'd be much wiser to resign . " MITCHELL TOOK the telephone at that point to say he still believes the President had no advance knowledge of the burglary and bugging . Mitchell said he and his wife watched the televised sessions of the Senate Watergate hearings . He was critical of the senators for failing to cross-examine more closely statements made by Watergate conspirator James W. McCord . He denied McCord 's allegations that McCord had met several times with him , saying he saw McCord once and passed him " in the hall " several times . When asked if he will testify before the committee , Mitchell said , " hell , yes . By the time these characters get thru , I 'll demand it . " MITCHELL IS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his indictment for allegedly influencing a federal investigation of financier Robert L. Vesco in order to keep secret Vesco 's $250,000 contribution to the Nixon campaign , Mitchell said he was confident of exoneration . He said he may have made a telephone call to set up an appointment for Vesco with investigators of the Securities and Exchange Commission , which eventually charged Vesco with looting $200 million in investors ' money in foreign-based mutual funds .                     