@@728870

txt Authoritative sources said today that the divided Israeli Cabinet had decided , in a compromise , to wait about two weeks to determine whether the United States could fulfill its assurances that the present ceasefire would not bring military advantage to the Egyptians . The compromise was said to involve a postponement in the peacemaking efforts , to permit the United States to pursue the quiet diplomacy it is reportedly requesting in order to correct the violations of the cease-fire . High officials in Washington said yesterday that the United States was now satisfied that the United Arab Republic had violated the standstill truce . According to senior Israeli diplomats , substantive peace talks with Egypt and Jordan will not begin until after Sept. 15 , when Foreign Minister Abba Eban arrives in New York to attend the annual opening debate of the United Nations General Assembly . By that time , they said , it should be clear whether the Egyptian missile build-up near the Suez Canal in violation of the truce was continuing or had been stopped . Even if the acting Israeli negotiator , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , returns to New York from here next week , the sources said , he will conduct little more than a holding operation in his talks with Dr. Gunnar V. Jarring , Secretary General Thant 's special representative for the Middle East . Dr. Jarring has been awaiting Mr. Tekoah 's return while Israel // has sought action by the United States to counter the Egyptian build-up of Soviet-supplied missiles before she resumes her participation in the peaee talks . The talks , involving representatives of Israel , the United Arab Republic and Jordan , opened on Aug. 25 , but Israel participated only on the first day . Defense Minister Moshe Dayan is reported to have argued that the United States has already had sufficient time ? nearly three weeks  --  to evaluate the Israeli evidence that the Egyptians had been systematically buiding up their missile sites in defiance of the American-sponsored cease-fire . His proposal went beyond the diplomatic delay and was said to have amounted to the declaration that the 90-day truce , which began Aug. 7 , was no longer valid and Israel would be free to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This proposal had caused a split in the Cabinet . Israeli officials said they had no definitive word yet about the Nixon Administration 's intentions to deal with the missile build-up . Since it was the United States that guaranteed the cease-fire , with assurances to Israel that no military advantage would be taken of it , the Israeli Government now feels that President Nixon has a central responsibility . They are asking from the United States , first , an unequivocal acknowledgment that the cease-fire arrangements have been violated  --  to reverse the impression of earlier American statements that the evidence was inconclusive . Strong Pressure Expected They also expect strong United States pressure on both the Egyptians and the Soviet Union to end the missile-construction program and to try to arrange th- withdrawal of the bases already emplaced since the cease-fire became operational . Finally , they are pressing for speedier delivery of additional arms and military equipment designed to counter the new missile threat by improving the capabilities of the Israeli Air Force and Army . There was an unexpected gesture from the United Arab Republic today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Israeli Government . The body of an Israeli airman , shot down over Egypt a. month ago , was handed back to Israeli representatives across the Suez Canal , in belated accordance with a clause of the cease-fire arrangements . Israeli officials reporting the development could not say whether it had been arranged through the diplomatic contact in New York or elsewhere , or whether it had occurred spontaneously . Parachuted Over Egypt The dead airman , Moshe Goldwasser , had parachuted from , his aircraft over Eyptianheld territory on Aug. 3 . The Egyptians later reported that he had died in a prison hospital the next day . Added to the military restrictions of the truce arrangements negotiated through the United States was a clause specifically reaffirming procedures under the Geneva Convention of 1949 for prisoner exchange and the return of the bodies of dead prisoners . This has been a particularly sensitive subject , among Israelis . The Israelis handed over to the Egyptians at the same time , through International Red Cross personnel at the Suez Canal town of Ismailia , the , body of an Egyptian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    