@@733644

txt The red speedometer needle edges past 90 on its way to 100 and then disappears altogether from the dial . Gov . Cliff Finch , a front-seat passenger and a front-running candidate for the U.S. Senate in the first closely contested election for that office in Mississippi in 31 years , is blissfully unconcerned . He turns to a fidgeting reporter in the back seat of the Mercury Marquis that is being driven by a state trooper with hands a Daytona " 500 " champion would envy . " Understand , " he says above the roar of the engine , " This is a blitz . I 'm late getting started . So we have to move . " All day long . from 7 in the morning until 7 at night , Mr. Finch dashes across central Mississippi , on dusty , two-lane country roads , visiting large towns and small cities . Routinely putting in 18- and 20-hour days . getting almost no sleep , Mr. Finch , a 51-year-old Democrat , is trying to build a " redneck and blackneck " coalition that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held by the venerable James Eastland since 1941 . The 73-year-old Mr. Eastland , also a Democrat , chose to retire when it became clear he would be challenged . A Crowded Contest Mr. Finch is not alone . In the Democratic primary on June 6 , he is one of eight candidates . If no one gets more than 50r7 , of the vote , there will be a runoff on June 27 . Unlike the old days in this heavily Democratic state , victory in the Democratic primary is not tantamount to election . The Democrat who emerges from all this will face a formidable Republican opponent in November , plus Charles Evers , the state 's best-known black leader , who says he is running as an independent . Times have changed in Mississippi . A wide-open Senate race and serious statewide Republican contenders are something fairly new in this Deep South state . And there is an even more significant political change : With varying degrees of fervor , all the candidates are wooing the state 's black voters . " You can not write off the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thad Cochran , one of two Republicans ( the other is State Sen. Charles Pickering ) running neck and neck for their party 's nomination . For all these reasons , Mississippi politicians say the Senate election is the most important election here any of them can remember . They note that the last time Mr Eastland 's seat was open was in 1941 , when he was appointed  --  and then , in 1942 , elected ? to succeed Pat Harnson . The last time the other Senate seat , held by John Stennis , was open was in 1947 , when Mr. Stennis was elected to succeed Theodore Mo . Mr. Stennis , a 76-year-old Democrat , is expected to retire when his term expires in 1982 . Durable Duo So a Mississippian must be at least 58 years old to have voted in an open contest , without an incumbent candidate , for the seat held by Mr. Eastland , and he or she must be at least 52 to have voted in a serious contest for the seat held by Mr. Stennis . And , in either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When Mr Eastland and Mr. Stennis went to Washington , there was no significant black vote in Mississippi Today , 13 years after the passage of the landmark Voting Rights Act , there are 300.000 registered black voters in Mississippi , fully a third of the total vote in the state . The percentage of black voters in Mississippi is the highest in the South . Mississippi still has the highest proportion of poor people , living in the largest collection of substandard housing , tended by the fewest number of doctors and Victimized by one of the highest crime rates of any state . Skeptics tired of hearing how things have changed in Mississippi like to point to those realities . Surely , though , the gap between Mississippi and the rest of the nation is closing . Even more surely , life for the politicians has changed Winning Black Favor The change has come gradually . First there was Mr. Finch 's predecessor as governor , William Waller , who also is running for Mr. Eastland 's Senate seat . Mr. Waller , some expected , would inherit substantial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a district attorney , he twice prosecuted the man charged with the murder of Charles Evers 's brother , Medgar , field representative for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Jackson . Both trials ended in hung juries . And , when he was governor , Mr. Wailer broke new ground by appointing some blacks to state boards and agencies . And it was Bill Waller who proclaimed Medgar Evers Day on the 10th anniversary of Mr. Evers 's murder . But Mr. Finch has gone further . He has sensed a strategy  --  talk poor-boy populism to white folks and give jobs and recognition to black folks . Mr. Finch fought for federal poverty-and-jobs money that Mr. Waller sometimes vetoed . He appointed scores of blacks to the state 's more than 100 boards and agencies . Most important of all , he gave blacks , especially black women , the jobs opened up by federal programs . Now , more than any other Mississippi politician , Mr. Finch is trying to make common cause with a " redneck and blackneck " constituency . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says almost everywhere , " is that you get to kiss all the pretty ladies . " Then he sets off into the crowd , in pursuit of the ladies , pretty or not so pretty . Everybody watches to see what he will do . And , yes , Cliff Finch kisses the white ladies ... and the black lathes . Mr. Finch was a highly paid trial lawyer before he became governor , but he seems almost obsessed by his hardscrabble rearing He says in the standard speech he makes to all his audiences that he still can hear the sound of " my momma 's feet hitting the cold , bare floor when she got up every morning at 5 o'clock to fix the wood stove . " I loved that mummy of mine . " he says . Then he makes a pitch for the " new " Mississippi " We 've been fighting each other for 160 years , " he says . " But we found you and I were n't each other 's real enemy . The real enemy is poverty , lack of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ care . Now , maybe we 're still 50th in almost everything , but we 're catching up . Now , we 're proud to say we 're from Mississippi . " He reels off a set of figures to show how many new jobs and new industries have come to Mississippi and how much more pay the average Mississippi family is taking home each week - all of it hotly disputed by his critics . ( His most persistent critic , veteran journalist Wilson F. Minor , editor of the Capital Reporter in Jackson , says almost all of the gains reflect a general improvement in the national economy . ) Mr. Finch winds up his performance before Mississippi voters with a ringing defense of the Monroe Doctrine . He explains , confidentially , that his polls show people are worried about the nation 's standing in the world . Democratic Strategies Two of Mr. Finch 's principal opponents in the Democratic primary-former Gov . Waller and Maurice Dantm , a former mayor of Columbia . thought by some people to be Sen Eastland 's private choice-also are busily trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front-runner is Charles Sullivan . a former lieutenant governor who spends much of his time attacking the Carter administration The people who pretend to understand Mississippi politics insist that any of thse four candidates could squirm into a two-man runoff . And not a few of them think-hope , at ! east-that Mr. Finch will finish third . Many people distrust the governor " Finch , " says one of his opponents . " is a little crazy . " " A little crazy , a little sinister , and a whole lot smart , " says another Whichever Democrat wins , he wo n't be home free . This year , the Republicans are expected to provide more than token opposition . The " moderate " Republican in the race for the Senate is Rep. Cochran. whose rating on congressional votes from the liberal Americans for Democratic Action is a flat zero . " A Mississippi ' moderate . ' " cautions a former official in the Ronald Reagan pres idential campaign . " would be put down as a right-wing crackpot anywhere in the North-east " But both Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican candidate , are out there every day trying to hustle black votes . Mr. Cochran boasts that be was the first member of the Mississippi congressional delegation to integrate his Mississippi and Washington offices . Mr. Pickering reminds voters he was the first Republican to address the state 's NAACP convention . Most observers expect Mr. Cochran to win . But Mr. Pickering , the former Republican state chairman , is highly organized and committed to what he 's doing . ( Mr. Cochran has unusual objectivity , for a politician ; driving through a particularly devastated section of Hattiesburg. he looks out the window and muses . " I wonder how many of these people really care who their next Senator will be ? " I Uncharted Territory The Republican turnout is expected to be low , although no one can be certain because this is the first real primary the Republicans have had . However , they probably wo n't get more than 70.000 votes in their primary . The Democratic turnout will be closer to 400,000 . But there are people in Mississippi who will tell you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you have on the Republicans to win Sen. Eastland 's seat . " Twenty per cent of the voters in Mississippi are Republicans , " says Mr. Pickering 's campaign manager , Haley Barbour . " Another 20% say they 're Democrats , but they vote Republican , unless Jim Eastland or John Stennis is running . We pick up a few more votes here and there-black and white - and we win , " he reasons . In 1976 , Mr. Barbour says , " The Democrats had their best shot . A Southern Baptist was running for President . and he was supported in Mississippi by both our Senators and by the governor . No one can remember anything like that before . And yet Jimmy Carter carried Mississippi by 14.000 votes out of the 750,000 that were cast " Waiting for both the Republicans and the Democrats is Charles Evers , the mayor of Fayette and the independent candidate . Some people say he is n't a serious candidate , but Mr. Evers says he 's in the race and he expects to win . He is a powerful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " be tells a small crowd at Jackson State University , a black institution . " They only come to talk to you when they want your votes . We get fooled by these demagogues all the time . What did Waller ever do for black folks ? What 's Finch done ? We drink more whisky than anybody in Mississippi and do you see a black member on the ABC liquor board ? " These white folks ai n't slept with you . " Mr. Evers continues . " They ai n't eat with you . They ai n't drmked with you . They ai n't shot pool with you . I do n't know where these folks are coming from . " But Mr. Evers knows better . In the " new " Mississippi . the white politicians are coming in peace to the black neighborhoods because they ca n't afford not to .                     