@@731829

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 38 Letters to the Editor To the Editor : It is an encouraging sign to see that nationalization of the Northeastern railways is now being seriously considered by some members of our Congress . ? In any solution to the Northeast rail crisis the Government should have as its primary objective a continuation and improvement of service . In the present proposal submitted by the Railroad Association , service to the public is subordinate to the primary objective of creating a profitable system in private hands . This is a major distortion of the proper governmental function and will , if carried out , result in a massive outlay of public treasure without securing sound transportation service in the region . Presently unprofitable service to areas of the Northeast must ? be main , tained , if at all , by various state and local agencies . It is unjust to the taxpayer that he must now assume the burden of operating unprofitable lines without being able to offset at least a portion of his loss with profits from more fortunate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in common is from the taxpayers ' view far more desirable . To the Editor : The Urban Design Council , a citizens advisory group appointed by the Mayor , originally supported the creation in 1969 of the Special Lincoln Square Zoning District . This ordinance established future development criteria for the Lincoln Center area , permitting appropriate density and building size in exchange for provision by a builder of ground-level amenities specified in the plan . Although it has contributed to good design by four developers in its area , this special zoning district is now threatened by the application of Lincoln Plaza Associates to the Board of Standards and Appeals for a second variance to construct a building with a floor area equal to 22.6 times the size of the site rather than the 14.4 multiplier allowed by the special-district zoning ordinance . Lincoln Plaza Associates yesterday withdrew its application . See news story on page 43.1 The Urban Design Council believes . that granting the variance would damage both the Lincoln Square area and , as to sound principles of design , the entire city . The experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presented to the board , have firmlyestablished that no technical grounds exist for justifying a special claim of From the point of view of the transportation customer , nationalization is more likely to be able to continue or improve service where it is needed . In a nationalized system public need should be the primary consideration when continued or improved service is proposed . In the private ' system the ability of the proposed service to be self-sup , porting is the primary consideration . No other factor should be given weight as it is inherently unfair , and selfdefeating , to expect private investors to provide unprofitable services which should be provided governmentally . It is unwise for public dollars to be invested in a system which will not have public service as its prime objective . Nationalization at this time will save dollars which are now to be squandered on a patchwork of private and public lines which may not work in the short run and probably will not work in the long run . Though nationalization grates against our traditional way of thinking , pragmatism dictates this most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F. McliuGH New York , March 5 , 1975 " economic hardship . " Beyond this , good design should not be allowed to become another victim of general conditions of inflation and recession , however difficult these are for builders at the present time . If Lincoln Plaza Associates has problems in complying with the special district because of these general economic conditions or because of alleged faults in the district 's regulations , the issue is not unique to a given site and should be a matter for the courts , not the board . In a larger sense , the special-zoning district controls represent the city 's best judgment of how much new development Lincoln Square can safely absorb without congesting the existing community and endangering the future of Lincoln Center , a $200-million public investment . The developer here contradicts the expertise of the city 's technical advisers , the considered judgment of its publicly elected officials and the will of a community which shared in the creation of the district as an act of faith with the city . The Urban Design Council believes that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to exercise control over its own use , livability and appearance should prevail . JOHN R. H. BLum Chairman , Urban Design Council New York , March 4 , 1975 The position Ando , et al . attribute to Secretary Simon is that an increase in the deficit runs the danger of causing either higher Interest rates or inflationary increases in the money supply . This dilemma is real if a tax cut has effects after the economy has recovered . Secretary Simon has expressed hope that the economy will be well on the way to recovery by the end of 1975 . Spending responses occurring after the economy has recovered to the zone of " full employment " will lead to very limited increases in employment and real income . Saving will increase by less than the rise in the deficit as before , but further effects will be felt largely in credit markets . Demands for loanable funds will rise more than the supply of saving , bringing upward pressures on interest rates . If the Federal Reserve tries to keep interest rates from rising , bank reserves will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see continued descent of the economy . During recession , any tendency for interest rates to rise can be offset by monetary policy without inflationary consequences . In that they are correct . But the relevant question is not what happens during recession . Severe timing problems , made difficult by lack of knowledge about short-term ups and downs make it mandatory to face the important question of what happens afterward . GEORGE S. TOLLEY Deputy Asst . Secretary for Tax Policy Department of the Treasury Washington , March 3 , 1975 Of Beame 's Position On Offshore Drilling To the Editor : In a news analysis article Feb. 24 , Richard . Severo reports that the City of New York appears ready to break with the environmentalist position by accepting offshore drilling for oil and gas " if it means cheaper oil coming into this port . " In a statement issued in connection with the Interior Department hearing in Trenton on Feb. 12 , Mayor Beame said : " We can not ignore the possible potential of offshore gas and oil deposits to help balance our regional energy budget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pragmatic ring , " but in fact they signify a panicky readiness to sacrifice priceless marine , coastal and recreational resources before an economic mirage . One of the galaxy of untruths and half-truths bombarding the public is the argument that a drought of gasoline and heating oil is imminent and that immediate exploitation of offshore deposits offers the only realistic solution . But how realistic is it to build one 's expectations on exploration in the Outer Continental Shelf when six to eight years would elapse before the sites could be brought into actual production ? Experience with exploration under way off the North Sea coast of Scotland is a sobering indication of the time schedule required for any effective yield . So much for a purported short-term solution . But neither can ocean-floor drilling be considered a long-term solution . Informed estimates of the amount of oil and gas waiting for extraction off our coast have now been revised downward , raising serious questions whether production would continue long enough to justify even remotely the enormous economic and environmental cost . A genuinely pragmatic approach Mr Mayor Beame would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy conservation policy for all city agencies and encourage private industry to do the same . CLAIRE STERN Exec . Dir. , L. I. Environmental Council Port Washington , L. I. , March 5 , 1975 ? How to Raise Gas Prices To the Eidtor : The Feb. 21 editorial " To Check the Slump " was ' particularly offensive to me and the industry I represent . The final . paragraph of the editorial states that the oil and gas depletion allow . ance should be totally eliminated and the resulting taxes collected by the U.S. Treasury would be better put to use in an ever-increasing social welfare program . Today , the Associated Press reported that drilling operations as recorded by the Hughes Tool Company in Houston were at an all-time high since December of 1963 . The added price incentive along with the depletion and depreciation allowances given independent oil drillers throughout the country have contributed to this very marked increase in exploration activities . To write as you did is not only detrimental to the energy problem that the entire industry is dedicated to solve but to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gasoline price structure . The total elimination of the depletion allowance would in all probability result in $1 per gallon for gasoline in six months ' time . This is not in the best interest of our country . JACK C. VAUGHN President , Vaughn Petroleum Dallas , Feb. 27 , 1975 ? Regents ' Weak Subject To the Editor : If the Board of Regents requires several " clarifications " to express itself , as a recent news story reported , the least it should do is discontinue Regents examinations in English . MAX J. ROBIN Southbury , Conn. , March 6 , 1975 The writer is a former Regent . 9 The Birds ' Toll To the Editor : My family has read The Times since 1880 . My mother in her later years after moving here from New York City was most unhappy when from time to time The Times did not arrive in Batavia , I mention these facts to show our enduring interest in your paper . However , I read with dismay the editorial " Bird Massacre " in the issue of the 19th . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be calm and try to put ourselves in the writer 's position . Let us assume he lives in Manhattan and is not a bird watcher like we are and has no acquaintance with farming . This could be the explanation for his point of view . " My wife and I belong to the Audubon Society , we live on a farm of 150 acres and most of my clients are country people . We are appalled at the spectacle of grackles and starlings dominating the song birds we love , at the sight of the grackles robbing other birds ' nests and at the devastation brought about to the fields of sweet corn . In self-defense farmers line their fields with automatic gas guns that explode from time to time to frighten off marauding birds . The noise is appalling , but " one pass " over the field by a flock of these birds , and ' the canning companies can not use the corn . We feel sure that men like Roger Tory Peterson would confirm the need for some effort to control the numbers of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Feb. 20 , 1975 Northeast Rails : Toward Nationalization To the Editor : The Feb. 26 letter by economists Ando , et al . criticizing anti-recession policies contains an error obscuring discussion of what to do about the economy . They state : " Financing the additional debt does not per se require an expansion of the money supply since , by an accounting identity , private saving will rise by an amount equal to the additional deficit " ( italics added ) . The correct identity is that the Government deficit equals private saving minus private investment . If the Government deficit is increased , private saving and private investment may both change . Private saving could rise by exactly the additional deficit caused by a tax cut , if the tax cut were completely salted away in saving with no spending response . But the very reason for considering an anti-recessionary tax cut is the belief that there would be some spending response , in which case saving at the prevailing level of income will go up by less than the tax cut . Any rise in incomes resulting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to higher tax collections , implying further changes in the deficit . What happens to saving and the deficit is a complicated matter , depending on saving behavior , credit policies and business investment response . The real issue raised by the letter is not deficits in the abstract but rather what policies to follow in view of uncertainty about economic recovery .                     