@@732187

txt Angola already is becoming an orphan as far as the Portuguese Government is concerned , according to white informants here . " Lisbon does n't care what happens here after independence on Nov. 11 , " complained a white resident . " It is fed up with colonial fighting and has more than enough problems at home . " Whether or not this actually is Lisbon 's position , the view is widely accepted in this Angolan capital city of Luanda . " The Portuguese are no longer concerned about who controls Angola after they leave , or whether the remaining white populace is protected , " a local businessman added . " We are very much on our own . " Colleagues who had gathered for a midmorning exchange of gossip at the local hotel nodded in agreement . In colonial days , Luanda was regarded as a pleasant white city , sometimes likened by its partisans to a miniature Rio de Janeiro . Now , although whites remain and Portuguese military men drive through the streets , this is very much a black African city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands of the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola ( MPLA ) headed by Dr. Agostinho Neto , one of the three Angolan liberation movements . Municipal functions appear to be shared by a dwindling band of white Portuguese civil servants aided by black Africans often poorly acquainted with their work . But circumstances nevertheless dictate a greater and greater role for Africans . For example , the restaurant in a major hotel closed down abruptly last summer . At the time all its waiters were white . When it reopened early this month , the staff was made up of black waiters . Blacks also are driving the operable taxicabs , taken over from former white owners who have left the country . Newcomers to Luanda soon become accustomed to abandoned cars in streets , uncollected garbage , and furniture piled on sidewalks that may or may not eventually be shipped to its proper owner . Nobody knows exactly how many Portuguese civilians were in Angola originally . Estimates run from 350,000 to 500,000 . Nor is anyone certain how many have left thus far , although certainly not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unless more violence ensues . They feel there is nothing for them in Portugal at present . Some already have returned here after going to Portugal . Others hope to do so after independence but are not certain the new black nation will want them . Meanwhile , whites who can do so have sent their families and what possessions can be exported away from Angola . The remaining men , well supplied with cash , weapons , vehicles , and airline tickets , are waiting out the situation while poised to flee on short notice // * Angola : Portugal 's African orphan // " There probably will be about 50,000 whites remaining on independence day , " a Western observer estimated . " They think they can get along with any new government and that they will be desperately needed . The latter is true , but they may be mistaken nevertheless about being welcome . If things get out of control , a bloodbath of whites still could occur . " door . Some whites who are native-born Angolans are known to be fighting with the various black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down , the exodus more recently has been of lower-class white dirt farmers from the interior areas . With communications and transport disrupted , such farmers have been unable to market their crops . Many also have been scared out by black fighters . eager to take over any white property without waiting for independence . This indirectly contributes to the growing food shortage in Luanda . Housewives , black and white , queue up at local grocery stores that often admit only regular customers or those with a little extra for the man at the Bread is almost nonexistent , not because of a shortage of flour but reputedly because most Portuguese bakers have departed without training African replacements to bake bread . Gasoline remains available . Oil comes down by sea from wells at Cabinda to the only Angolan refinery at Luanda . Since little gasoline is being shipped elsewhere , the capital at least can still turn its wheels .                     