@@728465

txt An international search was had blown holes in all walls on today for a militant heiress on the first floor level . who is under indictment in Seized in Anti-Rusk Riot Chicago in connection with Investigators said they bestreet disorders there last Oc- li  --  ve ' the group was making tober . Investigators believe Kathlyn Platt Wilkerson , 25 , may have fled to Canada with other militant radicals after they escaped from her wealthy father 's townhouse last Friday when it was shattered by a series of explosions . Theodore Gold , 23 , a leader in the student : uprising in 1968 an anti-Dean Rusk riot , when at Columbia university and a Rusk was secretary of state , member of the . revolutionary Weatherman faction of Students for a Democratic Society , was killed in the blasts . He was identified thru finger prints . Indicted in Chicago Miss Wilkerson was indicted last Dec. 19 by a special grand , jury in Chicago , along with 34 other Weatherman members , for street riots in that city . In a demonstration Oct. 11 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city corporation counsel , suffered an injury that left him paralyzed . When . she was ? arrested in Chicago , Miss Wilkerson gave her address as Washington , D. C. A ' graduate of Swarthinore college , she is a daughter of James Plitt Wilkerson , president of a chain of five radio stations and former executive vice president of Young &; Rubicam , an advertising  --  agency . Called Hard Core Militant Authorities say Miss Wilkerson is a Weatherman member and is V " hard core militant . " She was arrested not only in Chicago but also in Washington ; for , participating in a college ' demonstration . She was one of a group Of S. D. S. members who in 1967 visited North Viet Nam . Bomb experts of the police department said they believe nitroglycerin no a y have set off the series of blasts that damaged . the Wilkerson townhouse , severely , and destroyed two adjoining apartment buildings . Twenty persons , including Dustin Hoffman , the actor , were left homeless . Witnesses told police that two : young women and three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in demonstrations or use in terror tactics aimed at the government , possibly in connection with anti-draft demonstrations scheduled for March 19 in 30 major cities . Records of the Federal Bureau of Investigation show that Gold was arrested in 1967 in New York in connection with and last Jan. 10 in Ardmore , Pa. , when a group of radical youths invaded a television station . Gold is said to have been the successor at Columbia university of Mark Rudd , who led the 1968 riots .                     