@@729818

txt The cherries and apples have all been picked , so the people have moved out of the barn and it is time to move the cattle back in . Oliver M. Tompkins keeps up to 100 head in his century-old red barn during the winter , using the manure they produce there as fertilizer for his orchards . During the picking season , he keeps migrant farm workers in the same red barn . The big , gray-haired farmer denies state charges that the drafty barn , its dank basement and a shed attached to one side are " unfit for human habitation " after the cattle depart in the ** fix it up as homey as can be , " he says . " The Mexicans never complain , just the do-gooders . " Few Mexican-American or other migrants complain about housing conditions anywhere in the country , for fear of losing work . But because of such quarters as the Tompkins barn , the million seasonal farm workers are the worst-housed group in the United States . Slums in the major cities ors+ fer palatial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , kitchen equipment , plumbing and furnishings ? compared with many of the chicken coops , tarpaper shacks , cage-size quonset huts and filthy barracks that growers provide for migrant workers . A comprehensive Federal housing code for migrant camps is matched to varying extents by state codes in 32 states , But because of lax enforcement , clusters of rural hovels across the country serve as seasonal homes for American citizens who accept such housing , along with long-distance travel to reach it , because they prefer punishing field labor at meager pay to charity or welfare . Federal regulations requiring adequate , safe , healthful housing conditions are enforceable by the Department of Labor when it recruits workers for a farmer from another state ( the permanent residence for most migrants is Florida , Texas or California ) or when hand-harvested crops are sold in interstate commerce , Departments of health are the usual enforcement agencies for state codes : But few inspectors have been assigned to the task by either the Labor Department or the states . The job is often delegated to local sanitarians . Some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friendship or local political con- // siderations . Den when a permit for a farm labor camp is denied , op ? eration often continues on an unlicensed basis , with inspectors looking the other way . The Tompkins camp , worse than some but representative of many farm labor camps around the country , has operated in violation of the code , , both with and without a permit . " Mr. Tompkins always tells us he is going to put up better housing but he never does , " said Ricardo Lopez , who began migrating to the Tompkins farm from Texas 11 years ago . Since then he and his family have lived not only in the barn but in other Tompkins outbuildings , sometimes squeezing with 100 other migrants into space specified for 55 . Overcrowding makes privacy difficult . Inspectors found tem- , porary partitions installed in , the barn while the cattle are out were too low to meet standards . Mr. Lopez 's daughter-in-law , Rebecca , said the Tompkins cabin she and her husband lived in last summer had been a chicken coop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " She noted that no bathing facility , not even a communal shower , was available after a day of hard , sweaty work in trees sprayed with pesticide . " They can go to the bay , " Mr. Tompkins said . " We 've got lots of water around here . " Grand Traverse Bay is half a mile away . The Lopezes and State Inspector Jack E. Judd reported cattle feces on barn walls used as rnlivi into units , a family shoehoed into a 10-by-12-foot space on the barn floor with no cooking facilities , overflow . ing garbage cans that attracted swarms of insects , unscreened windows , ill-fitting doors , broken furniture and unprotected electric wires . And adding to the misery of occupants was the absence of laundry facilities . The housing had neither hot nor cold running water for any purpose . Better Than Tents The damp , dark barn basement resembles a medieval dungeon except for the wooden feeding troughs that line the walls , but Mr. Tompkins said his employes " love it " cornpared with the tents he formerly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speak up , even though it would mean they could not return next year , because " many people come all the way from Texas and babies get sick and it 's pretty hard for them to live in a barn like that . " Growers often say that if the Government wants more expensive housing for workers who use it only a month or two let a time , the Government should provide it . They argue that no other industry erects rent-free homes for its labor force . Mr. Tompkins said he could not afford to build " luxury motels " for temporary employes . If forced to , he said , he would have to sell the orchards . But there are growers who disagree , not many but some in every state in which seasonal farm workers are employed . They contend that profit margins are ' not too thin to permit substantial investment in migrant housing , that good housing in fact is good business , In New York 's apple-growing Wayne County , Lester Bobb a migrant from Sanford , Fla. , , pointed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Floridians live two or three to a room . " It 's the best camp I 've ever seen , " he said , " and I 've been coming to New York to work since 1941 . " It was built by John Pirello , for $55,000 on a bank loan three years ago , for migrants who harvest his 200 acres of celery . " You get better workers if you offer good housing , " said the genial grower . " Also , people are pleased to have a nice place and they take good care of it . We hire a woman just to keep the camp dean . " Mr. Pirello provides amenities unheard of in most migrant housing : indoor plumbing , a modern kitchen , hot water baseboard heat , insulated partitions , fire-resistant walls . He agrees with Bernard Swindeman , who is praised by United Migrants for Opportunity for the camps he operates at his apple orchards near Deerfield , Mich. , that good housing is profitable because the grower who provides it can attract his choice of harvesters and insist upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Argument The most common arguments by growers against new or improved housing , in addition to the immediate financial one , are that migrants come from worse housing at home in the South and therefore should not object , that they would not keep a good place clean anyway , and that it would be unwise to make long-term investments in an out-of-date system when the trend is toward harvesting by machinery rather than hand labor . Cornell University ? when it came under criticism for bad migrant housing , called in the bulldozers this year , obliterated the housing on its 200 acres of orchards at Sodus , N.Y . and shifted to experimental apple-picking machinery . Mrs. Joseph Hassle of Keeler , Mich. , after three Hassle camps were condemned , said the family was cutting back on strawberry production , shifting entirely to machine-harvested vegetables , and selling its migrant housing to others as tool sheds . But hand labor will be needed for some crops for a long time to come and housing inspectors who hear farmers tell of plans to sell out or shift crops year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their words . Rental housing in the barrios of the Rio Grande Valley and the labor camps in rural ghettos of Florida include some of the worst in the country , but some seasonal farmer workers who migrate north to supplement earnings own their homebase homes and take pride in keeping them clean and attractive . Workers worth rehiring , Mr. Pirello says , will take good care of good migrant housing away from home so they will have a job for future years . Prudent camp supervision by the grower is a further guarantee of good care . Rarity in Standards But housing that meets minimal standards remains a rarity . Reeking outhouses , polluted water , unrefrigerated food and vermine-infested mattresses add to the peril to health of making a home for even a few weeks in dilapidated , cardboardpatched buildings that can be sweltering in the daytime and chilling at night . " Our clinic spends 80 per cent of its time treating illnesses that should n't have happened if health and housing laws had been enforced , " said Dr. James R. Tobin of Rochester , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Senator Earl Wilson , a farmer who heads a task force on migrants for the Indiana Legislature , said recently that farm workers were probably , immune to most diseases associated with camp conditions . As he made the statement , a migrant child lay hospitalized in Anderson , Inc. , with pneumonia attributed to lack of heat at the Del Monte camp at nearby Frankfort . Fined for Infestation In New Jersey , Jill Brothers , Inc. , was fined for maintaining a camp in Salem County with infestations of mice and roaches . Overcrowding is common throughout the country and not only hinders privacy but adds to discomfort and contagion also . With four families living in a single trailer in the Windmill camp at Ontario , N.Y. , one child had to sleep in . a drawer of a chest . At West Olive , Mich. , Billy Joe Kirk and his wife and six daughters , aged 4 to 16 , shared , a rank , grimy room unscreened against insects . While not picking blueberries in the adjacent fields of Robert L. Brady this summer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mattresses on the floor of their unpartitioned 12-by-18-foot " home . " Fire is a constant hazard . Dangling , exposed wiring is common . Bettie Cadou shivered for five nights at the Del Monte camp during the recent pickle harvest rather than trust a suspect heater , then went to the hospital with bronchial pneumonia . William Beckett died July 31 when the trailer he occupied burned at night . The spot where it stood on the Bruce Thompson camp for apple pickers in Wayne County is now just a gap between other migrant houses . Henry Matthews of Haines City , Fla. , occupant of a nearby cabin , said in an interview he could not quench the blaze with a garden hose that Mr. Thompson , a county supervisor , had provided instead of the required fire extinguisher . Groups Hesitant Migrant-aid groups , long hesitant to take drastic action for fear it might cost farm workers their jobs and the only housing available , sued the states of Michigan and New York this year , seeking court orders to force their health departments to perform their assigned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Colorado , the Colorado Migrant Council and Colorado Legal Services sued 65 growers last month , charging gross violations of that state 's housing code . All of these cases are pending . In Michigan , United Migrants for Opportunity contends that failure of the state Health Department to inspect and prosecute has meant some 80,000 migrants in 2,000 camps " must endure conditions . . . unfit for human habitation . " Its allegations include a a single sink on one wall of a barn as the water supply for 15 families ; one bed for a family of six ; a single room with no partition for two families , and the drowning of a 9-year-old girl while she was trying to bathe in a drainage ditch because the shower did not work . Other " wretched conditions " cited include flimsy construction , leaking roofs and floors , poor or nonexistent drainage , scarce supplies of safe water , badly ventilated and overflowing privies too few in number and too close to living units , exposed wiring , missing fire extinguishers , faulty heaters , lack of storage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unscreened doors and windows , and inadequate lighting . State Prohibition All of these conditions are prohibited by state law . The suit against the New York Health Department charges failure to correct such violations in 40 camps throughout Wayne County . It also charges Health Department officials " maliciously and willfully conspired with growers ... in a scheme to circumvent " the law by advising growers that if pressed to bring a camp into conformity with the code they could convey ownership of a shack to the occupying migrant for a token sum and have it reconveyed to the owner at the end of the harvest season . This ruse has been tried in several states . Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz in New York , alerted by the Wayne County suit , charged that Vincent E. Poray deeded his camp near Williamson to migrants from Florida for the season in " a sham and an obvious attempt by the defendant to evade the provisions of the public health law and the state sanitary code . " Last month the State Supreme Court found Mr. Poray to be " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ housing code . The suit in Michigan charged that it was the State Health Department 's " common practice to cooperate with prosecutors who do not wish to prosecute . " John E. Vogt noted in his annual report as Director of the Michigan Health Department 's Migrant Health Project that in rural counties where the prosecutor 's position is part-time it is difficult to obtain warrants because growers often retain the public prosecutor as their private attorney , Minimal fines also render prosecutions ineffective . Mr. Vogt cited the example of a grower kited was fined $15 for operating a camp without a license . It is cheaper at such rates for farmers to absorb repeated fines than to comply with the law . Only in occasional cases such as that of Mr. Tompkins are contempt citations sought . The Grand Traverse County farmer annually got provisional license for his migrant housing on the promise to bring it into compliance . When finally denied a license in 1969 he simply operated without one , then ignored a restraining order last year . Jailed for Contempt He was jailed for contempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this year he was sued again , but delays made it possible to complete the harvest without a judgment . Migrant-oriented groups see no widespread housing solution so long as the responsibility for providing it Is lcft to growers and canneries . Few have applied for even the limited funds available in grants and loans from the Farmers Home Administration in the Department of Agriculture . When they do , says Lee P. Reno of the Rural Housing Alliance , they are inclined to build " company towns " that unduly limit freedoms and bargaining power of occupants by holding over their heads the threat or a sudden loss of home and job if they voice complaints about pay , accommodations or any thing else . The alliance would like , to see a multibillion-dollar Government housing program for farm workers in the " migrant stream " states as well as homebase states unless a 1970 liberalization of the Farmers Home Administration funding program , which has just become effective , proves adequate . But the program has only about $6-million to allocate , barely enough for even the first handful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view year-round hobsing for farm workers much as they do housing for other lowincome groups , as lowering real estate values , adding to school costs and increasing welfare potential . " And running throughout these fears , " he said , " is the , racism which follows most farm workers throughout their lives , since they are , by and large , minority group members . " - So housing in the " migrant stream " states has remained largely seasonal , on-farm and ramshackle . State Senator Thomas Teague of Indiana deIscribed it last month , following a tour of farm labor camps , las " worse than anything I ever saw while serving in Vietnam . ' ? ,                     