@@729209

txt Outside the gray clapboard church , a " boycott grapes " sticker peeled off the window in the icy cold of early morning . Inside , picketers warmed themselves around the stove in the kitchen . This is New England boycott headquarters where lettuce now replaces grapes as target . Bundled in heavy coats and clutching leaflets , California grape picker Marcos Macs and a dozen local volunteers trekked out at 4 this morning ? as every morning  --  to picket Chelsea terminal market . There in predawn loading , they urged truckers and buyers to handle only lettuce carrying the black eagle insignia of the United Farm Workers Organizing Committee . Later in the day they would plead their case to restaurants , grocery stores . hospitals Tactics refined , machinery oiled from Caesar Chavez 's successful five-year grape boycott , the Farm Workers now are up against a much more sophisticated , well-financed opposition ? the vegetable grower Briefly , the dispute is over union contracts for some 20,000 lettuce pickers . UFWOC aims to represent the pickers , but most growers in California 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have contracts with the Teamsters Union . Same basic strategy UFWOC complains that these contracts were signed without consulting the pickers . Though the teamsters have since agreed to UFWOC 's jurisdictional right to organize farmhands , and have offered to rescind their own contracts , most growers want to stick with their teamsters ' settlement which , UFWOC contends , gives workers less pay and benefits . " Basically we 're using the same strategy as with grapes  --  telling the public the problem and hoping for their help . But it takes time , and the opposition is waging a strong campaign , " said UFWOC president Chavez in a telephone interview from his headquarters in the San Joaquin Valley , site of the grape victory . Many stores now display signs saying their lettuce is union picked . But this can be misleading , Mr. Chavez warns . Often the only way to identify black-eagle lettuce , he says , is to ask store owners to show the box it came in . Chief target of the lettuce boycott is big grower Bud Antle , Inc. , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiate with the Farm Workers for a contract because , its spokesmen say , the corporation has a long-term agreement with the teamsters . Election still lacking However , there has never been an election among lettuce pickers to decide which union will represent them . Farm workers are not covered by the National Labor Relations Act which mandates such elections , so there is no official tally to indicate the workers ' choice . Both growers and farm workers say they are pushing for reform of the labor-relations act to include farm workers . Meanwhile the boycott accelerates . Antle spokesmen say it has n't had much effect on their company . It has changed distribution patterns but sales , they say , are about the same . The Farm Workers dispute this . If it were n't for purchases by the Army , we 'd have most all Antle 's major outlets closed , " says Mr. Chavez . " But the Army has tripled its buying from Antle since the boycott began and is paying very high prices for the lettuce . " The Defense Personnel Support Center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Antle increased during the first two quarters of fiscal 1971 . In the second quarter ( October-December ) , Antle purchases increased from .6 million pounds in 1970 to 2,4 million in 1971 . Officials say , however , that labor problems in lettuce prevented other suppliers from providing , and that bad weather damaged crops in Texas and New Mexico . Side action helpful Some side developments on the East Coast are giving encouragement to UFWOC . Most major universities in the Boston area have decided to purchase only UFWOC lettuce , Mr. Mufios says . Harvard University was one of the first to announce this policy . In a book-laden room in Harvard 's Dunster Hall , senior John Petrey looked up from studying to explain how students began to push for this decision . " One day in a class on Mexican-Americans and Puerto Ricans , it was announced that a meeting would be held for anybody interested in helping the lettuce boycott . Seven of us showed up , talked to the workers , and decided to set up a team to get scab lettuce out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " I 've learned a lot about what kind of people the migrant workers are : their rich cultural background , their pride to work with the earth , their willingness to struggle to get justice . "                     