@@730119

txt The aspirin business is in trouble with the Government . The Federal Trade Commission wants Anacin , Bayer , Bufferin and Excedrin to stop advertising claims which assert that this one or that one is more effective than that one or this one . Any one of these pain-killers , according to the Food and Drug Administration , is just about as effective as the other . Advertising to the contrary is , therefore , deceptive advertising in the opinion of the Federal Trade Commission , which wants the aspirin people to stop it . As if that were riot enough to drive the industry to a dose of its own medicine , the commission also proposes to make aspirin companies spend at least 25 per cent of their advertising budgets over a two-year period to correct misleading claims made in the past . If the Government prevails in this case , it will have struck a heavy blow against twentieth-century American culture , for , thanks to the saturation aspirin-advertising to which we have all been bred , the headache has become a big part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever mentioned . In South America headache is regarded as a common bore , as is anyone who talks about it . In Africa , Asia and the Antarctic people have too many problems to have time for headaches . The headache , in fact , is an affliction peculiar to highly advanced societies whose people have plenty of excess money and a great deal of idle time which can be filled by thinking about their innards . . Aspirin advertising has probably had OBSERVER something to do with this . If you have time to watch large volumes of television , as most Americans do , it probably means that your mind is suffering from a lack . of material to think about . Vacuums yearn to be filled : the aspirin industry was there , hunkered down inside the tube for years and years , working hard to satisfy the yearning . Gradually , those of us who have a headache only once a year or less , or maybe never , began to feel that we were different from most Americans . That we were somehow inferior . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  the ecstatic pleasure of relief from pain  --  which the sponsor 's aspirin gave lucky sufferers on our television sets . So swiftly it came , that blessed relief ! No wonder persons whose heads could ache beyond the capacity of the average man 's began to boast about their headaches . These headache snobs were quickly put to work by the Excedrin Company at boasting about the incredible intensity with which their particular heads were able to ache . The only pill that could give them relief , naturally , was Excedrin . The Excedrin headache was born . One was tempted to dismiss much of this as the usual television fakery . And yet , in one 's own house there was evidence , in a growing collection of aspirin jars , that there were genuine living Americans , Americans whom one knew intimately , whose heads did truly ache . These genuine living Americans began to boast about their own headaches . A man who could n't even have a headache , they would reply , when urged to stop spending large sums of expensively advertised aspirins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a man could scarcely understand the delicacy of a head capable of aching with such intensity that relief could be gained only from the gold-priced product made especially for headaches America can be proud of . What will the aspirin companies say if they have to produce the corrective commercials proposed by the F.T.C. ? It would give blessed relief to a lot of us who have felt left out if they were to declare , with appropriate cartoons of skulls , that a lot of headache is all in the mind .                     