@@733716

txt Reversing a long-standing practice , the New York City Police Department has agreed in an out-of-court settlement to arrest wife beaters . The agreement is contained in a 1,000-word consent judgment signed by the city 's corporation counsel , for the Police Department , and by lawyers for 71 women . The women , who said they had been repeatedly beaten by their husbands , had filed a suit in 1976 accusing the police and the administrative arm of the city 's Family Court of unlawfully denying them assistance after they reported beatings . The agreement yesterday does not affect the suit against the court , which still is pending . Case Called Significant " This is the first official recognition by any law enforcement agency in New York , " said Laurie Woods , a lawyer for the women , " that wife assault is serious and pervasive . " Battered women , she said , " are now officially entitled to the same police protection as other victims of crimes . " Lawyers for the plaintiffs  --  who characterized the suit as the first comprehensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's treatment of wives who were beaten by their husbands  --  hailed the agreement as a precedent that would have far-reaching impact on the refit of the nation . Without admitting guilt , tile Police Department obligated itself to arrest men who committed felonious assault or other felonies against their wives when there was reasonable cause to believe the hus. band committed the crime . . Corporation Counsel Allan G. Schwartz explained that the new stipulation did not change existing law but " recognizes that , in practice in the past , married women in assault cases have been treated differently from unmarried women . " Under the law , a husband heating his wife would be guilty of a felonious assault if the beating disfigured or permanently disabled her or if his reckless conduct resulted in a " grave risk " of death . Assault with a deadly weapon with the intent to cause serious physical injury and the inflicting of serious physical injury with or without a weapon also constitute felonious assault . In such cases , actual arrests will be made . It is commonly held that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a criminal offense , the police often attempt to reconcile the parties or to mediate . Mr. Shwartz said he and Police Commissioner Robert J. helped negotiate the consent decree because the suit represented a situation " involving serious personal and civil rights ! ' Under the agreement , the police department must send one or more police officers to respond to every request by a woman who charges that her husband has assaulted or threatened her . If there is reason to believe that a crime has been committd , the police must arrest the suspect unless there is justification not to do so . Such justification can not be based on the fact that the woman is married to the suspect , that he police officers think the couple should reconcile or that the woman has not sought or obtained an order of proeectin , which ' is a Family Court order used against husbands to refrain them from future acts of aggression . The Police Department agreed also to . make mandatory arrests in cases where a husband has assaulted or threatened his wife again after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the agreement provides that the police notify the wife of her rights , including the right to make a citizens ' arrest with the aid of the police . The police also will be required to remain at the scene of the crime temporarily to protect the wife or to assist her in obtaining medical assistance if she requests it . If the husband has left the scene , the police must try to locate him as they would any other suspect , The Police Department , Family Court clerks and city probation officers working in the court had appealed to the Appellate divsion a State Supreme Court Justice 's refusal to dismiss the case . The appeal was argued before a five-judge panel on June 6 and a decision is expected soon . The appeal now will only affect the Family Court suit . The women were represented by lawyers from M.F.Y. Legal Services and the South Brooklyn Legal Services Corporation , both Federally financed organizations that represent people who can not afford lawyers , and the Center for Constitutional Rights , and the Legal Aid Society 's civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clients .                     