@@730218

txt The president of the Chicago Patrolman 's Association yesterday refused to accept any form of a civilian review board and pledged to try to place the issue on the November ballot , if necessary . Joseph Pecoraro also saw ne opposes the investigation of police brutality complaints by the Chicago Commission on Human Relations and that he has " doubts " that Marlin Johnson , former Chicaco chief of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , should be appointed president of the Chicago Police Board . " Every two to four years the police are made political footballs by some politicians , " Pecoraro said . " We do n't want to make civilian review boards a political issue , but if we have to , we will . If civilian review boards are adopted , we will circulate petitions to get the issue on the ballot . " I am against the review by the Human Relations Commission because it is a big mistake to allow police records to get into the hands of civilians . The records should remain within the department . I do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Why do n't you get Conlisk Police Supt. James B. Conlisk to go out there and look at the situation , and let him make the decision . " Pecoraro also said in the Sherman House press conference that he would oppose the establishment of a special in , vestigative unit of former FBI agents under the Chicago Police Board , saying the team of agents would still be civilians . " We as policemen are in the lonely middle , " he said . " People can not live with one another , people steal from one another , people commit brutal acts against one another , and it is some of these people who are the first to yell brutality . " I submit to you today that the Chicago Police Department does not need a civilian review board , but the people that yell police brutality do need a review board , " Pecoraro , who said he is supported by all 6,200 members of the C. P. A. , got a loud ovation from 50 uniformed policemen attending the conference when he said Conlisk was pressured by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last Wednesday the biggest departmental shakeup since he took office . Metcalfe had given Conlisk until last Wednesday to meet six demands , including civilian review boards in each police district , an end to task forcetype operations , more blacks in policy-making positions , and more black policemen .                     