@@733160

txt Letters Letters To Remedy the Faults in a Free-Trade Policy . To the Editor . While agreeing with your editorial advocacy of adjustment assistance as an alternative to import restriction ( " When Free Trade Hurts , " June 30 ) , I believe that your statement on the shortcomings of free-trade proponents in this matter is too sweeping . It does not apply to some of us . You said that free-trade advocates have proposed no realistic alternatives to orderly marketing agreements ( the new protectionism that is gaining popularity as less objectionable than tariffs and import quotas ) . The son-ailed ' " free traders " ( most of whom , unfortunately , shy away . from advocating free trade ) do indeed support adjustment assistance . But ( to this extent you are right ) they have , with Very feW ' exceptions , done nothing to seek a more effective adjustmentassistance program . They . did not participate in the ' adjustment-assistance oversight hearings of the House Ways and Means Committee . And they have not advocated a full-employment policy , as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that would make " free trade " more , acceptable to labor . . You commendably attack orderly marketing agreements as only a milder form of protectionism , and you correctly imply that free-trade advocates ( most , . if you please , . not all ) have come to accept them , at least as being preferable to import quotas or higher tariffs . The ; liberal-trade community as a whole.geis into , political action when major protectionist ' legislation gets moving in Congress . But other types Two Classes of Care To the Editor : Incredible as it seems , the Supreme Court has mandated , and H.E.W . is about to implement , that there shall be two classes of medical care : one for those who can pay , and one for those who cannoL  --  This is exactly what the recent decision disallowing the expenditure of Medicaid funds for elective abortions will amount to . With all the efforts being made to equalize medical care in the United States today , this is an incredible development . One wonders , parenthetically , what the policy will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ veterans ' hospitals ? In the light of what is about to happen , . it is imperative that qualified physicians working with privately funded health care facilities do their utmost to correct this inequity between those who can and those who can not afford a medical service which the Supreme Court has declared to be a constitutional right . HUGH AUCHINCLOSS , M.D. Associate Clinical Professor of Surgery Columbia College of Physicians &; Surgeons Ridgewood , N. J. , July . 2 , 1977 Evan ' Gallowar of legislated protectionism get no such attention , and international negotiation seems to give orderly marketing agreements a respectability they do not merit . The free-trade advocates have themselves to blame for much that has gone wrong with U.S. trade policy . DAVID J. STEINBERG President , U.S. Council for an Open World Economy Washington , June 30 , 1977 ? To the Editor : Those who recognize the inadequacy of an unqualified free-trade argument find your editorial of June 30 very To the Editor : On June 29 The Times reported that various groups such as The Association of American Publishers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bill before him protecting children from sexual exploitation for commercial or other purposes . My outraged surprise at this action by groups who should know better was turned into horror upon reading the Topics column in your July 1 edition . First , the bill , passed by the Legislature , but later withdrawn , is an amendment to the Child Abuse and Neglect statutes , not an anti-pornography bill . Therefore , words such as " obscene ? do not apply . There is no obscene or non-obscene burning , flaying , or beating of a child . Likewise , there is no obscene or non-obscene sexual performance . Every use of a child for exploitive sexual needs of an adult is obscene by definition . There are no First Amendment issues here . The First Amendment was written ' to protect freedom of expression , not freedom of action . One should not ' be able to defend the ovens at Auschwitz because they were part of a Cecil B. de Mine spectacular . Unless the Governor signs such leggratifying . It shows a new awareness of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of workers with low ( transferable ) skills . Adjustment assistance shows little sign of being adequate to the task . The Federal Government has never shown itself capable of effective retraining and redeployment in peacetime . Money grants are not enough . The dignity of productive employment is essential . Yet the domestic economy shows no sign of increasing its demand for unskilled workers , who dominate the unemployment rolls . Moreover , the problem seems to be growing as the ranks of the unskilled swell by more than the economy can accommodate . Far better to protect textiles and footwear than to add to the permanently displaced . The North-South probiern can be met by the payment of a " fine " in terms of foreign aid equal to the cost of our protection to the frustrated exporters . The extension of protection to steel and automobiles is not inevitable if political spine is available . One solution which may be preferable to protection through quotas or tariffs is the payment of a subsidy to import-competing industries according to the number of unskilled workers which they employ : Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the industry and from the unions to insure that the subsidy served its , intended purpose . H. PETER GRAY Visiting Professor of International Business New York University New York , June 30 , 1977 islation , the law now stands as follows : It is prohibited for a man to have intercourse with his five-year-old daughter , but not for him to hire her out as " an actress " to star in a film where she is repeatedly raped , as long as Uwe is a disclaimer that such does not reflect on her personal conduct . In the latter instance , her emotional , psychological or physical needs remain unprotected . On January 13 , 1977 , knowing that the United States produces each month over 264 different pornographic magazines using children , Odyssey Institute began the campaign against the use of children for pornographic purposes , ( not against pornography ) . On that date , only six states in the Union so safeguarded their children : Connecticut , North Carolina , North Dakota , South Carolina , Tennessee , and Texas  --  and now Rhode Island @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to press the Governor for prompt action : New York , along with California the leading producer of " kiddie porn , " must join the states that protect rather than destroy . children . JUDIANNE DENSEN-GERBER , M.D. President , Odyssey Institute New York , July 6 , 1977 Child Misuse : ' Obscene by Definition ' Gulf Oil 's Involvement With the Uranium Cartel : Where Were the Auditors ? To the Editor : Congratulations on your June 18 editorial " Gulf , Cartels . and Corporate Citizenship , " wherein you refer to the overt collusive conduct by officials of Gulf Oil Corporation in the implementation of:a uranium cartel . The details of that involvement surfaced during ? the course of hearings by a Congressional oversight committee . These disclosures coincide with the recent revelations of.bribery by Gulf officials of representatives of the Internal . Revenue Service who were auditing the corporation 's income tax returns . What seems already to have been forgotten are the tales of perfidious conduct told just two years ago-at the hearings of a Senate subcommittee ( that of multinational corporations of . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tales involving illegal and illicit payments to officials and political parties in Korea and Italy as well as the United States which prompted a cri de coeur from the committee 's chairman , Senator Frank Church : " It is time for plain speaking . A cancer is eating away at the vitals of Western society , and that cancer is corruption , corruption on an endemic scale . " But all this is prologue to pointing up that Gulf has for ' decades been the subject of independent audit by Price Waterhouse* Company , a firm which is ( according to the testimony of its senior partner before another Senate committee  --  that headed by Senator Lee Metcalf Investigating the " Accounting Establishment " ) " one of the oldest and ... one of the most proficient and respected of the independent accounting firms in the country and in the world . " That senior partner 's assertion Is undoubtedly fair , but merely serves to underscore the questions : In the light of ? that proclaimed proficiency and high regard , where were the auditors while all of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been ? Undoubtedly . after this round of Metcalf committee hearings the audi . tors will be somewhat more circumspect ? their debits and . credit . But how will ' they move to respond to the essential demands of society for the auditors ' assurances of complete visibility and accountability from our major corporations ? My professional colleagues should be much informed by the observation by S.E.C. Chairman Harold ? M. WilRams , testifying before the Metcalf committee , that " society has become much more concerned with the ethics of corporate management and the impact of corporate behavior , and a fundamental challenge facing the accounting profession is the need to understand its role in meeting these new demands . " Just a decade ago Justice William 0 . Douglas , writing about the corresponding burdens then sought to be imposed on the independent auditing profession , concluded , " If the accounting profession does not respond effectively to the challenges presented , there may be little alternative but to have possibly a new profession fill the breach . " Gulf Oil , et at , are clear manifestations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ met the challenges to which Justice Douglas alluded . Will it commit itself to doing so in the immediate future ? Let it be remembered that we are ten years closer to the dismal alternative . ABRAHAM J. BRILOFP New York , July 1 , 1977 The writer is Emanuel Sax . Distinguished Professor of Accountancy at Baruch College of the City University . ? Gulf Role : ' Within the Law ' To the Editor : You editorialized on June 18 regarding Gulf 's participation in a foreign uranium cartel , suggesting that our . participation therein reflects adversely on our position as a " good corporate citizen " of the United States . Unfortunately for corporations that attempt to operate on an international basis , the concept of corporate citizenship is recognized by the host countries a : well as the home countries of multinationals . The United States demands that foreign corporations operating within its borders adhere to certain regulations that their homelands might not require . The same can be said of foreign governments of the countries in which Gulf is required to operate . Indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrender certain documents pertaining to the cartel to Congress , we were severely criticized by the Canadian Government . The Canadian Government 's sensitivity to this issue is more understandable when it is recognized that one of the reasons it helped form the uranium marketing arrangement was in response to the United States Government 's efforts to control the uranium market by banning the use of foreign uranium in U.S. reactors . With our nation 's system of regulation and justice , corporations and citizens are alike expected to avoid violating established precepts . When viola . tions are deemed to have occurred by , the authorities , they are dealt with ? through legal procedures . Gulf is convin red that its participation in the uranium marketing arrangement was within the strictures of the law . WILLIAM E. MOFFETT Vice President , Gulf Oil Corporation Pittsburgh , July 1 , 1977                     