@@731202

txt Tribune Photo by James O'Leary Ford.defends Nixon 's tape stand Youngsters reaching out for Vice President Ford in Tinley Park yesterday , Later , Ford said the White House has not kept him informed on Watergate developments , but defended the President . Story on page 9 . Nixon refuses to release tapes By Glen Elsasser and Aldo Beckman Chicago Tribune Press Service WASHINGTON , Feb. 14 ? Special Prosecutor Leon Jaworskl told the Senate Judiciary Committee today that President Nixon has personally refused to produce additional tapes and documents he needs to conduct the Watergate Investigation . Jaworski 's complaint , voiced in a letter to Sen. James 0 . Eastland D. , Miss. , committee chairman , was seen as an attempt to call congressional and public attention to Nixon 's pledge of cooperation when Jaworskl was hired . It is the first public confrontation between the White House and the second special prosecutor and comes at a time when the first major indictments from Jaworski were considered imminent . WHITE ROUSE sources said the President , in rejecting Jaworski 's request , personally overruled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James St. ? Clair , and the special prosecutor under which the evidence would have been handed over . The sources said St. Clair had decided , without Nixon 's approval , to make the evidence available on the condition that Jaworski would seek nothing more regarding the main investigation of Watergate and ' the coverup . Surprised when Jaworski agreed to the condition , the sources said St. Clair took the agreement to Nixon for approval and was turned down . In his letter , Jaworski confirmed he told St. Clair on Feb. 8 that " If the outstanding requests were granted , we would have no further requests for evidence relating to the grand My 's investigation of the Watergate break-in and coverup . " Specifically , Jaworskl told Eastland that he had been refused tape recordings of 27 Presidential meetings and conversations dealing with the , break-in and coverip . FURTHERMORE , he said that his staff had been denied access to files relating to the " plumbers " and dairy industry contributions allegedly made to the President 's reelection committee in return for increased price supports . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let the special prosecutor 's office look thrii the files of the White House " plumbers , " altho it had turned over to them some documents of one former member of the group , reportedly Egil Bud Krogh . Access to some files of former aide John . D. Ehrlichman also was reportedly denied . " It is now clear that , evidance I deem necessary material to our investigation will not be forthcoming , " Jaworski said in the letter to Eastland . He said he had been in ; formed by letter " that the President has refused to reconsider his earlier decision to terminate his cooperation with thisinvestigation , at least with regard to producing any tape recordings of Presidential conversations . " A SIMILAR decision by Nixon last year resulted in the firing of the first special prosecutor , Archibald Cox , sparkMg a chain reaction which also cost the jobs of then Atty . Gen. Elliot Richardson and his deputy , William Ruckelg : haus . Unlike Cox , Jaworski took his complaint to the Senate Judiciary Committee as he had promised during the confirmation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time De said that any attempt to " manipulate " or " cfrcumvent " his office would be reported to the committee . THE COMMITTEE is net expected to act on Jaworski 's ' letter until Tuesday when it opens bearings on the nominaLeon Jaworski tion of a new deputy attorney general . Jaworski told Eastland that the dispute would not delay indictments , expected later this month , in the Watergate break-in and coverup.                     