@@729625

txt The presidential election and the whole constitutional system built painstakingly in South Vietnam over the past five years at the cost of 45 ; 000 American lives now are being turned into a farce by President Thieu 's clumsy maneuvers to assure his return to office with a large majority . Continued connivance by the American Ambassador in these extraordinary tactics , designed to create the appearance of a contested election , will disgrace the United States before the world  --  a disgrace compounded by Vice President Ky 's decision to withdraw from the race whether or not his name remains on the ballot . Ambassador Bunker 's tut-tutting for eight months failed to convince General Thieu that the United States was more interested in a genuine election than in his victory . If that has not been the American position , it ought to he . It is still not too late for President Nixon to assert that view and change events in Saigon . He may have to change ambassadors at the same time . It has been increasingly evident since January , when General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a significant choice for the South Vietnamese voters required at least a three-way race , a prospect that for a brief period appeared possible . It became clear that only a three-way race would give the chief opposition candidate , General Duong Van ( Big ) Minh , a chance of overcoming General Thieu 's enormous advantages as a wartime incumbent in control of the police , the army , the state radio-television monopoly , the provincial governors , a huge bureaucracy , vast patronage and billions in American aid . But despite these advantages  --  and others , less legal , that now are coming to light  --  President Thieu has resorted to one unscrupulous device after another to prevent multiple candidacies or even a three-way race . He purported not to believe General Minh 's threats to withdraw from a rigged two-man race , leaving Mr. Thieu embarrassingly alone on the ballot . And his hand-picked province chiefs and supreme court justices then proceeded on a technicality to block the last remaining third-party candidate , Vice President Ky . President Thieu 's tricky turn-around after General Mirth 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My as the sole opposition candidate , quickly closing the lists to prevent General Minh from returning to the race or Air Marshal My from removing his name  --  turns comedy into bathos . The crisis created by Big Minh 's withdrawal can not be overcome by this cosmetic solution , especially since Ambassador Bunker , who evidently helped to instigate it , has not been able to persuade the ambitious Vice President to campaign . Neither the world nor the South Vietnamese people would have considered a Thieu  --  Ky race as offering more than a tweedledum-tweedledee choice , however much the two men hate each other . General Minh 's candidacy aroused interest because , though a former military man , he had the backing of important civilian opposition groups  --  the Buddhists , southern Catholics , intellectuals , students and antiwar elements generally . Moreover , as President Nixon acknowledged Aug. 4 , there were indications that Hanoi 's refusal to negotiate with Saigon would give way to a new attitude if General Minh took the helm . A three-way race can still be brought about , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respond to the evidence of alleged election rigging General Minh handed to the deputy American ambassador , Samuel Berger , on Aug. 12 . One 5,000-word document contained President Thieu 's secret directive to his province chiefs instructing them to harass the opposition and use all means to assure his election and that of pro-Government candidates . General Minh held up his withdrawal to give the United States time to remedy the situation ; but Ambassador Bunker , then in Washington , evidently brought back to Saigon insufficient assurances that the Nixon Administration would insist on a fair election . If such assurances were to be given , constitutional devices are available to reopen the presidential lists . The supreme court can be employed again for this purpose . Parliament could be brought back-into session to amend the electoral law . As a last resort  --  perhaps the best alternative  --  a Thieu-Ky resignation would bring into being a caretaker government under the president of the senate that could enact a new electoral law and assure fair play to all parties . The moral purpose of the United States in Vietnam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Nixon , has been to enable the South Vietnamese people to choose their own government . If that effort now must be written off as a failure , there will no longer be even the appearance of a valid argument against speedy withdrawal of American troops and the termination of American military and economic aid .                     