@@728620

txt The Soviet Union today delivered a sharp attack on Communist China , accusing the Mao Tsetung leadership of seeking domination in Asia , of rejecting calls for concerted action in Indochina and creating an antiSoviet war psychosis at home . A 6,000-word editorial in Pravda , the Communist party newspaper , was the most authoritative statement on Soviet attitudes toward China since another Pravda editorial last August warned that the border troubles raised the possibility of nuclear war . The tone of today 's article was polemical and was prompted , as the editorial explained , by an attack against the Soviet leaders last month at the time of the celebrations marking the 100th anniversary of Lenin 's birth . No Improvement Seen Western diplomats tended to accept at face value the Soviet explanation of why the statement was made now  --  that it was a reply to the Chinese attacks in April against Leonid I. Brezhnev , the party leader , whom Peking accused of taking over the reins of the " renegade clique . " The bitterness of the language and the criticism of Chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been no substantial improvement in relations between the two countries despite nearly seven months of talks about the border dispute and other issues . For those searching for clues to current international crises , particularly the fighting in Cambodia and Vietnam , the ' statement was ambiguous . It came close to saying that Peking had rejected a Soviet call for concerted action in Cambodia . United Front at Issue " Peking has shown the imperialists that it does not intend to join in concerted actions with the U.S.S.R. and other socialist countries against imperial aggression . " Pravda said . " Such a position has undoubtedly encouraged imperialist circles to carry out their antipeople designs and plans . The latest events give added proof of this . " A close reading of that paragraph seemed to indicate that Moscow was criticizing Peking for past failures to cooperate in Vietnam , thereby " encouraging " Washington to send forces into Cambodia . But diplomats believe North Vietnam is at the present time trying to get together a united front with the Soviet Union and China , and they were hesitatnt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In what appeared to be a warning to North Vietnam and other " liberation fighters , " the statement said the Chinese leaders " are trying to use the heroic struggle of peoples for freedom in their own global intrigues , being led in this by the Great Han Chinese dream of becoming the new emperors of ' the Great China , ' which would rule , if not the whole world , then at least Asia . " This was seen as an indirect warning to Prince Norodom Sihanouk of Cambodia , now living in Peking , that he might be used by Peking for its own ends . This stress on Chinese expansionism has been a recurrent theme in Soviet attacks . It was underscored in the latest statement , which accused the Chinese rulers of turning their country into a military barracks society in which emphasis was on " the coming war . " Pravda charged that the Peking leaders were seeking " to portray the Soviet Union as an enemy more dangerous than American imperialism . " " Peking accompanies its entire campaign of militarizing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with other socialist countries , slogans to fight for the overthrow of the socialist system in those countries , " it said . Discussing the border crises of last year . Pravda was rather restrained . It said that " it is well known that China 's leaders have made unfounded territorial claims to the land of its neighbors , including the Soviet Union . " " As the result of these claims and a subsequent arousing of hatred toward neighboring peoples , the Chinese People 's Republic provoked a series of border conflicts , " Pravda added . About the Peking talks , the statement said the Soviet Union " takes a clear and unambiguous position on the question of normalizing the situation on the Soviet-Chinese border . " " Our country regards it as necessary to achieve an agree ment that would allow the bor der to be turned into one of good - neighborly relations , " Pravda said . Pravda said the launching of the Chinese satellite last month " is being used to heat up nationalist passions and as a threat to our country . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development by China or powerful rockets that could carry nuclear warheads to the center of Russia , but this was the first suggestion in the Soviet media that the satellite might pose a threat to Moscow .                     