@@728952

txt President Nixon spent two hours with his chief negotiators at the Paris peace talks today , amid rising speculation that the United States is about to propose a major new initiative aimed at ending the war in Viet Nam thru a negotiated settlement . The meeting with David Bruce , chief negotiator , and his assistant , Philip Habib , who flew to Ireland last night from Paris , was held in Kllfrush House , the estate of a Nixon family friend , John Mulcahy , an Irish-American millionaire , The Nixons are staying at Kilfrush House during their 48-hour visit to Ireland , the final step on the President 's nine  --  day European tour . Secretary of State William Rogers and Henry Kissinger , the President 's assistant for national security affairs . sat in on the meeting . Ronald L. Z i e g l e r , White House press secretary , said that Nixon received a complete report on the negotiations , which dealt specifically with events since Bruce took over as chief negotiator two months ago . Bruce was believed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Vietnam ese negotiators , but Ziegler insisted that no " massive set of new instructions " was issued by the President . However , White House officials made it a point not to deny that the reported new initiative was discussed . Will Brief Congress , Nixon will report to congressional leaders on today 's discussions and on the entire foreign trip later this week , Ziegler said . He said no date has been set , but both Democratic and Republican leaders will be involved in the session . Nixon also is expected to report , directly to the American people on the trip within a few days after he returns to Washington tomorrow night . No decision has been made on whether that will be in the form of a nationally-televised address or a press conference . After the session today Nixon spent the remainder of his last full day in Europe enjoying the palatial surroundings of Kilfrush House . Tonight , Nixon hosted a reception at nearby Dromoland Castle , now converted to a hotel , for reporters who have , accompanied him on the trip . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AI ? A thousand Communist-led Irish demonstrators marched on the United States Embassy today , staged a mock trial of President Nixon and burned him in effigy to the music of an Irish reel . Three hundred unarmed police guarded the embassy building . The only incident occurred . when about 60 young protesters headed for the side door and three of them scuffled briefly with a line of policemen . Otherwise , the demonstration was ' orderly and tightly organized , with songs and music from loud speakers echoing over the jammed street . The march was to protest Nixon ' s visit to Ireland and American policy in Viet Nam .                     