@@731925

txt This is the season of American discomfiture as its purposes in Vietnam come to an end in dismay and disorder . At this writing it is not certain that it will be possible to bring out of Saigon peacefully all Americans and the Vietnamese who are associated with them . It also is the season of fresh opportunities for the Soviet Union . Most prominent overt action by the Soviets has been the staging of the largest and most widespread naval maneuvers in the life story of the Soviet ( and Russian ) Navy . It would have been a proud week indeed for Czar Peter the Great who founded the Russian Navy and who dreamed of its being able some day to roam the high seas . Over the past week four Soviet fleets roamed those high seas . The Baltic and Northern fleets were out in the North Atlantic practicing antisubmarine warfare . The Pacific fleet was off Japan perhaps testing out ways and means of pushing American sea power back to mid-Pacific . The Black Sea fleet was in the Mediterranean ? most prominently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Africa . NATO observers counted 220 major Soviet surface warships in the deployment to the high seas . The latest annual report on the world 's Military Balance , " published by the International Institute of Strategic Studies , credits the Soviet Navy with 221 such major surface vessels against 177 American major surface vessels . In other words , the entire Soviet surface Navy has been at sea at those places deemed most strategic in terms of control of the sea lanes of the world . // *Soviets show a big ' fleet // Moscow did not advertise these maneuvers . But they took place during the final stages of the American disengagement from Southeast Asia . No Soviet propagandist drew the conclusion that Moscow is gaining in ability to service its clients as Washington abandons Vietnam ( former President Thieu of Vietnam called it betrayal ) . It was n't necessary . Events spoke for themselves . This quiet flexing of Soviet naval muscle was accompanied by repeated assurances of Soviet devotion to detente and by the studious absence of any word or deed which could be considered provocative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Portugal . There was no loud propaganda-crowing over the triumph of communism in Vietnam and Cambodia . There was no pressure on the United States over the Middle East . On the contrary , Washington was relieved to find that Moscow was not at the moment pushing hard for a second round at Geneva . In other words , Moscow is practicing precisely what Teddy Roosevelt used to preach ; to walk softly , but carry a big stick . The stick is impressive , but Moscow is also treading softly at all points of sensitivity around the world . Indeed the Soviets seemed to have relearned much from recent experience . This is subtle and sophisticated diplomacy . The PATTERN OF DIPLOMACY bludgeon once used on Hungary and Czechoslovakia is locked away in the closet . It raises in Washington the question of post-Vietnam American strategy . Secretary of Defense James R. Schlesinger is preaching at any and every possible opportunity the doctrine of larger , not lower , military budgets . He is particularly stressing the importance of meeting the Soviet reach for sea power . The naval balance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mere numbers of major surface ships would indicate . For instance , the Soviets have only one aircraft carrier . The Americans have 13 big carriers . But while American naval policy has concentrated on building nuclear deterrent power ? in which the United States still has a commanding lead in numbers of deliverable nuclear blows ? the Soviets have been brushing up on Admiral Mahan , the great American theoretician on seapower , and have been building a lot of small ships capable of producing a Soviet naval presence in all of the oceans of the world . It would almost seem that Moscow had decided that there is not going to be a nuclear war but that there may well be a long period of nonnuclear competition for range of influence in the world . As of today it needs to be said that the Soviets are more faithful disciples of Admiral Mahan than are his own Americans .                     