@@734352

txt Letters Haskell Ward , the Public Servant To the Editor : As a former public official in the field of human service , I believe there is a perspective to the resignation of Haskell Ward as Deputy Mayor that has escaped far too many amid the controversies and drama surrounding that resignation . Haskell Ward accepted a senior post in the current New York City administration at a time when the geography for the battle to salvage the city 's human services was strewn with hairtrigger mines and booby traps . He accepted the challenge knowing that he would have to bear the wounds of the sharpest verbal lances of adversaries , who would give no quarter . He steeled himself against the castigation that are the natural and frequently only weapon against the armor of adamant authority . I believe that Haskell Ward was prepared to accept , from within as well as without his campground , the bickering and obstinacies of his adversaries . Throughout his tenure as Deputy Mayor for Human Services he refused to counter anger with anger or submit to demands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the roles of ogres , idiots or demagogues . I believe also that even within constituent groups reaching out in concern there are conflicts . But such conflicts must never be allowed to submerge a common cause . Many of us frequently differed with and even strongly opposed plans developed or articulated by Haskell Ward . It must be recognized , certainly by those in appointive positions , that as a member of the official family of the administration , Haskell Ward could not justify voicing his private notions on policy . Each appointee must decide for himself or herself when the difference with an administration 's policy is no longer tolerable . What must now be obvious to the full spectrum of his critics is that his objective was assuring that the policies he developed and administered promoted the well-being of the people , not how far he could project himself ? the two goals are incompatible . Though he has remained mute on the reasons for his resignation , it is clear that his choice was made out of his own integrity . It may be that morality is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choice to correct a mistake in order not to commit yet another mistake . That is what friend and foe alike are called upon to recognize about Haskell Ward . As one who has experienced the crucible of sharp differences with a number of communities while in public office , I do not believe that Haskell Ward need feel he is alone . His integrity and morality are recognized by a greater constituency than he dreams of . JAMES R. DUMPSON New York , Aug. 27 , 1979 The writer is a former New York City Human Resources Administrator and Commissioner of Social Services . When Government The Folly of Using Oil to Make Cloth Allots Health Care To the Editor : The assurances of Melvin A. Glasser ( letter Aug. 30 ) that health care under national health insurance will not be rationed are belied by the fact that the Federal Government is currently rationing medical care . The Government has coerced the states , by threatening to cut off funding for certain medical causes , to enact certificate-of-need legislation , which inhibits growth of hospitals and prevents what people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other words . if you need a special test , we will ship you 30 or 40 miles away by ambulance . The statutory limitation on medical facilities forces patients to queue up for medical care . An artificial shortage has been created , and there is no evidence that national health insurance will reverse the trend . Glasser bewails the fact that the more affluent have better access to medical care than the less affluent . The closing of hospitals in New York City is not going to affect the more affluent but will certainly ration care for the less affluent and make them spend hard-earned dollars to get to the places where the care is being dispensed . Mr. Glasser 's reference to the Canadian situation is of interest . Quite a few Canadian doctors have recently emigrated to the United States . The trouble with national health insurance , as with so many Federal bureaucracies , is that the first generation may feel a dedication to the service , but this dedication is not transmitted to those administrators who follow . By the fourth generation , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Toms River , N.J. , Aug. 31 , 1979 Ulster Peace Via U.N . To the Editor : If on the one hand the British Army is an irritating factor in an explosive situation and if on the other hand the I.R.A . can not be trusted with weapons , why would it not be a good idea to bring in a United Nations peacekeeping force ? In this way the British forces could be withdrawn with no loss of face , the I.R.A . could be controlled and the Irish themselves could make their own plans for their own future . F. K. GARDNER Locust Valley , Li. , Aug. 29 , 1979 To the Editor This country has been using polyester and other synthetic fabrics for decades , but supposedly the world now has a better understanding of the limitations of fossil fuels , so I feel obliged to comment on India 's reported desire How Not to Chose Civil Court Judges To the Editor : Your Aug. 25 editorial urging a change in the method of selecting Civil Court judges was shocking . The Times is now advocating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of merit but on a basis that makes ethnicity a primary qualification . You concede that the candidates now listed are qualified , but you single out the fact that they are Jews ( or have Jewish-sounding names ) as in some way making their selection less desirable . For The Times to raise this issue smacks of racism . Certainly neither the candidates nor the Jews as a group have barred any other group from running for office or from voting . Members of the judiciary should represent the city as a whole if they are to discharge their function fairly to all citizens . Unlike councilmen or assemblymen , who represent the interests of a given district , they have a much broader responsibility . Ethnicity is increasingly becoming a divisive factor in our pluralistic society . If our democratic form of government is to survive , we must offer to all who are qualified the opportunity to serve and preserve our traditional pattern of free elections by all those who choose to vote . JOSEPH H. AARON Brooklyn , Aug. 27 , 1979 to begin manufacturing a mixture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether to mix polyester with cotton fiber is not how hot or cool the cloth will be , or how wrinkle-free , or how much longer-wearing , or how much productivity will grow , or to what degree wages will increase , but rather : Can the earth afford further depletion of its finite resources ? Can we afford to spend its oil on making cloth ? Cotton is cool ; it can be woven tightly enough to last the user a conspicuous part of a lifetime ; it can be grown without the use of chemical ( oilbased ) fertilizers ; it is a renewable , biodegradable product ; it can be recycled . The same can not be said for synthetic fibers . The shortsighted use of the earth 's capital must end . Would n't it be wise for countries everywhere to exercise greater care in their use of this capital ? I am a wearer of natural fibers . KAREN EBERHARDT Wilton , Conn. , Aug. 30 , 1979 Unique Grievance Of the Palestinians To the Editor : Ralph J. Benko 's Sept. 1 letter to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under a superficial analogy to the Kurdish question . Kurds and Iranians have shared the same territory and the same sovereignty for millennia . No outsiders have displaced the Kurds from their homeland or proclaimed an alien sovereignty on it . Now it appears that certain Kurdish elements are bent on secession , which the central government is not prepared to agree to . The fundamental difference between this situation and the Palestinian problem is obvious . No other people in modem times has been evicted from its homeland to accommodate newcomers who claim " better " metaphysical title to the land . The genesis of the modern state of Israel is conveniently forgotten when making facile but erroneous analogies between it and other members of the international community having difficulties with their ethnic or other minorities . If the Palestinian problem is ever to be solved , the first step is to recognize it for what it is : a unique problem calling for a unique solution . FATIMA BADR Melville , L.I. , Sept. 1 , 1979 Why the War for Zimbabwe Independence Must Continue Letter : On Andrew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To the Editor : In your Aug. 26 editorial charging President Carter with failure to speak out on the donnybrook over Andrew Young 's resignation as our Ambassador to the United Nations , you yourself omitted comment upon a central tact in the case . The omission did an injustice to Israel and American Jews , and the failure was typical of the editorial comment in the nation 's press . The press reported Mr. Young 's apparent violation of policy in meeting covertly with the P.L.O . representative . It told about his half-truth in reporting the secret session to his superiors . It also reported the anger of black leadership at Israel and American Jewry for allegedly bringing Ambassador Young down . But few , if any , newspapers troubled to recite the truth about the Jewish or Israeli role . The simple fact is that neither Israel nor American Jews had any part in the departure of the Ambassador . Mr. Young 's voluntary withdrawal was inevitable , and was submitted for no other reason but that he had withheld the whole truth from the White House . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any discovered liar in his Administration would be looking for a Job the next day . Nor would it have mattered what was the subject of the Ambassador 's falsehood . Had it concerned not the P.L.O . but the Soviet Union , Great Britain , South Africa or whatever , the outcome would have been the same . These facts ignored , the Rev. Jesse Jackson , prominent Chicago black spokesman , and the Rev. Joseph Lowery of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference , with premeditation convened an emergency meeting of black leaders and agencies that surely represented a substantial cross-section of American blacks . There the two leaders declaimed , among other things , that Israel and American Jews were to blame for the fall of Andrew Young . The others were silent ; they did not reject the false charge , a cowardly surrender by respected black leaders to the organized hysteria of the black extremists . In my 40 years of fighting racial and religious bigotry , I never thought I 'd see the black people of our land try to achieve equality with whites by scapegoating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institute , bless his courage , has thus far dared to speak out in protest . And the press ? By neglecting to nail the lie , It has permitted a black-Jewish confrontation to fester ; it has denied its readers the full story ; it created the vacuum since filled by President Carter with his pious declarations about interracial brotherly love conquering all . ARNOLD FORSTER General Counsel , Anti-Defamation League of Wnal B'rith New York , Aug. 31 , 1979 To the Editor : In an Aug. 28 letter , Bishop Abel Muzorewa , the so-called Prime Minister of Rhodesia , said in effect he should have been invited to the last Commwealth Summit Conference to tell the delegates that colonial rule had ended in Zimbabwe . The Bishop and his puppet regime were not invited to this conference of independent former British colonies because the regime is illegal and Rhodesia is still a British colony . In the course of arguing his case , Muzorewa said he would have told the summit that Nkomo 's liberation forces are led by Soviet generals . This is a familiar tactic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal with problems , they raise the Communist bogeyman in the hope of diverting world opinion from the real issues . Both Muzorewa and all his white generals know full well there are no Soviet generals in the Zimbabwe People 's Revolutionary Army , the armed wing of the Zimbabwe African People 's Union . Muzorewa can not produce a single Soviet General as proof of this claim . He can not imagine his own people , the black people , efficient enough to rout the settler and mercenary armed bandits . He therefore must ascribe their obvious daily successes to white generals from the Soviet Union . Despite an elaborate confidence game masterminded by Smith , Muzorewa , Sithole and Chi rau in staging the so-called elections , the people of Zimbabwe and the international community saw through the deception and lies and have overwhelmingly rejected the fraud . Even governments which have the most to gain by maintaining colonialism in Zimbabwe , like those of Britain and the United States , have said that the elections were not free and fair and that the constitution is undemocratic . Besides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was in face of overwhelming evidence showing massive coercion of people to vote , illegal voting by noncitizens , multiple voting , ballot stuffing and other irregularities that Muzorewa 's friends had no choice but to bow to the truth . Muzorewa 's quest for personal glory prevents him from seeing that he and the other black members of the socalled parliament have no power . The Bishop deliberately lies when he says that his parliament can enact legislation in " virtually all aspects of the daily lives of our citizens . " Twentyeight white members of parliament out of 100 have the power under the constitution to block any attempts to amend the constitution and to pass any other legislation whose effect is to diminish the stranglehold which the white minority has on power . None of the aspects fundamental to the destruction of the colonial state can be changed by a simple majority . The constitution stipulates that at least 78 members must support any such measure for it to pass . There is no way the 28 white members are going to join in removing their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qualifications and terms of service of the all-white civil service . Nor does he control the other elements of state , namely the police , the army and the judiciary . Muzorewa heads an army he does not control , and , indeed , he heads a so-called government only as a puppet of the white minority . By virtue of the circumscription of the power of parliament , every minister 's power is circumscribed . This is the essence of the colonial regime in Salisbury . We have fought the settlers not because they are white but because they are representatives of British colonial interests . As long as the colonial state ( under whatever disguise ) is not dismantled completely , the war for national liberation and independence will continue . This is no more than an affirmation of the universally recognized principle that all people have the right to self-determination . There can be neither a Zimbabwe nor peace until this is realized . MTSHANA NCUBE Chief Representative for the United States and Canada Zimbabwe African People 's Union ( Patriotic Front ) New York , Sept. 5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             