@@731016

txt The crowd in the market place cheered this afternoon as a convoy of Saudi Arabian armored cars , tanks , and trucks rolled by us on the way to the front . " All the Arab countries are on our side , " shouted a teenage boy watching the convoy rumble thru this small trading center 50 miles south of the Syrian capital of Damascus . " Yesterday the Jordanian troops passed thru here . We have also seen the Iraqis . " The display of Arab unity was all the more evident as we drove north toward Damascus paralleling the region of the Golan Heights where Israeli and Arab forces are locked in stiff , largely unreported conflict . WE PASSED by a small airbase from which ** were taking off in pairs to fly to the front and then , several miles later , saw tanks and armored cars rumbling across an enorm o u s encampment in the desert . " Jordanian , " said a Syrian soldier , pointing at several British-made Centurion tanks . " Iraq , " he said nodding in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mounting here to go to the battle . " As we drove on up the road , tanks mounted on truck trailers roared at us from Damascus ? brand new models apparently just sent here in the last few days . A convoy of civilian trucks carrying ammunition turned off the road , onto a side road leading to a mound several miles from the front . " THERE IS VERY heavy fighting over there , " said one of the military policemen ; forbidding us to follow the convoy . " Why should you want to go there ? It is very dangerous . " We rested in a bomb shelter by the road sipping tea with some Syrian soldiers . In the distance we could hear the erumps of exploding bombs drifting perhaps 20 or 30 miles over the desert . Occasionally we could also hear an artillery barrage . " We will defeat them no matter how long it takes , " said one of the soldiers , reflecting the ritual optimism of the nation 's top leaders . " We will drive them away from our land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighting . " Hereby the road you could almost sense the reality of the war  --  still a distance phenomenal to the citizenry of the capital excefit during occasional Israeli air raids . IT WAS DIFFICULT to tell , from miles away , just how the war was going . All that we knew with any certainty was that the Arab forces were building up for a prolonged fight ? and that they suffered from no shortage of heavy weapons and ammunition . " We have many soldiers and arms , " an army officer assured me . " The road to the front is crowded with them . They are waiting for , battle . There is much fighting . You can see the Arabs are united . Victory will be ours . "                     