@@734448

txt JERUSALEM  --  Prime Minister Alenathem Begin severely reprimanded his chief delegate to the Palestinian autonomy talks Sunday for saying Israel would negotiate with the Palestine Liberation Organization if the guerrillas stop terrorism for three years and change their charter , which calls for the elimination of the Jewish state . Begin said Israel would never negotiate with the PLO under any conditions and called upon his Cabinet to abide by this iron-clad policy without exception , Cabinet sources said . Several hardline Cabinet ministers also strongly criticized Interior Minister Yosef Burg for the remarks , made two weeks ago in London at the last session of negotiations between Israel , Egypt , and the United States for self-rule in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip . " I SAID THAT after three-year , nonterror ... together with a change in the PLO charter , could also bring a change in our attitude , " Burg told reporters after the weekly cabinet meeting . " I believe it is logical . " Burg added that as long as the guerrillas maintained their charter and terrorist activity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said his views were consistent with standing government policy . " I believe like Begin that there can not be any negotiations with the PLO as they are , " Burg said . " What I was saying was something that might be in 1983 . But today , in 1979 , I am absolutely together with the policy of the government . " THE CABINET anger over Burg 's statement reflected deep concern in Jerusalem over the PLO 's successful diplomatic offensive in recent months . After gaining statements of support from several Western European countries , PLO chairman Yasser Arafat was received in Lisbon over the weekend by Portuguese officials . Arafat arrived in Lisbon from Algiers , where he had met U.S. National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski at a reception marking the 25th anniversary of Algerian independence from France . Washington is committed to Israel in writing not to negotiate or recognize the PLO until the guerrillas accept United Nations resolutions acknowleding Israel 's right to exist , ADDRESSING A RALLY in Lisbon , Arafat said he had exchanged a few friendly words with Brzezinski and had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lose your job like Andrew Young . " Arafat was referring to the former United Nations ambassador who was forced to resign in August over an unauthorized meeting with a PLO official . In other developments , Defense Minister Ezer Weizman flew to Cairo Sunday for talks with Egyptian President Anwar Sadat on Egyptian oil sales to Israel . On Nov. 26 , Israel is scheduled to hand back the Alma oil fields in the Sinai Desert under the Israeli-Egyptian peace treaty , but no agreement has been reached on tile price Israel will pay for ? its requested two million tons of Egyptian oil a year . THE ISRAELI cabinet will hold a spe // dal session Tuesday to debate the future of Jewish settlements in the occupied Arab territories . The government 's hawkish settlement chief , Agriculture Minister Ariel Sharon , will offer en $83.3 million plan envisioning the establishment of 16 new Jewish outposts in the West Bank over the next year . Tho issue threatens to bring down the Begin regime , with hardliners warning they will resign if Sharon 's plan le rejected . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewish expansion have indicated they will withdraw from the coalition if the program is adopted . Begin 's ' coalition controls 64 seats in the 120-member Parliament . A walkout by either hardliners or moderates would take away his majority and precipitate early general elections ,                     