@@730746

txt STRONG WINDS tore thru the Chicago area last night , leaving a trail of damage behind and causing a major alarm at the International Amphitheatre where an audience of 7,000 was watching a Walt Disney Production . The winds lifted 200-pound concrete slabs from the peak of the amphitheatre roof , opening up five holes and sending debris tumbling onto spectators . Three persons were injured and near panic occurred before firemen and ushers restored order . The performance was halted and the big crowd filed out . Wind gusts reached 55 miles an hour from the southeast at Midway Airport and 67 miles an hour at a crib two miles out in Lake Michigan . WHILE THEY lasted , the winds tore off storm doors and awnings of residences and sent them flying thru neighborhoods , frightening some persons who thought a tornado had struck . Trees were toppled and power lines snapped . Only a little rain fell . ' In the Loop and on Michigan Avenue , city refuse baskets were blown around . Windows were shattered in the new Sears Tower at Adams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streets . Policemen were assigned to divert pedestrians until the winds abated . I In Blue Island , two plate glass windows were blown out of the Woolworth store and traffic signals were knocked out at one intersection . A teenager directed traffic with a flashlight until police arrived . TINLEY PARK and Worth reported many power lines and trees down . In Oak Lawn , trees fell into the side of two buildings . Persons in the audience of the Disney on Parade show at the International Amphitheater first were alerted that something was amiss by a rumbling noise on the roof . Vernon Abbott , a member of The Tribune production department , said people shifted nervously in their seats as they heard the rumble , 20 minutes after the show h a d started . Then , he said , a shower of debris fell in the northeast section of the auditorium where some folding seats has been set up . " SOME CHUNKS about S inches in diameter began to fall , " he said . " Some people started running toward exits , but were quieted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are Mrs. Marion Melder , 25 , of 7209 S. Merrill Av. , who suffered a cut on her face , and Mrs. Portia Holcomb , 21 , of 436 E. 58th Pl. , who said she was hit in back by debris . Mark Larson , 5 , of 5215 W. Winona Av. , was treated in Mercy Hospital . An Amphitheater spokesman said this afternoon 's matinee had been canceled , but that the Friday night show is still scheduled .                     