@@732378

txt Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas withdrew . today from the 1976 Presidential ' race , saying that it would not be " useful or productive " to continue because of his poor showing in the early caucuses . The Senator , a moderate Democrat who spent almost $2 million in more than two years trying unsuccessfully to break free from the political pack , said he would attempt to lead a favorite-son delegation to the Democratic National Convention in New York next summer . He was the second Demociat to pull out of what was originally an 11-candidate con- test . A few weeks ago , former Gov . Terry Sanford of North Carolina withdrew after failing to : improve his low standing in-the polls . Senator Bentsen blamed political " polarization " for the failure of his candidacy . He said that ideological extremism had made it " pretty tough " for a moderate to win in today 's politics . The Senator refused to swing his support behind any other candidate , but said : " If either party nominates an extremist , that party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ running for the Democratic Presidential nomination in 1973 but did not officially announce his candidacy until last Feb. 17 , initially intended to enter primaries and caucuses from coast to coast . He had - considerable labor support , mainly because of some prolabor bills he had supported in Washington , and was able to raise a considerable amount of money quickly with the help of experienced Democratic operatives and widespread business connections . But when his standing in the polls did not improve  --  at me end , he still had less than 5 percent of the Democratic vote ? he decided to concentrate on a handful of caucus states in the hope that he could go to New York with enough delegates to be a broker , or perhaps a second choice nominee . The decision to adopt that strategy was accelerated when campaign expenses began to exceed contributions at a time when more and more money was needed for work in primary states . Furthermore , the Senator apparently had reluctantly concluded that his low-key style was better suited for caucus politics . Some members of Mr. Bentsen 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him to step up the pace rather than slow down . One key aide resigned in a huff . The revised strategy called for , major . efforts in the Mississippi and . Oklahoma caucuses . Senator ? Bentsen felt certain that viola do well in election contests , within his native region . But ' when ; the tallies were in , ' the , Senator had run next to lastin both states . In Virginia After that- Came reports that the Senator 's popularity was slipping - id Virginia , another key caucus state in the revised strategy . He decided to get out of nationwide Presidential politics and ? summoned newsmen to a news conference in the-Capitol this afternoon . Grinning with apparent relief , his Eaterti-style suit reflecting his years away from Texas as a member of the House of Representatives and the Senate , Mr. Bentsen said : " I have tried to offer the kind of reasoned , moderate leadership , believe this country needs in . Washington , But after studying the results a the early caucuses , I do not think it would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation . " As a result , I will no longer campaign ' for the Presidency outside of my home state : I will be on the Presidential ballot in Texas and in Texas only , I will be seeking only to lead a delegation - that reflects the view of our state . " He added : " We 've had a good , hard run . " The Senator , who will be 55 years old - tomorrow and who lives in Houston , then said that he would spend the next few months campaigning for reelection to A second term in the Senate . He faces a strong challenge in the primary from Phil , Gramm , an economics professor at Texas A &; M University . Senator Bentsen indicated that he would not object if his rim* were placed in nomination at the convention next summer . But he rated his chance of becoming the nominee by that method as " along shot : " Would he accept a VicePreskiential nomination ? " I would not , " he fired back . Although the Senator 's revised strategy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedure in general at the news conference , referring to it as " smokefilled , room politics . " - He also called for regional primaries to reduce the number of individual primaries currently scheduled-29 or 30 . " There has to be a better way , " he said . Who will benefit most from his withdrawal ? " I hope I do , " he quipped . Because Mr. Bentsen was never a genuinely viable candidate , no other candidate stands to gain much , if anything , from his withdrawal.Aig remains a factor only in the Texas primary on May 1 . What Federal matching funds Senator Bentsen has left will be used to pay off campaign debts incurred prior to today , but no Government money will be used in his favorite-son- bid in the Texas primary . The Senator 's Secret Service detail was dismissed shortly before today 's news conference .                     