@@729098

txt Governor Rockefeller , Mayor Lindsay and representatives of the construction industry and its unions signed an agreement yesterday to speed and expand the training of minority group members here as skilled construction workers . The New York Plan , as it is called , will combine on-the-job training with periods of instruction , counseling and remedial education at a central training facility . The immediate goal is to enroll 800 trainees in the program during its first year ' of operation . Civil rights leaders have long complained that members of minority groups have been excluded from highpaying construction jobs . The plan , whose cost has not yet been determined , will be paid for by the state and city on a 50-50 basis . Federal funds will also be sought , but the program , expected to get under way soon , will proceed even if they are not available . While the state and city are facing budgetary crises , Governor Rockefeller and a City Hall spokesman said there would be no problem about the financing . The state and city will transfer funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor said at a news conference at the Commodore Hotel , where the signing took place , that the plan was " an important step forward " in the effort to provide job opportunities for those who had not had them and " in the effort to get people off welfare and payrolls . " Observing that it was not " easy to change the mores of a society , " the Governor declared that this must be done if society and its institutions were to survive . Mr. Lindsay said he thought it was " a fair and appropriate statement " to say that the plan " even with the weaknesses that may be in it , " was the best of its kind in the country . Noting that the pact had been worked out after more than a year 's negotiations by representatives of the city , state , industry and unions , Mr. Lindsay said it would not only benefit those involved in the program but also would " make for a better city and state and for human progress . " Mr. Rockefeller , Mr. Lindsay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 35 blacks and Puerto Ricans brought to the meeting by James Haughton , director of Harlem and Brooklyn Fight Back , a job placement agency for black and Puerto Rican workers . Cries of ' Fraud ' Countered Cries of " fraud " and " phony " were countered by shouts from trade union leaders filling the seats at the back of the East Ballroom to " give it a chance . " In an unusual show of amity , Mr. Lindsay applauded vigorously when the boos rang out at the end of Mr. Rockefeller 's speech and the Governor reciprocated in like manner when Mr. Lindsay received the same treatment . The two men met yesterday for the first time since some weeks before the Nov. 3 election . During the campaign Mr. Lindsay angered Mr. Rockefel7 ler by supporting Arthur J. Goldberg , the . Governor 's Democratic-Liberal opponent . While waiting to enter the ballroom , the two men chatted for half an hour in an anteroom . Later Mr. Lindsay described this meeting as " very friendly " and said they had discussed cooperation between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor described the talk as " very helpful and productive . " Mr. Haughton and Dennis R. Yeager , director of an employment project at the Columbia University Center on Social Welfare Policy and Law , told newsmen they objected to the New York Plan in part because it would be run by a committee on which the industry and unions would have the majority of the members . They also charged it offered no guarantee of permanent jobs or of union membership . Of the ten members on the administrative committee , three will represent the employers and three the unions . Three representatives of the minority groups will be named jointly by the Mayor and Governor and the tenth member will represent the Board of Urban Affairs . This board , operated by construction labor and management , helped work out the agreement . Continuity Is Stressed Peter J. Brennan : president of , the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York , who signed for the unions , said he was " very serious " about this latest effort to increase minority employment in construction . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Turner Construction Company , who signed for the Building Trades Employers Association , stressed the " continuity " of the training ' process . They said that if a trainee lost his job when a construction project was completed he could go immediately to the central training facility , where he would be paid $80 a week , and then on to another job when it became available . The New York Plan was first announced last March but the signing was delayed while details were being worked out . Mr. Brennan said then the continuity of training was one of its advantages over the Philadelphia Plan . The latter plan , put forward by the Federal Labor Department , requires those holding contracts involving $500,000 or more ' of Federal funds to meet Federal guidelines for minority hiring . The Labor Department has said it will extend this plan to other cities if they do not formulate their own .                     