@@731460

txt The conviction of John D. Ehrlich-man and his three codefendants casts new shadows along the path of presidential impeachment . The action of the court here ? after three hours of deliberation Friday ? presents questions ? as yet unanswerable . For example , some observers here wonder how great the impact will be on Mr. Nixon 's status as the Ehrlich-man trial involved the White House " plumbers " that Mr. Nixon organized in 1971 to stop leaks which were considered important to the national security . Another question asked is just how great is Mr. Nixon 's responsibility for the actions of his primary domestic aide . To what degree can Mr. Nixon be held accountable for Mr. Ehrlich-man 's actions ? Appeals planned But even as questions are posed , the four defendants are already at work on their appeals , far from the somber red mahogany courtroom where their conviction was announced . The late afternoon sun slanted through green blinds shortly after 5 p.m . Friday as the four men stood waiting in that hushed courtroom for a verdict . Former domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be involved in a criminal trial , was the first to hear his verdict . Jury foreman W. A. Garner , a retired elevator operator , stumbled the first time he said " Ehrlichman " but did n't stumble over the verdict : guilty on four counts , innocent on a fifth . Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . AP photo Ehrlichman : conviction casts shadows Mr. Ehrlichman was found guilty of conspiracy to violate the civil rights of Dr. Lewis J. Fielding , psychiatrist to Dr. Daniel Ellsberg , the man who leaked the Pentagon papers to the press . Also found guilty of that conspiracy were the three other defendants , G. Gordon Liddy , Eugenio R. Martinez , and Bernard L. Barker , who while working for the secret White House " plumbers " unit , helped carry out the break-in of Dr. Fielding 's office on Sept. 3 , 1971 , to obtain psychiatric files on Dr. Ellsberg . Each of the four men , to be sentenced July 31 by U.S. District Judge Gerhard Gesell , faces up to 10 years in prison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Further reproduction prohibited without permission . * Ehrlichman conviction erodes Nixon footing // Mr. Ehrlichman alone also was charged and convicted on three counts of giving false information to FBI agents and to a grand jury about his knowledge of the Fielding break-in but was declared innocent of one charge of lying to a grand jury about where files on the Fielding affair were kept at the White House . He faces a possible sentence of as much as 25 years in jail and $40,000 in fines . There is some speculation here that Mr. Ehrlichman may now consider plea bargaining in the face of this sentence and the prospect of two other trials looming ahead for him this year ? the Watergate cover-up trial in Washington and a trial involving the Fielding burglary In Los Angeles . Basis of appeal On hearing the verdict , the tall man who until his resignation last year was one of the most powerful figures in the Nixon administration , turned beet color under his deep tan . But he and his wife , Jeanne , who has been a calm , smiling presence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the courtroom and commented briefly . Mr. Ehrlichman said then that he would base his appeal on his " inability to get a fair trial in this district " and on Judge Gesell 's excluding some evidence , relating to " national defense " that might have helped his defense . Mr. Ehrlichman said he had d " an abiding confidence in the American judicial system and nothing that has happened today has shaken that faith . I look forward to eventual complete exoneration as this matter moves through that process . " Supervised unit Mr. Ehrlichman had supervisory control of the plumbers unit , which was formed under President Nixon 's orders in June , 1971 , to stop the flow of leaks to newspapers of government secrets . Testimony during the trial indicated that the plumbers were after the Ellsberg files to determine his state of mind , whether he might leak more information alone , or whether he might be part of a " conspiracy . " Another aim was to discredit Dr. Ellsberg 's public image with detrimental information , to " try him in the press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there had been an extraorclinkry exchange between one of the Ehrlichman lawyers , Andrew C. Hall , and the judge , which perhaps foreshadowed the verdict . Charge to jury Judge Gesell had just given his 75-minute charge or instructions to the jury , which had been excused from the room , and Mr. Hall had ap proached the bench with a long string of objections to the charge , including objections to the judge 's facial expressions and demeanor during parts of the trial . The judge began , " Mr. Hall , is there anything in my charge you agree with ? " Then went angrily on to say , " My failure to charge Mr. Ehrlichman 's theory in this case is because there is no Ehrlichman theory in this case . " ' Covert operation ' only Mr. Hall answered , " We have had a serious problem In attempting to get our position to the jury . " Judge Gesell answered , " If you had a case , you did n't get it across to the court . " That exchange points to one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cornerstone of Mr. Ehrlichman 's defense that he had authorized only a " covert operation " in order to examine Dr. Fielding 's files , that he had not authorized an illegal break-in . In his charge to the jury , Judge Gesell said , " a physical break-in is not essential ; an entry , surreptitious or not , is enough . Such a warrantless entry and search must necessarily injure the Fourth Amendment rights of Dr. Fielding , " he said . " The Fourth amendment guarantees citizens protection from warrantless , illegal search of their papers and possessions . Judge Gesell told the jurors in his charge : " An individual can not escape criminal liability simply because he sincerely but incorrectly believes that his acts are justified in the name of patriotism , of national security , or the need to create an unfavorable press image , or that his superiors had the power to suspend without a warrant the protections of the Fourth Amendment "                     