@@729411

txt A testing program in which illicit drugs would be analyzed for impurities or poisonous adulterants is planned by students and health officials on the State University campus here . The university administration . is inclined toward the program but the Suffolk County District Attorney is not . The sponsors of the plan ? which would guarantee anonymity and thus immunity from prosecution for anyone desiring drugs to be tested  --  say that its aim is to deter drug use . Dr. David , director of student health services for the university , said in an interview here that it would " attempt to show students we 're dealing with groups of poisons . " " Drugs today are highly loaded with strychnine and atropine , " he asserted . He said that those adulterants were often used to cut the hallucinogen LSD , as were common amphetamines , and that continued intake could result in brain damage , vascular clotting and . weakening of the heart . LSD use has also been linked to chromosome damage , Dr. said . He said the program would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that 99 per cent of illegally sold drugs contain these poisons , " A spokesman for the university 's president , John Toll , said today that " university officials are known to consider the idea positive and promising and they hope it can be instituted with the cooperation of appropriate governmental agencies , " One of those agencies , the office of Suffolk County District Attorney George Aspland , said that drug testing " should he left with law-enforcement agencies  --  there are areas where educators should not get into , " Mr. Aspland said that if the plan were implemented as expected this fall , " 1 would be obliged to follow the letter and spirit of the law as it is written , and confiscate the drugs . " Conceived by Student The program was outlined by Dr. and Lawrence Axelrod , 22-year-old senior from Bayside , Queens , who is the head of the campus chapter of LEMAR , an organization pressing for legalization of marijuana . It was Mr. Axelrod who conceived the plan . It would work this way : A student desiring to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ envelope identified by a code number , keep an identical number for identification , and drop the sealed envelope into a box in the university 's infirmary . It would be sent to a laboratory either through the mail or by courier or by pickup . " We just about have our lab selected , " said Mr. Axelrod , who added only that it would be " either here locally or in Ohio . " The test results would be returned to Dr. who would either have them published in the student newspaper , Statesman , or posted on the infirmary bulletin board . The cost of each analysis would be about $6 , Dr. said , He estimated that five to 10 tests would be done a week , and called the costs " minuscule compared to the good that could come out of this program . " Paying For Tests He said the costs would be borne by those desiring the tests , by money from student affairs funds , possibly by Federal grants , and from money already granted to the university by the Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education . Dr. , Mr. Axelrod and two other students , Peter Lakritz , 19 , a junior from Glendale , Queens , and Kari Finn , 20 , a sophomore from Buffalo , who also are prime campaigners for the program , say that they are aware of the many dangers in the program : that an analysis will not act as a deterrent ; that a " good " analysis could serve as a recommendation for the seller of that particular sample , and that the processes of the program actually involve the transporting and possession ' of illegal drugs , But they say that in practice there will be few if any " good " analyses because most drugs sold to students are not pure . They contend that it is not enough to tell the young not to use drugs , that " to be educationally affective you 'll have to hit them in the guts , do something to scare them . " And Dr. said , " this program will do that . " His contention was attacked today by Dr. Michael Baden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said the program would simply make use of the drugs " socially acceptable . " " That 's playing the game on the level of the users , " he declared . " So what if it 's pure ? That 's not the critical factor . What 's critical is why are they using drugs ? They are acting out unresolved problems . " So they know the dangers , So what ? That 's part of the attraction . What turns us off turns the kids on . The substance is not relative to the problem of drug abuse . If it 's not LSD it 's alcohol . Or heroin , or speed . You resolve the problems . You do n't test drugs . " Prosecutor Urges Role District Attorney Aspland said that he thought testing would be beneficial if " law enforcement was involved all along the line ; if they turned the stuff over to us Dr. said , however , that the visible involvement of , the police in the Stony Brook ' program would assure its failure . Policemen have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they raided student dormitories and arrested 14 students on narcotics charges . There was a subsequent student strike over the arrests and members of the faculty charged that the raids were politically motivated . Dr. said : " There is another element , too  --  if they 're going to do it anyway , why not try to stop them from getting ' damaged or killed ? And there 's something to it . Look at it this way : At worst it would have no effect . " I 'm a physician , and I always ask , does it hurt people . That 's my first question . Does it hurt people ? "                     