@@730804

txt ROBBERS WHO killed their victims without reason after taking their money were blamed by state police yesterday for the shotgun slaying of a young couple along Int . Hwy. 57 near Flossmoor . The bodies of the two victims , James Schmidt , 25 , of 1240 W. Wellington Av. , and his fiancee , Dorothy Cerny , 25 , of 2422 N. Seminary Av. , were found lying face down on the grass alongside the highway Sunday night . No money was found on the bodies , polite said . Schmidt 's packets had been turned inside out and Miss Cerny 's purse was missing . THE TWO bodies were found within a quarter of a mile from the place along the highway where a truck driver was found shot to death on May 12 after a r ' bbe : y . The trOck driver , David J. Spurr , 24 , of Frankfort , Will County , was killed after his truck loaded with $4,000 worth of liquor was hijacked in the 9600 block of West Cermak Rd . Miss Cerny 's 1973 red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was found yesterday In the 4200 block of West Arthington Street on the West Side a few miles from where Spurr 's truck was hijacked . SGT . WILLIAM O'Brien of the Illinois State Police said evidence technicians found several fingerprints inside the car and an investigation was oderway to discover to whom they belonged . The glove compartment of the car had been rifled , but a number of Schmidt 's and Miss Cerny 's belongings were inside , police said . Police said there was no indication that either Schmidt or Miss Cerny struggled with the robbers . Investigators said it appeared that the couple had been shot in the back with 12 gauge shotgun pellets as they lay barefoot , face down along the road . STATE POLICE were attempting to determine if there was a link between the double slaying and an incident Sunday night in which a Manteno woman said she was threatened by a shotgun-wielding man after a minor accident along 1-57 near Manteno . The incident occurred 22 miles south of where Schmidt 's and Miss Cerny 's bodies were found and about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been slain . . Once the couple 's car was brought into the state police headquarters , investigators found marks on the left rear . fender . The malts were not rusted indicating they were re ? cent . Pollee were trying to determine if the car had been bumped by another auto as had happened to the woman in Manteno . In the Manteno incident , the woman said that after her car was bumped from behind by another auto , she got out to examine the damage and was threatened by a man with a shotgun who emerged from the other car . She told police the man ordered her into her car and told her to move over so he could get behind the steering wheel . INSTEAD , SHE stepped on the gas and sped off , she told state police . Schmidt and Miss Cerny , who were to have been married in November , had attended a party in the south suburban Matteson home of Miss Cerny 's sister , Mrs. Richard Kucharski . Police learned the couple left the Kucharski home at 9:15 p. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's North Side . They are believed to have entered 1-57 at the Vollmer Road intersection . Their bodies were found only a mile north of the intersection . POLICE SAID they did not know how or where the killers stopped Miss Cerny 's auto . Miss Cerny 's brother , the Rev. George Cerny , who was to marry the couple , said they were careful young people who would hesitate to stop for a hitchhiker . Other friends and relatives said the couple were compassionate and might stop for a motorist who appeared to have auto trouble . The bodies were reported by a passing motorist at 10:56 p. m . Sunday . They were still warm when police arrived . Because the bodies had been stripped of identification , several hours passed before police learned the names of the victims . They were identified by Father Cerny , associate pastor of Our Lady of the Mount Catholic Church in Cicero . NE WAS notified that his sisster was missing by their cousin , Mary Anne Gallagher , with whom Miss Cerny shared an apartment . Miss Gallagher , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alarmed when Miss Cerny did not return home , especially after she heard news reports of a double murder in the south suburbs . Miss Cerny was a 5th grade teacher at the LaVergne School in Berwyn . Schmidt worked for Lifschultz Freight Co. where an older brother is the controler . Schmidt and Miss Cerny met while attending De Paul Uni-versity , THE MR . REV . Cerny will preside at a double mass for Miss Cerny and Schmidt at 10 a. m . Thursday in Our Lady of the Mount Catholic Church , 291 S. 61st Av. , Cicero . Miss Cerny is survived by her mother , Lillian E. Cerny ; one brother , George ; one sister ; and her grandmother , Mrs. Anna Viskocil Marek . Schmidt is survived by his parents , Mr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Schmidt ; and three brothers , Robert , Donald , and Kenneth .                     