@@731265

txt THOMAS TULLY basked in the praise cf Mayor Daley and the cheers of his supporters last night after he trounced Aid . Edward R. Vrdolyak 10th in the Democratic primary for Cook County assessor . " It 's a great day for Tom Tully , " he said in a victory statement at t h e Democratic headquarters in the La Salle Hotel . " But more important , it 's a great day for the Democratic Party . " Mayor Daley called Tully " one of the most qualified men ever to run for office in Cook County , " and he praised him as the architect of reforms in the assessor 's office while he served as deputy assessor under P. J. Cullerton . TULLY 'S REPUBLICAN opponent for the general election , Alice B. Ihrig , sent a telegram challenging him to a series of debates , but Tully demurred . " Tonight we 're talking about a great victory , " he said . " We 'll talk about that the general election at another time . " Newsmen pressed Tully on campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reveal the sources of his contributions . and he would not say whether substantial contributions have been made to his campaign by large real estate holders . At Tully 's State Street headquarters five hundred joyful supporters sipped beer and exulted in the victory . Tully did not mention Vrdolyak , but at his campaign headquarters he responded to the cheers of his supporters by telling them he won because " the people responded to an honest and positive campaign . " " Fast Eddie is dead , " cried Alfred Sanchez , 26 , leader of a contingent of Mexican-Americans from Vrdolyak 's 10th Ward . " Fast Eddie has n't Primary done anything for the Mexicans in his ward . He does n't even think about us . We pulled a lot of votes out of there . " As an afterthought , Sanchez added : " Tully has n't done anything for us either , but we 're going to give him a chance . " SANCHEZ AND the other Tully backers cheered the first returns , which gave their man the margin , and none doubted victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beer from iced green garbage cans and milted about the headquarters rooms while a threepiece orchestra played " Irish Eyes Are Smiling . " None smiled more merrily than Tully 's father , Michael , a retired Chicago ? fireman who arrived at the headquarters with Tully 's seven brothers and sisters . " We 'll all be here , " he said . " This is my first election . " AMONG Vrdolyak 's neighbors at the Tully celebration was John Buchanan , who was 10th Ward alderman from 1963 until Vrdolyak defeated him in a 1971 election and made him a political enemy . " I 'll tell you , those people down there fin the 10th Ward are scared to death of Vrdolyak , " he said .                     