@@734311

txt Letters ANDREW STEINGREGORY M. BYRNESEYMOUR MAXWELL FINGERSHALE DWORANEDNA RUTH JOHNS ... Letters High Time to Scrap Our V-a-Gallon Roadway ' To the Editor : I agree with Mayor Koch that our nation is facing a grave energy crisis . His recent proposal to curtail automobile use in portions of New York City by establishing " free zones " raises interesting concepts and ideas . However , without a full commitment to changing life style , establishing " carfree " streets will do little , if any , good . There is no purpose in banning cars from certain areas of the city while continuing to support the construction of Westway . Its construction would only encourage more gasoline consumption . How ironic for New York City to build a superhighway and then close off city streets . What a terrible waste of funds and resources this would be . While I can well understand the enormous pressure Mayor Koch faces from many sides on this issue , the energy crunch is an indication that Westway is a grave , outdated error . At a time when we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conserve our use of energy , building a 4.2-mile superhighway at a cost of $1.4 billion in the nation 's most densely populated city is antithetical to that goal . New York City boasts the largest and best mass-transit system in the world , yet constructing Westway promotes its deterioration . Our 75-yearold subways are in dire need of rehabilitation . With the Westway trade-in , we would have a golden opportunity to support our system by developing a comprehensive program of rehabilitation , rather than the unrealistic $2-a-gallon roadway . In addition to the energy crisis , residents of Manhattan 's Lower West Side may face the hazard of increased respiratory disease as a result of Westway 's construction .. According to a New York City Department of Health study released last February , the Lower West Side already has one of the highest death rates from respiratory cancer of the city 's 30 health districts . Both the city and the state are currently working on developing a plan to limit and control auto emissions ( under the mandate of the Clean Air Act ) in order to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work . However , Westway , with its proposed smokestacks spewing untold emission and carcinogens into the air of the Lower West Side , makes any meaningful air pollution program in this area that much harder to attain . I believe that public officials must have the courage to change their positions when conditions necessitate such change . I hope that Mayor Koch 's concern over this energy crisis will convince him that Westway can not and should not be built . The Mayor should veto the Westway project and once again become the active lobbyist he once was for the mass-transit trade-in of these funds . Through this position the Mayor will not only support a real move toward conserving energy but limit the Lower West Side 's health concern and help stabilize the 50-cent fare as well . ANDREW STEIN Manhattan Borough President New York , July 27 , 1979 Do n't Take the Life The Security Council 's Rangers Out of 5th Avenue To the Editor ; I was bemused by the July 30 editorial concerning Fifth Avenue . Redolent of snobbery , it appears to advocate maintaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evicting the peddlers and street musicians . This would be a mistake . Most of the " great stores of the avenue " have branches in the larger suburban malls . What makes Fifth Avenue unique is the vibrant sense of excitement that comes from being on the greatest street in the greatest city in the nation , an excitement that is heightened by the presence of the hawkers and the players . The peddlers and the department stores do not engage in " two kinds of enterprise . " They are both in retailing ; the difference is one of degree ? and price . And I 'd rather listen to the " beggars ' music " in the street than be subjected to the always uninvited Muzak of the big stores . GREGORY M. BYRNE Middletown , N.J. , July 30 , 1979 Music on the Meadow To the Editor : How does an environmentally concerned group calling itself Fund to Keep the Sheep Meadow Green go about its ecological business in Fun City ? It places a full-page ad in The Times ( July 31 ) inviting us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James Taylor . And where will the concert by held ? But of course , in the Sheep Meadow , which , " for two decades " has deteriorated because of " increased use by us all . " SHALE DWORAN New York , July 31 , 1979 To the Editor : The Rev. Robert G. Howes of the St. Paul Archdiocese is to be commended for acknowledging that " the churches are relevant to society " and that " prophets never hesitate to oppose injustice . " " Amid Our Crises , Church Silence , " Op-Ed July 221 He asks that churches should " be boldly promoting ... sanity into the present incoherent anguish . " Good ! Not enough church organizations have been activists for social change . But many have . They have coura geously attacked causes of our suffering society by protesting the armaments race , militarism and insane spending for killing the people of the earth . The discipline , even austerity , To the Editor : This is written in response to the three professors of medicine whose letter ( July 24 ) objected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full review by the scientific community of an animal study summary showing cancer-causing effects of reserpine . They state that several years ago a report suggested that the use of reserpine was causally related to breast cancer in humans but that since then numerous studies have failed to confirm this relationship . I refer your readers to " The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics , " by Goodman and Gilman ( 1975 ) : " In a retrospective study in the United States , subsequently confirmed in the United Kingdom and Finland , it was found that the long-term administration of reserpine as an antihypertensive drug in women was associated with over a threefold increase in the incidence of carcinoma of the breast " ( italics theirs ) . Even though such sobering data have not been replicated by other studies , as the professors state , those on reserpine should be fully informed regarding the discrepancies found in the research and the drug 's other side effects such as depression and impotence . They then could discuss the following options with their physicians : change drugs , explore nonpharmaco. logical means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a drug that is possibly cancer-causing while the scientific community makes up its mind . To the Editor : William Safire 's ? July 30 column , " Waldheim 's Rangers , " reveals either a misunderstanding of U.N . peacekeeping or a careless handling of the facts . Mr. Safire writes that the United Nations Truce Supervision Organize24 " vetoed the continuation of the tion reports to the Secretary General , not the Security Council . This is false . UNTSO was established by the Security Council in its Resolution 73 , of Aug. 11 , 1949 . It has reported to the Security Council for 30 years and has never been withdrawn . ( It was the first U.N . Emergency Force , established by the General Assembly in 1957 , which was withdrawn in 1967 , not . UNTSO . ) Mr. Safire states that UNTSO " could be pulled out at the pleasure of the Arab states and Soviet Union . " Not so . UNTSO can be terminated only by the Security Council . Even major changes in the disposition or functioning of the observers require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says the Soviets on July called for by Father Howes to alleviate the energy crisis and inflation would only deal with the symptoms . It has taken guts to fight the causes ? despite threats , economic and personal ? related to a military budget of hundreds of billions of taxpayers ' dollars and Pentagon propaganda . For many decades The Churchman . has reported such courageous action by church-related bodies of all kinds and faiths , all calling for a halt to the arms race . If these underlying causes were removed , the symptoms of inflation and energy shortage would disappear and our discipline could turn to world good will . EDNA RUTH JOHNSON Editor , The Churchman St. Petersburg , Fla. , July 25 , 1979 Are the professors trying to shield us from bad news that may later be disproven , or are they shielding physicians from patient inquiries that challenge them to defend or rethink their decisions ? The National Cancer Institute acted responsibly by taking the news to the public . The decision to do so might have been based on past experiences with newly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have no effect on altering the prescribing practices when such information goes only to physicians . MARYANN NAPOLI New York , July 25 , 1979 The writer is associate director of the Center for Medical Consumers and Health Care Information Inc. present force . " Wrong again . There was no vote , hence no veto . There are only two real differences between UNTSO and - UNEF II , just terminated : ( 1 ) UNEF had a fixed term , which could be renewed only by Council action , whereas UNTSO 's mandate continues unless the Council ends it . The U.S. alone could veto the termination of UNTSO , just as the Soviets could veto the renewal of UNEF. ( 2 ) UNEF was larger and better equipped . The real question , then , is whether UNTSO will have adequate manpower and equipment to do the job required under the Israeli-Egyptian peace treaty for the interim period of about three years , i.e. , the establishment of ' check points , reconnaissance patrols and observer posts . The level required must be the subject of negotiation between Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agree that more strength is required , the Secretary General can take the necessary action , provided the Security Council approves or acquiesces . Having represented the U.S. on the U.N . ' s Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations for five years , I noted that the Soviets would at times , for political reasons , prefer to acquiesce in measures they considered sensible and practical rather than give explicit approval . We should not put unnecessary obstacles in the way of their acting sensibly this time . They know that , under the treaty , there is the option of an observer force from outside the U.N. ; consequently they have an inducement to endorse or acquiesce in the strengthening of UNTSO to the level agreed by Israel and Egypt . SEYMOUR MAXWELL FINGER Rockville Centre , L.I. , July 31 , 1979 The writer , professor of political science , is director of the Ralph Bunche Institute on the U.N . at the City University of New York . 3 Colleges ' Views On Mideast Studies To the Editor : Two years ago , Swarthmore , Haverford and Bryn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funds to support scholarships for Middle Eastern students , as well as library acquisitions and a teaching post in Middle Eastern studies that would rotate among the three colleges . You suggest in your July 22 editorial " The Oil Stain in Academe " that the issue for the colleges was the barring of Israelis from the program . It was not . In discussion with the foundation there was no hint of any such restriction . Our Quaker traditions gave us concern , handled differently at each of the colleges , over the report that foundation funds resulted from arms sales . Some of us were additionally concerned about short-term soft money support of expensive new commitments . In no case did we " lose our enthusiasm for Arab culture . " We think it important that American students have the opportunity to study the culture of the Middle East , both Jewish and Arab , in all its aspects . If we expect young Americans to be prepared to play a responsible role in resolving conflict and to understand and appreciate their world , they will need to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East than were earlier generations . THEODORE FRIEND ROBERT STEVENS MARY PATTERSON MCPHERSON Swarthmore , Pa. , July 27 , 1979                     