@@732320

txt Health Commissioner Lowell Bellin reminded New Yorkers the other day that , despite the financial crisis , some facts about this city do point in positive directions . Measured by the ultimate criterion of life or death , New York City in 1975 was healthier than ever before in history . For the , first time , fewer than 1 percent of the city 's population died last year . Infant mortality , too , was appreciably less last year than in 1970 . But the most dramatic change was in the birth rate , which at 13.8 births per thousand population last year was almost 30 percent lower than the birth rate of 1970. - As a result , the rate of natural increase in New York 's population ? i.e. , birth rate minus death rate  --  was little more than half as great in 1975 as in 1970 . ? A baby born in New York City these days is much more likely than in 1970 or earlier to be a really wanted baby  --  rather than an unwelcome " accident " ? because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still room for improvement and there are still too many babies born to teen-age , unwed mothers who can hardly provide their infants with optimal care ; but major progress has evidently been made . These trends , of course , are not confined to this city . A Princeton University researcher has just published a study showing that for the nation as a whole the relative number of wanted babies  --  among all legitimate births ? is increasing . But precisely because New York City is so large , has so diversified a population , and has so many of its citizens below the poverty line , the progress here is all the more remarkable . The city 's declining death rate is a particularly impressive accomplishment because the proportion of its population over 65 has been increasing steadily since 1960 . Some of the factors at work include the greater availability of medical care for the elderly and the poor who benefit from Medicare and Medicaid ; the improved quality of the city 's air as a result of anti-pollution measures ; the lower automobile accident fatality rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ application of good health practices . These and other forces that lengthen life arc normally overshadowed by the public emphasis on adverse factors ; but the latest statistics on increasing longevity in New York City put the true situation in better perspective . ? But if New York City 's vital statistics are better than ever , the same can not be said for the Health and Hospitals Corporation , whose long-standing malaise now seems worse than ever . In his resignation as senior vice president for professional services , Dr. Gilbert Ortiz spoke of the corporation 's " counterproductive climate " which " takes the form of a general lack of direction , a gross disregard for basic principles of management , a total disregard for established lines of protocol and an obvious lack of cooperation that extends even to the hospitals themselves . " It is true that Dr. Ortiz 's own competence had recently been questioned by the corporation 's top management and that he is still smarting from his failure to oust the corporation 's director of nursing last summer . Yet there is much evidence to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporation from which so much was once expected is now entrapped in a deep crisis of morale and management , as well as in the city 's fiscal bind . It is an indication of the high price being paid for putting politics above considerations of competence in staffing the corporation 's top leadership .                     