@@733334

txt Social Security : The Undernourished Giant Social Security has become a giant among Federal social programs . Once a modest supplement to private disability insurance and pensions , it has gradually evolved into a massive program for the redistribution of income from the young to the old and from the middle class to the poor . This year , one dollar in nine of taxable earnings ? $85 billion  --  will go to some 33 million beneficiaries . In spite of its size , Social Security might have remained the least controversial of Federal programs ; few dispute the need for basic social insurance free of the stigma of welfare . But because of past Congressional generosity and unexpected population changes , the giant is in danger of being undernourished . So many retired and disabled people are scheduled to receive so much money from a proportionately smaller number of working contributors that one-fourth of all wages would be needed eventually to meet the commitments of the law . Congress thus faces the task of closing the wide gap between money coming in and promised benefits . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we hope the legislators will think twice before resorting to major tax increases . ? Fortunately , half the gap can be closed with uncontroversial measures . In a 1972 law , Congress accidentally provided double the necessary protection against inflation for future Social Security recipients . A quirk in the benefit formula promised current wage earners much greater benefits than will be needed to offset inflationary losses in the value of the dollar . By correcting this quirk , Congress could still leave beneficiaries protected against inflation  --  and reduce obligations by , more than a trillion dollars over the next fifty years . Closing the rest of the gap , however , will require some hard choices . Both houses of Congress lean toward the traditional solution : hefty increases in the Social Security payroll tax and in the amount of wages so taxed . President Carter suggests a payroll tax increase , plus a subsidy from general Federal revenues during low-income recession years . Neither of these formulas is very attractive . The payroll tax is regressive , hitting hardest at the working poor . A worker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes ; a worker earning $50,000 pays just 2 percent . Raise the basic rate , and the tax would become yet more regressive . Moreover , since part of the tax is paid by employers , it would increase the cost of hiring low-income workers and thus reduce employment . Raising the taxable wage base , on the other hand , would mean higher taxes for middle- and upper-income workers  --  and their employers  --  who are already paying too much . The Carter plan would tap the most equitable of taxes , the income tax ; but it too has shortcomings . Higher income taxes sap the incentive to work and invest . Perhaps more important , the use of general revenues for Social Security might undermine the critical psychological distinction between social insurance and welfare . Workers now pay a special Social Security tax as an insurance premium against disability or poverty in old age ; they feel its benefits have been earned , even when they have not been . Once general tax revenues are used to support Social Security , that attitude could be undermined . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stigma of " welfare " and threaten the political consensus that supports the system . ? An alternative to finding hundreds of billions in new revenue is to retard the growth in benefits . That is what Representative Barber Conable of New York proposes . He would hold down taxes by gradually advancing the age for maximum retirement benefits from 65 to 68 ; workers would remain eligible for benefits at 65 , but they would receive less each month than they would if they waited the extra three years . Mr. Conable 's plan  --  and a similar idea proposed but quickly retracted by Commerce Secretary Juanita Kreps  --  received a hostile reception from Congressional leaders . They perceive it as a betrayal of affluence , a denial of the fruits of economic progress to future retirees . But would it really , be a step backward ? Basic retirement benefits are scheduled to increase , so much over the next few decades that even a somewhat reduced benefit at age 65 would exceed the purchasing power of the current maximum . Is it not better to accept modest limits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a revenue squeeze on the whole system ? Social Security represents a pact between the generations in which the young and healthy assume responsibility for the old and disabled . That glorious pact has survived four decades of economic change , largely because growth in the size and productivity of the labor force exceeded the growth of the burden posed by beneficiaries . Now that an accident of demography and economics has changed the balance , common sense suggests that we adapt to it instead of resorting to cures that could threaten the entire program .                     