@@734438

txt Letters G.E . KIDDER SMITHROBIN W. BRIEHLRICHARD MAASSCHARLES UNEILLDENNIS P. MAYJOSE ... Letters American Hostages , the Ayatollah and the Shah To the Editor : The seizure of the American Embassy in Teheran , apparently by authorized hoodlums , is so reprehensible that fanaticism obviously rules an ugly part of Iran . Whereas the situation ? today ? concerns the United States , the alarming fact is that the carefully nurtured , long-established standards of diplomatic protocol between nations have been shockingly abrogated . Even among countries at war , embassies and their personnel are protected . And in this mad world , who knows what other country 's embassy will be similarly invaded or when ? Because of Iran 's calculated fracturing of international rules , it is suggested that the major nations of the West , and , one hopes , the Soviet Union , immediately declare all of their Iranian ambassadors and staff personae non gratae , with the Swiss , if willing , maintaining essential liaison . Pious pleas by the U.N . made no impact on Ayatollah Khomeini . Tough and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the diplomatic process ? are obviously needed at once . G. E. KIDDER SMITH New York , Nov. 10 , 1979 To the Editor : One need not sympathize with or condone acts of the fanatical religious authority in Iran to understand the wish of the Iranian people to bring the Shah back . How would we have felt if , after World War II , some country , say Iran , had harbored , for any reason , Hitler ? Surely , we would have demanded his return for judgment of his war crimes and genocidal actions . It is clear that the crimes of the Shah and his secret police against Iranians have been brutal and massive . That the Shah is entitled to medical treatment , like anyone , even if accused or convicted of a crime , is not the issue . The issue is whether he is to be judged for amply documented murders and torture on a large scale . The problem of the United States Government arises from its complicity in these crimes by its reinstallation of the Shah , through the C.I.A. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of him . If there is any doubt that the Shah was our boy , the statement of an American diplomat that " we used to run this country " should dispel that doubt . This history makes our current position awkward , not to say hypocritical . If the U.S. really wishes to tender the Shah refuge on humane and medical grounds , let it prove this by taking the following position : Let it propose that the Shah return his massive personal and family fortune , really stolen from the labor of and based on the oppression of the Iranian people , to Iran in full . Let it be distributed to his victims and their families . The United States would gain in many ways by such a proposal . It would , as honesty requires , acknowledge that the Shah 's wealth is ill gotten and was obtained under the aegis of the United States . Our country would gain in world opinion and would bring strong pressure for the release of the hostages . It would demonstrate that we truly put life above property values , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy in Iran . It would inject at least a minimum of consistency into our position that our current policy toward the Shah is based on purely humanitarian considerations . Consider the converse : If we fail to acknowledge our complicity in the Shah 's brutal regime through , for example , such a proposal , we associate our present policy with our past policy . If Mr. Carter really wishes to emphasize human rights , let him disassociate himself from the past . Let him acknowledge the truth in the best way , by commencing restitution . Romp ; W. BRIEHL Mamaroneck , N.Y. , Nov. 7,1979 To the Editor : A clear lesson to be learned from the current situation in Iran is that U.S. foreign policy has been critically undermined by our failure to establish an effective energy policy . It is our dependence on unstable Persian Gulf oil ? and not our position on the Israeli-Arab conflict ? that saps our strength and undermines our power in the international arena . It makes us vulnerable to political blackmail and has given Iran and other oilproducing nations a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arab displeasure with America 's Middle East policy is the cause of our energy problem ? that oil would flow freely if only the U.S. position on the Arabs and Israel is changed . The situation in Iran vividly demonstrates how wrong this thinking is . The fragility of the entire Persian Gulf area was brought into sharp focus during the Iranian revolution last January . Iran 's oil production nearly stopped because of the disturbances in its oil fields . This set the stage for OPEC 's 60 percent price increase during this past year , just as initiative by Iran led to a quadrupling of OPEC 's prices in 1974 . OPEC thus took advantage of a tight market to raise prices ? acting purely on economic grounds to further its own economic interests . It is time to dismiss , once and for all , this notion that the members of OPEC base their oil production and price policies on the U.S. stand toward Israel . Until the U.S. develops an energy policy , we will remain vulnerable to blackmail , to manipulation and to further endangerment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for whom we are all so deeply concerned today . RICHARD MAASS Pres. , American Jewish Committee New York , Nov. 9,1979 Chrysler Quid pro Quo The CAT Scanners of Connecticut To the Editor : By all indications , the President and the Congress are about to cave in under the assorted pressures applied and , in effect , to underwrite for more than a billion dollars a retooling process at the Chrysler Corporation to make it a more competitive manufacturing company . If free enterprise is to be so little free anyway , whatever happened to the useful proposal weeks ago by Representative Reuss and Senator Proxmire that a condition of such aid should be that a solid part of the retooling be directed not simply to more cars , tanks and trucks but to products nearer the public interest ? Passenger and freight railroad cars , for instance , or locomotives , subway rolling stock , streetcars and small millstream power generators . CHARLES O'NEILL Greens Farms , Conn. , Nov. 6,1979 To the Editor : As one with 30 years of service as a board member of voluntary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention to a threat to the continued existence of quality home health care as an alternative to institutionalization . Up to the present time , in New York State , Medicare has paid for home health visits only if they are provided by licensed voluntary nonprofit agencies or health departments . Now , a bill before Congress , H.R. 3990 , would eliminate the state licensure requirements , which have proven effective in eliminating fraud and abuse . The recent nursing home scandals have shown that government is unable to protect the patient or the public purse from persons and businesses that see health care as a means of making profits instead of as a public service . Studies have shown that in California , Florida and Louisiana , where profit-making home health agencies were licensed , there was scandalous misuse of public funds , and abuse and disregard for patients ' well-being . The strong private home health care lobby tried for several years to eliminate licensure requirements in New York State , but fortunately bills to that effect were vetoed by both Governor Wilson and Governor Carey . Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the bill to eliminate licensure requirements for Medicare reimbursement for home health care is before Congress . The public interest and patient inThe Times welcomes letters from readers . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters . To theRditor : In your Oct. 29 editorial urging passage of the Administration 's Hospital Cost Containment Bill , an attempt was made to demonstrate hospital " waste , inefficiency and duplication " by comparing the number of computerized axial tomographic ( CAT ) scanners found in Atlanta with those found in Connecticut . While Atlanta has 17 such scanners , you reported , " the entire state of Connecticut , with twice the population , says it needs only eight . " Some might argue that " eight is enough " for Connecticut in some matters , but the fact is that there are 13 approved scanners within our borders . In addition , there are currently pending two court appeals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total by two more . In one of these cases , a Superior Court justice has already ruled in favor of the hospital , , terest will not be served if home health care becomes the province of profitmotivated businesses . The taxpayer will be doubly penalized , paying for the draining away of Medicare funds and for the new army of regulatory employees that would be needed if there were to be any supervision or control of the quality and the cost of patient care . Presently , voluntary agencies are being strangled by proliferating , complicated new regulations recently issued by H.E.W . to control possible abuse by the private sector . The homebound patient and the taxpayer will be much better off if Medicare reimbursement continues to be limited to state-licensed , service-oriented , community-controlled nonprofit and public agencies whose only motivation in providing home health care is the patients ' well-being . JOSEPHINE NOVEMBER Great Neck , L.1. , Nov. 2 , 1979 The writer is former president of Visiting Home Health Services of Nassau , Inc. but the state has decided to appeal that ruling to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , while there is no doubt that CAT scanners are expensive to purchase , there is also no doubt as to their value in diagnosing disease , as can be seen by the recent award of the Nobel Prize to the scanner 's inventors . Couple this diagnostic value with the growing body of evidence showing that scanners actually save consumers money in the long run by eliminating other costly tests and surgery , and one can begin to understand why their purchase is considered by hospitals to be in the best interest of both their patients and the community they serve . DENNIS P. MAY President Connecticut Hospital Association Wallingford , Conn. , Oct. 31,1979 ' Antitrust Backfire To the Editor : The British Parliament is considering and may well enact into law a bill that would enable British companies assessed punitive damages in the United States under United States antitrust laws to try to recover the damages in British courts . One way the law might work is that the recipient of the damage payments may be assessed retaliatory damages in British courts . The costs of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , its prospect would make companies more reluctant to expand operations across the Atlantic . Since it is neither practical nor fair to exempt foreign companies from the United States antitrust laws , it would be more sensible to abolish punitive damages altogether . Their concept is not rooted in economic reasoning and is conspicuously absent from the laws of other countries , such as Great Britain . RICHARD E. OUANDT Professor of Economics Princeton University Princeton , N.J. , Nov. 5,1979 To Keep Profit Out of Home Health Care                     