@@730552

txt In sending a Harvard specialist in Asian affairs to jail for contempt of court , a Federal judge in Boston has all but wiped out the right of either newsmen or scholars to protect confidential sources of information before grand juries . He has also taken a long step toward legitimizing misuse of grand juries as instruments of political intimidation . The all-embracing compass given by District Judge W. Arthur Garrity to the Supreme Court 's recent decision on press subpoenas confirms the gloomiest fears of those who felt that the Supreme Court was thereby acquiescing in serious infringement of First Amendment guarantees of a free press . The limitations on the sweep of the Supreme Court ruling , which Justice Powell had noted in a separate concurring opinion , were brushed aside by the Boston judge as of little significance . The Powell opinion had specifically rejected the notion that state or Federal authorities were free to annex the press as " an investigative arm of government . " Judge Garrity 's interpretation of the law was given as he overrode last-minute objections to the jailing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions put to him early last year by a Federal grand jury investigating the distribution of the Pentagon Papers . In the end , Professor Popkin 's refusal came down solely to an unwillingness to reveal the names of governmental officials who had aided him in his research on aspects of the Vietnam War . He had already testified that he had no direct knowledge about the distribution or publication of the papers themselves and he had made clear his readiness to answer questions pertaining to other scholars , including Dr. Daniel Ellsberg , who is under Federal indictment in California in connection with release of the documents . The Government itself hinted that it did not believe Professor Popkin had any information that would help the grand jury in its mission . * * Unquestionably , there is room for argument on the extent to which the First Amendment provides the same immunities to scholars that it does to the press  --  if , indeed , those immunities remain in place even for the press . The Supreme Court has made the point in the recent subpoena cases that validation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a shield might open the  - -  - way for similar claims by - lecturers , opinion pollsters , dramatists , novelists and others wrapping themselves in the mantle of public information . Without pretending that the line would be easy to draw , we believe that a valid distinction is possible for experts with bona fide academic credentials . The Kinsey Report , for example , relied on the accounts of 5,000 people who told of committing adultery  --  a crime in virtually all states . Certainly , no one would have expected its authors to have given a grand jury their names . There can be no argument about the chilling effect of the Popkin jailing on freedom of research in controversial areas of current public policy . Continuation of the present trend in judicial decisions , prompted by far-reaching Federal prosecutions , will make it increasingly difficult for reporters or scholars to penetrate the wall of official secrecy behind which public officials can hide their errors and transgressions .                     