@@734409

txt Without an urgent plan to reduce oil imports , there can be no foreign policy worthy of the name , no defense policy more sophisticated than minimal nuclear deterrence and no economic policy to protect our wealth and stability . While senators flew into a tizzy about a Soviet brigade , America remained an abject beggar for oil from unstable societies directly in the path of Soviet power and influence . While cold warriors spun horror stories about losing Africa to Cubans , the United States was losing the support of supine Western allies who must bid against us for Middle East oil . While Americans are straining to buy and earn the friendship of struggling poor nations , we daily dash their hopes for development by bidding up the price they , too , must pay for oil . And while America drifts toward wild inflation that jeopardizes domestic order and global markets , it goes on tolerating oil imports that guarantee even more inflation . Are these dangers really so hard to recognize ? Are they so remote that , among a dozen Presidential aspirants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of taxes to discourage driving ? Does Jimmy Carter believe he has met the problem by preaching self-confidence , berating Big Oil and promising synthetic fuels by 1990 ? No . American politicians are saying they dare not impose higher prices for oil because the public does not or will not understand the need for them . The public does not know that it is burning up more energy than America is able to produce ? or can foreseeably hope to produce . So it sees only a price-gouging plot by greedy oil companies or sinister Arabs . But even if there were a plot , it could succeed only so long as Americans keep guzzling more oil than the plotters have to sell . Plot or no plot , the answer is the same : We need to save oil by charging more for it , the sooner the better . The only choice is whether we pay more to ourselves or to others . It is good to have the President of the United States safely back from a phony confrontation over Cuba . It would be better still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bears directly on national defense . The palpable threat to the country , however , lies elsewhere altogether , and no President or Congress can pretend to be providing for national security until it is addressed more obsessively even than Cuba . The overriding danger is , as it has been for six years now , America 's dependence on foreign oil . ? Once that reality sinks in , a second follows . The inevitably higher costs of energy simply can not be constantly shifted to someone else . They are real costs that reduce the wealth of most Americans . To keep pushing the burden toward someone else is to make the inflation ever more virulent . The cycle can be broken only by a policy that distributes the costs sensibly ? a policy that only courageous leaders can design . For the moment , the American political system is saying it prefers an accelerating transfer of wealth to Saudi Arabia to domestic payments and taxes that could reduce oil consumption ; that way Arabs rather than Americans are seen to be the villains . The American political system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that way no one has to vote to take oil away from anyone identifiable . These responses are craven . Worse , they are futile . ? Even assuming an all-out effort to increase domestic energy production , the United States can not feel safe or securely prosperous in this century until it cuts down on oil imports . The place to save the most is in the automobile . Nearly half our oil is coming from abroad and nearly half our oil goes into gasoline . To gain some influence over a price that others determine , Americans need to drive somewhat less , and in cars that use a greal deal less gas . The best way to get such cars built , sold and sparingly used is to raise the price of gas at the pump , which , unforgivably , remains less than half the price paid in other oil-short industrial nations . To some last year , it seemed impossible to charge Americans the true cost of gasoline without making inflation even worse . But the price of imported oil has since risen by 80 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  without buying less dependence . We will keep paying it until we learn that charging ourselves more so as to use oil less would be a stroke against the endless inflation . A good place to start is with a heavy tax on gasoline , the pain of which could be diminished by reducing sales or income taxes . Ah , but will Jimmy Carter dare to be the sponsor of the gallon ? Will Edward Kennedy , John Connally , Howard Baker and Ronald Reagan ? This should be the essential question for 1980 , the real test of courage . Until Americans decide to use less oil , they will either pay ever higher prices to others or produce fewer goods to sell them . Either way , our standard of living will decline , in step with declining American security . Those who preside over such decline will be remembered for that , no matter how much they beat up on Cuba .                     