@@734041

txt A spokesman for Karim Sanjabi , Iran 's new foreign minister , broadly hinted the U.S. could look forward to resumed oil shipments from the new government installed by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khom. pini The spokesman . Massoud Amini , said in an interview that , since " we need all the money we can get , " it is " logical " to assume Iran will continue exporting crude oil to the U.S. But he said it remained to be seen how much oil would be exported and when exports would be resumed . Iran had been exporting world-wide about five million barrels of oil a day before the turmoil that ultimately forced the overthrow of the government of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi . The U.S. had been importing about 900,000 barrels of that Iranian oil a day . Yesterday , meanwhile , was another anxious day for the 5,000 Americans still in Iran . The U.S. embassy continued to advise all Americans to stay indoors . Some Americans , routed from their offices during Sunday 's fighting , remained almost prisoners in houses in the northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a resumed exodus of Americans when airports reopen , possibly by the weekend . Mr. Sanjabi , 73 years old , is a leader of the Nation : Front , a coalition of political parties that opposed the shah . He had been considered a leading candidate for prime minister , but he lost out to Mehdi Bazargan , presumably because of Mr. Bazargan 's impeccable credentials as an Islamic scholar as well as an engineer with extensive experience in oil and government . Mr. Amini , Mr. Sanjabi 's spokesman . said the new foreign minister hoped that the U.S. and Iran could enjoy " good and friendly relations . " Mr. Sanjabi , he said , would probably urge a continued military relationship with the U.S. " We bought your weapons and we need to keep them in good condition , " said Mr. Amini . But he also indicated that most or all U.S. military advisers would probably be asked to leave Iran and that the country would scale down greatly its arms purchases from the U.S. Still , any sort of U.S.-Iranian military relationship would seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far to the left . Mr. Amini also said Mr. Sanjabi would urge the new government to stay on good terms with Western banks , such as Chase Manhattan Bank and Citibank , both major lenders to Iran . " Our economic development depends on working with Chase and other banks . " Mr. Amini said . This is a softer stance towards foreign bankers than one voiced recently by Abolhassan Bani-Sadr. an economic aide to Ayatollah Khomeini . Mr. Bani-Sadr had said Iran might n't pay back some loans to Western banks because part of the funds were allegedly siphoned off through corruption in the shah 's regime . Mr. Amini said that while Mr. Sanjabi would n't say anything officially for another day or two , he is " holding to his previous position . " In an interview in December , Mr. Sanjabi had said the U.S. and Iran could be friends , " based upon I President ) Carter 's concern for human rights . " He emphasized at that time that the two countries should develop good relations based on economic concerns rather than any shared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Khomeini , Mr. Amini seemed to be saying that the new Iranian government did n't want to be particularly close to the U.S. but that it needed and wanted U.S. help . The U.S. is n't the only country likely to aid Iran . It is understood that , even before pro-Khomeini forces swept into power . some Japanese companies were discussing possible business arrangements with the ayatollah 's aides . Moreover , sources close to the ayatollah said that the proven quality of West German engineering should give German companies contracts for generators and other basic machinery . One possible point of friction between the U.S. and the Iranian government is the new regime 's insistence that many Iranian nationals in the U.S. who supported the shah be returned to Iran to face charges . The U.S. does n't have any treaty governing extradition of people to Iran , but Tehran 's new rulers want the return . " We want those people , " asserted Hassan Naziheh , president of the Iranian bar association and a candidate for minister of justice . For Americans in Iran , life continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could determine , the hundred or so U.S. military personnel who evacuated Saltanatabad army base just before it was attacked over the weekend were still holed up in houses in northern Tehran . They were joined by scores by civilians who fled their offices at other military installations overrun by armed civilians . In one house , about 25 Americans , including a number of women , spent the day warily watching groups of gun-toting men pass their refuge . " We 're in good spirits but nobody is sleeping too well , " said one member of the group over the telephone . On Sunday , he said . " we heard there was a crowd coming and all of a sudden they were almost upon us . We got the hell out but fast . " Yesterday , Ayatollah Khomeini again appealed to Iranians to refrain from harming foreigners and to turn in their weapons . Even so , at least one American who ventured out of his house was stopped , searched and ordered off the street . The Bell Helicopter unit of Textron Inc. reportedly told its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ await the first flight out of the country . This reporter was also stopped and ordered from his car by a teen-ager carrying an automatic weapon , but was generally allowed to proceed through Tehran so long as a representative of the Khomeini forces went along as an escort . One who was n't so lucky was Shahpur Bakhtiar , who had been named prime minister by the departing shah about five weeks ago only to be deposed by the Khomeini forces . After two days in hiding , he was found in Tehran and brought to Ayatollah Khomeini 's headquarters in an abandoned girls ' school in the southern part of the city . An aide of Mr. Bazargan said the former prime minister was under arrest and would be tried for unspecified crimes . Mr. Bazargan announced several additional appointees to his new government , including Daroush Foruhar , minister of labor , who will decide whether Western oil workers can return to Iran . Mr. Foruhar was Mr. Sanjabi 's lieutenant in the National Front . But observers cautioned against thinking Mr. Foruhar would automatically reflect Mr. Saniabi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              