@@733641

txt Organized labor rejected a plea by President Carter today to accept voluntary wage guidelines as part of a unified national struggle against inflation . The A.F.L.-C.I.O. ' s executive council , led by George Meany , its president , said that the emphasis of an anti-inflation program ' should be on curtailing price increases . " We feel that the pressure should be put on the prices rather than the wages , " said Mr. Meany after he and other members of the labor organization 's executive council met with the President and his key economic advisers at the White House . The discussions were described as " candid . " Deceleration ' Is Carter Goal The results appeared to underscore the shakiness of Administration efforts to bring about wage and price " deceleration " this year . The President has called on labor and business to hold in'creases below the average of the last two years . Business leaders promised support for deceleration after a similar meeting at the White House , but it remains to be seen how the bulk of American companies will react @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not cause inflation and that therefore they , should not be called on to carry the burden of the struggle . The Administration program calls on government , industry and labor to share the burden . Stand Was Expected Meanwhile , the Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corporation , the nation 's largest producer of stainless steel , announced today that it would raise some of its prices by 7.5 percent . Page DI . Today 's statement by the executive council of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations and an amplification by Mr. Meany , at a news conference later , were not unexpected . Labor leaders have not hesitated to make known . their . hostility to any type of restraints on collective bargaining , especially after their experience with controls earlier in the decade , when workers absorbed losses in purchasing power during an inflationary period . Many analysts // say that labor fared worse than industry in the period of controls . The formal statement of its position by the executive council , which is made up of leaders of 33 major unions , did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on some pledge of restraint similar to what the business leaders had provided . After the latest increases in wholesale prices , running at double-digit rates on an annual basis , Robert S. Strauss , the President 's inflation counselor , said that " the score is inflation , 100 , Strauss , zero . " A source close to Mr. Strauss observed today , after the labor position paper had been released , that " it 's still 100 to zero , and we 're in the second inning . " One sign of Administration disappointment was the absence of any White House fanfare after the meeting ended . Administration officials were unusually reserved in their post-meeting comments . Both Mr. Meany in his news conference remarks and the 1,000-word A.F.L.-C.I.O. inflation statement suggested that the situation was much different for workers than for business . The point was that , when unions sign a contract for a certain wage rate , they are committed for two or three years , the term of the contract . Business , on the other hand , the labor argument runs , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increases are an attempt to catch up and to stay even , " the statement said . " They do not start the inflation cycle . " Strauss Approach Is Rejected Mr. Strauss has suggested that labor ' this year should- take ncreases that only match the cost of living , but the labor statement rejected this approach by noting that " cost of living clauses only operate to partially cover already imposed price increases . " Mr. Meany denied that labor was rejecting the President 's program . " We support the heart of the President 's effort and will help him find ways to reduce prices , " he said . But he added that labor would not accept a fixed figure as a ceiling on wage demands . " Such a figure would stultify the giveand-take process of collective bargaining , " the statement said , " and exacerbate existing inequities . " In the final analysis , " it added , " these decisions properly rest in the hands of millions of union members affected by the more than 50,000 collective bargaining agreements negotiated every year . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the A.F.L.-C.I.O. , echoing earlier policy statements , called for an immediate reduction in interest rates , particularly ' for home - mortgages ; continued emphasis on job-creating programs ; establishment of reserve stockpiles and ' effective export controls on agricultural commodities and other raw materials ; continued regulation of natural gas ; enactment of a hospital cost containment program and a rolling back of Social Security tax rises . On interest rates the statement was particularly strong . " The recent actions of the Federal Reserve Board in returning to the discredited policies of tight money and high interest rates threaten the entire anti-inflation program , " it said . Asked whether G. William Miller , the successor to Arthur F. Burns as the chairport man of the Reserve , was an improvement , Mr. Meany replied : " I do n't know him , but I would say offhand he has got to be an improvement . "                     