@@734069

txt Letters JEANNE SILVER FRANKLOSCAR W. McCRARYKAJ ARESKOUGD.F . BRESSJ . JULIEN GRUNBERGB ... Letters Handicapped Pupils Burdened Needlessly To the Editor : In the midst of the current school bus crisis , no one seems to have recognized that , had New York City been in compliance with Public Law 94-142 , the problem might never have arisen . This Federal law , which has been on the books for over three years , mandates that handicapped children be educated in the least restrictive environment compatible with their needs . The most conservative estimates indicate that if the law were implemented at least 40 percent of the system 's estimated total of 100,000 handicapped children could receive adequate education in their local schools . Another 4 percent might be served in clusters in. or near their neighborhoods . Compliance with this law would not only have limited the need for busing ? a notorious hardship for handicapped youngsters ? but would also have created an environment in which Mayor Koch 's Arrogant Air ' To the Editor : Since taking the oath of the highest office in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hard , insensitive posture toward the economically and racially disenfranchised . By cutting back vitally needed community action programs , closing municipal hospitals and not investigating recent police abuses , he has agitated black and other minority leaders . Some have even called him a racist . Has he been wrongly judged ? The Mayor is elected to represent the public interest , whether the public be rich or poor , black or Jewish . Since Mr. Koch has taken office , his toughness in fiscal management appears primarily to affect the lives of poor minorities . His arrogant air , a sort of " accept it and shut-up " attitude , has an uncanny similarity , especially for blacks , to an American historical experience found during slavery . What IS needed in a city like New York is a sensitive leader , one who can work with groups of many complexions . A leader who can make prudent cuts across the board ? cutting even when it requires reducing salaries of top managers : a tough leader who can make a decision and have the backbone to bear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor , Edward I. Koch , needs character building and leadership training . OSCAR W. MCCRARY New York , March 1 , 1979 a transportation emergency could be met without making handicapped children the victims . A plan could have been drawn up assigning handicapped children in groups to their neighborhood schools . There are almost 1,000 schools in New York City , many with empty classrooms . The special education staff working in central offices and programs could have been deployed , according to need , to the various districts for distribution to the neighborhood schools . Thus the great majority of the ambulatory handicapped would have been in school these past weeks , receiving the attention , services and love they are now being forced to do without . School personnel , from principal to teacher aide , could have risen to the occasion , providing the children with both educational programs and help in getting to nearby schools . Yet , faced with a clear emergency , the school system did not take this To the Editor : The incoming director of the New York City Opera , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to limit the proportion of foreign artists // Kimble Mead in its employ to 5 percent . Since it is appealing loudly for public financial support , the public ought to be alerted to what this policy implies . The limit on foreign singers is a protectionist quota on the temporary importation of a special skill category of labor . common-sense approach . Accustomed to isolating handicapped students , our schools are unprepared to undertake the adjustments required to include children who are different . The experience of school systems which have tried to comply with the Federal law , as well as a few model programs in this city , indicates that this unwillingness to accept handicapped children is not inevitable . Most of these youngsters can be accommodated in or near their neighborhood schools if the effort and commitment is made . Is this not preferable to the hardship and bad feeling . that have dominated the current crisis ? JEANNE SILVER FRANKL EDWARD L. SOLOMON New York , Feb. 28. 1979 The writers are , respectively , director of the Public Education Association 's Education Rights Project and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best available talent is turned away , the company 's hiring practices will of necessity be less efficient and its output ( performance ) quality per dollar spent will be lower , to the detriment of the buyer-consumers ( the audience ) . While some American singers will experience improved employment and income opportunities , foreign singers will of course suffer income losses , and the global allocation of the heterogeneous human capital embodied in such labor ( in the throat ) will unnecessarily deteriorate . At the international trade negotiations in Geneva , the U.S. delegates have tried hard to persuade Japan to abandon her ill-conceived " buy Japanese " program . Is the New York City Opera now going to set an embarrassing perverse example through an operatic " buy American " labor policy at Lincoln Center ? How will American actors be able to complain about their difficulties in getting work permits in London ? It behooves the United States , as a force for cultural and economic liberalism , to keep an open door for foreign artistic talent , even if we can not negotiate an instant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Opera 's new policies are a retrogressive step ? politically chauvinistic , culturally isolationistic and economically protectionistic . KAJ ARESNOUG Associate Professor , Department of Economics , Fordham University Bronx , Feb. 28,1979 A Protectionist Quota at the City Opera ? B.T.U. 's , Calories , Joules ? and the Nanogram People Power To the Editor : David Morris 's Feb. 26 Op-Ed article asking for adoption of a common ' unit to measure energy shows how metrification , which seemed like a good idea , has only added to the confusion . For years , engineers in the Englishspeaking countries used the British thermal unit , the well-known B.T.U. , to measure energy . The rest of the world used the calorie and ignored the more scientific but much smaller joule , When metrification became imminent , working engineers stood mute while our academic brethren imposed the joule upon us . To make the joule meaningful , prefixes were added . Thus the mega joule , which means one million joules . Perhaps Mr. Morris should also have mentioned the more euphonious gigajoule , meaning a billion joules . Gigajoule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My favorite of these new units is the nanogram . ' One nano , gram is one-billionth of a gram or 1C0 grams . This unit appears in the 1978 E.P.A . guidelines for emission standards from power generation stations as nanograms of pollutant per joule of energy input to the boiler , The public is unaware that Mork , the TV visitor from the planet Ork , is really saying " one-billionth , one-billionth , " or ** 104 , " when he greets us with " nano nano " ( note that nano is the English spelling of the Orkian nanu ) . Although I live in New Jersey , I am here in Duluth assisting in the start-up of a ** coal gasification plant ? or is it 15 million kilocalories per hour , or 63 gigajoules per hour , or 63,000 megajoules per hour ? At least the time units are the same as before . Mr. Morris was right . D. F. BRESS Duluth , Minn. , Feb. 27 , 1979 To the Editor : The surprise victory of Jane Byrne in the Chicago Democratic primary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence government . The system continues to be alive and well . It works in Chicago , as it can in many other places , when the people are sufficiently motivated to go to the polls . The same was true of Proposition 13 . It is a fair question whether it is the people who are indifferent or public officials who are unable or unwilling to take the lead . These days we are often told that conservation of energy does not work and that the fight against inflation is difficult because the people are indifferent . Should the blame not be laid at the feet of government at every level ? Such failure of leadership could result in radical changes , if not upheaval It enuld hanpen here , too . J. JULIEN GRUNBERG West Orange , N.J : , March 1 , 1979 U.S. Intellectuals ' Increasing Deafness to Anti-Semitism ' To the Editor : Prof. Richard Falk asserted in a recent Op Ed article " Trusting Khomeini , " Feb. 16 that the news media have " defamed " the Iranian religious leader by , among other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his 1970 book , " Islamic Government , " Khomeini openly wrote . " It is our duty to shout at the top of our voices that the Jews and their foreign masters are plotting against Islam and are preparing the way for the Jews to rule over the entire planet . I greatly fear that by their own special methods , they will indeed realize their desired aims . It is because of our own weakness that we may wake up one morning and find a Jewish ruler dominating our country  --  God forbid ! " In God 's name , if this . s not antiSemitism , what is ? Professor Falk concedes Khomeini 's hostility to Israel hut claims that the hostility is merely a result of Israel 's " support of the Shah and its failure to solve the Palestinian question . " If that were true . Khomeini would be equally hostile to Egypt , Jordan and Syria , which fit those criteria splendidly . Does Professor Falk honestly expect Khomeini to oppose diplomatic and trade ties with those states , or to entertain publicly those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for its persecution of Moslem Kurds ? I fear that Professor Falk 's failure to hear what Khomeini has actually said is symptomatic of an increasing deafness to anti-Semitism among academics and liberal opinion-makers that is beginning to frighten Jews like myself . A historic shift in perceptions about the perennial " Jewish question " is taking place . Despite the horrors of the recent past , Israel 's pariah status . official anti-Semitism in the Soviet Union and neo-Nazi revivals in several countries . Jews are no longer numbered among the select groups deemed to have a valid right to make claims on the conscience of the left . Where once public figures were careful to avoid even the semblance of anti-Semitism for fear of liberal censure . today it is Jews who fret and agonize whether to go public with each new grievance , lest we provoke the now-automatic response that we are being " oversensitive . " Why are Jews losing their liberal bona fides ? Political and ideological considerations have placed nearly all the world 's Communist and radical-left movements in opposition to Israel . Conversely , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In consequence , the once-automatic identification of " Jew " and " left " ( by friend and foe alike ) has been broken ? despite the continued dramatically left-liberal voting record of U.S. Jews , the prominence of Jews on the intellectual left in the U.S. , Europe and Latin America and the relatively socialist flavor of Israeli society . Though most liberals would wish to separate themselves from the extreme left , the latter 's power to mold world opinion remains formidable . The cumulative effect of hundreds of carefully engineered denunciations of Israel by every conceivable U.N . agency , " national liberation movement , " radical student group or other interest whose aims are viewed with sympathy by liberals is now apparent . Any charge against Israel , no matter how unsupported , is given credence and prominence by the print and broadcast media , while the factual rebuttals are ignored or treated with cynicism . Those who try to expose the base motives that give energy to the ? ' anti.Zionisr'movement are dismissed impatiently or themselves accused of defamation . When the Dreyfus case sparked a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Enlightenment , Theodore lierzl lost his faith in the power of reason to protect the rights and persons of his fellow Jews . Recent trends among intellectuals in the United States have served to dispel similar illusions among latter-day Jewish cosmopolitans , and for that I am grateful . II NRP.Y YOUNGERMAN New York , March 3 , 1979                     