@@728705

txt The biggest and third-biggest economies in the world are at the climax of their most serious trade dispute since World War II . For 13 months Tokyo and Washington ? watched intently by Britain , Canada , and the European Common Market ? have been in direct confrontation on how to regulate future exports of certain Japanese textiles . At first glance by an average reader , the specific items look mundane . They include shirts , sweaters , scarves , and mufflers ? Japanese man-made fiber and woolen textile exports . Yet the issue has developed into one of crucial ? Americans say desperate ? importance for free trade : not just between Tokyo and Washington , but around the world . So serious is it that as the House Ways and Means Committee comes closer to approving a protectionist bill aimed squarely at Japan , Japan 's Foreign and International Trade and Industry Ministers , Kiichi Aichi and Kiichi Miyazawa , have flown hastily to Washington . There they will try to head off the consequences by agreeing to a temporary , voluntary hold-down , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if they fail , could be a burst of protectionism in the United States , engulfing not just textiles ( shoes are included in the bill as well ) but television sets , flat glass , baseball gloves , and a host of other items . This in turn could open the door for the Common Market and other nations to enact their own curbs against Japan . The issue has long since ceased to be purely economic . High politics is involved on both sides . And it also symbolizes a deeper issue , one which may never be completely solved , but which experts on both sides want to see ameliorated as fast as possible . This is the fundamentally different ways in which Americans and Japanese approach imports , exports , and investment ? ways rooted in differing customs and outlooks . Frustration mounts Despite the differences , Japan 's need for markets and raw materials , together with American wealth and inflation since 1965 , and the dynamism of both nations , has pushed their overall trade ( two way ) to a staggering $8 billion a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods to Japan . They also want to invest here with the same freedom offered to Japanese businesmen inside the United States . Frustration both in Washington and among American businessmen here is open and grow ; ing . It adds urgency to the efforts of 60 senators and congressmen working in Washington to restrict Japanese imports of various kinds . It also adds to the weight on Japan to restrict voluntarily its noncotton-textile exports , now the focus of American dislike . ' 64. agreement recalled The textile issue began when President Nixon sent Commerce Secretary Maurice H. Stans to Europe and Asia last year to sound out prospects for reducing future textile imports . Mr. Stans returned empty-handed . No one was interested in voluntary cutbacks . Then on May 9 last year the entire lower house of the Japanese Diet , in rare agreement , passed a unanimous resolution telling the government to resist all American efforts , come what may . The Japanese textile industry has been particularly adamant . It recalls bitterly the 1964 longterm agreement limiting cotton exports . The Japanese say instead of being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for three years . Japan fears the same thhig if it gives even an inch on noncottons . Japanese industry goes further . It has flatly rejected two sets of U.S. data designed to show actual damage to the American industry by Japanese imports . Briefly , the case given by Mr. Stans here , and to Congress , is that the U.S. is $504 million in the red on textile trade with Japan for 1969 , up from $351 million in 1967 . About half this was for manmades and half for woolens . Though production was still high , earnings per share in the U.S. textile industry were alarmingly lower  --  one company was down from $2.48 to 22 cents a share in four years . Unemployment was growing . The Japanese said they were being asked to help Mr. Nixon pay his political debts . The American industry was actually doing pretty well . Many an observer here felt the Japanese had a good case to make economically ? but that the case suffered because Japan itself , in other fields , still has 108 trade quotas and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nixon agreed to return Okinawa to Japanese control in 1972 . At the Washington meeting Prime Minister Sato appeared to give an imprecise , but clearly understood , indication that he , in return , would help U.S.-Japan relations by having his textile industry agree to a voluntary export curb . But Messrs . Sato and Miyazawa have had a tough struggle . The climax is at hand . The result is not yet clear . If a voluntary agreement is made , . the Japanese textile industi7 - will demand , and will probably obtain , substantial compensation in other forms of government aid .                     