@@731993

txt " Our whole defense policy must be designed to prevent- a North Korean invasion of South Korea , " a senior diplomat said here recently . " A successful invasion of the South would create intolerable pressure here in Japan ? political , economic , social . " The comment illustrates the change of mood that is taking place among defense thinkers ? whether politicians , officials , or scholars ? since Communist victories in Indo-China and the withdrawal of American military power from the region . For the first time since they signed the peace treaty of 1951 and simultaneously U.S. Navy photo self-defense in tandem with the U.S. accepted a security treaty giving the United States bases in the country , the Japanese are having to rethink their defense policies . Not that they expect an imminent war on the Korean peninsula , which thrusts out toward the Japanese isles from the northeast . Asian mainland . But in the Japanese view , as was pointed out at a recent meeting here of the influential Trilateral Commission , the most immediately unsettling factor in northeast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Peking and Washington . It is the unpredictability of the intentions , in the first place of Kim Il Sung 's North Korea , and in the second place of the authoritarian Park Chung Hee government ruling South Korea . // * Japan keeps watch on Korea // ( The Trilateral Commission is a private body of Americans , West Europeans , and Japanese , founded four years ago on the proposal of Chase Manhattan Bank chairman David Rockefeller and dedicated to looking at world problems from a trilateral instead of a purely American , West European , or Japanese viewpoint . ) Japan 's relations with both Koreas are equivocal . As the former colonial ruler of both , Japan 's position is delicate in both states , and Tokyo 's enormous economic weight , particularly in the South , lays it wide open to charges of economic imperialism . The Japanese do not like to think of South Korea as their own first line of defense , but-one major effect of the Indo-China debacle has been that it is no longer taboo to do so publicly . Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no-war constitution from having formal armies , Tokyo still calls its men under arms self-defense forces . They total 233,000 men , with a 1974-75 budget of $3,835 million ? only .83 percent of gross national product . In actual dollars , Japan spends slightly more than Italy does on defense , but relies primarily on the United States Seventh Fleet and the Fifth Air Force to defend its skies and surrounding seas . One sign of changed times is Prime Minister Takeo Miki 's authorization of a defense-agency study of contingency planning to improve cooperation with American forces in the event of an emergency . Despite Japan 's security treaty with the United States , signed in 1951 and revised in 1960. no detailed plans exist for cooperation between American and Japanese forces in the event of war or a crisis approaching war . This is because the ruling Liberal-Democrats insist that Japan has no military alliance with the United States ; there is only an American commitment to defend Japan and a Japanese agreement to give the United States bases . Today the Japanese realize that if their self-defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emergency , there must be specific coordination , spelled out in advance , with the Americans on questions such as chains of command , allocation of operational and command responsibilities , and so forth . Michita Sakata , defense agency director-general , is to meet with Defense Secretary James R. Schlesinger in the fall , and it is hoped that by then Tokyo will be ready with detailed proposals . All this , for Japan , represents a striking change of mood . To the United States , it is a welcome if overdelayed development . Japanese analysts caution only that Washington allow them to work out the logical conclusions of this4 new attitude without pressing too immediately and too insistently for a formal NATO-like relationship between the two countries .                     