@@734247

txt President Carter told a joint session of Congress tonight that the strategic arms limitation treaty he signed today in Vienna with Leonid I. Brezhnev , the Soviet leader , would help prevent " an uncontrolled and pointless nuclear arms race that would damage the security of all countries including our own . " In a nationally televised speech two hours after Air Force One landed at Andrews Air Force Base , Mr. Carter tried to seize the initiative quickly and set forth Administration themes for a national debate on the new treaty , asserting that it " will withstand the most severe scrutiny because it is so clearly in the interest of American security and world peace . " As Mr. Carter was flying home , opponents of the treaty were developing plans for the Senate debate on the pact . Page A14 . A Struggle Awaits Carter The President went before the Senators and Representatives knowing that his Administration faced a difficult struggle in coming months to win the necessary twothirds margin for approval by the Senate . Senator Alan Cranston , the Democratic whip from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 58 votes for the treaty , 30 against and 12 undecided . To gain approval of the treaty , the Administration needs 67 votes . Mr. Carter looked serious and unsmiling as he slowly delivered his 40-minute speech . The reaction was largely polite attention . He was interrupted six times by applause , but not for any of the statements specifically involving the treaty . The applause came when he called for an end to cycles of war and peace , when he asserted that American strength was growing , for a pledge to keep strong military power , for a warning about Cuban involvement in Africa , for determination to defend American intersts and for praise of freedom as against tyranny . Danger of Nuclear War Stressed As he has done in the past , Mr. Carter argued for the treaty by referring to the dangers of nuclear war inherent in an unrestrained competition . " In the age of the hydrogen bomb , " he said , " there is no longer any meaningful distinction between global war and global suicide . " He said the world has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there Is always the possibility of " a catastrophic nuclear war , a war that in horror and destruction and death would dwarf all the combined wars of man 's long and bloody history . " Without the treaty , President Carter went on , there would be greatly increased spending on strategic arms , greater uncertainty about the strategic balance , increased dangers of a spread of nuclear weapons and heightened East-West tensions . Such tensions , Mr. Carter declared , " could escalate into superpower confrontations . " As to his overall impression of his three // days of talks with Mr. Brezhnev , the President said : " We have moved closer to the goal of stability and security in Soviet-American relations . " Few Details of Talks Disclosed He provided few details about the talks themselves , leaving intact an impression conveyed from Vienna that the two sides had failed to make much headway in resolving major international differences . But he said that the " strength of America " militarily , economically , diplomatically and politically , gave him confidence when he and Mr. Brezhnev " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , including southern Africa and the Middle East . " " For instance , I made it clear to President Brezhnev that Cuban military activities in Africa , sponsored or supported by the Soviet Union , and the growing Cuban involvement in the problems of Central America and the Caribbean , can only haven negative impact on United States-Soviet relations , " he said , according to the text issued in advance by the White House . Exchange Called ' Useful ' Mr. Carter did not dwell on the differences , however , and said in fact that the exchange with Mr. Brezhnev " was useful because it enabled us to clarify our posltions directly to each other , face-to-face , and thus to reduce the chances of future miscalculations on both sides . " He said that he and Mr. Brezhnev had " developed a better sense of each other as leaders and as men . " This is important , he added , because " the responsibility for many decisions involving the future of the world rests on me as the leader of this great country , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much first hand knowledge and experience as possible . " A major them of the speech was the dual nature of American policy ? to seek arms control accords and to maintain a strong defense , so strong , he said , that " no potential adversary could be tempted to attack us . " Most ' Comprehensive Treaty ' The treaty he signed , the President said , is " the most detailed , far-reaching , comprehensive treaty in the history of arms control . " Anticipating complaints that the United States had made too many concessions in the long negotiations , Mr. Carter said , " Neither side obtained everything it sought . " " But the package that emerged is a carefully balanced whole , and it will make the world a safer place for both sides , " he declared . The details of the treaty are complex but the fpndamentals " are not so complex , " Mr. Carter went on . " When all is said and done , SALT II is a matter of common sense . " The treaty reduces the danger of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on each side 's nuclear arsenal ; it makes future competition " safer and more predictable ; " it slows and " even reverses the momentum of the Soviet arms buildup " and it allows the United States to concentrate on building up conventional and allied forces . " The treaty enhances out ability to monitor Soviet actions , " Mr. Carter continued , " and it leads directly to the next step in controlling nuclear weapons . " Speech Like Nixon 's in 1972 Mr. Carter 's appearance on Capitol Hill tonight followed a pattern set by President Richard M. Nixon on June 1 , 1972 , when he spoke to a joint session less than a half-hour after returning from a four-nation journey that included his first meeting with Mr. Brezhnev . In that speech , Mr. Nixon said that his trip to Moscow had laid the basis for " a now relationship between the two most powerful nations on earth . " During his meetings in Moscow , Mr. Nixon signed the first , strategic arms limitation agreement , consisting of a treaty putting a ceiling of 200 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and an interim accord putting a curb on land-based and submarinelaunched offensive missiles . The Senate voted 88 to 2 on Sept. 19 , 1972 , to approve that treaty . Jackson a Critic in 1972 , and Now The treaty that Mr. Carter and Mr. Brezhnev signed this morning in Vienna in a sense continues the process that was begun in ' 1972 . The leading critic in the Congress in 1972 is the same Senator who is likely to play a major role in opposing the new treaty , Henry M. Jackson , Democrat of Washington . Mr. Jackson , who said yesterday that no treaty would be better than the latest one , remarked that Mr. Nixon 's speech to Congress seven years ago was " a very clever campaign speech . " Mr. Carter began his day in Vienna by holding his first private meeting with Mr. Brezhnev . With only their interpreters present , the two leaders conferred for 90 minutes at the American Embassy . ' Lots of Things ' Discussed Apparently to preserve some drama for tonight 's speech , Mr. Carter told reporters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things , " but he declined to provide details . After the 35-minute signing ceremony ; Mr. Carter and Mr. Brezhnev flew home . Washington was considerably less excited by Mr. Carter 's meeting with Mr. Brezhnev than it was by Mr. Nixon 's meeting with the Soviet leader . The 1972 meeting gave impetus to a period of more cordial relations known as " d ? tente , " which began to deteriorate when the United States and the Soviet Union found themselves airlifting supplies to the opposing forces in the Middle East war in October 1973 . Mr. Jackson and two Republican conservatives , Senators Jesse Helms of North Carolina and Jack Garn of Utah , have accused the Administration of practicing policies that could produce " appeasement , " like the policies of the British Government toward Hitler 's Germany on the eve of World War II . Summing up , Mr. Carter said that the new treaty was " not a favor we are doing for the Soviet Union " but was rather " a deliberate , calculated move we are making as a matter of self-interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of security and of survival , that strengthens both the military position of the United States and the cause of world peace . " , lie said that he and Mr. Brezhnev had discussed other nuclear matters that will be taken up in the next round of strategic arms negotiations ? such as " deeper mutual reduction " in nuclear weapon inventories , stricter limits on the production of weapons , enhanced ' " survivability " and stability of authorized missile systems and advance notification of missile tests .                     