@@731730

txt THE CHICAGO Principals Association may sue the Board of Education and other officials to stop the demotions of seven high school principals . The suit would seek money damages for alleged injury to the principals ' reputations , Samuel Dolnick , president of the association , an AFL-CIO affiliate , said Thursday . He charged that school officials used the seven high school principals as scapegoats to halt criticism of the school system . " THE TOTAL system is bad , " Dolnick said , " and the Board of Education should look to itself about that . " Schools Supt. James F. Redmond demoted the high school principals to elementary school posts after a Board of Education meeting Wednesday . It was the largest shakeup in Redmond 's nine years as superintendent . Affected were : Mary Saxton of Parker High School ; Nicholas Kushta of South Shore High School ; Daniel Caldwell of Phillips High School ; Edmund Kubik of Tilden High School ; Clara Spaulding of Flower High School ; Richard Po r tee of Marshall High School ; and Daniel Remahi of Orr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' attacked for different reasons Thursday . A group of about 100 parents met with a district superintendent to protest the transfer of their elementary school 's principal to fill the vacancy at Flower High School . The Tilton Elementary School parents were upset by the transfer of Principal Hortense I. Bright and her replacement at Tilton by Mrs. Spaulding . They complained they had been given no prior notice of the transfer . About 75 parents and teachers from the Piccolo Elementary and Middle Schools also met Thursday night to protest the proposed transfer of the Orr High School principal to the principalship of their school . They charged that Remahl was a poor disciplinarian when he was principal of the old combined Orr Elementary and High School . That school was attended by most Piccolo students before the separate elementary school opened in 1973 . REDMOND SAID he made the changes to tighten discipline at the schools . Many were named in recent newspaper accounts of chaos in the classroom . A series of articles in The Tribune in September reported Parker High School teachers dozing in Classes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school . The Tribune also re ported the fears of a teacher at Orr High School that she might be attacked by her stu dents while she was on hall duty . Tribune columnist Jack Mobley in December reported chaotic conditions at Phillips High School , including shootings , robberies , and vandalism . Dolnick said that altho every school involved in the shakeup had received unfavorable pub . licity in the newspapers , all of the principals had received " excellent " or " superior " personnel ratings . The shakeup came as a surprise to the principals , Dol. nick said . None had been notified that they were doing inadequate work , he said , and all had received merit bonuses recently . THE SHAKEUP came shortly after a group of the city 's top businesses released a report criticizing the school system and suggesting that two prominent business executives should take posts on the Board of Education . Sources said Thursday that the report by Chicago United , a 90-member business organization , did not precipitate the decision to demote the principals . School board members also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a successor to Redmond . At a closed-door meeting Monday , ' the board set up a five-member committee to help select a new superintendent . Redmond said the timing of the shakeup  --  so soon after the Chicago United report and the organization of the search committee for his successor  --  was " purely coincidental . " THE AFFECTED principals had differing responses to the shakeup . " We do have security problems here , " said Kushta of South Shore High School . " Trespassers come in , they rip 9ff lockers , steal coats and other things . They intimidate the students and deal In pot . " Unless my successor gets the kind of help I 've been asking for I think he 'll have the same problems I had . "                     