@@733133

txt Bernard Bergman , who was convicted in Federal and state courts of Medicaid fraud in the operation of a string of nursing homes , is back in the nursing home business , operating the Park Crescent Nursing Home in Manhattan . Mr. Bergman 's license to operate the Park Crescent was ordered revoked by state health authorities after he was convicted of . Medicaid frauds involving more than $1.2 million and of tax frauds , including falsification of the books of the Park Crescent . He is appealing the revocation order . The nursing home , at Riverside Drive and 87th Street , has 500 patients for which Medicaid pays approximately $20,000 a day . Assemblyman Alan G. Hevesi , Democrat-Liberal of Queens , who helped to write the law under which the revocation. was ordered , said Mr. Bergman had been able to resume operation of the Park Crescent through " an outrageous and near-incredible combination of legal flukes and technicalities , and the refusal of the Attorney General 's office to pursue available remedies . " Mr. Bergman resumed the operation June 3 , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chase Manhattan Bank , which held a $7.5 million mortgage on the property . Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz , responding to Mr. Hevesi , said that he was distressed by Mr. Bergman 's resumption of nursing-home activity , but that the law " plainly prohibits me from asking for a receiver until Mr. Bergman exhausts his remedies of appeaL " ? Investigations of Mr. Bergman 's activities , beginning in 1974 ; resulted hi hundreds of hours of hearings ! tensing public attention on corruption and neglect in care for the aged in the city , the conviction of other nursing-home operators , and more than a dozen pieces of state legislation designed to reform conditions . Mr. Bergman was sentenced in Federal ' court to four months , and in state court to a year . He completed three and a half months of the Federal sentence Jan. 2 , and is scheduled to surrender July 7 to serve the state sentence . Assemblyman Hevesi made his remarks at a news conference yesterday at the State Office Building , 270 Broadway . He accused Mr. Lefkowitz of refusing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Park Crescent . - Mr. Lefkowitz replied that Mr. Bergman " has no right to be in the nursing home business , " but that " he has a right to go to court to have the revocation reviewed . " ? " I ca n't stop that , " he added . Dr. Robert P. Whelan , State Commissioner of Health , was also distressed . " It is terrible that he is back in the business , " he said . " I am sure all of those involved in trying to improve the care of the elderly will feel terrible to learn of it . " He added that he felt " helpless " at being unable to revoke the license " until the proper time expires " for Mr. Bergman to appeal , and was asking his legal staff . " to continue to work with the Attorney General to see what other legal remedies might be available . " " This points up the need , " Dr. Whelan said , " for legislation we have been seeking for two or three years which would prohibit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safeguards . " Mr. Hevesi said legislation that would mandate appointment of a receiver in a case like Mr. Bergman 's had been agreed on in principle , and was expected to pass in both houses soon . However , he insisted that , even under the present law , which he helped to draft , Mr. Lefkowitz could ask the court to appoint a receiver for the Park Crescent pending Mr. Bergman 's appeal . " Let Mr. Lefkowitz go to court and  --  let the court decide , " Mr. Hevesi said . - " It is a disgraceful situation that he has n't tried . Assemblyman Hevesi declared that the revocation of the license had been decided on the merits after Mr. Bergman appealed it all the way up to the Court of Appeals and " lost every step of the way . " Mr. Bergman 's current appeal is of a " pro forma " order implementing the revocation . It can take a year to get through the appeal process , during which Mr. Bergman can continue to operate the 15-story Park Crescent , unless the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This disgraceful situation is the result ? of an outrageous and near-incredible combination of legal flukes and technicalities , and the refusal of the State Attorney General 's office to pursue available remedies , " the Assemblyman asserted . Declaring the Mr. Bergman 's illegal acts had made him a wealthy man , - Mr. Itevesi said , " To allow such a person back into the business is horrendous and must outrage anyone with the slightest scintilla of c  --  ncem for the elderly . " According to State Health Department officials , the Park Crescent is the only one of Mr. Bergman 's numerous nursing homes for which he personally held ' a license . His involvement with the others was as owner or part-owner . His two sons , Meyer and Stanley , are employed at the Park Crescent at salaries of $26,000 a year , according to Assemblyman Hevesi . Other assets of Mr. Bergman were placed in receivership by Charles J. Hynes , the special state prosecutor appointed to investigate nursing home scandals as the result of disclosures in the wake of the investigation of Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been appointed receiver for the properties , which Mr. Bergman signed over to the state for sale to make restitution of $2.5 million to settle Medicaid frauds . The Park Crescent was not among these properties , because Chase Manhattan Bank had begun foreclosure of its mortgage , and obtained appointment of two receivers , Benedict Ginsberg and Herbert C. Silberman . Under their operation , beginning last May , the home achieved a " Good State " rating , the second highest of five state ratings . This receivership expired June 3 , and the home was scheduled to be auctioned off Thursday to satisfy the Chase Mortgage . However that auction was stayed by an application by Mr. Bergman under the Federal bankruptcy law for rescheduling ' of the payments in a manner that he could afford . Judge John J. Galgay of , Federal District Court set a hearing for next Wednesday .                     