@@730715

txt CRITICIZING Gov : Walker in strong language , Mayor Daley yesterday called upon both Republican and Democratic legislators to override Gov . Walker 's amendatory veto of the emergency aid bill for the Chicago Transit Authority . The mayor 's statement , which he read to newsmen in a calm but firm voice , also : ? Accused Walker of being " overwhelmingly unfair and discriminatory to the people of Chicago and Cook County " by amending the CTA bill to reduce the state 's contribution to the CTA while increasing the local subsidy . ? Implied that Walker was attempting to assume dictatorial powers by disregarding the traditional American division of authority between the executive , legislative , and judicial branches of government . This implication was contained in a Daley plea for the legislature to amend the state Constitution to deprive Walker of the " arbitrary power of amendatory veto . " ? Accused Walker of breaking political faith with Chicago voters who , Daley pointed out , gave the governor the edge he needed to win last November 's election . ? Indirectly praised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ogilvie , in transit aid , had followed an established procedure of having the state bear the larger share of such aid to city transportation systems . VETERAN NEWSMEN described Daley 's statement as " undoubtedly the most critical " he had ever made on any subject since he became mayor 11 years ago . " Do you think Gov . Walker 's position on the CTA bill is anti-Chicago ? " the mayor was asked . " It surely is , " replied Daley . " Why would he take this position ? " Daley was asked . " I DO N'T know , " said the mayor as he ended the press conference . " Why do n't you ask him Walked ? " An inquiry . among legislators in Springfield indicated that an overriding of Walker 's amendatory veto probably would result in the first major court test of this provision un- . der the Constitution , which became effective July 1 , 1971 . FORMER GOV . Ogilvie exercised the amendatory veto power , in a major bill invoiving aid to parochial schools , but that veto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as unfair and discriminatory for Chicagoans , Daley 's statement continued : " It is interesting to point out that in last November 's election ' the governor received 779,000 votes from the people of Chicago and a plurality of 278,000 Chicago votes in an election which lie won by only 87,000 votes in the entire state . It is surely significant that the . majority by which he Walker was elected came from the voters of Chicago , and yet he now discriminates against them . " IN MY OPINION , an amendatory veto is an insult to the members of the legislatare , which is an independent body elected by the people of this state . " The governor 's veto is not consistent with the American concept of the division of pow ers among the executive , the legislature , and the judiciary . " IF THE governor can dictate the type of legislation and the language which has to be used , then the powers of the representatives of the people of the legislature have been usurped . " Daley noted that the federal government has established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters pertaining to mass transportation with a division of funding based on two-thirds from the federal government and onethird from local governments . " The former Republican state administration under Gov . Ogilvie also recognized this fundamental principle in all assistance for mass transportation which he approved , " Mayor Daley said . is hard to understand the reason why Gov . Walker has decided to reverse this long-standing federal and state policy . " In contrast to Daley 's state ment , George W. Dunne , County Board president , said , " The best that one can say about the governor 's action is that we now know for sure that he recognizes his responsibility in this field . We were worried that he might have vetoed the CTA aid bill entirely . " In Springfield , Senator Cecil Partee D. , Chicago , minority leader , said " His Walker 's action may kill the whole mass transit aid bill . " HOWEVER , SENATE President William Harris R. , Pontiac said he applauded the move and added that it was similar to a plan he had originally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ v . Walker 's suggested change , " he said . " In fact , I am in agreement with that concept . If the governor feels he can persuade legislators ' in his party to accept a 50-50 mat ch , I 'll gladly support him . " Milton Pikarsky , Daley 's nominee as CTA board chairman , contended that Walker has " misinterpreted the situation . " Noting that Walker . had mentioned the city and county 's $15 million pledge in aid , Pikarsky said that the pledge had been " for the full calendar year of 1973 and not just for the CTA 's operations for the next few months . " " To my knowledge , the governor has never had anyone from his office sit down with us to find out exactly what the , problem is , " said Pikarsky.                     