@@728965

txt Foreign Minister Mahmoud Riad declared today that the United Arab Republic would not renew the 90-day cease-fire with Israel , which expires Nov , 5 , unless the Israelis agreed to take part in the peace Mitsion of Dr. Gunnar V. Jarring ; the United Nations rapresentative , and announced tMir readiness to carry out the Security Council resolution ' of Nov. 22 , 1967 , on the Middle East conflict . Israel has declared a boycott of the indirect peace talks at the United Nations under Dr. Jarring that began on Aug. 25 , charging that Cairo has violated the terms of the cease- ' fire by moving antiaircraft missiles into the Suez Canal standstill zone . ' Everything Is Turned Around ' In an interview , the Foreign Minister said that the ceasefire had been only the secondary aspect of the United States peace initiative and that Cairo had accepted it to create ' better opportunities for the peace exchanges of Dr. Jarring . He also indicated that Egypt might embark en a campaign against American oil operations in the Middle East . " Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Americans forget about the main ' issue and talk now only about the cease-fire . " The Foreign Minister said that Cairo had not yet been for // many asked by anyone to extend the cease-fire but would agree to do so only " if Israel agrees to contact Jarring and declares that she is ready to carry out the Security Council resolution . " Mr. Riad reiterated a remark he made earlier in the week that the Egyptians would never remove " a single ? missile " from the canal zone . He declared that on Sept. 3 , when the United States first charged that Egypt was violating the standstill provisions of the truce , the Egyptian armed forces had not moved any missiles into the zone nor constructed any new missile bases since the cease-fire took effect at 1 A.M. Cairo time on Aug. 8 . Egyptian activity at the missile sites since the cease-fire , he insisted , has been limited to maintenance , the pouring of cement to replace former sandbag defenses at the bases . Mr. Riad said that the Egyptians had prepared hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , some dummy sites to confuse the Israelis and the others genuine " field and alternative positions . " Washington Is Accused In his office building beside the Nile , the Foreign Minister spoke angrily about recent United States support of Israeli accusations on Egyptian missile movement . He charred that Washington was mounting a campaign " trying to prove to the world that Egypt does n't keep its word . " He said that he would raise the issue at the United Nations General Assembly next week . He is scheduled to address the Assembly on Friday . His remarks foreshadowed an Egyptian diplomatic and economic offensive against the United States aimed at persuadr ing it to intensify pressure against Israel to withdraw from the occupied Arab territories . The focus of the Egyptian campaign , he emphasized , would be on the profitable American oil operations in the Arab world , yielding up to $2-billion annually for the United States balance of payments . It was reported here today that consultations were under way for a conference of Arab oil-producing countries on the issue . Mr. Riad stressed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of oil production but rather at curbing an expansion of output necessary to meet growing demands for oil in the West . Libyan Action Cited He cited the recent successful action of Libya in putting pressure on American oil companies for price increases by ordering cutbacks in production . The cutbacks were immediately felt in Western Europe , he said , compelling imports of oil from more distant countries with a consequent increase in transportation costs . The Arab oil-producing countries , Mr. Riad said , are wealthy enough from present levels of income to hold up under a ban on increased production . " The Arab countries can in the future show to the world that they are able to affect the situation , " the Foreign Minister said . The Arabs suspended oil deliveries to the West after the 1967 war with Israel , but resumed output under pressure of loss of income a curb on increasing output appears to be a compromise strategy . " The question now is one of balancing the real interests of the American people against the selfish interests of the Zionists , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States holds the key to a peaceful Israeli withdrawal from occupied areas . Mr. Riad said that the Egyptians had accepted the United States initiative of last summer for a cease-fire and settlement efforts in the hope that Washington was prepared to be an even-handed mediator . Instead , he charged , the United States has tried to act as " a judge , a referee on the side of Israel . " He voiced doubt that any compromise could be found to settle the obstacle raised by the missile controversy . " We are not going to pull back a single missile , " he said " Our aim is to liberate our territory and most definitely to defend the canal zone . We aim to get rid of the Israeli occupation . It is an insult for anyone to come and say , ' please pull back your missiles from the canal zone . ' " " If anyone asks us to withdraw our missiles , he should also ask the Israelis to destroy all their fortifications in the canal zone and to ground all their Phantoms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the United States had undermined its own peace initiative by agreeing to supply Israel with additional Phantom fighter-bombers and other military equipment . He said that this was a violation of a commitment given to Cairo to withhold military equipment from Israel . during the ceasefire and related peace endeavor . He indicated that he would make detailed accusations about Israeli construction of fortifications during his presence at the United Nations .                     