@@731261

txt Robert M. Morgenthau , who as a United States Attorney prosecuted such political figures as Carmine G. De Sapio and James L. Marcus , said yesterday that he would seek the Democratic nomination for District Attorney in Manhattan . Mr. Morgenthau , who is 54 years old , will be competing for the Democratic nomination 1 ? generally tantamount to elec-tion in Manhattan-with District Attorney Richard H. Kuh , a Democrat who was appointed for an interim term by Governor Wilson last month . Mr. Kuh thus is assured of at least the Republican nomination for the remaining three years of the term of the seriously ill Frank S. Hogan , ' who resigned . Othets May Drop Out Several other Democrats have indicated interest in running for the District Attorney nomination , but several . top Democrats predicted that the decision of Mr. Morgenthau , who is considered a strong candidate because of his experience and ' reputation as a Federal prosecutor , would discourage some of the aspirants . They include William J. vanden Heuvel , who challenged Mr. Hogan unsuccessfully in the 1 Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Martin Garbus , an official of I the American Civil Liberties Union ; Jerome Kretchmer , the city 's former . Environmental Protection Administrator , and Nicholas Scopetta , the city 's Investigation Commissioner . Mr. Morgenthau , an unsuccessful Democratic candidate for Governor . in 1962 and son of the Secretary of the Treasury in the Franklin D. Roosevelt administration , pledged a nonpolitical office . He said that as Federal prosecutor in Manhattan dur-ing the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations , he had attracted to his staff " excellent people who are independent of political ties . " He cited as examples Michael Armstrong , who was chief counsel to the Knapp Commission investigating police corruption , and several top lawyers in the current investigations of President Nixon . Mr. Morgenthau left the United States Attorney post in late 1969 under pressure from , then Attorney General John N. Mitchell , now on trial in Federal Court here , who wanted the post for a Republican , Whitney North Seymour Jr . Mr. Morgenthau , who is a vice president of the Association of the Bar of the City of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city 's b leo.al establishment . He said that such prominent lawyers , including several Republicans , as Bruce Bromley , Robert P. Patterson Jr . and Bethuel M. Webster , were supporting his candidacy . However , his political base could depend on how many other candidates remain in the race . Frank G. Rossetti , now the Manhattan Democratic leader , was a close friend of Mr. De Sapio 's , the former Manhattan leader , and was called before a grand jury by Mr.1 Morgenthau a decade ago . And several other potential candidates have stronger ties to the liberal New Democratic Coalition , a major political force in Manhattan , than does Mr. Morgenthau.                     