@@729290

txt Lt. William Calley Jr . ' s court martial judge ruled today that if the jury finds the defendant killed even a single Vietnamese civilian at My Lai as charged , it can convict him of anything from voluntary manslaughter to first - degree murder . The maximum penalty for first - degree or premeditated murder is death , for voluntary manslaughter 10 years in pris. on . The other possible verdict is second-degree murder will a maximum sentence of lift imprisonment . One Charge Stricken At first the court included involuntary manslaughter , punishable by three years in prison , as a possible verdict . But after a recess , the charge was stricken as a possible finding . The 27 - year - old Calley has been charged by the government with the premeditated murder of 102 unresisting Vietnamese men , women and children while leading an infantry assault tin the village March 13 , 1968 . The government charged that 30 of the victims were executed along a trail in the village , and at least 70 others in a drainage ditch east of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of these killings himself and of directing GIs within the platoon who took part in others . These are specifications one and two of the government 's indictment Judge Tells Instructions " I 'm instructing , " the judge , Col Reid Kennedy , told defense and prosecuting lawyers , " that if the jury is not satisfied 70 were killed at one time or 30 as the case may be they may bring in a finding that a lesser number were killed . " If they are satisfied that at least one was killed they can convict him on specifications ' , one or two . " Calley also is charged with shooting to death a Viet Nam male in the white garb of a monk , and a small child seeking to escape from a ditch . Testimony in the four-monthold court martial ended last Thursday . and the jury of Calley 's senior officers is due back . in court tomorrow when final arguments of opposing attorneys are scheduled to begin . ' Tuesday is the third- anniversary of the alleged My Lai massacre . Kennedy said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to circumstantial evidence , adding : " I do n't think there is any question at all about the first and second specifications that people were killed . I do n't think reliance has to be made on circumstantial evidence . " You have the ditch , you have the bodies in it , any number of , bodies in it , and you have blood flowing down the ditch . It would be hard for anyj one to conclude that at least lone of the people was n't dead . "                     