@@732919

txt . Now that a new President , a new Administration and a new Congress are all pretty much in place , the dreary business of governance  --  as opposed to the pyrotechnical business of politics or the heady-sad business of transition  --  will soon again become the Order of the day in Washington . Few issues will be larger , at this turn of the wheel , than whether Washington can impose the kinds of ethical restraints on official conduct that will regain the damaged confidence of the American people . - This year , the issue is of even greater importance than usual , for at least two reasons . The first ? is climate . Last session , with the smell of Watergate still in the air , a few Congressmen managed to discredit much more than themselves . And there 's more in the air than drinking and sex ; there is , for example , the still unfolding story of South Korea 's effort to practice broadside ; bribery upon Congress . ? The second reason is that Federal officials , especially : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are egverdue for a raise . Official salaries have not kept ; pace with either consumer prices or high public respon4ibility. in recognition of that fact , President Ford Included raises in his last budget request to Congress . ' , The suggested raises track closely the recommendations oaf a commission on executive , legislative and judicial : salaries . But the commission made a clear point of . linking . pay increases to the development of higher ' standards conduct for Federal officials of all branches . In submitting its report , the commission said , " Mr. ' President , we believe it an exercise in political futility , . . to propose any significant increase in executive , tlegislative and judicial salaries unless you are satisfied ; , that the leaders of the other branches of government join you in a commitment to major reform . ( Speak  --  ing for ourselves , we would not have proposed signifi.cant salary increases except in the context of such ? reform . ) " The problem is that ethics and raises could too easily become unlinked . The raises now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But a new code of ethics requires affirmative action by both houses . The solution is for leaders of both houses to make sure that the ethics proposals  --  for financial disclosure , restrictions on outside income , and limitations on expense allowances  --  are kept on the front burner . A case very much alive and in point is that of Representative Robert L. F. Sikes of Florida who , among other things , has profited from a bank that he persuaded the Navy to establish on a base in Florida , pushed legislative language that permitted development of lands in which he had a secret interest and failed to disclose his financial interest in a major defense , contractor . The House did vote to reprimand him last year , a gentle punishment considering the nature of his transgressions . Mr. Sikes still chairs the powerful Military Construction Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee , the position that he leveraged into so much money . If the Democratic Caucus re-elects Mr. Sikes chairman tomorrow , it will be a clear indication that despite brave words about reform , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the larger question of general ethical reform , the leaders in both houses seem to have made appropriate commitments to change . Senator Byrd , the majority leader , . has repeatedly expressed the view that the Senate will be hospitable to reform . Speaker O'Neill took the extraordinary step of going personally to testify before the House Commission on Administrative Review about the need for reform . " We have to face the fact that the public is cynical about its officials in general , and about Congress in particular , " he said . He 's right . True ethical reform is the best antidote to that cynicism . The effort to accomplish that task may well be the sternest test of the new Congressional leadership .                     