@@729938

txt In moves that are likely to touch off a heated national debate , Vice President Agnew has opened a challenge to the right of poor people , using federally paid lawyers , to sue elected officials . A spokesman said today that Mr. Agnew " is undertaking a serious national study " of the Federal Legal Services program , particularly the issue of federally funded suits against government agencies . Mr. Agnew 's seriousness was evidenced by the fact that , aft- , er an inquiry by the Vice Presi-1 dent , two White House budget officials arrived at the national Legal Services headquarters at 9 A.M. today to inquire labout how Federal funds for local offices could be cut off . Other evidence of Mr. Agnew 's rising concern was contained in a transcript , obtained by The New York Times today , of his meeting yesterday concerning a poor people 's suit against the city of Camden , N. J. This meeting led to an assertion yesterday by Fred Speaker , head of the Legal Services program of the Office of Economic Opportunity , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suit . The transcript showed a sharp exchange between Mr. Speaker and the Vice President , after which Mr. Agnew said : " I want you to be clearly on notice that I 'm not satisfied . I 'm not talking only about the problem of the city of Camden ; I 'm not satisfied with the whole ball of wax concerning Legal Services . " Mr. Agnew said that he // would discuss with President Nixon and members of Congress the issue of suits against elected officials . And he Said that he would " pursue the administration of the 0 , 0 . Legal Services ' a lot more completely than I have . " The Vice President 's expressions brought to the surface once inure ' a bitter philosophical difference that has ignited repeated ' controversies over the Legal Services program since it began in 1965 . ' Viewpoint of Reagan ? On one side , some public officials , notably Gov , Ronald Reagan of California , have gued that it is wrong for the Federal Government to finance court efforts by political minorities that restrict the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the other side ; lawyer's. ! and other officials have insisted that the poor should have the same unrestricted . right to their day in court as do ? paying clients , even if " that means suits against public officials . Previous ? challenges to this ' position have generated protracted protest from conservative and liberal lawyers alike , Mr. Agnew 's challenge is likely to provoke another storm tQ. , morrow , when the American Bar Association convenes its annual midwinter meeting in New Orleans . Mr. Agnew 's advocacy-of the first position appeared to be at odds with that of the ' President . Last year , in a message to Congress , Mr. Nixon ? pro , posed establishing Legal Services as an independent , public corporation . " Much of the litigation , initiated by Legal Services has placed it in direct conflict with local and state governments , " Mr. Nixon said . " If we are to preserve the strength of the program we must make it immune to political pressures and make it a permanent part of our system of justice . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invoked Administration support for his position , saying : " My situation in this case is because the Nixon Administration philosophically believeS in the right of state and local officials , ? properly representing the people in an area , to carry out What they campaigned to do and were elected , to do . " If political minorities are able to prevent such officials from carrying out their programs , " we have perverted the entire concept of democracy which is ' a majority government , " Mr. Agnew said . Victor Gold , Mr , Agnew 's press secretary , said today that the Vice President had not come to . . a conclusion on the issue . But ; reaffirming Mr. Agnew 's role as the Federal liaison man with local government , he said the Vice President believed it was a problem " that needs to be looked into . " After the two officials of the ' Office of Management and Budget appeared at the Legal Services office today , one employe of the legal unit said ; " The questions were clinically neutral , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ response to questions about this visit , Mr. Gold said that there had been emphatically no intention to intimidate . The interview , he said , was " probably over-diligent " Fle acknowledged that Mr. Agnew yesterday asked the Office of Management and Budget for general information about the Legal Services program and about the Camden office specifically . But this . request , he said , did not contemplate that officials " would go park on somebody 's doorstep this morning . " The two budget officials , G. Phillips Hanna and James A. Rotherham , spent an hour questioning Legal Services attar- , neys ' about the program generally . They reportedly , asked what authority might be available'to end the $550,000 annual grant to . the Camden office . This grant was renewed last month . One specific result of the Meeting yesterday in Camden was the reopening of negotiations today between Legal Services attorneys'and ' Camden city officials over the , contra . versial lawsuit there . After a two-hour meeting today , David H. Dugan 3d , director of . Camden Regional Legal Services , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' progress . " Another meeting on the suit is expected soon . , The suit , brought by poor blacks and Puerto Ricans , seeks to force the city to provide relocation housing for people displaced by two urban renewal projects . This action , filed in August , 1970 , has blocked construction on those projects , which city officials have argued are critical to the future of the e* . Its population of 100,000 is about 40 per cent black and 10 per cent Puerto Rican . Gov . Francis W. Sargent of Massachusetts , a ' Republican , came to the defense ' of Legal Services today in a telegram to Massachusetts Congressmen . The telegram , which an aide acknowledged was partly a ' result of Mr. Agnew 's new stance , said in part , " Recent eventSernphasize the need for a separate Legal Services corporation . The program , ' I feel , has been very successful in Massachusetts . "                     