@@732878

txt Letters pg . 16 Letters A Blueprint for the Rebirth of Our Cities To the Editor : Your Dec. 29 editorial " A New Beginning in Urban America " dwells on the importance of overcoming joblessness and poverty but ignores the older cities ' handicap of physical obsolescence and deterioration . A city 's social health depends on its economic health , which is based on private investment in its physical plant ? housing , offices , stores , industry . If government programs concentrate on social health , and provide no incentives to private industry to invest in the central city , investors will favor the suburbs . The result for the city is not continuation of the status quo ; rather , it is continued disinvestment , spreading deterioration and increased costs of social services falling upon a diminishing tax base . Forty-odd years of programs to improve cities and housing have taught us that : 1 . Private investment can not be attracted without assurance that it will be secure . This means that in deteriorated inner-city sections redevelopment and rehabilitation activities must cover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for private investment . This can not be done a piece at a time ; it must be done on a large scale . That , of necessity , takes time , and requires continuity of commitment and assured funding . 2 . Long-lasting housing rehabilitation can only be achieved in areas with a high proportion of stable homeownership or long-term tenants , areas not too badly deteriorated and in which all owners are helped to comply with uniformly high rehabilitation standards . Since rehabilitation costs money , iowincome owner-occupants need financial assistance to enable them to afford it . Also , if low-income renters are not helped to pay the rents necessary to maintain housing in decent condition , rental properties will continue to be abandoned in favor of some other form of investment . 3 . Residential areas must be equipped with adequate community facilities  --  schools , parks , convenient shopping facilities and transportation ? if they are to compete with the suburbs . Federal programs to assist in the rebirth of cities should build upon these lessons . Your companion editorial on the " Social Crisis " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's approach of putting Federal money on the stump virtually without strings " to be pernicious in the area of social programs . This is no less true in the community development field . The result of the total undoing of the so-called " categorical programs " was an indiscriminate spreading of Federal funds with little focus and without " any specific goal orientation . This must now be replaced with a clear view of the totality of the problems that beset our cities and of practical ways in which the public sector can solve these problems with maximum attainable participation by private enterprise . GEORGE M. RAYMOND Tarrytown , N.Y. , Jan. 3 , 1977 To Improve Our System Kenya : ' Wildlife Conservation Is Not a Lost Cause ' Of Criminal Justice To the Editor : We , the police , beseech Mr. Scopetta , from our position on hands and knees , to bring some light to the dark corridors of the criminal justice system in his new role as Deputy Mayor for Criminal Justice . When I read about some of his intentions in The Times of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosopher Hegel : " History has taught us that we do not learn from history . " As you know , the criminal justice system in New York City essentially comprises police , prosecution , courts and corrections . The largest part of the criminal justice dollar , some 81 percent , is dedicated to the police . This obvious imbalance creates a culde-sac on the post-arrest side , where prosecution , courts and corrections must deal with the workload generated by the police . This situation has been with us for decades . In a structural sense , nothing has changed to date . In a procedural sense , the police in the last decade have constantly relined their procedures to adapt to the shortcomings on the post-arrest side , to the point where we are issuing desk appearance tickets tor crimes that offend the sensibilities of the average citizen . , Mr. Scopetta must concentrate on building up the ability of the postarrest side to deal with what the police bring them . We need the police we have now , and those we lost recently . Such suggestions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the recent past . Men like Henry Ruth , who headed the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council , made similar recommendations . Deputy Mayor Osborn Elliot recently explained that the intrinsic economic health of the city depends a great deal on its actual and perceived nature of being safe . For our part , we want to continue to make contributions that will improve what we sometimes refer to as a " criminal justice non-system . " We also continue aggressively to discourage arrest abuses and all abuses in our operations . We wish him success and wisdom in his ways . PHILIP A. SERPICO Detective , N.Y.C. Police Dept . New York , Dec. 30 , 1976 The 3.8 Billion of Us To the Editor : Here we are with a new year , a new President and a new Secretary of State . Is there hope that we may have a new ball game ? Stalin is long gone , and so are Metternich and Castlereagh , to whose concepts Americans have never taken kindly . The only one among my acquaintances who has a thorough knowledge of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more afraid of us than we are of them . Henry Thoreau wrote years ago that " nothing is so much to be feared as fear . " In the irreverent Rev. Laurence Sterne 's book , Tristram Shandy 's lovable Uncle Toby puts his hand to his bald pate , catches a fly and as he releases it remarks , " This world is surely wide enough for both thee and me ! " Dare we hope  --  without dropping our guard ? If They and We were to reduce military expenditures by half , what a difference it might make for all 3.8 billion of us ! LAWRENCE HOCHHEIMER Norwalk , Conn. , Jan. 3 , 1977 To the Editor : Your recent editorial condemning the current depredation of wildlife in Kenya was vary much to the point and has already created great concern among conservationists all over this country . Such allegations are by no means new , and the situation is serious . But you and those concerned people who have read it should know that there is a positive side also . Kenya 's largest newspaper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissipation of the country 's wildlife resources . The Wildlife Clubs of Kenya , which our foundation helped start and still supports , have been carrying on effective lobbying at all levels of government . There are more than 17,000 members in 300 secondary schools And , the Parliament , you know , recently voted a special investigation into the whole situation . The issue is now out in the open and concern goes far beyond the conservation community . The cost of the carnage is being appraised by planners calculating the future of the tourist industry without wildlife . Treasury officials are bemoaning the loss of millions of dollars in foreign exchange and income taxes through smuggling of ivory . And the chairman of To the Editor : I realize that " the China debate " in your newspaper is still heated after reading Darlene Meyer 's Dec. 15 letter . I , as a teacher of Chinese , feel professionally obligated to provide the readers with a different point of view . Meyer 's viewpoint on the Taiwan problem is apparently mistaken ; it represents ignorance on the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taiwanese because no country in the world is called " Taiwan . " Taiwan is an integral part of China just as New York is an integral part of the United States . Do we permit the State of New York to become a " free and independent republic " based on the " principle of selfdetermination " ? I am sure most Americans will definitely say " no . " In fact , the Taiwan problem has been solely created by the interference of the American Government in Chinese politics . The long and unfinished struggle between the two Chinese political parties , the Communist and the Nationalist , is internal and , after all , Chinese . No outsiders should interfere . The Shanghai Communiqu ? signed by the American and the Chinese Governments in 1972 points in the right direction . I do n't see any other way to improve the relations of the two countries . The problems of Israel , Germany , Korea , Mozambique , Angola , etc. , have no relevance whatsoever to the problem of China . Each country is a discrete political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a different approach . In the case of normalizing the Sino-American relations , Senator Mansfield 's advice to his colleagues , the American Governthe East African Power and Light Company has publicly explained Nairobi 's daily power cuts in terms of , the destruction of forest water catchments and resultant siltation of hydroelectric plants . The remarkable aspect of the whole situation is that a combination of a vigorous press , young activists such as the Wildlife Clubs and concerned politicians have brought the whole issue to a head . It is doubtful whether such a process could be possible in , any other country in Africa . So wildlife conservation in Kenya is not a lost cause . There are so many Kenyans committed to effective conservation that the prospects are good the country will ultimately pursue incisive policies . Meanwhile , these dedicated Kenyans deserve and need . the moral support of conservationists everywhere . ROBINSON The African Wildlife Leadership Foundation Washington , Dec. 23 , 1976 ment and American people before his retirement from the Senate deserves our immediate attention , support and action if we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Shanghai Communiqu ? . CHIH-PENG YIN Corona , N.Y. , Dec. 29 , 1976 Pistol Owner 's Complaint To the Editor : I have had a pistol permit since the 1930 's and never have I been subjected to such an ordeal to renew my permit as this year . If the city wishes to streamline its departments and cut down on superfluous paperwork ' and expenses , it could very well start with the Police Department . Just because in my renewal application I said that I was retired I am being called to a hearing to justify my need for a license . I have a pistol and therefore I need license . I 've had one for years . The notice of the /boring states that " your entire record will be considered at this hearing . " They have my entire record for over forty years ! They , also want me to present records of bank statements , sales tax forms , etc . In fact , the notice reads like an inquisition in a police state . Why all the fuss now about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night specials , sawed-off shotguns and other lethal weapons are standard equipment for holdup men and muggers ? H. ROBERT SAMSTAG New York , Dec. 30 , 1976 Taiwan : A Problem ' Solely Created ' by the U.S. Hymn to Misery To the Editor : I do n't understand The Times 's decision to print that hymn to booze , " Cups and Cups . . . etc . " ( Op-Ed Jan. 1 ) . One of the most destructive of addictions in our society , costing lives , misery beyond belief , and billions of precious dollars , alcoholism hardly needs the press-agentry guaranteed by your circulation . At best alcoholism is a personal misfortune , at worst a social catastrophe . Why sugarcoat this bitter pill ? H. M. PERR , M.D. Rockville Centre , L.I. , Jan. 1 , 1977                     