@@733785

txt ME STATE 'S most powerful labor organization is preparing for the first time to snub three Democratic candidates seeking top offices in the November election . The Illinois AFL-CIO , which historically has supported Democrats at all levels , plans to withhold endorsements for governor and attorney general but is leaning strongly toward outright support of U.S. Sen. Percy , a Republican seeking a third term . Republican Gov . Thompson also is being boosted for an endorsement , but labor leaders indicated the AFL-CIO 's Committee on Political Education COPE may abstain from declaring for Exclusive Thompson or his Democratic rival , Michael Bakalis. - LEADERS OF THE state AFL-CIO , which represents 2,500 union locals and approximately a million workers in Illinois , believe Thompson is favored by a majority of the union chiefs , but the requirement for support by two-thirds of the COPE membership may deny him the endorsement . Earlier , the giant Teamster union 's state council endorsed Thompson and Atty . Gen. William Scott , also a Republican . Scott is being challenged for a fourth term by Richard Troy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president , is a staunch Scott backer , and some union leaders said that precludes the possibility of an endorsement for the Democratic contender . The political education committee meets Thursday in Chicago to decide its November ballot preferences . TRIBUNE SOURCES said support for Percy was voiced earlier this week in the highest national councils of the AFLCIO . At least one major national union chief is backing Percy " to send a message " to the dozen or so Democratic senators who voted against a labor law reform bill that recently failed to win // AFL-CIO preparing to snub three top Dems // congressional approval . Percy backed the measure at the risk of losing big business financial support for his cam , paign . Percy 's fall opponent , Alex Seith , made a personal canvass of labor bosses gathered at the Drake Hotel this week , but few union leaders were openly supporting him . EUGENE MOATS , head of the Illinois council of the Service Employes Union , representing 90,000 members in the state , said : " We will lead the move to secure Thompson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Thompson has given us a fair shake . " Bakalis jeopardized his hopes of big labor support last week by denouncing Thompson 's plans to purchase for a state office complex the Sherman House , whose owners received a loan from a Teamster local . Although such influential labor bosses as William Lee , head of the Chicago Federation of Labor , favored the project , Bakalis suggested the deal be investigated . SOURCES SAID Lee was among those pressuring the state group not to break its traditional alliances with Democrats , but Bakalis said the possibility of the CFL 's backing did not deter him from his Sherman House position . " I 'm concerned about Mr. Lee 's feelings but I will make up for it with support from Downstate , ' Bakalis said . Thompson has been courting the CFL 's support and said he met privately with Lee . Bakalis said he has not . Moats said Bakalis ' Sherman House remarks " hurt whatever chances he had of getting labor on his side . " LABOR INSIDERS said the best hope any , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a decision finding both candidates qualified . They said there was no chance that Seith , Bakalis , or Troy would capture an endorsement , meaning that an unprecedented abandonment of the Democratic ticket leaders by the AFL-CIO is expected . The . Tribune learned that three other Democrats will win the labor group 's backing . They , include incumbent Secretary of State Alan Dixon , the party 's most popular vote-getter ; Jerome Cosentino , the Democratic candidate for state treasurer ; and Roland Burris , the party 's candidate for state comptroller .                     