@@729089

txt Thousands of commuters will find that the hardest part of their job today is just getting to work . The railroad strike is expected to shut down six major commuter lines serving more than 140,000 persons in the city and suburbs . More than 50,000 autos use the Kennedy , Dan Ryan , Stevenson and Esienhower Expressways to the downtown area during normal rush periods . Expect 17,000 More Police estimated that an additional 17,000 autos will enter the downtown area because of the strike . Many Loop workers were planning to take the advice of transportation officials and police and organize car pools . State highway officials warned commuters who normally do not drive to work to leave their autos at home . The likelihood of accidents is greater when persons not accustomed to expressway traffic drive their cars , police say . All available Chicago Transit Authority buses and trains are in operation during rush hours . Service already has been expanded . Six and eight-car trains are being operated for longer periods because of the Christmas shopping season . Use Larger Trains Six and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 9 a. m. and from 3:30 to 6 p. m . The peak rush periods are from 7:30 to 8:30 a. m. and from 4:30 to 5:30 p. m. , a CTA spokesman said . If possible , the spokesman suggested , b u s finesses should stagger working hours of their employes . The CTA said , if necessary , it will get equipment cut of the repair shop and add two extra four-car trains on the Evanston route , which begins in Wilmette ; one additional four-car train to the Skokie line ; and one additional four-car train to the Dan Ryan line . Suburban bus routes provide connections with CTA lines for most suburban communities . It also has been suggested that commuters have their wives drive them to CTA rapid transit or elevated lines because parking space is at a minimum . Mayor Daley has ordered strict enforcement of no parking regulations because of the expected heavy auto traffic . How to Get There Here are ways you can get to work today by auto , bus and CTA trains : Inbound and outbound congestion points on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and around North Avenue . The Edens jams inbound between Dempster Str e e t and the merger and outbound between the merger and Cicero Avenue . Some 18,000 autos travel the Kennedy during the rush hours . Suggested alternate routes are old Sheridan Road , Clark Street and Lincoln Avenue to Lake Shore Drive ; or Broadway , Milwaukee , Elston , Halsted and Ashland . The Evanston Bus Co. will add extra buses on its Route 13 , Greenbay Road to carry passengers from Glencoe , Skokie and Evanston to CTA connections at Davis and Howand Streets . During the rush hours , buses will run every 5 minutes . North Shore commuters may drive to the Linden station in Wilmette where parking is available or to the Howard Street CTA station . Buses to Loop The United Motor Co. , which serves Skokie , Lincolnwood and Park Ridge out to Barrington , has buses going directly to the I Loop and to the CTA connections in Evanston . North suburbanites also may start their journey to the Loop at the end-of-line points of CTA routes which include : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Chicago and Niles border . Bus 56 , North Milwaukee and Devon Avenues at the Chicago and Niles border . Bus 92 , Northwest Highway and North Ozark at the Park Ridge and Chicago border . Bus 88 , North Canfield and West Talcott Avenues at the Park Ridge and Chicago border . Northwest suburbanites also may drive to the Skokie Swift terminal at Dempster Street , Skokie , where limited parking is available . Inbound trouble spots on the Eisenhower Expressway are west of Austin Avenue . Outbound jams begin at Kedzie Avenue and continue to Austin . Suggested alternates are Washington Boulevard , Roosevelt Road and Madison Street . Madison is not considered a choice alternative . About 12,000 autos travel the Eisenhower during the rush . West Suburban Transit Lines , which serves 50 west and southwest suburbs , will add extra buses if necessary . The I buses take passengers from Oak Brook , Hillside , Westchester , Willow Springs and Joliet directly to the Loop . ) Spokesmen for the company advised commuters to get to the terminals in their suburb one hour and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Two Runs from O'Hare The West Towns Bus Co. , serving 36 west , northwest and southwest suburbs , carries passengers to the Congress CTA terminal at Desplaines Avenue , Forest Park , to the Douglas CTA terminal at Cermak Road and Cicero Avenue , Cicero , and to the Lake Street terminal at Harlem Avenue in Oak Park . West Towns buses will be running to the terminals about every half hour . The company also has two runs to the Loop from O'Hare Airport and western suburbs . A bus leaves at 6:45 a. m. from Schiller Park thru Forest Park , River Grove and Oak Park to the Loop . Another bus leaves O'Hare at 7:09 a. rn . The CTA also has a bus running from O'Hare to the Jefferson Park terminal of the Kennedy rapid transit . Limit points for CTA routes where west suburbanites may begin traveling to the Loop are : Bus 74B , Fullerton and Elmwood Parkway in Elmwood Park . Bus 21B , Cermak Road and Harlem Avenue , Berwyn . Load of 20,000 Cars ? The Dan Ryan and Stevenson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combined morning rush hour auto load of 20,000 cars . The Ryan is congested mornings and evenings between 99th and 71st Streets and between 26th Street and the merger of the Eisenhower and the Stevenson . Tieups on the Stevenson occur from Cicero toward the downtown area . Suggested alternate routes for the Ryan are Stony Island Avenue which is an alternative for South Shore Drive , State Street , Halsted Street , Western I Avenue and Indiana Avenue . Alternates for the Stevenson are Archer and Ogden Avenues . There are no parking facilities at the 95th and 87th street terminals of the Dan Ryan rapid transit system . However , feeder buses provide service to all the terminals and parking is available on side streets 8 to 10 blocks from the terminals . The South Suburban Safeways lines operate buses to the Loop and to the 63d Street rapid transit station from Chicago Heights , Blue Island , Calumet City , Roseland , Dolton and South Holland . The company suggested that commuters call the company at IN 8-0051 to check on the times buses will leave from their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serving Palos Heights , Worth , Chicago Ridge and Hickory Hills , said the strike would cause little difficulty because most of the system 's passengers are Rock Island Lines commuters . The buses will merely take the passengers to the 95th Street rapid transit terminal and to the Halsted-63d Street " L " station . Rush hour buses run every 15 minutes . South and southwest suburbanites also may go to the limits of CTA connections : Bus 62 , South Neva and West Archer Avenues at the SummitChicago border . Bus 63 , 63d Street and Archer Avenue in Summit . Bus 54B , West 79th Street and South Kilpatrick at Midway Airport . Bus 53 111A , West 111th Street and South Pulaski at the Oak Lawn - Hometown - Chicago border . Bus 52A , West 115th Street and South Springfield Avenue at the Alsip and Chicago border . Bus 49A , West 120th Street and South Western Avenue at the Blue Island and Chicago border . Bus 4213 South Halsted and West 127th Streets at the Calumet Park and Chicago border : Bus 34 . East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bus 27 , East 128th Street and South Torrence Avenue . Bus 30 . South Baltimore and East Brainard Avenues . Have Correct Change Commuters who Will be taking buses and trains are advised to have the correct change to facilitate faster service . CTA buses require exact fares . WGN-Radio will add two traffic helicopters to aid motorists on the expressways if the strike occurs . Officer Iry Hayden and Sgt. Ed Peterson , who give daily reports on traffic congestion from two WGN helicopters , would be aided by Alex Cohn of the Chicago Police Department and John Camden of the sheriff 's police .                     