@@732156

txt As family and lawyers of Patricia Hearst begin her defense , there are already signs of how difficult that defense may be . There are also growing indications that headline-catching tactics by both defense and prosecution are pushing the case toward " trial by newspaper , " observers here believe . By pleading " temporary insanity " and spotlighting the question of . alleged " brainwashing , " Miss Hearst 's lawyers have raised this central , potentially troublesome questiob : Can her " conversion " to the so-called Symbionese Liberation Army best be explained by threats , confinement , isolation from her past , and possible administration of drugs , as alleged by her legal affidavit released this week ? or by the possibility that some internal inclination within herself even before the kidnapping made ' her easily persuaded toward a rebellious , even violent , new life ? According to several legal experts and specialists in " forced persuasion " interviewed by this newspaper , the question is basic because Miss Hearst 's defense has left itself open to challenge on at least two counts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week and her earlier words on tapes and in conversations with people she talked to during her flight . In early tapes Miss Hearst said she was held by desperate people , but denied she had been mistreated ; while in later tapes she asserted that the idea she had been " brainwashed " was " ridiculous beyond belief . " In one tape she said she voluntarily participated in a San Francisco bank robbery , a claim she repeated to the Los Angeles youth she is accused of kidnapping in May , 1974. // Hearst case : how to explain the contradictions // ? Research on victims of what has been variously called " brainwashing , " " thought reform , " " re-education , " and " coercive persuasion " shows external pressure brought on American and other victims of the process in China , Korea , and Vietnam is most effective on those who for a variety of reasons carry the seeds of capitulation within themselves . One leading expert on the process , Prof. Robert J. Lifton at Yale University , told this newspaper that there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up high enough , although he refused to discuss the Hearst case specifically . Others point out that experts in the fields who are called to look into Miss Hearst and her background are likely to be cross-examined on any tendencies or past behavior which might have made her especially vulnerable to " conversion . " As worked out with her lawyers , - Miss Hearst 's affidavit was publicly presented at a press conference by her lawyer , Terrence Hallinan , who had earlier submitted it at a court hearing on whether his client should be released on bail . A report in Newsday alleges the Hearst family decided upon their defense strategy at the beginning of this year , after intensive planning sessions , and were waiting for Miss Hearst to provide the details . According to one legal specialist , the brief laid the groundwork for Miss Hearst 's lawyer to try to explain away any later statements by Miss Hearst in court which might suggest continuing loyalty to the SLA . The affidavit , signed by Miss Hearst , portrayed her as gradually regaining her sanity , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to examine Miss Hearst and report back Sept. 25 on her ability to undergo cross-examination . The judge delayed a decision on bail . Later , Randolph Hearst 's San Francisco Examiner hit the streets with a banner headline introducing the affidavit as " Patty 's Own Story ; Tells of 19 Months of Fear . " The 13th paragraph explained the account was from a signed affidavit in legal language , written in the third person . In a radio interview the Examiner 's recently hired new editor-publisher John R. " Reg " Murphy has suggested Miss Hearst 's affidavit had a ring of truth . Mr. Murphy , former editor of the Atlanta Constitution who was released by kidnappers last year after his paper , paid a $700,000 ransom , said he knew from his own experience what fear can do to a kidnap victim . A few days earlier Mr. Murphy 's eyewitness account of the jail-cell reunion of Mr. and Mrs. Hearst and their daughter led the paper 's early edition under the headline , " Patty , Are You Coming Home ? ' ' Where Else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paper Mr. Murphy rejected any suggestion that he had been asked by Mr. Hearst to write the story in any special way . Yet according to some legal specialists , this week 's press conference , the Murphy eyewitness account , and widely publicized statements by Mrs. Hearst that her daughter is gradually recovering from her " spaced-out look " have had the effect of arousing public sympathy toward Miss Hearst by portraying her as a family-oriented victim returning to " normalcy . " By Sept. 23 the prosecutors , too , apparently decided to make some headlines , according to legal observers . At a bail hearing for Stephen Soliah , charged with renting the apartment in which Miss Hearst was arrested , an assistant U.S. attorney read the transcript of an unexplainedly taped jail meeting between Miss Hearst and an old friend . In it , Kiss Hearst expressed some other interest besides returning home .                     