@@729677

txt Total victory against some important and all-but-conquered diseases is slipping away in the United States as more and more Americans ignore the vaccines available , Public health experts consider the trends tragic because the diseases are preventable and , in theory , could be virtually eradicated by vaccines developed at great effort and distributed in major campaigns in communities from coast to coast . The clearest example is that of measles , which one expert recently called " out of control . " 1 Other examples are polio and diphtheria , names that used to evoke terror in American households , They are rarities now , but some children still die because of them and national , patterns of immunity are less than rosy . The communicable disease most seriously out of control in the United States is gonorrhea , but for this disease ' there is no prospect of eradicaition by currently available methods . Syphilis is also on the upsurge , but not to the extent of gonorrhea . The level of immunity to polio has been declining in recent years because of failure to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stem the decline , perhaps partly because there have been no large and dramatic outbreaks . Altogether there were only 33 reported cases of polio last year ; 20 the year before and this ' year 's toll is about on a comparable plane so far . But the percentage of American youngsters below the age of four who are adequately immunized against polio has dropped steadily for several years . One report puts the figure at 79 per cent of this age group in 1966 and only 65.9 per cent last year . " How long this trend can continue before polio will again appear in epidemic form in the United States is impossible to ' say , " one expert said in a report this year . He called poverty areas in some major cities and certain rural areas ripe for a polio outbreak . Immunity to diphtheria has remained approximately level in recent years , but has been low enough to permit some serious outbreaks . Characteristically these have been in poverty areas . The bulk of the cases have been concentrated in only a very few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is extremely difficult to eliminate from a population . Recent evidence shows that immunization will prevent the disease , but will not prevent a person from carrying and discharging the germ . Thus it would appear that an extremely high percentage of inoculations in a community would be needed to remove all risk . This has been difficult in those poverty areas of the South where most of the recent local outbreaks have occurred . For reasons that are not clearly known , the South seems to be the major remaining stronghold in the United States of this once common and widespread illness . The communicable disease situation is incomparably better than it was before vaccines against measles , polio , diphtheria and others were  --  developed . No one foresees a national crisis or a return of the pre-vaccine patterns in any of them , but the end of these serious , and preventable , infections does not seem to be in sight . " The crisis is in failure when success is totally achievable , " said Dr. H. Bruce Dull , assistant director for programs of the Center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there . The center , known universally as the C.D.C. , is the Federal Government 's main agency for surveillance of communicable diseases . Dr. Dull 's point is well illustrated by the center 's figures on measles . Since a vaccine against this virus disease was licensed in 1963 the number of cases and the number . of deaths plummeted year by year . Lines on Graph Up Again Now the lines on the graph have started back up again . Experts at the C.D.C. think this year 's total of measles cases may rise as high as 80,000 . That would be almost twice as many as last year and more than any year since 1966 . Many of today 's adults , virtually all of whom had measles as children , find it hard to take : this erstwhile common childhood infection seriously . But measles can kill . " This year we will probably be pushing 80 to 100 deaths , " said Dr. J. Lyle Conrad of the C.D.C. during an interview earlier this week . The deaths usually result from pneumonia following the original virus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inflammation of brain tissue , occurring in about one case In every 1,000 . About one-third of the encephalitis victims suffer some permanent brain damage . As the glamor of the measles vaccine has worn off and as victory over the disease has begun to seem within grasp the number of vaccinations has fallen off too . Epidemologists say that , in theory , it would be possible to vaccinate such a high proportion of susceptible people that a point of no return could be reached . Once over that threshhold , total eradication might be achieved without a great deal of effort . Indeed , something of that sort may have happened with smallpox . Outbreaks were once comMon in this country , but there has not been a documented , nonimported case in the United States in more than 20 years . " We were heading for the threshhold , or maybe even past it , then we lost ground , " Dr. Dull said of the measles situation . The measles picture illus7 trates another point : Increasingly , communicable diseases are becoming primarily a problem of unimmunized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher percentage of white children have immunity to measles than do children of other ethnic groups . The central cities tend to lag behind the rest of the country . " It is apparent that race , resistance and riches are factors affecting immunization status , " said Dr. J. D. Millar of the C.D.C. at this year 's annual immunization conference . He was speaking not only of measles but also of polio , diphtheria , whooping cough and tetanus . Inoculations against the latter three are given together in a combined vaccine . He said efforts to maintain high levels of immunization in the population have failed most dramatically among the urban poor , who are predominantly non-white . " In the United States , , our central cities will continue to seethe with immunizable diseases , and thereby create a significant risk to other parts of the society , until these people are regularly included in immunization practice , " he said . Other experts noted that rural poverty areas also had problems with most of these diseases . In both cases the probkm is often one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several children a trip to a distant immunization clinic may be a costly all-day episode  --  unpleasant and seemingly unremunerative unless a disease outbreak is already in progress . But in that latter case the immunization may already be too late . For some communities the problems have probably been compounded by the fact that funds from a Federal vaccination assistance program ran out in 1969 after being available for most of the decade of the sixties . No substitute program has been enacted to fill its place completely . Another problem has been that national efforts to vaccinate against one disease seems sometimes to have usurped the impetus needed to complete the work against the previous fashionable illness . Some experts say , for example , . that a major national effort against rubella or German measles has taken attention and effort away from the effort against measles . This view is not expressed as a criticism of the rubella campaign , which many experts consider highly important in its own right , but a criticism of the American penchant for going continuously from crisis to crisis . The problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated , but the long-term need for people to persist in getting protection that has become routine even though important . " The health system does n't lend itself to the routine in preventive medicine , " he said .                     