@@729430

txt One fireman was killed , two were critically injured and . at least 60 other persons received less serious injuries last night in a gas explosion and fouralarm fire in an apartment building in Jamaica , Queens . The dead fireman , Walter J. Bozenko of 90.40 201st Street , Hollis , Queens , was working for a friend on his night off . Mr. Bozenko , who was 51 years old , leaves a wife and son . Fire Chief John T. O'Hagan said that Mr. Bozenko- and one of the critically injured firemen had apparently gone to the basement of the building after misunderstanding an order to evacuate the structure , The order was given when a serious gas leak was ' discovered . The two men were separated from the gas explosion by three walls , two of brick and one of concrete , in the basement of the structure at 89-11 153d Street . " The walls went down like tissue . paper , " . Chief O'Hagan said . " It was the explosion that killed or injured them . It also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A Fire Department spokesman said that Fireman Bozenko was the third firemen killed while fighting a blaze this year . The cause of the fire was not immediately determined , Fire officials said , however , that al ) , parently a small fire in the base ; ment had melted fittings around one gas meter , setting off the first small gas explosion . The blast ripped apart several gas meters , touching off the second and larger blast . Many of the residents of the apartment building were elderly and invalids . Firemen were attempting to evacuate many of them in wheelchairs and in their arms , when the second blast hit  --  blowing some of the elderly persons out of the arms of the firemen . The fire broke out at 10:40 P.M. The first fire units arrived shortly afterward and within 15 minutes four alarms had been sounded . Six firemen among the first units on the scene entered the basement and extinguished the small fire , according to department officials . When it was determined that the leaking gas could not immediately be turned off , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firemen and civilians from the building . The six-story brick building housed about 200 perSons . Sixteen firemen were sent to the first floor to evacuate the residents . Most of the residents were evacuated before the second explosion tore up the basement and front portion of the building , fire officials reported . Fifteen of the firemen and at least 16 civilians were injured in the second explosion , during the evacuation process . Some civilians were injured when portions of the front wall of the structure blew into the street and the rear of the first floor buckled . It took 29 pieces of aparatus and more than 160 firemen nearly two hours to bring the blaze under control . The streets on all sides of the building were littered with glass and masonry fragments . Firemen had cordoned off the entire area , though the the gas line feeding the building had been shut off . The entire left front wall of the structure sagged , with large cracks running the height of the building from the first floor , which was a mass of rubble , The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a firehouse about two blocks away , The lobbies of Mary Immaculate Hospital were lined with patients in wheelchairs . A waiting-room area was filled with injured persons awaiting treatment and anxious people stood in the hallways seeking news of relatives living in the building . A spokesman or the hospital said that 10 doctors treated the injuries , most of them minor , in the hospital emergency room . Most of the injured then went to the hospital cafeteria . " We 're still working on the accommodation problem , " a Red Cross spokesman said , " but first we 've got to get everyone 's name ,                     