@@733852

txt Even as the cease-fire in East Beirut continued into its second day , Oct. 9 , doubts multiplied here over whether it could lead into a lasting solution of the hostilities between Lebanese Christian right-wingers and Syrians . Lebanese President Sarkis broke off talks with Syrian President Assad in Damascus , starting a surprise tour of other Arab capitals with a visit to Saudi Arabia . Beirut Radio said Mr. Sarkis would return to Damascus later to conclude his talks with Mr. Assad . Travelers from Damascus report that during their four rounds of talks Oct. 6-9 the Syrian and Lebanese Presidents made virutally no headway in moving beyond the immediate cease-fire agreement . Senior diplomatic analysts here agree that the augurs are for a renewal of the savage hostilities which wracked East Beirut last week . Mr. Sarkis 's main aim in Damascus was to persuade the Syrians to back the " security plan " whose implementation he called for in a // From page 1 Cease-fire in Beirut very shaky speech to the nation Oct. 2 . This is believed to allow for Lebanese Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the Syrian-dominated Arab Deterrent Force pulling back to the less sensitive Muslim-majority districts . ( Leftist and Muslim disapproval of this Sarkis plan was expressed in a general strike in west Beirut Oct. 9 . ) The Syrians saw the main aim of the Damascus talks , however , as being to win President Sarkis over to their plans for an over-all political reconciliation in Lebanon which would exclude all parties co-operating with Israel ? that is , exclude the right-wing Christian groups . In effect , the Syrians wanted Mr. Sarkis ( a Christian ) to make a defeat of the rightist Christians palatable to the rest of Lebanon 's Christian population . The fact that neither president was in the least able to persuade the other of his case is a reflection of the intractability of the situation on the ground in East Beirut . There , both parties remain determined not to give an inch . Any potential flexibility of positions was exhausted during truce negotiations back in July , when both sides made minor tactical concessions . Politically , the rightist leaders repeat that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Syrians are determined to retain what strategic control they have over right-wing strongholds , to prevent the rightists ' already considerable nuisance value from growing into a serious threat to their flank . The Syrians also argue ? plausibly , in the view of all observers here ? that any pullback by the Syrian-dominated deterrent force would prompt the resumption of the 1975-76 civil war hostilities the Syrians came in to prevent . It was in an apparent attempt to break the stalemate of his Damascus talks that Mr. Sarkis made his surprise visit to Saudi Arabia . It is thought that he will seek some support from the Saudis ( Syria 's principal financiers ) in his arguments with the Syrians . But it seems probable that the Saudis ' general support for the Syrian role in Lebanon would prevent them from bringing much muscle to bear on Damascus in favor of Mr. Sarkis ' plan . The Saudis , as well as the Sudanese and the United Arab Emirates , have token units serving in the Arab Deterrent Force here . And one suggestion has been to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in sensitive areas . It is doubtful , however , whether any other Arab country would undertake either to act as a buffer between two such implacable opponents or to take over the Syrians ' up-front role completely . The Lebanese right-wingers anyway have their own objections to any " Arabization " of the Lebanese problem , whatever form it might take . They would far prefer it to be " internationalized , " through the United Nations or through unilateral Western initiatives . The many problems involved in Lebanese peacemaking already have been experienced by most of the Arab and Western powers , however , who now appear to have an understandable reluctance to continue their efforts .                     