@@729504

txt The first reported attempt by Mayor Kenneth A. Gibson to prevent LeRoi Jones from increasing his power here has been defeated in an antipoverty election that promises to have profound political repercussions . An incumbent slate of four trustees of the United Community Corporation led by its president , David Barrett , who is closely allied with Mr. Jones , the poet and militant black leader here , yesterday overwhelmingly defeated an opposition slate supported by a coalition of diverse black leaders , two of whom initially supported Mr. Gibson for Mayor last year . The coalition also sought the assistance of the top black official in the Republican state administration of Gov . William T. Cahill in its unsuccessful effort to break Mr. Jones 's growing power in the black community here . At stake in the election was control of approximately $6-million in Federal antipoverty funds , some of which had been used in the past as patronage tools in forging and maintaining political power here . The funds are largely controlled by the corporation 's executive committee , which is appointed by the corporation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had lost yesterday Mr. Gibson would have had a strong hand in naming a new president more loyal to him than to Mr. Jones . Throughout the bitter election campaign , which was marked by charges of corruption and racism , the Mayor refrained from taking sides despite repeated attempts by coalition forces to persuade him to come out publicly against Mr. Jones . The Mayor refused to comment today , saying through a spokesman that he " had no time to discuss the matter . " Mr. Jones was away from the city and unavailable for comment . A rivalry between the Mayor and Mr. Jones has been developing ever since Mr. Jones helped Mr. Gibson become the first elected black Mayor of a major Eastern city a year ago . The rivalry surfaced briefly but abrasively during the 11-week teachers ' strike earlier this year when the Mayor alluded to Mr. Jones as a " selfappointed community leader " who was dividing the city along racial lines . Mr. Gibson later also had to defend his white police director , John L. Redden , from repeated attacks by Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ideas In Conflict Mr. Jones has publicly committed himself to driving whites from positions of authority here , while the Mayor has steadfastly maintained that the city can only survive if racial harmony replaces the scars left from the 1960 racial rioting and from the polarized election campaign last year . Forces aligned with both men have said it was only a question of time before their two conflicting philosophies would collide . Mr. Jones has extended his control here to include the presidency of the school board and key elements in the Newark Housing Authority . He is now said to be concentrating on wresting control of the Federal Model Cities agency , one of the last major Federal programs controlled by Mr. Gibson . The Federal programs are vital to City Hall not only because of what they accomplish for the city but also because the financial difficulties of the city have dried up any new sources of patronage for Mr. Gibson . On June 8 Mayor Gibson met privately in his City Hall office with three of the four coalition leaders who had organized the drive against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those at the meeting was George C. Richardson , a black Democratic Assemblyman who opposed the Mayor in the initial election contest last year but subsequently supported him in his successful runoff against former Mayor Hugh J. Addonizio . The two other participants , both of them black , were Clarence Coggins , director of the community action program for the Federal Model Cities program , and Mrs. Larrie Stalks , secretary to the Newark Planning Board and a former strong Addonizio supporter . The fourth coalition leader was Eulis Ward , a black Democratic leader of the Central Ward who supported Mr. Gibson last year . Gibson Called Hesitant According to sources who were privy to the conversation , the Mayor agreed to the coalition of argument that the growing power of Mr. Jones must be " restrained . " But he was said to be reluctant to commit his City Flail powed against Mr. JQones , Indeed , he swore all the participants in the discussion to secrecy about the meeting . The participants reportedly argued that Mr. Jones 's grow . ing power was " paralyzing " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the use of some of his supporters , particularly from the city 's sen-ior-citizens ' program and among the antipoverty day-care program , in an effort to bring about the defeat of the Jones slate . At the time , the participants assured the Mayor that he had an excellent chance of winning and warned him that " sooner or later " he would have to challenge Mr. Jones anyway . This was the time , they said , to seize the opportunity . They reportedly argued that by opposing Mr. Jones the Mayor would be given new access to the minority white voters in the 1974 election with the position that he , as a moderate black mayor , was the only one who could prevent a complete take-over by black militants bent on driving the remaining whites out of the city . Coalition Sought Help In their drive against Mr. Jones , the members of the coalition also sought the help of Dr. James R. Cowan , the State Commissioner of Health . But Dr. Cowan issued a statement this evening through ' a spokesman denying any involvement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he said , " and have not meddled in Newark affairs . " In the voting yesterday , the Barrett slate won by a 2-to ? 1 margin in an election in which only 752 out of the 12,000 persons who were qualified to vote turned out . Assemblyman Richardson said that he would contest the results in the courts , arguing that many qualified voters were not allowed to cast ballots .                     