@@731832

txt Letters to the Editor HARRY WEESEMICHAEL LANGMICHAEL F. CUTLERELEANOR CLARK FRENCHJOHN K. TERRESLIZ ... Letters to the Editor The Case for Dollar-a-Gallon Gas To the Editor : The energy crisis is now perceived as permanent . People want and will back a reasonable sacrifice for survival . They do not forget last year 's ugly queuing at the pumps . They have ordained , and Detroit has ratified , the fact that small cars are here to stay . And they realize that dollar-a-gallon gas is coming . It has arrived in most other industrialized nations . Dollar gas is really a small bite in the budget . At 20 m.p.g. it is 5 cents per mile , or two dollars a day for the 40-mile commuter , only one dollar if he shares his car with another person . This is about equal to the cost of the public transportation , which the underprivileged and those too old or too , young must pay in any case . Car pooling or public transit has always been the way of life for lowerincome workers . High school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ share cars . In rural areas the " tractor gas " rebate on state and local taxes now enjoyed by farmers will be continued according to recent statements by the President . The use of this gas in fourdoor hardtop " tractors " reduces the farmers ' incentive to conserve fuel . Sntall-town dwellers pay full price but drive relatively short distances for work-related trips . So who is going to get hurt ? If it takes shock treatment to change habit structure , a quantum jump in gas price could break the On Purchasing News To the Editor : Recent news articles and James Reston 's March 7 column reveal that news is stuff to be bargained for and sold to the highest cash bidder . If this distasteful practice is to continue ( it admittedly is much easier to write a check and buy a story than ferret it out through exhaustive research , legwork and investigation ) , then at least let it be formalized , regulated and moved out from behind closed doors . There is little practical reason why newsmakers and their potential stories ca n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exchanges , along with corn , wheat and pork bellies . The public arena may be just the place to see precisely what value Americans place in the tales of Mr. Haldeman and his peers . Shrewd investors will be able to buy futures in rising young political stars , in the hope that should they become involved in intrigue and scandal or come to occupy some high office , what they then have to say will command a nice return on the original investment . CBS has started the bandwagon rolling . It must either be forced to an immediate halt , or the Test of us should be invited to hop on and enjoy the potentially profitable ride . MICHAEL LANG New York , March 7 , 1975 The Good Onions T. the Editor : We are writing this in response to the Mobil advertisement " Orchids and Onions " on your Feb. 27 Op-Ed page . We are representatives of onion growers all over the United States and take To the Editor : As a field naturalist and former editor of the Audubon Magazine , I was delighted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arctic not only visited the coast of Massachusetts , reportedly on March 2 , for the first record of the bird south of Alaska and northern Canada , but thereby made front-page news in The Times ( March 4 ) . In compiling an " Encyclopedia of North American Birds " during the last ten years , a volume now virtually completed , I have researched and then written ten hundreds of biographies of North American birds and their discoverers . None has been more fascinating than that of the Ross 's gull . In June 1823 , James Clark Ross , nineteenth-century British navigator and Arctic explorer , while on Sir William Edward Parry 's second expedition in search of a northwest passage , collected ( shot ) the first specimen of this gull known to scientists , on East Melville Peninsula in the Canadian Arctic . A few days later , a Mr. Scherer , a member of the expedition , shot another . The preserved skins of these birds were carried back to Great Britain on Parry 's return , and oni of the gulls was presented to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , surgeon and naturalist to Sir e John Franklin on one of Franklin 's early expeditions to Arctic North . America , published the second volume of the spell . A tax at the pump produces revenue to aid alternate means . of transportation and energy sources . It would be an encouraging sign to our experienced and more stoic friends abroad , putting us all in the same boat ? not foreign aid exactly but recognition of our common condition . A tax at the pump would reduce demand , therefore price , and return the proceeds , to the Treasury rather than the cartels . The next two weeks will see whether our Government recognizes these truths . The mood in Congress is promising . HARRY WEESE Chicago , March 3 , 1975 offense at Mobil 's insinuation that onions are something bad . People all over the world enjoy eating onions . Mobil should pray that oil producers do n't find themselves in the same position as onion growers . Two years ago there was an onion shortage in the United States , and onions sold for as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the high prices , and now he can buy onions in most instances for six to ten . cents , a pound . Our onion growers are operating at a loss . Let oil people everywhere be careful not to irritate oil consumers to the point where they can not sell oil at a profit . And , in the future , we pray that the " humble " Mobil Company will find some scapegoat other than onions to categorize comments about Mobil ads . MICHAEL F. CUTLER Ball Brokerage Company Scranton , Pa. , Feb. 27 , 1975 Return of the Mailbox To the Editor : Take heart , Bob Fischer . You write despondently that . your mailboxes had disappeared ( letter March 4 ) . We suffered the same deprivation . Our mailbox at 38th and Lexington vanished several weeks ago , and I felt its loss as keenly as I do telephone service collapses . So I wrote our local postmaster ( zip 10016 ) . To thy delight I received a reply saying the box was being " repaired . " To my greater delight it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a beautiful coat of new paint . Yours will , too , I 'm sure . ELEANOR CLARK FRENCH New York , March 5 , 1975 Mr. Ffsche r 's mailbox reappeared March 11 , unpainted . ? four-volume " Fauna Boreali-Americana , " which Richardson co-authored with William Swainson . In that volume Richardson named and described for science the gull , which he gave the scientific name of Larus rossii , in honor of James Clark Ross , . and the common name of Cuneate-tailed gull ( it has a wedge-shaped ' tail ) . Later it was discovered that in 1824 William , Scottish ornithologist , had already named and described the gull for science , from the skin of the gull in Edinburgh , and had given it the common , or English , name of Ross 's rosy gull ( it has a rosy breast and pink underparts ) and the scientific species name of ioseus ( now rosea ) . Because of the law of priority of date of publication of scientific names in zoology , 's scientific name stands . Ironically , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in Richardson 's words , " as a tribute for his Ross 's unwearied exertion in the promotion of natural history on the late Arctic voyages in all of which he bore a part . . . " There is , of course , much more to ' the story of this rare , , and possibly most beautiful , gull in the world , but these few facts will explain why the names of some men , associated with extreme hardship in the early exploration of the bird life of our North American continent , are perpetuated in the names of some of our North American birds . JOHN K. TERRES New York , March .6 , 1975 The Plight of- the Kurds To the Editor : For a year , the world press has been describing the desperate plight of two million Kurds in Iraq . Eyewitnesses confirm that the Baathist regime 's war against this non-Arab minority can approach genocide . In Badinan , 600,000 Kurds , wedged between the Iraqi Army and a closed Kurdish border , struggle to survive the winter without access to food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kurds are a secessionist danger to its control of major oilfields in Kirkuk , . a Kurdish province , do not justify napalm bombing of civilians , uprooting of villages , summary executions , torture and destruction of crops and livestock . The Kurds , an ethnic minority thousands of years old , have traditionally sought some autonomy . Comprising about one-fourth of the population , they want to share oil revenues proportionally . Iraqi violations of fundamental United Nations human rights instruments have been ignored by major governments . Secretary of State ' Kissinger will not meet with Kurdish delegates/ Britain and the Soviet Union supply arms to Iraq . Turkey has shut its border to fleeing Kurdish refugees . The Kurds appeal to the United Nations in vain . In June 1974 a Kurdish memorandum to a subcommission on minorities of the Human Rights Commission was " shelved . " Secretary General Kurt Waldheim refers repeated Kurdish pleas ( the latest Dec. 26 , 1974 ) to the same " shelving " subcommission . The callousness of the U.N . is inexplicable , given its ostensible dedication to peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , no protest , no debate , no action on this war on a minority ? Must one conclude that the United Nations is sacrificing the Kurdish people on the altar of politics and petroleum economics ? And if such . be true , where . can the Kurds , nay , all mankind seek refuge from injustice and inhumanity ? Editorial March 12 . LIZETTE ECHOLS , SHIRLEY STEWART . International League tor the Rights of Man New York , Feb. 26 ; 1975 Toward Totalitarianism To the Editor : Your two-part editorial of Feb. 23 , " The Need to Plan . . . For Economic Policy , " correctly admits that the Government is now enormously involved in.the marketplace " through taxation , public expenditures , regulation ; subsidies and foreign economic policy . Government is involved , in fact , in virtually all aspects of the economy in this country . .. . " The Times ' solution to our economic ills is to turn over full control of the economy to the very institution which has caused our problems ? through taxation , public expenditure , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naivet ? of the assertion that " industries would still be free to make their own Investment ' decisions , but they would do so on the basis of more complete information about long-term trends as affected by government policies " is astonishing . No civilization in history has operated under such a system . Nobel Prize-winning economist Frederich von Hayek , in " The Road to Serfdom , " wrote : " Planning leads to dictatorship because dictatorship is the most effective instrument of coercion and the enforcement of ideals .... " Rather than giving Government more control over the economy , which it is already destroying , we must insist that Government completely withdraw from intervention in the marketplace so that it can function in a healthy . manner . We need more freedom to regulate our own lives , not further steps toward totalitarianism . ANDREA 1VIILLEN Vice Chairwoman , Libertarian Party New York , Feb. 25 , 1975 How Regents Must Act To the Editor : Reforming the Regents was the subject of an editorial in The Times on Feb. 15 . Genevieve S. Klein , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I submit a few additional thoughts on that subject . The Regents ' policies should be in accord with the law of the land . Regents must act without regard to the pressures and blandishments of those massive resisters who continue to oppose integrated education . even twenty years after the Brown decision . Integrated education is tha national policy . Segregated schools Are illegal . The Regent 's letter spoke of professional qualifications and of political independence but showed , I believe , an astounding unawareness of the moral obligation the position imposes . When the Regent adopts the language of the resisters ? " forced busing , " " forced integration "  --  the forces of reaction are stimulated and inspired to further defiance of the law . When the Regent fails to carry forward the action " . . . to prevent school districts from undergoing the Boston trauma , " the rule of the mob is placed above the law of the land . When Ms. Klein states that " twenty years of serious efforts to integrate have been made , " she admits the Regents have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deep South have succeeded , often against entrenched opposition of a kind that is unknown in Northern urban centers . Thus , by confession , Ms. Klein has established the need for ' the reform of the Regents beyond all reasonable doubt . WILLIAM J. GREENE Pres. , mia-Manhattan N.A.A.C.P. New York , March 3 , 1975 About Ross 's Beautiful Rosy Gull                     