@@733964

txt EPERNAY , France  --  Josette Bruce . the Ian Fleming of France , churns out suspense-packed spy novels with more regularity than some people balance their checkbooks . Every time a villain kills someone . be celebrates with a bottle of Dom Perignon , one of the most expensive champagnes . No matter that the wine is mentioned in association with evil . A plug is a plug , reason the people at Moet &; Chandon , who began marketing this brand of champagne back in the 1920s . Made with the blend of the fum 's best grapes , the Dom , which retails for about $35 a bottle , has become a scarce , international status symbol . Moet spares no expense to return Bruce 's favor . Last fall when Bruce published her 100th book , the firm wined and dined her and a band of friends at its headquarters in Epernay , a small town 90 miles northeast of Paris , in the heart of the champagne country . THERE WERE formal luncheons that stretched on until evening and parties that lasted nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as freely as the River Marne , whose banks form the northernmost boundary of this famous wine-growing district . Moet &; Chandon did n't become the world 's largest champagne dealer merely by cultivating grapevines . The firm learned the value of public relations early in its 235-year history . Its cleverly calculakd and extravagantly financed champagne campaign has contributed greatly to the label 's prestige which persists despite the fact that the wine rarely finishes on top at competitive tast-ingsi Like Mumms , Taittinger , and other large champagne houses , Moet invites all visitors to tour its factory and cellars which stretch for 18 miles into the chalky , limestone-rich'hillsides , providing a dark , chilly resting place for more than 54 million bottles of fermenting There visitors learn a proper respect // Champagne gushes freely in Epernay // or this wine that takes five or more years to develop . CHAMPAGNE GOES through two fermentations , the first of which occurs within a few weeks of the harvest when the grape sugar decomposes and the juice becomes a clear , still wine . After several months , numerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a flavorful balance that is consistent with the firm 's traditional standards . In a year when the grape quality has not been exceptional , wines reserved from previous years are incorporated into the blend , which is known as the cuvee . Next , small amounts of cane sugar and yeast are added and the wine is bottled . Gradually the yeast transforms the sugColumn 1 ar into alcohol and carbonic gas . Hence the bubbles . Now the wine must age at least three years to assure a lasting , delicate sparkle . Later the sediment , byproduct of fermentation , will be coaxed into the neck of the bottle through a painstaking hand turning process , then disgorged mechanically . The entire elaborate operation is performed by wine makers elsewhere in the world , but according to French law , only the wine so produced in the closely defined area around Epernay and nearby Reims can rightfully be called champagne . AT MOET . the cellar tour is only the tip of a very warm and hospitable iceberg that 's always accessible to kings , queens , British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their barely Intelligible lyrics , wine merchants , writers , and assorted connoisseurs . For special visitors the red carpet generally leads to the luxurious early 19th Century Chateau de Saran perched ga a hilltop overlooking the famous Cote des Blanes vineyards a few miles outside of town . Formerly the summer home of the Moet family , the chateau is now maintained by a staff of 10 maids , cooks , butlers , and very proper English hostesses . Josette Bruce and her friends stayed there last fall . So did the vacationing owners of a Moet-sponsored shooting school in Wales , as well as a wine magazine publisher from California . Queen Margrethe II of Denmark and the prince consort lunched there on turbot , Charolais beef , and frozen charlotte last October at the height of the harvest . Not all Meet parties take place in the chateau . The dank cellars have been the scene of more than one rollicking gathering , including the torchlit party the late Maurice Chevalier threw there for 1,000 friends when he marked his 50th year in show business . They drank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people to consume an inordinate amount of bubbly when being feted in. champagne land , according to Contesse Guillaume Cointre , the English widow of a French count , who handles public relations for Moet . " MOST PEOPLE average about two bottles per meal , " says the countess who quaffs gingerly herself because of a nagging ulcer . There is a third , even more exciting setting for Moet parties located behind imposing iron gates opposite the company headquarters on the Avenue de Champagne . It is a miniature but lavish palace complete with sunken formal French gardens modeled after the Tria , non and Orangerie at Versailles . A sweeping staircase in its extravagantly marbled and mirrored entranceway leads to several luxurious salons and dining rooms , all of which were designed for Napoleon and the Empress Josephine back in 1804 when the company was quite savvy in the fine art of public relations . It seems that Jean-Remy Moet , one of the firm 's early directors , happened to meet Napoleon when the future emperor was just an unknown young man attending the military academy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Napoleon rose to power . The palace , built at just a slight hint from the emperor , accommodated Napoleon on his frequent visits , some of which were made on his way into battle . THE STORY persists around Epernay that Napoleon lost at Waterloo because he had been in too much of a hurry to stop at Moet and stock up on champagne , and thus had to fight on Belgian beer . After Napoleon , the palace housed every notable on the continent from Czar Alexander of Russia to Prince von Metternich . Today it is used solely for lengthy , champagne-laden dinner receptions which usually end with a selection of brandies produced by one of the firm 's latter ? day acquisitions , James Hennessy &; Co . Of all the guests the company has squired about town , many of them in a chauffeur-driven Mercedes Benz limousine , there was one in particular it was less than thrilled to receive  --  Nikita Khrushchev . None of the other large champagne houses wanted to deal with the special security measures a Khrushchev visit would entail , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drew lots . Meet got him . " It was , the countess says , a difficult visit , complicated by the fact that Tritune Mao Khrushchev 's daughter got lost in the cellars . There was a moment of levity , however , when Moet officials presented the Russian with a prized old bottle of vintage champagne . " We always try to give dignitaries a bottle from the year of their birth , " says Countess LeCointre . " But Khrushchev 's birth year had been bad for champagne . So we gave him a bottle from the previous year and told him it was the year of his conception . " With that , the countess says , the late Communist premier , who apparently got as much of a kick from champagne as a capitalist , laughed uproariously.                     