@@731752

txt Laughing and looking back at the political warfare they waged 10 years ago for a candidate who suffered a crushing defeat , friends and campaign workers of Sen. Barry Goldwater got together over the weekend to celebrate his " non-Presidency . " Journeying train all parts of the country , they drank and dined and recollected the high-points , and more often themistakes , of the campaign the Arizona Republican lost when the late Lyndon B. Johnson won by a landslide . The Saturday night celebration , termed " A 10th Anniversary Non-Inaugural Festivity , " brought friends , from the senator 's campaign pilot and man-Friday to the President of the United States , to a downtown hotel . AND IT BROUGHT to Washington that pne-time congressman and chairman of the Republican National Committee , William E. Miller , who divorced himself from political life after running as Goldwaler 's Vice Presidential candidate . " It 's good to get together with my old running mate , Bill what 's his name , " Goldwater said , kidding Miller , now a Buffalo , N.Y. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican Vice Presidential nomination in ' G4 , to live one heartbeat away from political oblivion , " Goldwater said of Miller , before praising his running mate and saying he would choose him again . The audience or several hundred persons , who paid .75 a couple , viewed a short film of the 1964 convention in San Francisco , cheering their hero . THEY POUNDED the tables , whistled and shouted as Goldwater , in the film , warned America not to cringe before the bullying of Communism . " " Extremism In defense of liberty is no vice , " he said to thunderous applause of his film audience . " Moderation in the pursuit of justice is no virtue . " Goldwater , wearing a tuxedo and black hoots , said : " Looking at that film , I know how Ronnie Reagan must feel when he looks at the late movies . " He told the audience he had no remorse about defeat and was " proud of every moment , of every mile we traveled , of what we stood for . " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crime , and I promise you I could have brought peace and a sense of honesty into the hearts of the American people . " PRESIDENT Ford Spent 35 minutes at the party . The friends and campaign workers wore their political buttons from 10 years ago .                     