@@732966

txt UNSCRUPULOUS real- estate dealers who submit fake documents to obtain federally insured mortages for unqualified home buyers are the targets of a nationwide crackdown by the Federal Bureau of Investigation . The documents submitted reportedly include forged Internal Revenue Service W-2 forms that overstate the incomes of mortgage applicants . The FBI probe is part of the federal government 's effort to end the $4 billion Federal Housing Administration scandal documented two years ago by The Tribune in a Pulitzer Prize-winning series . The Tribune revealed that because of FHA problems , entire neighborhoods were being turned into slums and the federal government was becoming the unwilling owner of thousands of abandoned and vandalized houses , while a few real-estate agents and mortgage bankers reaped huge profits . Teams of FBI agents working under Mark Richard , chief of the United States Justice Department fraud division , are fanning out across the nation to get evidence for presentation to grand juries . PRELIMINARY Information is being supplied by agents from the inspector general 's office of the Department of Housing and Urban Development , which has extensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the Chicago area , the investigation is being spearheaded by IV . R. Coulson , an assistant U.S. attorney , and Sterling Evans , a HUD inspector general . Much preliminary information here was assembled by John Waner , district director of the HUD and FHA offices . Investigators said some real-estate dealers and mortgage companies have fabricated credit ratings for customers seeking FHA-insured mortgages . Documentation of this includes letters written on the stationary of major corporations attesting to the creditworthiness of mortgage applicants , as well as forged government W-2 forms overstating applicants ' incomes . In many instances , the investigators said , the applicants have so little money that real-estate dealers advance them the $200 needed for a down payment on a house with an FHA-insured mortgage . " The real-estate agent stands to make a commission of $2,000 or more on the transaction , " one investigator said . " Ile 's just looking for warns bodies to buy houses , Ile does n't care what happens afterwards . " THERE IS extensive evidence that in many instances low-income families can not keep up mortgage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an investigator said . Since mortgages are entirely insured by the FHA , a.mortgage company will get its full investment back , plus interest . from the federal government in any defaults . Unscrupulous mortgage companies can do better financially on a default than they can if the buyer pays off the mortgage . This is because in a default the federal government reimburses life mortgage company in about 27 months , white a home owner keeping up payments takes 30 years to pay off a mortgage . Lenders thus assured of getting their money back from the federal government in event of a default have no incentive to take care of property they repossess . SOME COMPANIES have let vacant houses deteriorate into rubble while collecting $400 to $2,000 from the FHA to maintain the structures until they can be resold . There have been reports that many such houses deteriorate rapidly because they were shoddily built . In such houses , contractors tried to hold costs down so the buildings would be in a price range to qualify for government-insured mortgages under the Federal Housing Act of 1968 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to keep up their mortgage payments have deliberately defaulted and moved away because the buildings were literally falling apart after only a few months . THE ACT WAS passed in a hurry by Congress in 1968 when federal money was envisioned as the answer to unrest in overcrowded areas . Hundreds of thousands of homes were provided through the federally insured mortgage program to families which normally would not have been able to afford them . By 1975 , James M. Alter , a Chicago businessman who then was chairman of the Governor 's Commission on Mortgage Practices , called the entire program " a national scandal . " In the Chicago area , the federal government has been forced to take over nearly 4,000 vacant FHA-insured homes . Nationwide , the government took over 74.000 such homes which cost taxpayers $20 million a month to maintain .                     