@@729004

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor Positive Goal for Radicals To the Editor : It is time that radicals had a positive goal large-minded enough to justify the fuss . Getting out of Vietnam is too limited and too negative . Combatting the threat of hopeless nuclear global warfare by the really only feasible means ? the creation first in people 's minds , and then in actuality , of a positive world order capable , as the present U.N . is not , of disarming the nations  --  is the one objective that can , by its own logic and vital human appeal , produce an ever-growing and worldwide consensus among those who see that we can not simply go on as we are . It is too late for responsible people to say that world order is impossible . For this is to say that human continuance , unless as a pitiful remnant in a ruined and poisoned environment , is impossible . We can but try , and we must try . The aim for a really great revolution must be definite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must have global appeal . Spitting on the American flag will not disarm Russia or China . Lack of patriotism will not remove the paramount danger . Only positive feeling far humanity itself , threatened with total or near total extinction , will . Every human being should be led to think seriously about the prospects for this planet as our common human home . CHARLES HARTSHORNE Austin , Tex. , Nov. 6 , 1970 Better Pay , Better Service To the Editor : We noted that John J. DeLury , president of the Sanitationmen 's Union , is asking higher wages for his men . We New Yorkers are proud that we pay our city employes well and favor their receiving good living wages at all times . But it would be reassuring to hear from the union about plans for better service . The streets are filthier than ever and getting worse . Good luck to Mr. DeLury in his fight for a better deal for his men . However , we await some consoling words from him about prospective improvements in cleanliness . Editorial Nov. 10 . LEONARD @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Victory in Tennessee To the Editor : A political victory in Tennessee , where President Nixon and Vice President Agnew concentrated a large part of their campaign efforts , has apparently been a source of great pride and comfort to them and their political associates . Their satisfaction , however , must be somewhat diminished by the realization that their strongest impact was made in ? the state which was the scene of the Scopes trial and where there has been the most vigorous opposition to a belief in evolution . EDWIN 0 . KENNEDY South Orange , N. J. , Nov. 5 , 1970 0 Irony of Vote Figures To the Editor : The irony of percentage figures was never more apparent than in New York 's recent election , in which Arthur Goldberg and James Buckley , each running against two other candidates , each received 40 per cent of the total vote . Yet Goldberg emerged a loser and Buckley a winner . JOHN M. HOWARD New York , Nov. 8 , 1970 0 Rationality of Challenges To the Editor : Daniel Bell in his Oct. 27 Op @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society finds the crux of that contradiction in the clash of the dominant values of industrial society , i.e. , " functional rationality , technocratic decision-making . . . , " with the new " cultural trends of today , " which emphasize " apocalyptic moods and antirational modes of behavior . " Professor Bell had perhaps to fit his words into limited space . In any event , they serve to support the establishment 's self-assuring assumption that today 's radical challenges to conventional wisdom and behavior are predominantly irrational . Admittedly , many of today 's cultural trends are apocalyptic and antirational  --  Jerry Rubin , the Jimi and Janis cults , the Weathermen , the Woodstock Nation . These , however , are but part of the new radicalism , and probably not the dominant part . Perhaps the most powerful of the new cultural trends is the growing awareness , especially among the educated young , of how deeply irrational , by any reasonable standards of social utility or even survival , is much of the technocratic decision-making of our industrial society , or the kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in order to save it . This seems to be one of the points that Yale 's Prof. Charles Reich ( cited in Bell 's piece ) gropes toward in his " The Greening of America . " It has been made more clearly by , among others , Stuart Hampshire , recent Princeton professor of philosophy . In Hampshire 's words , ' ' That a large minority of students should . . - distrust .. - official habits of thought . . . and standards of rationality - . . does not prove that they are enemies of rationality . " It is useful for critics such as Professor Bell to point out the antirationality that permeates many of today 's " countercultural " trends . If , however , this is all they can see , they will be blinded to the important elements of rationality in many of the new trends and , worse , to the powerful strands of irrationality woven into our present industrial society , or even the future " technotronic " society envisioned by Daniel Bell 's colleague , Prof. Zbigniew Brzezinski @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Science Central Connecticut State College New Britain , Conn. , Nov. 2 , 1970 0 Housing Mess in N.Y.C. To the Editor : Contrary to your editorial of Oct. 1 , much " recasting " of the rent law occurred during the two-week period in which the Building Service Employes Union chose to strike Manhattan residential buildings rather than work . Not the least was the agreement by the union to permit contract termination should the city fail to implement a realistic base rental for controlled properties by Jan. 1 , 1972 , a decisive factor in reaching accord . In the recent Bronx strike , the biased position of the city in the so-called " negotiations " was apparent . The Rent Commissioner sent strikers to work at a wage rate which , represented the maximum demand of their union . The city literally forced the owners into a settlement they can not afford . The new rent control law does not provide a complete wage recoupment . It permits only partial recoupment under specified , restrictive conditions , and drives thousands of controlled buildings further into the red . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to by abandoned buildings ; by available management studies , and apparently , in those still secret reports available only to the Administration . When socioeconomic conditions that cause abandonment are aggravated by increases in taxes , water charges , fuel oil prices , mandated ecological improvements and now third-party To the Editor : More than two-thirds of U.S. research and development is accomplished in the laboratories of private companies . But newspaper coverage on the administration of scientific progress makes it seem that academic and government spokesmen yield better copy than industrial observers . Particularly , may we urge that the added dimension of opinions from industry should be brought into contemplating the growing promise and TALKING TO ANIMALS When there are animals about , who else People aside  --  does one talk to ? They form an environment of ear and eye Most finely adjusted to turns Of mood : terror , humor .. . The domesticated : cats and dogs , Speak freely , handle their own Lives , adjust our natures To theirs and back ; as cattle ? Those enormous oblongs of goodWill  --  did they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; As ducks in their sewing circle Wonder , wander , flapping their Fluent tails ; as a mare Lumbers , an iron horse on the turntable , Setting forth a fact , while her foal 's eyes dance Like legs . Smaller creatures : four Inches of chipmunk tell hazard From ruin as people ca n't ... Making oneself understood To animals  --  as to people Is a question of tone of voice , Of communication just Right for that neighbor ; Perhaps of being inside A hogan , or in the middle Of anywhere , one 's antennae out , Like my Beaver-Spirit who takes  --  deep In his Eskimo ear  --  much wisdom from a Loon . BARBARA HOWES political intervention in what was purely a labor-management dispute , winter in Fun City takes on a grim look for both tenant and property owner . - Your Oct. 13 page one story describes the city 's attempt to end the decline of the Bronx through a series of renewal proposals . They are really " pie-in-the-sky " projects . All the money in the city budget could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curry favor by retaining rigid rent controls and not permitting rents to be sufficient to maintain decent housing . The result in the Bronx is absolute , nearly irreversible chaos . No matter what panaceas the city says it has , the ultimate fact stands , out  --  it is attempting to justify mistakes and shift blame for the housing mess . Despite public statements by the city , experience , on two occasions , 1967 and 1970 , has shown that a promise of speed in obtaining administrative relief and ? the actual attainment of such relief ? are totally unrelated . Promises of last January are yet to be formalized . Assurances of last July are now subject to " re-evaluation . " Agreed upon interpretations are yet to be issued . Owners are denied access to records essential to timely filing . EDWARD SULZBERGER . President Metropolitan Fair Rent Committee , Inc . New York , Oct. 26 , 1970 0 For More Traffic Police To the Editor : One of the prime traffic problems is the lack of traffic policemen on the busy avenues . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ascertain one of the main causes of the exceptionally slow traffic in New York between the hours of 4:30 and 6:30 P.M. One of the reasons , and I am sure that this can be repeated throughout the city , is that at the Thirtieth Street Station , the police , have what is known as the " Parking Enforcement Squad . " This is composed of policemen whose sole duty is to go around and give out tickets after 4 P.Walong the side streets and avenues so that the city can gain - some . added income . I often have the impression that they work on commission because they 'll give out a ticket in a 6 P.M. zone at five minutes before the hour . If the Mayor and Police Commissioner were really interested in helping to solve our traffic problem , they could use these squads to much better advantage as traffic policemen during those hours . ALVIN L. LEVINE New York , Oct. 26 ; 1970 popularity of " technology assessment . " Unfortunately , the initial evaluations in Washington have found the private sector conspicuous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in concept than simply to establish an early warning system which would help avoid environmental pollution . It could envelop appraising what is being done in private and public laboratories with regard to cellular bio-engineering . The discovery of truth ( the origin of planets ... ) and basic research support ? having no immediate objectives ? could be among the subjects considered by technical assessors . Such evaluations could not avoid economic implications such as related employment prpblems and the allocation of taxes . Even the implied warnings to be read in George Orwell 's " 1984 " could creep into the proceed$ Industry is generally committed was assuring the development and effective , utilization of scientific and technological resources which inevitably bear on economic growth , quality of life , national strength , and the broadening of knowledge . At the same time , the realization up and down the company ladder is that better products for better living rings increasingly hollow as a total , objective . Industry has more of a social commitment to perform . Company spokesmen in communities throughout the country want involvement in what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In 1971 , the question we will find confronting us is : What purpose is to be served by institutionalizing technology assessments with an expanded Washington bureaucracy ? The answers to that question , especially ' in this period of devising methodology , - will be enhanced by industrial input . The American private sector , need it be underscored , has a proven track record for assembling multidisciplinary teams of outstanding indivdivals to solve the most pressing technological challenges in all history . Let 's enlist this expertise in assessments . REYNOLD BENNETT Vice President Science and Technology , N.A.M . New York , Nov. 5 , 1970 Technology Assessment by Industry '                     