@@730103

txt In a move that surprised and an- ' , gered civil liberties groups , the Assembly Codes Committee voted out a bill today that would restore the death penalty , in most homicide cases . The action signaled a reprise of the emotional issue appar-1 ently settled in New York State seven years ago when the Legislaturevoted to restrict capital punishment to the murders1 of policemen and prison guards . As legislators sought to quicken their pace in time to adjourn this month , the Senate wrestled with the Forest Hills public-housing issue and approved a measure designed to kill the proposed 840-unit development . Scores of bills were acted on , but the greatest stir today was caused by the capital punishment bill 's being added to the agenda . The measure was sponsored by Robert F. Kelly , RepublicanConservative of . Brooklyn , who predicted passage since the bill had teen released by committee , where it withered in previous years . Under the bill , any convicted // murderer would face the electric chair unless the jury recommended life imprisonment , Mr. Kelly said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this year , he said , because people " are fed up with wanton killings . " " There 's a hue and cry throughout the state and city , throughout the country , " Mr. Kelly declared , asserting there had been a change in public opinion since seven years ago . The committee action was immediately denounced as a return to " barbarism " by James T , Prendergast , director of research for the Legal Aid Society , and Kenneth Q. Norwich , legislative director of the New York Civil Liberties Union . They spoke as they guided a group of visitors lobbying here as the coalition for penal reform . Mr. Prendergast said that the court system was fallible and that the sentence of death was the " one human mistake that ca n't be corrected . " Senate Approval Uncertain While the bill 's chances were considered favorable in the Assembly , the initial feeling in the Senate was that the measure would likely be kept in committee if it came over from the other house . Some legislators speculated privately that the issue was revived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they felt the subject could " take off , " depending on public reaction . Under present law , penalties for homicide range from 15 years to life imprisonment . The committee action came near the end of a 1972 session generally devoid of eye-catching issues , In the Forest Hills housing issue , the Senate spent more than two hours in an emotional debate , finally passing a bill designed to kill the project , voting by the narrowest margin of 29 to 21 . The , measure , which would refer the project back to the City Board of Estimate for review , was sent to the Assembly , where its chances are uncertain . The bill passed over the objections of the area 's local representative , Senator Emanuel R. Gold , Democrat , who angrily denounced the sponsor , Martin J. Knorr , Republican of Ridgewood , Queens , as interfering in Forest Hills and perpetrating a " cruel fraud " on local residents . Mr , Knorr defended the bill as the only sound way for people to counter abuses by public housing authorities . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond the foundation stage five years after approval by the local legislative body . It would be effective as of last September -- a date designed to cover the Forest Hills project , and a retroactive technique critics said was unconstitutional . Mr. Gold and other opponents described the measure as politically oriented and designed to boost the candidacy of Mr. Gold 's challenger in the primary , Jerry Birbach , a leader of a local protest group . In other matters , the following actions were taken : BEER MARKETING ZONES By a vote of 45 to 72 the Assembly defeated a measure that would have divided the state into three wholesale beer marketing zones . The bill , which had the support of the beer industry , would have prevented retailers from buying beer from wholesalers or distributors outside of their zone . Opponents of the bill argued that the bill would create a monopoly for the beer wholesalers . Proponents said that regulation of the industry was needed because the number of breweries had declined severely in the last 10 years . DRUNKEN DIDVIND The Senate passed 36 to 17 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Caemmerer , Republican of Nassau , that would permit the fact of a driver 's refusal to take a breathalyzer test to be introduced as evidence at his trial on drunken driving charges .. Critics said the bill violated the constitutional right to remain silent . STUDENT LOANS A moratorium on guaranteeing college student loans was lifted by the State Higher Education Assistance Corporation ' after the introduction of a bill by Assemblyman Milton Jonas , Nassau Republican , that would lighten the obligation for the program to maintain large cash reserves . POOR CAUCUS Fewer than a dozen of the 207 state legislators attended a conference held by the state Alliance of Community Action programs . The meeting by the antipcArty program workers was designed to present their views on needed legislation and to hear how to deal with the legislative process . MORTGAGES The Assembly gave final legislative approval to a measure permitting insurance companies to increase to 60 per cent , from 30 per cent , the part of their assets they may invest in mortgages . The Republican leadership , announced that 77 G.O.P. legislators had voted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed . But there were only 44 or 45 Republicans in ; the house when the vote was taken , which the Republicans said was allowed under its rules . NASSAU COLISEUM The Assembly passed and sent to the Senate a measure permitting the Nassau County Veterans Memorial Coliseum to let various service contracts without competitive bidding . Democrats charged that the bill could lead to favoritism in the contracts . Republicans said the bill was needed to permit the coliseum to hire only union employes for certain jobs . DRIVERS ' LICENSES The Assembly approved and sent to the Senate a bill permitting the issuance of drivers ' licenses to 17-year-olds who have completed courses in private driver training schools . TAX EXEMPT PROPERTY The Assembly passed and sent to the Senate a measure permitting localities to tax the real property of institutions such as universities and hospitals if the property is being used for housing . CHILD ABUSE Assembly Speaker Perry D. Duryea , Republican of Montauk , L. I.1 introduced a package of five bills aimed at bringing to " an irreducible minimum " the number of cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed and sent to the Senate a measure that would increase the minimum penalty for rape , removHg the court option of placing Ian offender on probation . Under the bill , sponsored by Democratic Assemblyman Frederick D. Schmidt of Queens , the minimum prison sentence would be 15 years , instead of the present three years . The maximum . would stay at 25 years .                     