@@729235

txt Chicago has a chance , slim hut still there , of hosting the 1972 Democratic National Convention , some members of - the Democratic National Committee indicated today . Several , however , voiced concern for the party 's image if . the Democrats should return to Chicago next year . It was the scene of violent demonstrations and internal disruptions when the party met there in 1968 . One expressed outright opposition to Chicago as the 1972 site . Follows 0 . K. of Reforms Enhancing Chicago 's possible selection was action taken today by the national committee approving a 1972 convention call that includes far-reaching party reforms ordered by delegates at the 1968 convention . " We 're past the bitter catharsis of Chicago , " said former Gov . Richard J. Hughes of New Jersey , that state 's Democratic national committeeman . " We 've taken steps to eliminate discrimination in our party . The Democratic National Committee at last is ready to win the next election and not have any more Chicages . " Hughes ' remarks were along the line that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago but because of the state of the Democratic Party . Site Did n't Matter " It would have happened wherever the convention was held , " said Jacob M. Arvey of Chicago , veteran Democratic national committeeman from Illinois . Arvey said requirements for the 1972 convention will be studied by Chicago officials before a decision is made to ap-1 ply as host . Mayor Daley indicated recently that he wants the Democratic and Republican national conventions in Chicago . The Democrats ' site selection committee was organized yesterday and set public hearings for applicants for March 28 and 29 . Republican site hearings will be held March 15 thru 17 . Both will be in Washington . The Democrats have received no applications to date . The Republicans have received informal invitations from Miami Beach and San Francisco . Democratic sources said that Chicago will get a fairliearing if it bids for the convention . Most of the committee members queried , asked that their names not be used . " After all , " one said , " we will have to make the final decision and we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . K. 1972 Guidelines Today the national committee approved 1972 convention guidelines that include reforms intended to spur greater participation by minority groups and to make the convention delegations more reflective of the population . One committee member , John F. English of New York , said , however , that he intends to file a suit in the federal courts challenging the manner in which the committee apportioned convention delegates among the states . The formula approved by the committee would base the apportionment on a tripling of electoral college votes plus consideration of Democratic voting strength in each state for the last three Presidential elections . On Wednesday , the national committee 's executive committee scrapped an apportionment formula written by the party 's reform commission , headed by Rep. James O'Hara Mich . . That plan , which would have given equal apportionment consideration to population and voting strength , was , rejected by the national committee today on a 27 to 68 , vote . The committee also voted down several other apportionment proposals , including one presented by English to base the size of delegations solely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Illinois will have 170 delegates at the 1972 convention . Also approved without comment under direction of the 1958 convention were mandatory reform guidelines drafted by another party commission headed by Sen. George S. D. , S. D.. They require state parties to write rules governing delegate selection under conditions that bar proxy voting and unit rule practices and that , overcame discrimination against minority groups , young people and women . These groups now must be included in delegations " in reasonable relationship to their presence , in the population of the state . " Elected at Lower Levels The guidelines also require that at least 75 per cent of a state 's total delegation must be elected at a level no higher than the congressional district . " This meeting began this morning with a potential for being a historic occasionp said Lawrence F. O'Brien , Democratic national chairman . " It has become a historic occasion . We are the majority party . " I defy the Republican National Committee , the Republican Party , the Republican administration and , indeed , the Republican President to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took today . "                     