@@734017

txt Pope John Paul /I was given an excited welcome by more than one million Mexicans when he arrived here today to open a crucial Latin American bishops ' conference on his first trip abroad since becoming Pope four months ago . Although Mexico and the Vatican do not maintain diplomatic relations , President Jose Lopez Portillo and his wife received the Pope when he flew in this afternoon after a 21-hour visit to the Dominican Republic . " Welcome to Mexico , " Mr. Lopez Portillo said quietly . " I wish you success in your mission of peace and concord and your efforts in favor of justice . " The Pope replied : " That is my mission and my ministry . It is with deep satisfaction that I am in Mexico . " The Mexican leader then quickly left the airport as the Pope embraced the dozens of Latin American cardinals and bishops awaiting him . As in the Dominican Republic yesterday , the Pope 's first gesture here was to step off the red carpet and kneel to kiss the ground . Immediately the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and bands burst out with marches and popular Mexican songs . Someone also placed a Mexican cowboy hat on the Pope 's head . The Pope then rode in an open bus in a slow motorcade past cheering crowds lining the 12-mile route from the airport to the 16th-century Metropolitan Cathedral , where he said mass . Although 90 percent of Mexico 's 65 million people are Roman Catholics , this capital was less decorated than it has been for such previous visitors as Queen Elizabeth of Britain and the Shah of Iran . For the Pope is here as " a distinguished visitor " rather than as an official guest . But while crowds for such occasions are usually transported in by the Government , well over a million Mexicans made their way , many by foot , from outlying city districts and distant villages for a glimpse of the Pope . With church bells ringing and photographs of the Pope displayed on car and shop windows , thousands of people jammed into the plaza in front of the cathedral . Most schools and offices in the capital were closed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bitter feud between church and state that existed here in the 1920 's and 1930 's , when Catholics were persecuted for their opposition to the social reforms that followed the 1910 revolution . Several groups today held up banners reading , " Christianity yes , Communism no , Socialism no ! " Others had posters reading , " Long live Christ the King ! " which was the cry of religious militants who took up arms against the government in 1926 . Security for the Pope during his six-day visit is in the hands of the Government , which has assigned thousands of security men to protect him from excited crowds . Another element of nervousness was added at 9:10 A.M. , when the Mexican capital was rocked by a strong earth tremor , registering 6.3 on the Richter scale . Smaller tremors continued throughout the day . Although the Pope will visit various regions of Mexico , the primary purpose of his trip is to open the Third Latin American Bishops ' Conference , to be held in the eastern city of Puebla over the next two weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activist sectors of the Latin American church . To Inaugurate Conference During a sermon inaugurating the conference at the basilica to the " Indian " Virgin of Guadalupe in Mexico City tomorrow , the Pope is expected to define his position on the increasing involvement of priests in social and political activities in the military-ruled countries of Latin America . On this flight to Santo Domingo yesterday , the Pope discussed the so-called " theology of liberation " advocated by activist churchmen . " You knew that liberation theology is a true theology , " the Pope told reporters on the plane . " But perhaps it is also a false theology , because if one starts to politicize theology , apply doctrines of political systems , ways of analysis which are not Christian , then this is no longer theology . That is the problem . Theology of liberation , yes , but which one ? " In his sermon at today 's mass ; read in fluent Spanish , the Pope emphasized that " the church is not born from the people but from the design of God . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to foment " religion , justice and the promotion of human dignity . " Inside the cathedral , just yards from the ruins of the Great Temple to the Aztec god of war , Huitzilopochtli , and the god of water , Tlaloc , more than 3,000 invited guests attended the mass . Alfonso de Obreg6n , a young office worker from the capital , said he had won his ticket in a parish lottery . Mrs. Natalia Carranza de Rodriguez was given her ticket by her priest " because I am active in the parish and give Bible classes . " After the mass , which was broadcast across the plaza , the Pope went to the residence of the apostolic delegate to Mexico , Bishop Geronimo Priggione , where he will stay during his visit . He will sleep in a simply furnished room and be attended by nuns , although one surprise awaiting the Polish Pope will be some meals cooked for him by a Polish exile , Tadeusz A. Pobereski , who runs the Mazurka Restaurant here . After formally inaugurating the bishops ' conference tomorrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the opening meeting of the conference , which is to be attended by more than 250 prelates . On Monday , the Pope is to fly to the southern region of Oaxaca . On Tuesday , he visits the Spanish colonial city of Guadalajara , 700 miles northwest of here . In Mexico City and during his side trips , he will meet with groups as varied as poor squatters , students , diplomats and the local Polish community . He is to leave for Rome Wednesday , stopping for two hours in the northern city of Monterrey and later , for refueling , in Nassau , the Bahamas                     