@@729512

txt The 7,000 pages of the Pentagon 's top-secret Vietnam study leaked to the press may seem like quite a heap of secrets . But alongside the military 's remaining hoard it 's next to nothing . For instance : Today , almost 26 years after the end of World War II , U.S. archives still hold some 100 million pages of classified war records that remain beyond the public 's reach . Most of the material is probably of little interest to anyone except historians . But the staggering volume of state secrets still under wraps symbolizes an old and thorny issue that is getting new attention as a result of publication of parts of the Vietnam papers . The issue : how and why the government keeps information secret . One debate in the current controversy centers on the question : ' What right does The New York Times have to declassify documents ? " But observers in and out of the government say that if you look at past and present government practices it becomes clear that the Times ' action is far from unique @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , these people say , and they cite many past instances in which high and low officials have leaked various documents as the most practical way to declassify them . How to Downgrade Downgrading and declassification are the responsibility of the official or office that originally classified the document . Current regulations provide for " continuous " review of classified material for these purposes and also call in certain cases for " time-phased " automatic downgrading and declassification . But Townsend Hoopes , former under secretary of the Air Force , maintains that the " vast turnover " of personnel in the upper reaches of the Pentagon means that some classified documents get overlooked because the originator of the material is long gone . Others agree . " If I write a paper and it 's classified ' secret , ' it will probably lie there for years , " says a Pentagon insider . The Vietnam study , he suspects , " would have been tiled away and-no one would have looked at it for 20 to 25 years " if The New York Times had n't laid hands on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Under it , each classified document is placed in one of four groups . Two of these categories lead to eventual downgrading or declassification . But the other two groups , often favored by cautious bureaucrats , are exempt from the automatic procedure . One thing is certain : The present secrecy arrangements do not prevent deliberate leaks that tend to make a mockery of the system . In an affidavit filed in The Washington Post 's court struggle against an injunction halting its publication of some of the Pentagon papers , executive editor Benjamin Bradlee recalls that in 1952 when serving as press attache at the U.S. Embassy in Paris , " I was instructed by a superior to leak the contents of a secret cable dealing with a Soviet note to the American government . And I did so , to a correspondent of the United Press . " Kennedy and Johnson Early in the bombing campaign of North Vietnam , when the North Vietnamese were claiming that civilian targets in Hanoi were being hit , Cyrus Vance , then Deputy Secretary of Defense , held a lengthy briefing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the routes that Navy fighter-bombers were ordered to fly over and around the city , in an effort- to prove that civilian targets had n't been bombed . The routes were classified secret , because they obviously were of interest to North Vietnamese anti-aircraft crews . The Post 's Mr. Bradlee says that when he was a correspondent for Newsweek magazine , " President John F. Kennedy once read to me portions of a highly classified memorandum of conversation between him and Nildta Khrushchev in Vienna in 1961 . I received his permission to use this material . " That 's not all . Mr. Bradlee , who has seen the galley proofs of President Lyndon Johnson 's forthcoming memoirs , maintains that the book contains considerable amounts of classified information on the Vietnam war . " There 's no question about it , " he says . " There are several quotations from documents " that are among the ' parts of the top-secret Vietnam study published in The New York limes . In many cases , according to the critics , the trouble can be traced to overclassification at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repeatedly with the Executive Branch on the problem , instate " the only way things are going to be changed is to make overclamification ' bureaucratically dangerous ' " ? that is , set tough penalties for officials who err on the side of caution . Starting to Study Reforms On Capitol Hill , an effort is on to reform the labyrinthine process by which documents are classified and , sometimes , declassified . Sponsoring legislators would like to make it easier for Congress and the public to get its hands on government records . This week a House Government Operations subcommittee began six days of hearings on the subject . " Everybody 's been complaining about the problem of classification for years , " says an aide of Pennsylvania 's Democratic Rep. William Moorhead , who is chairing the hearings . " Now we 're really trying to do something about it . " One solution is offered by Sen. Edmund Muskie of Maine . He 's proposing creation of an . independent board empowered to make government documents public after a two-year period . The board would also be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ documents to " the appropriate committee of Congress , " the Senator says . Aclmowledging the possible adverse impact of disclosure on the government 's foreign relations and on . the flow of candid advice to the President , a Miriade staffer says a way must be found to insure that " action papers " containing policy decisions are made public while " advisory papers " remain private . At this point , it 's far from certain that any basic reforms will be made in the classification process . Mr. Nixon 's decision to make the Pentagon study available to Congress could take some of the steam out of the legislative effort . Congressional insiders see no signs of pressure for change from the influential Appropriations and Armed Services committees . Furthermore , a former Senate staffer says , " a majority of Congressmen do n't want to get involved . There 's little to be gained politically , and there are dangers in being a guy accused of wanting to ' leak ' documents . " Yet if the classification procedures do survive intact , officials concede , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration men admit that both classification and declassification methods could stand improvement Critics charge that under the current system there 's a pervasive tendency to overclassify documents and there 's little impetus for declassification . A Judgment Matter Though a 1953 Executive Order attempts to set guidelines for classifying material variously as top secret , secret or confidential , both defenders and critics of the system stress that classification of documents is , in the end , " a judgment matter . " And the critics maintain that the judgment usually goes in favor of overclassification because of various pressures at work within the bureaucracy . For one thing , a desire to avoid trouble with superiors prompts many officials to classify a document that could be safely left unclassified or else give a paper too high a classification . Frequently , critics charge , information is classified because it is " politically sensitive " and not because its unauthorized disclosure would endanger national security . Thus a veteran Pentagon reporter complains that lists of military bases scheduled for closing have often been classified secret ? " until the Pentagon chooses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorite for over-classification . A former Army officer recalls two incidents from the Korean war period . One involved a service study of GI attitudes toward combat , or C , rations ; the report was classified , he says , " because GIs said they did n't like a damn thing " about C rations . Similarly , an Army survey of liquor consumption at officers ' clubs was classified ; the reason , this officer believes , is that the service did n't want the public to know how much heavy drinking was going on , especially at those clubs where many officers were soon slated for Korean combat assignments . In Vietnam , the Army stamped " secret " on reports of field malfunctions of the controversial M16 rifle , which was jamming until corrective action was taken . " The evaluation reports were bad , " says a man who found out what was in them . He asserts the Army simply wanted to avoid embarrassment , since the enemy was obviously aware of the rifle 's weaknesses . Then there 's what a former federal official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he says , classify a document confidential or secret to indicate that " the stuff is important  --  that it should be moved up the chain of command promptly instead of getting stuck in someone 's ' in ' basket . " In one old-line department , says a former employe , it was common practice for staffers to label reports to the Secretary " administratively confidential . " The objective : to keep certain recommendations from drifting into the hands of other officials who might influence the boss to follow a different course of action . Sometimes a classification decision seems to lack any logical motive whatever . The Navy , says a confused reporter , refuses to release any information on the types of engines used in U.S. nuclear submarines . But the information appears regularly in " Jane 's Fighting Ships , " a basic reference book put out annually . And classified files frequently contain published newspaper stories that officials feel contain sensitive information . Many apparently innocuous documents acquire secrecy labels for no compelling reason . In the early 1960s , the White House requested a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue application of most-favored nation trade privileges to Yugoslavia . A CIA economist got hold of a routine report written by the Agency for International Development on the Yugoslav economy . Drbwing almost exclusively on the AID report , he produced an analysis that was stamped " top secret " and hand-delivered to the White House . In another instance , CIA analysts prepared a study on social conditions in Bulgaria including material on the purchasing power of Bulgarian currency , suicide rates and alcoholism . Much of it was " conjecture and sheer fabrication since we had few reliable agents in the field at the time , " maintains an ex-CIA employe . The report was stamped " confidential . " Though Time magazine soon published some of the same material , recalls the ex-staffer , " the CIA report never was declassified ? ' " At the CIA it was typical to rely heavily on United Nations reports and stuff anybody could get at the library , " recalls the former CIA staffer . " A good deal of the material in our cleassi tied reports would have been available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the informa tion in the CIA reports I worked on was really sensitive . " A Request for Food Is Secret Despite rules to limit the number of officials with classification authority , critics say the number of classifiers has multiplied dangerously over the years . At the State Department , contends one on-looker , " any guy who runs a ' country desk ' can classify a document by saying that the disclosure of a fac could cause ' diplomatic repercussions . ' " Swelling the volume of classified material is a requirement that when a document contains even a single classified fact the entire document must be classified . For example , when a Navy ship on a top-secret patrol in the South China Sea in 1961-62 ordered food supplies , the request was classified secret . The long message requesting such items as potatoes , fresh vegetables , canned goods and meat was secret because it included the position for the rendezvous with the supply ship .                     