@@734464

txt A major new round of offshore drilling may soon begin in the windswept Baltimore Canyon some 100 miles off Atlantic City , New Jersey , oil company experts privately forecast . This renewed interest in an area that has been a disappointment in the search for new domestic oil and natural gas sources is the result of Texaco 's discovery there of the largest reservoir of natural gas yet found off the Atlantic Coast of the United States . The gas strike , which flowed at a test rate of 14.2 million cubic feet a day , was reported publicly Nov. 12 . It came after Mobil , Shell , and other oil companies had stopped exploratory drilling in the Baltimore Canyon and all but abandoned the idea of returning ? setting their sights instead on potentially oil- and gas-rich Georges Bank to the north , off Cape Cod . Oil industry sources say the companies that have left off in the Baltimore Canyon probably will wait until they see the results of Texaco 's next test drilling . These results could be in shortly , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ news in the Baltimore Canyon comes just a few days after the US Supreme Court had ordered the sale of drilling leases for Georges Bank to proceed . Walter Doyle , a spokesman for Texaco , says the new discovery of natural gas is " encouraging . " A spokesman for Conoco , which also had stopped drilling in Baltimore Canyon , also terms the Texaco discovery encouraging . However , he refused to say whether Conoco would possibly resume exploration for oil and gas in the canydn . According to data compiled by Conoco as of Nov. 5 , there had been a total of four significant discoveries ( three of gas , one of oil ) in Baltimore Canyon since US oil companies began operations there 2 1/2 years ago . On the other hand , Conoco reported there were 16 " dry holes "  --  wells in which no significant hydrocarbons were found . The latest Texaco discovery brings the total number of discoveries to five , but , more than just raising the percentage of success , this one has brought new hope of obtaining significant amounts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Northeast coast . John Lichtblau , executive director of the New York-based Petroleum Industry Research Foundation , says that discouragement over the dry holes is not properly tempered by the history of offshore drilling exploration elsewhere in the world . If one considers how long it took to find commerical amounts of oil and gas offshore north of Alaska and in the North Sea , the exploration period in Baltimore Canyon has not been very long , Mr. Lichtblau adds . Mr. Doyle of Texaco says : " We drilled the first dry hole in the North Sea off Scotland ) around 1963 or 1964 . It took four or five years before we made substantial finds . " Meanwhile , US oil companies are pinning substantial hope of increasing domestic oil and gas production on what they may find in Georges Bank drilling . Some geologists estimate there may be as much as 123 million barrels of oil and 870 billion cubic feet of natural gas underneath the choppy waters of one of the world 's richest fishing grounds . But exploration there has been delayed by lengthy court proceedings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have sought to ensure that environmental safeguards are in place before test drilling begins . Last week the Supreme Court refused to review a lower court 's refusal to halt the US Interior Department 's oil tract lease sales , and the sale now is scheduled to go on Dec. 18 . Massachusetts Assisant Attorney General Stephen Leonard , however , says Mr. Bellotti will file a brief in the US First Circuit Court of Appeals in Boston sometime early next week on the environmental issues that have not been ruled on by the court . Mr. Leonard said he expects the appeals court to hold a hearing on the newly raised environmental issues at stake before Dec. 18 . ? I ? . ? ? ? ? ? .                     