@@734138

txt Britain 's nationalized auto company is negotiating with Honda Motor Co. , Japan 's third-largest car manufacturer , over a possible collaboration . Officials at BL , formerly known as British Leyland , declined-in London to elaborate on the joint effort under discussion . A spokesman noted that talks were in the early stages and that a number of mutual arrangements were possible . The British company said " the size . range of products and technical resources of the two companies offer possibilities for developing combined programs that would be of benefit to both " manufacturers . In an interview in Tokyo , a Honda official said the Japanese auto maker is negotiating with BL " on subjects beneficial in technology and business operations for both companies . " He said an understanding would probably be reached within one or two months " at the earliest . " The discussions , he added , have been going on since last fall , and the talks were first broached through a third party , which he declined to identify . Hope of " Rapid Progress " A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " rapid progress " in the negotiations , said that Leyland is one of the few major car makers without a collaborative undertaking to support its world-wide sales programs . The National Enterprise Board , the British state body charged with supervising the nationalized company 's affairs , said in its review of BL 's 1979 budget that the company envisages some form of international cooperation . This could lead to codevelopment of components or some form of combined manufacturing facility , the NEB noted . In 1978 , BL 's loss widened to the current equivalent of $26.9 million from $16.5 million before extraordinary items . The wider loss was incurred mainly through payments to workers for early retirement , a move that helped trim the company 's work force by 15,000 employes . Japan Auto Makers ' Troubles Honda 's search for a link with BL seems to represent a response to the growing international troubles of Japanese auto makers . If a link materializes , the tie could get Honda off to a good start in efforts by Japanese car makers to cope with increasing import restrictions abroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , BL needs an infusion of technological knowhow and design assistance to keep from falling further behind its international rivals . It especially needs help in producing the small cars that are expected to be much in demand throughout the world in the coming decade . " They do n't have time to start from the beginning lin making plans for future production ) , " says an industry official in Tokyo about BL . " BL is way behind and the Japanese are the small-car specialists . " BL 's troubles have been widely publicized . The state-owned company consists of a cumbersome collection of operations acquired over a number of years . It has steadily been losing some of its United Kingdom market share to foreign car makers in recent years , and accounted for about 23% of new passenger-car sales in 1978 . Its declining fortunes have been helped along by labor strikes and management problems . Honda 's aid could be part of what BL needs , industry officials in Tokyo say . They note that Honda is particularly strong in the technology for small , energy-efficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there 's less immediate pressure for a foreign tieup , but the implications of such cooperation go beyond a partial recovery effort . In general , Japanese auto makers are facing increasing hurdles in overseas markets , with overall exports this year expected to drop 4% to about 4.4 million units . The problems are especially severe in Britain and other Western European countries , where protectionist sentiment is strong . Japan car exports to Britain are under voluntary restraints . For the 1980s , Japanese auto makers face the prospect of adapting to what American manufacturers call the " world car " concept . That idea calls for the production of a small , energy-efficient passenger car that would meet what are believed to be increasingly similar needs in many countries . Under the concept , production would be specialized in countries around the world to take advantage of division of labor . Increasing Trade Barriers Japanese auto makers , historically reluctant to set up full-scale production facilities overseas , have responded to the challenge partly by increasing purchases of parts that can be manufactured more cheaply abroad . Honda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the current equivalent of about $186 million last year , up about 40% from 1977 , the spokesman said . But that response leaves a number of problems untackled . Japanese auto makers are likely to continue to face increasing trade barriers abroad and higher costs at home . In addition , the " world car " is expected to bring on a serious challenge from car makers in America and elsewhere . " Largely because of the entry of American companies into the small-car field , the automobile as a product is becoming gradually more standardized on a world-wide scale , " said Seisi Kato , President of Toyota Motor Sales Co. , the marketing arm of Toyota Motor Co. , in a New Year 's message . A linkup by Honda with BL could overcome some of these hurdles , at least in Europe . Japanese news reports , for example , said the link would lead to a joint venture in Britain that could become Honda 's base for operating in Europe with a minimum of trade friction . Mitsubishi 's Link So far , Japanese auto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assembly facilities . Exceptions are in Mexico and Australia , where the governments have forced foreign producers to increase local manufacturing activities . The only major tieup between a large Japanese auto maker and a foreign producer is Mitsubishi Motors Co. ' s relationship with Chrysler Corp . of the U.S. That arrangement . under which Chrysler owns 15% of Mitsubishi , stems from the U.S. company 's assistance to the Mitsubishi group when it first began producing cars many years ago . Honda currently has n't any such ties , although , through a subsidiary , it imports fully assembled cars produced by Ford Motor Co. and its units in the U.S. , Britain and West Germany . The subsidiary , Honda International Sales Co. , sold 3,000 Ford autos in Japan in 1978 . In the U.S. , Honda is setting up a motorcycle plant in Ohio . There is speculation that the facility could eventually be expanded to include car-assembly operations .                     