@@728422

txt One of the most severe crises in the history of the world 's civil aviation has been touched off by the Arab guerrilla sabotage that last weekend destroyed a Swiss airliner flying to Israel and almost destroyed an Austrian plane . At any given moment , this planet has innumerable national quarrels , miniwars and other conflicts of varying degrees of intensity . When and if partisans in such disputes have reason to believe that the sabotaging of airplanes is an effective means of pursuing their causes , then murder in the sky might become so common as to paralyze the air transport industry . This vulnerability of airplanes makes it particularly important that those who try to profit by such sabotage learn quickly and unequivocally that this tactic is self-defeating . These considerations are self-evident . Nevertheless , the initial reaction of several European airlines to last weekend 's sabotage could , if continued , please the saboteurs . One line simply canceled its regularly scheduled flight from Copenhagen , while other firms wnicn continued flying to Israel banned mail or freight . Unless these stoppages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only encourage those who planted the bombs . * In the long past history of Arab attacks against Israeli aircraft or against planes bound for Israel , the objective has been to isolate that country by cutting it off from normal transport connections with the rest of the world . If the Arab terrorists see that the latest outrages are advancing their purpose , they will only escalate their effort to blow other Israel-bound planes from the sky . And any evidence that these crimes are hurting Israel will give fanatics devoted to other causes and hating other states reason to employ similar sabotage tactics widely . If the air transport industry is to avoid committing suicide , its reaction to last weekend 's tragedy must not be ruled by panic . The need is for continued normal air traffic to Israel , and for intensified security measures to protect the planes . In the past , Arab states have exalted as heroes those terrorists who attacked Israeli or Israel-bound planes . Yesterday Libya 's strongman , Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi , publicly defended such attacks . But some Arabs are beginning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidenced by the sudden shift last weekend from the first jubilant claim of guerrilla responsibility for the Swiss plane 's destruction to the later unconvincing denial . And yesterday a Beirut newspaper denounced the attack on the Swiss airliner as " the most irresponsible , unforgiveable and outrageous act that has ever been committed in the name of Palestine . " The need now is to convince the great majority of Arabs and the rulers of their states that such criminal acts hurt rather than help their cause . This can be done by applying sanctions against the Arab countries that finance , harbor and encourage the terrorists and provide the bases for these murderers . A worldwide airline boycott of those Arab states would be the best means to punish the perpetrators of these foul and cowardly deeds and those behind them and to put pressure on both groups to halt their crimes .                     