@@729446

txt Law Boy Scouts : When Not Helping That Little Old Lady .. . Trustworthy , loyal , helpful , friendly , courteous , kind , obedient , cheerful , thrifty , brave , clean , reverent . And nosey ? The question arose last week when another batch of those documents purportedly stolen from the Media , Pa. , office of the F.B.I . came to light . Among the goodies was what appeared to be an F.B.I . manual for training police in " positive programs " of community relations . Aside from the intriguing philosophy of the manual ? " a thinking police department does not enter into a police-youth service ? program with completely altruistic motives . In other words , there has to be some sort of ' payoff ' to the policing agency " ? one of the approved positive programs seemed especially ripe for speculation . The experimental program was called SAFE ( Scout Awareness for Emergency ) . Those Rochester , N. Y. , Boy Scouts who participated were urged to keep a sharp eye out for every kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anything from shoplifting to " unusual activity or lack of activity " in homes . SAFE scouts carried wallet-size cards , listing emergency telephone numbers ; one was the local F.B , T. 's . When the documents were released by the clandestine Citizens Commission to Investigate the F.B.I . ( the organization which claims to have been the burglars ) , officials at the national B.S.A . headquarters in North Brunswick , N.J. , immediately pleaded innocent . None of the 4.6-million Boy Scouts , Cubs , and Explorer Scouts in this country , they insisted , are being trained as gumshoes , in Rochester or elsewhere ? with the exception of the 8,000 highschool-age Explorer Scouts who think they want to be policemen and are in " law enforcement career - centered programs . " " We 're pawns , " protested a spokesman for national scout headquarters , " in somebody 's effort to smear the F.B.I . The document released to the press does appear to be a directive that Boy Scouts can be used for this surveillance purpose . But they never have been . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a Rochester agency made up of police , fire , civil defense and other such groups , contacted the Otetiana Council of the scouts to urge some kind of a public service project . A scout show was upcoming , so some flyers and the wallet-size cards were made up and put in a " safety " display at the show . SAFE , he added , merely wanted scouts to watch their neighbors in a neighborly way . " If they knew a single lady lived next door and they did n't see any activity for a week , they 'd begin to wonder . In fact , this did happen in Rochester a couple of weeks ago , where a Boy Scout did find that a lady had died in her house . And it was only because he had observed that there was no activity around . " In Washington , F.B.I . officials had nothing at all to say , publicly , about the latest revelations in the seemingly endless Xeroxed embarrassments rolling out of Pennsylvania . Many critics of the F.B.I . found the idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they pointed out , agents were seated in church business offices ? at least , that was the charge of the head of the United Presbyterian Mission Board . Moreover , there has been a long , and surely for the most part innocent , alliance between the F.B.I . and scouting . Every year J. Edgar Hoover invites the nation 's best scouts to come visit him in . Washington . At any rate , nothing seemed more natural than that the Boy Scouts of America were once again in the middle of en ideological controversy . It happens fairly regularly , and whether the fuss is over the refusal of a B.S.A . council to confer the Eagle rank on a Rhode Island youth because he claimed to be an atheist ; or over the door-todoor distribution of antilabor leaflets as a Boy Scout " project " in Colorado ; or a scout leader in Miami who passed out right-wing literature to his boys ; or the B.S.A . ' s awarding of its highest honor , the Silver Buffalo , to John Birch Society advocate ( and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rightwinger Robert Lef evre 's damning the scouts ' " Business Merit Badge " for showing what he considered to be signs of liberal softness ; or the Russian newspaper Pravda 's quoting from Mad Magazine to show that Boy Scouts are " hostile , war-mongering imperialists who are taught germ warfare from the age of eight " ? all events which occurred during the past few years ? it was clear that in the field of public relations , it has been almost impossible for B.S.A . executives to mind their motto , " Be Prepared . " So when the latest storm broke , about all they could do was yell foul and bow their heads to the buffeting of such critics as Congressman Henry Reuss ? whose Swarthmore daughter , other stolen documents disclosed , had been under surveillance by the F.B.I . Mr. Reuss , back in 1924 , was the world 's youngest Eagle Scout , winning that rank at the age of 12 years and 9 months , while a member of Troop 10 , St. Mark 's Church , Milwaukee . When he read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the F.B.I . manual , Mr. Reuss was shocked . " That , " he said , " sounds more like the Hitler Jugend ? Hitler 's young spies ? than the Boy Scouts I knew . " Mr. Sherrill is a freelance writer based it : Washington , D.C. rho New York Timm Was there a message for the F.B.I. ? Last week came a report that Boy Scouts In Rochester , N. Y. , were being used as informers by the Federal agency . Said Scout officials in denying the charge : " We 're pawns in somebody 's effort to smear the F.B.I . "                     