@@732329

txt MAYOR DALEY 'S son-in-law . Dr. Robert Vanecko , appeared Wednesday before a county grand jury investigating alleged vote fraud in the mayor 's home ward , the 11th . The grand jury is investigating alleged phony voting by absentee ballot in three elections last year , focusing attention on certain absentee ballots accompanied by certificates signed by physi ? cians . The certificates indicated the voters in question were physically unable to go to the polls and thus eligible tovote by absentee ballots . Some of the supposed absentee voters later said they never saw the physicians and never voted , it was disclosed in an inquiry into the elections of last Feb. 25 , April 1 , and Nov. 24 . Assistant state 's attorneys would not say what was asked of Dr. Vanecko or whether he answered questions . They took steps to try to keep Vanecko 's appearance a secret . However , sources said he appeared before the grand jury for 10 minutes Wednesday afternoon , after being accompanied to the Criminal Courts building by attorneys Harry Busch and Sherman Magidson . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was subpoenaed to appear before the grand jury , according to sources . They indicated his name was brought into the investigation last month by Dr. Nepadol Wora-Urai , a resident surgeon at Columbus-CuneoCabrini Medical center . TILE SURGEON testified before the grand jury for 70 minutes Dec. 23 under a grant of immunity . Vanecko is an attending physician and surgeon at Columbus to whom Wora-Urai reports . The grand jury is investigating alleged phony voting by absentee ballot in three elections last year , focusing attention on certain absentee ballots accompanied by certificates signed by physicians . The certificates indicated the voters in question were physically unable to go to the polls and thus eligible to vote by absentee ballots . Some of the supposed absentee voters later said they never saw the physicians and never voted , it was disclosed in an inquiry into the elections of last Feb . LS , April 1 , and Nov. 24 . Wora-Urai was among eight doctors subpoenaed to appear before the grand jury to ascertain if they signed " certificates of attending physicians " to obtain the questioned absentee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attorney , insisted their signatures were forgeries , and gave handwriting samples . It was learned that Wora-Urai 's signature appeared " dozens " of times on absentee ballot application certificates in the 11th Ward , and that he had acknowledged signing some of those certificates . The doctor invoked the 5th Amendment right to silence when he was first brought before the grand jury . Assistant State 's Attorneys Richard Means and Frank DeBoni told then Acting Presiding Judge Richard J. Fitzgerald of Criminal Court that the doctor was a valuable material witness , so Fitzgerald granted WoraUrai immunity and he returned to testify before the grand jury .                     