@@732411

txt LIKE PRICES , platform shoes , and skyscrapers , college grades have been steadily climbing in the last few years . Time was when earning an A in a college course was relatively rare , but now , officials say , the currency of academia ? grades ? has been devalued . ' The result is grade Inflation : A 's and B 's showered on thousands of students who are neither brilliant nor above average . And many educators are worried that grades are becoming a questionable , if not downright meaningless , yardstick of achievement . TI1E GRADE GLUT began In the tumultuous mid-1960s during the height of Viet Nam war protests , student power , and a growing permissiveness in society . Harsh , post-Sputnik grading standards went out of style along with crew cuts . Recalling the era when " flunking out " often meant being drafted , Dean Rudolph Weingartner of Northwestern University 's College of Arts and Sciences , said , " A professor would say to himself , ' I 'll be damned if I 'll be responsible for Smith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D. ' " " Another concomitant was student power , " says Dorothy Matthews , chairman of the undergraduate English department at the University of Illinois . " Students began having a voice in matters of tenure and promotion through such things as teacher-course evaluations . Naturally , some professors felt that if they gave too many D 's , their popularity was lessened . " USING GRADES to foster competition also became passe . " Flunking people out was looked upon as a capitalistic habit , " says Arnitai Etzioni , a Columbia University sociologist . Other theories abound . Colleges experiencing difficulty attracting students during economic hard times may feel pressure to grade easier to avoid turning away students . And some teachers say emphasis on " relevance " in curriculum to the detriment of the classics may have made mastering the subject matter easier for students . Or those with stepped-up minority recruitment programs may have relaxed grading practices to accommodate students with deficient intellectual backgrounds . AT ANY RATE , grade Inflation is a universal problem from New York to California and most points in between . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials raised the standards for graduation with honors when cum laude graduates of the Class of ' 74 outnumbered the others . ? At prestigious Yale University where the F grade was abolished four years ago , the faculty recently voted to reinstate the failing mark next fall . Officials found that Yale transcripts were losing their credibility and competition for postgraduate work led many students to deliberately fail a course and lose credit , rather than accept a D or even a C. ? Similarly , at Stanford University , the faculty voted last spring to scuttle a four-year-old " A-B-C " grading system with loss of credit the only penalty , and reinstate the D. ? At Northwestern University , where 311 per cent of the students received A 's during the last school year , Dean Weingartner has asked the faculty to discuss the issue and move " toward a saner grading policy . " A 1974 ' STUDY of grading procedures at 544 colleges across the country found that a student receiving a poor grade often can take the course again . This held for any grade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and for F alone in 295 of the schools . Grade inflation has become so serious that many chapters of Phi Beta Kappa have raised their membership standards to safeguard the society 's exclusivity . " We ca n't stop people from getting lots of A 's , " Evelyn Greenberg , the society 's associate executive secretary . " But we can make our standards higher . " " It 's a generation of grade grubbers , " said one college official disdainfully . " They 're not Renaissance men . " " When I was an undergraduate , there still was such a thing as the ' Gentle . man 's C ' , " said Weingartner . " ' This is not so now , High grades are in great demand ; therefore , instructors are inclined to give higher grades more often . " MULE THE 19sos spawned the beginnings of grade inflation , the more recent recession and tight job market caused it to escalate , Competition for jobs and graduate schools , particularly law and medical schools , has become fierce . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literature course to come in and say ' I need a B in this course or I have no hope of getting into medical school , ' " says Matthews . " Now he might be bright but without any background in literature , no you think , ' Well , I 'll squeeze out en A even though his is not the best paper in class . ' " FOR ADMISSIONS OFFICIALS , selecting students for professional schools is a headache . " In applications for journalism graduate school , a B overage , et one time , was considered very distinguished and a B-plus was fantastic , " said Elizabeth Yamashita , associate professor of journalism at Northwestern . " Now all the applicants have averages between B and B-plus . " At medical schools , where three applicants are vying for each position , grade-inflated transcripts are a major problem , with officials relying more on standardized entrance tests to weed ota applicants . As Richard Lyman , president of Stanford University , put it : " There is no way to distinguish the ablest when all get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spread . Even the hard taskmasters were not immune . " We 've changed the average grade from a C to a B-minus ? it 's college policy , " said Elisabeth Noel , professor of English at St. Mary 's College , a women 's liberal arts college in South Bend , Ind . " That is , if you think a student is average , give her a B-minus . A C used to be a perfectly acceptable grade , but I kaak I have lowered my standards . I 'm mucn more loathe to give C 's , although I still give them more than most professors here do . " SOME STUDENTS eye reform of lax grading policies with alarm . At the University of Chicago , where officials think the rate of grade inflation has been lower than at other universi ties , Paul Miller , a senior majoring In political science , worries that he will lose out when pitted against graduates from less strict schools . " I could have gone to Harvard , " he said . " And when I look and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ graduated with honors ... why , I could have been an honors grad from Harvard . Instead , I 'm a U. of C. grad with a 2.96 IC-plus average . " Chicago 's percentage of honors graduates is much lower than Harvard or Yale 's , yet to the outside world a degree from either means more than a Chicago degree ? even though we have to work twice as hard . " KENNETH KIRSCH , an engineering graduate student at Northwestern , said he believes other schools , not Northwestern , should begin to curb spiraling grades . " Northwestern is not Harvard , " said Kirsch . " If Northwestern starts , then it will diminish its students ' chances of getting Into graduate school or getting a good job . " Anyway , students here pay a lot to go to school ? 81,000 a year ? and they feel they deserve A 's , more so than someone who pays 82,000 a year . " STILL , COLLEGES and universities feel compelled to put tho brakes as grade inflation . At Lake Forest College , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will accompany each transcript forwarded to a graduate school or potential employer . The University of Illinois has begun keeping track of grades through department-by-department computer printouts of grades given each quarter . That is precisely what Columbia 's Et-sisal thinks should be done . " Computer printouts reveal who are the culprits , who are the ones giving too many A 's , " he said . " Faculty members should openly confront the issue . "                     