@@728385

txt Sheriff Joseph I. Woods yesterday fired Arthur DiCenzo , 51 , personal bailiff to Circuit Judge Richard A. Napolitano , for invoking the 5th amendment in refusing to answer questions before the Sangamon county grand jury which investigated the Illinois state fair scandal . Meanwhile , Richard E. Friedman , executive director of the Better Government-association , demanded that Napolitano , who also used the protection of the 5th amendment in refusing to answer questions before the same grand jury , be temporarily removed from his post as presiding judge of Housing court . Chief Judge John S. Boyle of the Cook county Circuit court , Napolitano 's superior , ' refused to remove Napolitano , saying the matter was out of his hands and was being considered by the Illinois Courts commission . Boyle said he would take no action until the commission , which meets Feb. 13 , informs him of any action the commission takes . Both Granted Immunity . Napolitano and DiCenzo last Thursday invoked their constitutional privilege to refuse to answer questions by State 's Atty .. Richard Hollis on the ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tend to incriminate them . After they were taken before J u d g e William Chamberlain and granted immunity from prosecutidn , they testified before the jury . The following day , the jury returned indictments charging official misconduct and conspiracy , against five persons , including FrankA JUDGE TAKES THE 5TH AMENDMENT - See the editorial on page 20 lin H. Rust , former state fair ma nr.ger . Napolitano was not indicted but was named in one of the indictments as conspiring with Rust and other state fair officials in causing 40 - concession. contracts to be issued to fictitious persons . Paid Concession Fees The contracts were given to Napolitano , who paid the concession fees for the fictitious persons . DiCenzo was not mentioned in the indictments , but both are expected to be called as prosecution witnesses when the trial of the five begins . DiCenzo 's participation in the scandal was that he and another man went to Springfield several days before the 1969 fair opened and allegedly sought to induce fair officials to renew the 40 contracts which had been canceled after state police determined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men allegedly also sought to obtain a refund of the $7,900 Judge Napolitano had deposited . They were refused . DiCenzo , 1108 N. For tuna ay. , Park Ridge , was called in by Woods and admitted invoking the 6th amedment before the grand jury . No Right to Work " You have a perfect right as an American citizen to invoke the protection of the 5th amendment , " Woods told =Mize . " But as an officer of the court who has sworn to uphold the Constitution o f the United States , you have no constitutional right to hide behind one of its most important amendments before any constitutional authority . You also have no constitutional right to work for the sheriff of Cook county . You are fired . " DiCenzo earned $742 per month . Friedman described Napolltano 's Housing court post as " perhaps the most sensitive judicial assignment in Cook county . This is the court responsible for the all-important task of aiding in the removal of slum housing and building . and fire violations . I am urging Judge Boyle to remove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more cases to him during the pendency of the investigation and . review by the Illinois Courts commission . " I do n't work fel:Friedman , " Judge Boyle said when informed of the B. G. A. official 's statement . " That 's his opinion . I 'm going to wait for the commission . " Explains the Difference " Since last summer , the Illinois Courts commission has been in continuous session and the matter of . Judge Richard A. Napolitano is now before the commission . No official information on this matter has been transmitted to me . The matter is out of my hands and is in the hands of the of the commission . This office- will take appropriate action when the commission makes its report . " Boyle was asked why he did not temporarily remove Napolitano as he removed two other Circuit judges in the last two years when they came under investigation for improperly setting bonds for prisoners . " They were accused of improper actions in the courtroom , " he said . " Judge Napolitano is under fire for his activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he did not believe defendants appearing daily before Judge Napolitano might have some doubts about the administration of justice by a judge who had invoiced the 5th amendment to protect himself . " I refuse to answer that question , " Judge Boyle told a TRIBUNE reporter . " I 'm not taking the 5th , I refuse to answer that question . " Judge Napolitano was hearing a case in room 1908 of the Civic center when a TRIBUNE reporter sought to approach him to ask some questions . A female bailiff told the reporter , " The judge is not speaking to anybody . " The reporter remained and was joined by other members of the press who sat in the front row of the spectator seats .                     