@@730497

txt If proposals to permit abortions for early-term pregnancies and to tighten controls on handgun sales were put before Illinois voters , it is likely they would approve both measures . These findings , surprising to many , emerged in a Tribune Poll assessment of voters ' positions on five volatile issues that most candidates carefully sidestep . Voters ' views on the three other issues will be reported in tomorrow 's Tribune Poll . In direct contradiction to the evaluations of many public leaders , the poll found that an overwhelming majority of the voters favor tougher federal laws on handgun sales and that a sizable plurality favors abortion reform in Illinois . Questions , Responses Here are the questions the 1,000 members of the poll 's scientifically selected panel were asked ? about the two issues and how they responded : " Would you favor or oppose allowing legalized abortions in the early stages of pregnancy ? " Forty-five per cent favored the pro- ' posal ; 37 per cent opposed it ; and 18 per cent said they could not decide . " Would you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controls on the sales of all handguns ? " Seventy-two per cent favored stricter controls ; 20 per cent were opposed ; and only g per cent were undecided . Statewide Gun View The approval for tough federal handgun action came from every sector of the Illinois electorate . By region , support ran from a low of 63 per cent to 28 downstate to 84 per cent to 12 in Cook County 's suburbs . Chicago voters backed tougher laws by 78 per cent to 14 . Abortion reform won its plurality by evenly splitting downstate voters 42 per cent opposed , 41 per cent in favor and receiving a decisive 48 to 33 per cent preference in Cook County 52 to 28 in the suburbs , 45 to 36 in the city . When the state 's voters were divided by age , support for abortion reform clearly came from younger voters ? supported 60 per cent to 29 by those under 30 years of age and 46 per cent to 38 by those between 30 and 49 . Voters over 50 disapproved the abortion proposal 44 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent to 43 ? while men approved the proposal 46 per cent to 32 . The Religious Factor An analysis of members of the electorate by religious preference showed that Protestants favored a new abortion law 45 per cent to 37 . Catholics , by their vote of 45 per cent against and 35 per cent for , did not oppose a liberalized abortion law by the margin many would expect . Black voters , reflecting the concern of many urban blacks that abortion reform might be a step toward enforced restrictions on family size , opposed the abortion proposal 49 per cent to 30 . The significant numbers of black and Catholic voters who consider themselves Democrats was reflected in the opposition of Illinois Democrats to the abortion proposal by a narrow 43 per cent to 39 . Republicans approved reform 46 per cent to 35 and independents 49 per cent to 34 . Affluent Back Reform Generally , the strongest opposition to the abortion proposal was expressed by the state 's leis affluent and less welleducated voters . The more liberal and affluent and better-educated voters tended to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtained in interviews conducted between Aug. 25 and Sept. 13 in the homes of the poll 's 1,000 respondents . The poll is conducted for The Tribune by an independent survey research organization , Urban Facts . Tomorrow : How Illinois . voters see the busing , marijuana , and amnesty issues .                     