@@731652

txt A substantial portion of the Palestinian guerrilla movement appears to have embarked on an all-out campaign to provoke Israel into launching a new Middle East war . Guerrilla attacks like that on the Israeli town of Beit Shean Nov.19 and spreading anti-Israeli demonstrations by students and others in Israeli-occupied West Jordan are part of this strategy . The campaign comes as the Arab diplomatic offensive for recognition of nationhood for the Palestinians nears its climax at the United Nations . The UN General Assembly debate , begun a week ago with the dramatic appearance of Yasser Arafat , leader of the Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) , is expected to end Friday with a vote on Arab resolutions now in the drafting stage . The violence at Beit Shean runs counter to Mr. Arafat 's recent disclaimers of terrorism against civilians . And analysts familiar with guerrilla thinking believe this attack was the work of some Palestinian leaders who reject Mr. Arafat 's gradualist , political approach and are pushing toward an early resumption of fighting . However , Mr. Arafat , who stopped off in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations and Cuba , did issue a call for " escalation " of the West Bank demonstrations . Palestinians close to him said his purpose was to show the Israelis that the only alternative they had to repression in the occupied areas and a new war was to negotiate with the PLO as representative of all Palestinians . Mr. Arafat 's call was amplified in a statement issued by the " guerrilla forces of the interior , " a name used by the PLO 's mass underground organization on the West Bank , the Palestine National Front . It demanded that the Arab masses " move in support " of the " national uprising " in the occupied territories // *New war ? Guerrillas goading Israelis // Israel said three Israeli civilians , two of them women , were killed and some 20 wounded , and the four attacking guerrillas were killed in the gun battle at Beit Shean , which lies in the Jordan Valley . Claiming responsibility for the attack , the first of its kind near the Jordan frontier since King Hussein drove the guerrillas out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Liberation of Palestine ( PDF ) , which attacked an Israeli school at Maalot in northern Israel last May . The PDF is one of the member groups of the PLO . In statements from their Damascus headquarters , the PDF said the Belt Shean assault was retaliation against Israeli intelligence officers and their families , inhabitants of the apartment house where the gun battle took place , for recent Israeli raids on Palestinian refugee camps in Lebanon and for the killing of a Palestinian girl during demonstrations in Jenin . Release sought The PDF claimed it took hostages in order to secure release of Greek Catholic Archbishop Hilarion Capucci , held on arms charges in Israel , and 13 other Arab prisoners . ( The guerrilla announcement , quoted by the Associated Press , said the raiders were members of the PDF 's " Tiberias unit , " a claim that they came from within Israel , and not from any of the neighboring countries ? Lebanon , Syria , or Jordan . ) Analysts here say the guerrilla offensive is playing into the hands of hawks " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming of a new war . Some Arab tacticians seem to believe that the mobilized financial , oil , and military power of the Arabs would mean an Arab victory this time , and the establishment of a Palestinian state afterward . War called need An aide of George Habbash , another Palestinian leader who rejects Mr. Arafat 's " political " approach , put it this way : " Israel needs another war to bring in money and volunteers because of its desperately bad internal economic situation . The Israeli hawks want one in order to strike a quick knockout blow against the Arab armies and to crush the Palestinians . " By pushing toward a violent confrontation and a popular revolution in the occupied territories , the Palestinians are in a sense proving the correctness of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin 's recent warnings that the Israeli people must be prepared for a new war , and that this war will be very costly . " The political line of the Arafat leadership , which wants negotiations , and the military line of those of us who believe in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Francis Ofner reports from Tel Aviv : " While Yasser Arafat speaks at the UN of ' an olive branch ' his PLO makes use of the gun here , " commented Israeli Defense Minister Shimon Peres on learning of the Beit Shear attack . Israeli handling of the attack reflected a new policy not to negotiate with terrorists in any circumstances . During the attack members of one Israeli family were seized as hostages , but the Israeli forces did not seek to establish any contact with the terrorists to obtain the hostages ' release . Israeli authorities believe that disturbances will continue in the occupied areas for some time as the PLO tries to prove that it has a presence there . For this purpose , they say , a number of agents posing as tourists entered Israel from Jordan last summer under the so-called Arab summer visitors ' scheme .                     