@@729217

txt The chairman of the House Appropriations Committee , George H. ( Mahon of Texas , has given his agriculture subcommittee jurisdiction over the funding of all Federal environmental and consumer protection programs . The action places Representative Jamie L. Whitten of Mississippi , a conservative , who has exercised personal authority over farm programs for two decades , in control of appropriations for such agencies as the Environmental Protection Agency , the Council on Environmental Quality , the Food and Drug Administration and the Federal Trade Commission . Mr. Whitten will thus have the foremost Congressional voice in how much is spent by // these agencies and what the money is spent for . All air and water pollution programs , among others , will be in his domain . Mr. Whitten. a Democrat , has not played a leading role , one way or the other , on environmental issues in the past . The League of Conservation Voters , which rates Congressmen according to their votes on certain key issues , has given Mr. Whitten a strongly negative rating . However , Mr. Mahon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the jurisdiction of the subcommittees , said Mr. Whitten was a " real conservationist " who had long been interested in " the survival of the countryside , the fading of land and the runoff of water into streams . " These matters were all under Mr. Whitten 's subcommittee before , Mr. Mahon said , and ' therefore I decided that Mr. Whitten 's subcommittee was the place to put the environment programs . " The responsibilities of the Environmental Protection Agency , which is new , were previously scattered throughout the Government . In the past , funding has been handled by several different appropriations subcommittees , including the interior , public works and agriculture panels . Mr. Whitten 's subcommittee will be called the Subcommittee on Agriculture and Environmental and Consumer Protection . Because it controls the purse strings for Federal programs and because the House always acts before the Senate on money legislation , the House Appropriations Committee is one of the most powerful in Congress , perhaps exceeded in authority only ' by the House Ways and Means Committee . The 13 appropriations subcommittees are divided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each panel handling the budgets of certain departments and agencies . The subcommittees are separate entities . Their decisions are normally approved routinely by the full Appropriations Committee , and the members of one subcommittee generally know little more about the actions of other subcommittees than any other members of Congress . The chairmen of the appropriations subcommittees are thus more powerful than the chairmen of most standing committees . Mr. Whitten has held such thorough control over agriculture programs in his years as the subcommittee 's chairman that Orville L. Freeman , the Secretary of Agriculture under Presidents Kennedy and Johnson , once said of the Mississippi Democrat : " There is a fulcrum of power that is as great as any you 'll find in Washington . " Most Congressmen were unwilling today to comment on Mr. Whitten 's views on environmental policy because he had taken little public interest in such matters in the past . Several conservationists in Congress said , however , that Mr. Whitten had been skeptical of the Agriculture Department 's controls on pesticides , believing them to be detrimental to farmers . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to raise environmental havoc " in its soil , forest and watershed programs . Mr. Whitten could not be reached for comment today . His office said he was on his way to Mississippi . Mr. Whitten runs his subcommittee with authority , and the other members have relatively little power . Five of the other seven are distinctly conservative . Mr. Mahon said he expected to expand the number of members on the panel , perhaps this year , " because of its added responsibility " " This is certainly not to be interpreted as an anti-environment or anticonsumer action , " Mr. Mahon said of Mr. Whitten 's new authority . " It is proenvironment and pro-consumer . " Mr. Whitten voted against the conservationist position on several key issues in the last Congress . He voted for funding the prototypes of the supersonic transport plane , for increasing logging in national forests and against spending $1-billion extra to fight water pollution . Funding for the SST will continue under the jurisdiction of the transportation subcommittee . A small group of liberals on the Appropriations Committee contended that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interior or public works panels . These liberals would not be quoted by name because they said they had been warned by Mr. Mahon and other senior committee members , such as Representative John ' J. Rooney , Democrat of Brooklyn , to keep committee matters " within the family . " Some of them said they were thwarted yesterday in an effort to eliminate some of the secrecy on the committee , which , along with the subcommittees , holds nearly all of its hearings and meetings behind closed doors . An amendment to the committee rules that would have required hearings on unclassified matters to be open to the public was defeated , 34 to 9 . Another amendment , defeated by voice vote , would have let any member of the committee request a record vote on any issue .                     