@@728476

txt For the first time in the 10 years since Vito Genovese entered Federal prison , where he died a year ago , there is again a " boss of all bosses " over the six Mafia " families " in the New York-New Jersey metropolitan area . The new overlord , according to detectives and Federal agents who listen in on conversations in the underworld , is 67-yearold Carlo Gambino , who has homes at 2230 Ocean Parkway , Brooklyn , and at 34 Club Drive , Massapequa , L. I. Gambino , who was described yesterday by Inspector Robert J. , head of the Depatment 's Central Investiga tion Division , as " the most powerful of all the family bosses in the country , " is listed by the Department of Justice as a member of the Mafia 's national commission . The national commission , with seven present members and two other . seats temporarily vacant , takes a hand in the affairs of the 23 semi-autonomous Mafia families from coast to coast only when their problems and disputes can not be resolved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials , functions as overseer of the six locally based families and arbitrator of disputes within and among those groups . The long-vacant post of regional " boss of all bosses " has been reactivated because of trouble and uncertainty of command in several families caused by recent failings of local leaders , murderous rivalries and territorial disputes . Reports of law-enforcement officers who have Gambino under surveillance indicate that he has been receiving a steady flow of visitors from the other families and that Aniello Dellacroce , reputed underboss in Gambino 's own ? family has been sitting as a mediator or underworld judge at hearings  --  sometimes held in the Ravenite Social Club at 247 Mulberry Street near Police Headquarters ? where disputes are argued and awards and penalties meted out . Gambino has been for the last three years under a deportation order for ? having entered this country illegally as a stowaway in 1921 . This has not , however deterred his peers in the underworld commission from confirming his authority as regional boss . And the Mafia is confident , according to official eavesdroppers , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gambino suffers from a cardiac ailment that has served repeatedly to postpone deportation proceedings begun 12 years ago . But his heart condition has not incapacitated him from directing the operations of one of the biggest and richest families , according to lawenforcement sources . High Court Gets Case He has at last exhausted all but one of the legal resorts open to him . His lawyer , Edward J. Ennis , petitioned the United States Supreme Court on Friday to review the findings of the other Federal courts . Even if the court refuses to review the case , there is doubt whether Italy would agree to accept Gambino , who left his native land when he was 19 . When and if Gambino should depart or otherwise cease to be a Mafia boss , his successor as head of the family  --  but not necessarily as boss of bosses ? would probably be Dellacroce , according to knowledgeable sources . Dellacroce , who is 55 years old , was described at a recent public hearing of the Joint Legislative Committee on Crime by Edward J. , the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other official investigators say that Dellacroce is completely loyal to Gambino and that Gambino knows this . Dissension in Family The insinuations of disloyalty made against Dellacroce were described by a law-enforcement official as being the legislative committee 's way of taunting Dellacroce , who had refused to answer questions , in the hope that he might be angered enough to make a denial , which would open the door to more productive questions and answers . Despite the deportation threat , affairs within the Gambino family are more stable than in any of the five other local families . There is dissension in the former Genovese family because Gerardo ( Jerry ) Catena , who is on the national commission as acting boss of that family , has become too enamored of his affluence and pseudo-respectability to give proper attention to the gambling , loan-sharking , labor racketeering and other areas in which most of the family finds employment . Before Catena was jailed on March 4 for an indefinite term for refusing to answer questions of the New Jersey Commission of Investigation , a " soldier " in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rich ? Jerry is semiretired . He 's playing golf while we 're breaking our to bring in the money . " Meanwhile , Thomas ( Tommy Ryan ) Eboli , who with Catena and Michele ( Mike ) Miranda acted as family caretaker during Genovese 's long imprisonment , is reputedly ' corning up fast and strong " because of his success in the family 's enterprises . There are problems in the four other New York and New Jersey families , too , for Gambino . One is the disappearance six months ago , and presumed murder , of Frank Mari and two of his henchman in the family whose titular leader is Paul Sciacca . Seek to Avert War Mari reputedly had been receiving favored treatment from Sciacca over Philip ( Rusty ) Rastelli , a 51-year-old ex-convict who was Sciacca 's underboss . The national commission is reported to have appointed Rastelli and two other members of the Sciacca family as temporary administrators to seek , with Gambino 's help , to keep the situation from developing into an underworld war . Simone Rizzo ( Sam the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having close relations with Catena , is scheduled for early trial in Newark on a Federal charge of extortion and is also under indictment as an alleged boss of an interstate gambling ring . The selection of an acting boss will have to be resolved if circumstances limit DeCavalcante 's opportunities for action . The leadership of the family of the late Thomas ( ThreeFinger Brown ) Luchese has remained open since July , 1967 , as has the place Luchese held in the national commission . Joseph Colombo , whom the F.B.I . lists as boss of a Brooklyn-based family , was arrested on March 6 on a five-count indictment charging perjury , to which he is to plead in court on March 26 . The Colombo family affairs are also in disarray because the police are investigating whether two Colombo " soldiers " who have vanished were murdered after a kangaroo court trial in a Bensonhurst clubhouse frequented by members of that family .                     