@@729161

txt The mere word " withdrawal " stirs emotions in Israel It was the term withdrawal in the government 's acceptance of the United States peace initiative in August that broke up Prime Ministei Golda Men 's broad national coalition . The largest opposition party , the right-wing Gahal bloc , then seceded and since has quite vociferously been accusing the government of compromising the country 's security With the peace talks under United Nations envoy Gunnar V Jarring again groping for solutions , Israel 's withdrawal conditions are up for reappraisal . If all the adjustments required by Israel to arrive at " secure and defensible borders " are made , it would mean retaining 3,800 square miles of occupied territories and returning more than 22,000 square miles to the Arab states . The greatest territorial concession under the Israeli Government peace plan would have to be made by the Kingdom of Jordan . It will have to cede to Israel between 800 and 1,000 square miles out of its total area of 37.000 square miles // *Israelis man land demands , shun withdrawal ' // This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's proposed security line running from Mount Gilboa in the north to the city of Hebron in the south . This would include all of Jerusalem . By surrendering the Golan Heights , Syria would lose 444 square miles of its total area of 71,000 square miles . All Israeli statements thus far insist on retaining this commanding plateau , from which Syrian forces regularly attacked Israeli border settlements . Furthermore , the Syrian Government itself has refused to join the Jarring talks and rejects any " political solution . " Concerning Sharm el Sheikh As to Egypt , the Israel Government made it known that it is set on holding on to Sharm el Sheikh at the southernmost tip of the Sinai Peninsula . The Israelis remember well that the late President Nasser 's declaration of a blockade in the straits dominated by Sharm el Sheikh touched off the chain of events which led to the six-day war of 1967 . If Sharm el Sheikh and a 15-mile-wide land strip ? connecting it with Eilat are kept , then this would add 2,200 square miles to Israel . The rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be returned to Egypt . Israeli possession of the Gaza Strip would affect another 140 square miles . However , Mrs. Meir 's government could withdraw Israeli troops from the expendable areas only if Egypt and Jordan sign a formal peace treaty Neither the government nor most of the Israeli public could accept less-binding arrangement , such as Arab declarations regarding cessation of hostilities or recognition of Israel 's right to exist or other moves Guarantees by one or more of the big powers or United Nations assurances could come only in addition to  --  not instead of  --  a formal contractural peace treaty , as repeatedly stressed by Mrs. Meir- and Foreign Minister Abba Eban . But even with a peace treaty Mrs. Meir may have some difficulties in securing a comfortable parliamentary majority for a withdrawal based on such a geographical peace program . Rogers plan noted Besides the outspoken GAHAL bloc , Mrs. Meir faces considerable unrest within the ranks of another coalition partner , the National Religious Party . Under pressure from its younger elements , a number of its Knesset deputies refused to endorse Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talks , and instead defied the party leadership by abstaining or absenting themselves from the crucial parliamentary vote Dec. 29 . Critics of the government 's policy from this quarter are concerned that the return to the Jarring talks " is the first step to acceptance of the William P. Rogers plan . " Israelis reject the U S. Secretary of State 's proposal made toward the end of 1969 , calling for a peace agreement based on " minor " territorial adjustments only . If these critics increase their strength  --  a possibility not excluded ? an additional 12 members of the Knesset could cross the line from the government to the opposition . What is more , veteran political observers see this move as likely to lead to a hardening of the policy line of the smaller religious parties , thus adding to the opposition another six votes . With all these possible losses Mrs. Meir could still master a slight majority in the Knesset . However , this could be done only with the help of the Arab Knesset members or of the extreme left-wing new Communist and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mrs. IvIeir would agree that such a crucial issue should be decided by marginal votes only . Although Mrs. Meir has rejected the idea of a national referendum on whether or not to withdraw from occupied territoi les in case of a peace settlement , this suggestion recently has been propagated by the GAHAL leaders . However , if there is a further ei osion in the government 's parliamentary strength by defection of the religious parties . Israel may be faced with the need for a general Knesset election before signing a peace treaty .                     