@@728525

txt Officials of two trucking unions gave Chicago food store chains an ultimatum to sign a new binding contract with them by 3 p. m. tomorrow , or face a strike which would shut off food supplies to the Chicago area , THE TRIBUNE learned Yesterday , Edward Fenner , head of the Independent Chicago Truck ' Drivers ' union , and Louis F. Feick , president of Teamsters local 705 , said none of the major food store chains in the Chicago area has signed the new three-year contracts . The 1 unions are calling for raises of 51.70 an hour plus 55 a week more in pension and welfare funds . Plan Selective Strikes Meanwhile , a source close to the negotiations said the unions are planning selective strikes thruout the Chicago area while negotiating with individual companies . Industry retaliation is anticipated in the form of lockouts . Fenner , who said 200 companies have signed the new contracts , ruled out further meetings with the trucking Industry representatives unless they are prepared to meet union demands presented Tuesday . Fenner 's union represents 2,3D0 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Kroger , Hi-Low , Consolidated , and Centrella food store chains . Drivers Arc Teamsters The Teamsters local represents several hundred drivers and warehouse workers at National Tea company and Certified food store chains and John Sexton and company , Chicago area wholesaler . A source said the food chains probably would be unable to meet the terms outlined by the union . Industry officials claim the total union package would cost them $3.30 an hour . The trucking industry has offered a raise of 70 cents . Fenner said nothing but a binding contract would be accepted from the food chains . In 1967 ; after several weeks of strikes , the chains signed a contract which was subject to change after the strike ended and the rest of the industry and unions negotiated a contract . A truck strike would idle most of the 50,000 drivers employed by 1,200 trucking firms in the area from Gary to Waukegan and west to Joliet and Elgin , The size of the companies which have signed the contracts and the number of their trucks was not disclosed . In the event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and exempt them from blockades . Trucking industry negotiators , who have been holding out for a contract based on the national pattern of a $1.10-anhour raise , met secretly to determine what progress the unions have been making with efforts to divide the employers . The industry leaders also discussed the possibility of resuming negotiations with the unions either today or tomorrow . Picket signs were beingl printed , painted , and stored by , the unions yesterday . The union strategy of signing I individual contracts has been ; ; used in previous contract negotiations to put pressure on I the industry . Chicago trucking union off1-1 dais met yesterday for the i second time in three days with top international Teamster of-1 flcials to plan their moves for I I today and tomorrow . Earlier yesterday at least 000 I I drivers and loading dock work- I ers staged wildcat walkouts shutting down most of the city 's major trucking firms .                     