@@729609

txt Mayor Lindsay requested $62.9-million from the Federal Government yesterday to provide 8,216 municipal jobs ? including 2,000 teaching positions  --  under a Federal program designed to combat unemployment . The request for nearly four times the $17-million set aside for New York City under the Federal Emergency Employment Act came a day after the Mayor said that he expected improved relations with Washington now that he sought to lead a national coalition and was widely regarded as a Democratic Presidential contender . wo thousand teaching jobs are necessary , the Mayor said , because the city budget requires reducing the number of teachers in the public schools by more than 3,000 . Other Agencies Listed Funds also were sought for jobs in the Model Cities programs and the Human Resources ' Administration as well as for programs to add civilians in the Police . Fire and Sanitation Departments and paraprofessional jobs in the areas of health , hospitals and education . " Despite the size and detail of our request , the programs we are proposing will have only a minor impact on the problem of unemployment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said in a mimeographed statement . Mr. Lindsay and his wife are spending the weekend on Fire Island . The city 's request for additional funds will be reviewed by the United States Department of Labor , according to Clayton J. Cottrell , regional manpower director . He said that he planned to meet with city officials on Tuesday or Wednesday . The initial grant of $17-million would provide funds for about 2,300 jobs , Mr. Cottrell said . The request for funds was part of a flurry of mimeograph , activity in otherwise deserted City Hall . The Mayor ? was believed to be weighing the effect of his conversion on Wednesday from a Republican to a Democrat and was believed to be in telephone conversation with political friends throughout - the country . His aides , meanwhile , addressed the problems of unemployment , sanitation , hospitals and transportation in a number of news releases that was unusually large for a weekend . Among the announcements was one heralding the start of a campaign to clean up litter in the garment district Details on Page 23 . Not Under Civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provisional and not subject to Civil Service regulations . ? During his five and a half years at City Hall , Mayor Lindsay increased the number of municipal employes by 70,000 , of whom 24,000 were not subject to Civil Service regulations . The city now has 380,000 employes . The Mayor threatened to lay off up to 60,000 municipal employes during last spring 's budget crisis : As it turned out , however , he did not order any layoffs but the elimination of 10,000 jobs through attrition . These jobs would not be , filled after their present holders retired , died or resigned . " It is common knowledge that official unemployment figures do not reflect the real depths of the city 's economic and employment problems , " the Mayor said in a letter to Mr. Cottrell . The Mayor said that the Of-1 ice of Veterans Affairs had estimated that there were 30,000 unemployed Vietnam veterans in the city and that three million New Yorkers lived in areas where unemployment probably exceeded 6 per cent and underemployment exceeded 20 per cent . " Knowing these figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Labor 's ? allocation of funds , " he said . Mr. Lindsay said all persons hired would come from the ranks of the unemployed and underemployed . " Of those hired , " he said , ' 50 per cent must be returning veterans and 30 per cent must be heads of households . " " Underemployed " refers to persons who are employed in jobs that do not use their full potential or to persons who are working part-time , Mr. Lindsay 's remarks about unemployment were given extra impact by a Department of Labor report yesterday that said the number of wage and salary jobs in the New York and northeastern New Jersey area rose slightly in June , but " substantially less " than was expected . The number of jobs in the area rose by 28,000 to a total of 6,685,000. the Federal agency reported . For the city alone there was a decrease of 2,000 jobs , including a decline of 1,000 in Government jobs . For the year , however , the number of Government jobs increased by 8,000 , including 2,000 posts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase was less than seasonaly expected , " reflecting less-than-anticipated gains in both manufacturing and most nonmanufacturing industries as well as two work stoppages in the transportation and public utilities industries . " June marked the 13th consecutive month in which employment in the area was below the previous year 's figures . The number of jobs dropped by 94,000 between June , 1970 , and June , 1971 , Herbert Bienstock , regional director of the Department of Labor 's Bureau of Labor Statistics reported . The report said ? average weekly earnings of factory workers rose $1.53 in June to a new ' high of $142.42 . Over the year ? the average earnings rose $10.45 , the report said .                     