@@729852

txt In a surprise move , Congress passed and sent to the President today a bill requiring most able-bodied welfare recipients to sign up for work or training so as to continue receiving benefits . The tough " must-work " requirement was added to an otherwise minor bill by the Senate during a sparsely attended session last Saturday . It was accepted today by the House after virtually no debate . Some Congressional leaders say that its enactment could endanger passage of President Nixon 's own welfare reform bill , passed months ago by the ( House but still stalled in the Senate Finance Committee . It is considered likely that President Nixon will sign the work requirement measure , Effective July 1 The work plan , which would become effective next July 1 , would require all recipients of benefits under Aid to Families with Dependent Children ( A.F.D.C. ) to register for work or training unless they are children under 16 , are ill or elderly , are mothers with children under 6 years of age , or are required to care for an incapacitated member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of the cost of public service jobs for employable adults in the first year , 75 per cent in the second year and 50 per cent in the third year . The Government would also pay 90 per cent of the costs of day care or other baby-sitting services for children of working mothers . The Administration 's welfare reform bill would blend both work requirements for the employable with work incentives for all the poor , including the " working poor . " In addition to requiring most of the able-bodied to train or obtain jobs , the Administration bill would provide a guaranteed annual income of $2,400 for a poor family of four and would permit a combination of both welfare benefits and earnings of up to $4,320 . The reform bill , tailored to appeal to conservatives and liberals , thus contains what has been termed " both a carrot and a stick . " Representative John W. Byrnes of Wisconsin , the senior Republican on the House Ways and Means Committee , said that the work requirement bill cleared today by Congress " contains the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he supported it " reluctantly " on the House floor because he firmly believes in tougher work requirements . But he said that it could impair chances for enactment of the welfare reform bill , which he supports , " by taking away what some consider the sweetener . " ? Richardson Comments The Nixon Administration promptly sought to minimize the effect of today 's action by denying that it constitutes " a major welfare bill . " " Elliot 1 , , Richardson , Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , said that the newly passed bill " is not and was not intended to be a substitute " for the Administration 's bill . tf , " Only a major overhaul of he entire welfare structure , such as the President has proposed in H.R.1 the welfare reform bill , can realistically and effectively meet the problems the country faces in this field , " l'Ar . Richardson said . The work requirement , spanSored by Senator Herman Talmadge , Democrat of Georgia , Was added to a routine bill dealing with lump-sum death benefits for Social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the work requirement " all act of stupidity on the part of the Congress because it was done in total ignorance of what the welfare problem really is . " " This program will have no effect in reducing welfare rolls , as its proponents apparently hope , " the rights group said . " Only a tiny number of people on welfare are employable : those who want jobs but are unable to compete for scarce jobs in the face of today 's massive unemployment . " Under present law , there Is a work requirement but the states , and not the Federal Government , decide who should register . The requirements vary from state to state , some being lenient , some being quite strict . An estimated 10 million persons now are on the rolls for A.F.D.C. benefits . Many of them are mothers with dependent children .                     