@@732321

txt THE LARGE number of injuries in the CTA crash was the first major test of the new citywide emergency disaster plan and " it worked beautifully , " said one of the plan 's designers . " It proves that the police and fire departments and the hospitals can work effectively together to save lives and minimize the damage from injuries in a mass accident , " said Dr. David Forkosh , chairman of the North Side Commission Planning Area . The commission directs emergency planning in its area . The citywide plan was designed to avoid the kind of problems that have plagued other mass accidents , such as " walking wounded " after the disastrous Illinois Central-Gulf Railway crash in October , 1972 . THE THREE Northwest Side hospitals that received most of the CTA crash victims credited their participation in the emergency plan with preventing confusion and assuring that all patients were under treatment less than a half hour after the accident . " We had planned on handling a maximum of 70 patients in a mass disaster but we were easily able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mrs. Ar lene Rak said . She is director of nursing at Northwest Hospital , 5645 W. Addison St. Under the citywide emergency plan , all victims , including those with apparent minor injuries , are taken to hospitals because experience has shown that even minor injuries can become major if they are not handled properly , Forkosh said . The new emergency plan is an outgrowth of a four-year-old state law mandating the establishment of such networks . " We 've been drilling for three years with mock emergencies . It appears that all that practice paid off . Everything went according to plan , " Forkosh said . Northwest , Belmont Community Hospital , 4058 W. Melrose St. , and Resurrection Hospital , 74:15 W. Talcott Av. , treated more than 225 crash victims . WITHIN MINUTES after they learned of the crash , the hospitals implemented their disaster plans . Special codes announced over loudspeakers mobilized the hospital staffs for an influx of emergency patients . " We had rehearsed for just such an emergency . Everybody knew what to do and the patients were taken care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Leslie Schwartz said . He is in charge of the emergency patient sorting area at Belmont Hospital . " It ran so smoothly that we could have handled twice as many patients , " said Schwartz , who was called out of a shower to come to the hospital . Belmont treated more than 50 patients . Fortunately , most of the injuries were minor and many patients were sent home within hours . EACH HOSPITAL set up a sorting process in the emergency area . All patients were evaluated by doctors . Those with serious injuries were immediately taken into surgery or intensive care areas . Minor injuries were treated in special areas set up in lounges , hallways , and other previously designated rooms . At Resurrection Hospital the first 40 patients were handled within 90 minutes , Dr. Donald Meccia said . Previously scheduled surgery was cancelled , visitors were told to leave , and more than 200 hospital workers , including doctors and nurses , took up emergency duties . " I have never seen an emergency disaster plan go so efficiently , " Meccia said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minutes after Charles Carlson , chief of the Fire Department 's Sixth Division , arrived at the crash . He called a Disaster Plan 3 , which notified the police department , local hospitals , and the Chicago Hospital Council . Fire department ambulances were rushed in and the rest of the department 's 37 ambulances were put on standby .                     