@@732977

txt In the face of criticism from other countries and some misgivings in this country , the United States on Tuesday will take control of virtually all ocean fishing out to 200 miles off its coasts and far beyond that in some areas . The effects of the law will be to cut back drastically the harvest of certain kinds of fish that are threatened with extinction , to replenish the stock of others depleted by overfishing and to regulate strictly any fishing within the 200-mile zone by the fleets of other nations . For the small , aging fishing trawlers that tie up in the ports of New England , the new limit is regarded as a chance for survival that has come not a moment too soon . Mainstay Species Depleted Over the past decade , vast fleets of foreign fishing ships ? from the Soviet Union , Japan , Poland , East Germany and other countries ? have worked the Georges Bank and the other rich fishing grounds of the northwest Atlantic and have sharply reduced the fish stock . Haddock , once a cheap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Atlantic that it may not be able to reproduce itself . Yellowtail flounder and cod , the traditional mainstays of the New England fishing industry , are nearly as close to vanishing , according to fishermen and marine scientists . Mackerel stocks declined by 96 percent between 1968 and 1975. according to the National Marine Fisheries Service . In places like the small brick auction house on Pier 3 in New Bedford , New England 's largest fishing port , where the scallopers and draggers gather early each morning to sell their cargoes , the talk in recent years has . been of little else but the depredations of the foreign fleets which are known generically , if not entirely accurately , as " the Russians . " But while the New Englanders and the salmon fishermen in the Pacific Northwest have been hard hit by foreign fishing fleets , not all American fishermen are rejoicing over the 200-mile limit . The tuna fishermen of Southern California , who chase their . ' migratory quarry into South American waters and whose boats have been seized and fined by Ecuador and Peru @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fishermen in , Texas , who feel the way the boundaries are being set will allow Mexico to keep and harvest the shrimp . The new fishing law gives priority to American fishermen to 200 miles out to " sea , rather than the ** zone established in 1966 . " Creatures of the continental shelf " ? that is , lobsters and various crabs  --  have previously been prohibited to foreign fisherman . . Eight regional fishing councils have been set up to determine the quotas for various species of fish . The councils . can also set up zones in which fishing , is not permitted so as to let the depleted stock grow hack . Foreign ships , after receiving a permit from the State Department and paying a fee of up to $5,000. are to be permitted to catch a fixed portion of the " optimum yield " not gathered by American fishermen . The regional councils are to recommend to the State Department the quotas for foreign ships based on past records . In New England , for instance , the regional council is recommending , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet and- Japanese ships , according to its chairman , Hal Lyman , publisher of a sport fishing magazine . There will be no fishing at all allowed for haddock , Mr. Lyman said , and no foreign permits are being issued for butterfish . or mackerel . The council , he said , had approved some permits for Soviet Vessels to fish for hake , a species not much used here . Squid , a delicacy In Mediterranean countries hut not widely eaten here , will have the highest foreign quota . ? ? The activities of foreign fishing fleets . Mr. Lyman said . " will he sharply curtailed without nuestion . " The 200-mile limit is cut hack in certain areas to avoid conflicting jurisdictions with Canada , Mexico and Cuba . The agreement is to he enforced by the Coast Guard , which will he able to board and inspect foreign fishing vessels at will . Many of the Coast Guard boardMg parties will include officials from the National Marine Fisheries Service . ' The expansion of duties , however , has tint meant an immediate expansion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? The Coast Guard is putting hack into service a World War II seaplt.ne tender that it had decommissioned two years ago . However , the ship , the Unimak , caught fire in Boston recently and will not ' be ready for the March 1 opening of the 200-mile zone . The Coast Guard will also add two 1952-vintage seaplanes , the HU-I6 Albatross , to its Atlantic patrol , The panes are not landed at sea , except in extreme emergencies , because it is feared they will break apart . , A Coast Guard spokesman , Raymon Fullerton , said the service had spent about $69 million in preparing mothballed equipment and otherwise getting ready for its new duties . Over the next several years , he said , the Coast Guard will get S60 more people , two new 270-foot vessels and al twin-engine planes . The bill establishing the 200-mile limit , largely the work of Representative Gerry E. Studds , a Democrat whose southeastern Massachusetts district contains many fishing towns , was passed in January 1976 after several years of frustration for American fishermen and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other countries had established similar zones . The bill had been opposed by the State and Defense Departments . During those years , the fishing grounds off the coast here were worked by foreign fleets that often " pulse fish " ? that is , find a school of fish and completely clean it out , taking the younger fish and breaking the life cycle . Elaborately equipped , the foreign vessels stay out for months at a time . Many are factory ships , served by smaller trawlers , which freeze slabs of fish on the spot and even prepare fertilizer or fish meal . As a result , Eastport , Me. , is no longer the " sardine capital of the world " but virtually a ghost town . In Gloucester , the proud statue of a fisherman in his oilskins stands near plants that process imported frozen fish . Only a handful of ships come to the Boston Fish Pier . The New England fleet concentrates now on fresh fish for restaurants or specialty stores ; about 65 percent of the fish eaten in America , largely in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comes from foreign ships . But now , Howard Nickerson , head of the New England Fisheries Steering Committee , said he and other fishermen were optimistic . For the first time in years , banks are lending money for fishing boats , and a dozen new vessels are on order in New Bedford . " We were right at the point where it was ? not economically feasible to have gone on another . year , " Mr. Nickerson said . " The cod and the haddock are right at the point of no recovery , with the yellowtail flounder third . Now , maybe in a period of three to five years , the pollock will start to come back . ' The sharp curbs on fishing by nations far more dependent than the United States on fish as a food staple have spawned delicate foreign policy problems . This was a ? factor in the State Department 's opposition to unilateral imposition by the United States of the 200-mile zone . Japan has protested that the regulations are unfair . Canada . and the United States have agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are planned . Any new agreement with Canada will require delicate demarcations of maritime boundaries in areas where the extended American zone overlaps with Canada 's own 200-mile limit , which was invoked Jan. 1 . Among many other demarcations that will eventually be required is one between the United States and Cuba , which lies only 90 miles off the tip of the Florida coast and has already asked for negotiations on the matter . Opponents of the law say the extension marks a retreat from the historic American stand for freedom of the seas anti jeopardizes the access of American ships and planes to the territorial waters of other nations . They say it will promote not order and sound management but anarchy and chaos on the oceans .                     