@@732690

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 13 Letters to the Editor Medicaid Surveillance and Control To the Editor : As one who has just returned from California to review , at the request of the state , " scandals of Medicaid , " let me agree that the problems are nationwide and complex . ? Our unit took a team of ten clinicians to examine the quality of health care provided in one of the prepaid plans that the state has encouraged to care for Medi-Cal recipients on a capitation basis . The intent was to contain costs by paying nonprofit corporations a fixed annual amount per individual and hence discourage unnecessary services . Unfortunately , these newer California programs have also fallen into disrepute , in large measure due to the failure of the state to place payments on any rational basis or to provide adequate administrative and professional standards and monitoring . The particular program we assessed was found to be providing an adequate level of medical care . Yet this is only half the story . Large amounts of money are paid , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many , or what kind of , services . The inference is that only a small proportion of the eligible patients receive service and that exorbitant amounts of money are reverting to the plan 's organizers . Furthermore , the legal intricacies of interlocking profit-making corporations obscure accountability . Utilization of health care , the quality of care and the cost of services are intimately related , and these factors fail to receive equal attention . One of the major problems in the Medicaid system is that virtually no one has established a data system to track what has been done to and for patients . The emphasis has all been on dollar amounts paid to providers , though no one has faced the explosive issue of how much is equitable for a provider to receive from public funds . Do multiple patient visits mean an unresolved problem that needs consultation ? One electrocardiogram for a patient over fifty years of age is acceptable for a base line ; is there justification for ten ? Who is responsible for seeing that all children under five are receiving adequate maintenance care ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue to embrace both fee-for-service and capitation programs . It is inconceivable that in this day of advanced technology an adequate surveillance system can not be put in place , that patients can not receive adequate levels of medical care and that restraints can not be placed on those who obtain inordinate amounts of public dollars for care to the indigent . MILDRED A. MOREHEAD , M.D. Professor of Community Health Albert Einstein College of Medicine Bronx , Sept. 1 , 1976 Moynihan Endorsement To the Editor : As the Editor of the Editorial Page of The Times , I must express disagreement with the endorsement in today 's editorial columns of Mr. Moynihan over four other candidates in the New York Democratic primary contest for the United States . Senate . JOHN B. OAKES Chilmark , Mass. , Sept. 100976 ? Desirable Interdependence To the Editor : The statistics of your Aug. 23 editorial " Complacency on Oil " are con. rect , but energy independence is a foolish thought to pursue . We need oil and many other things front many foreign countries . Many foreign countries need our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Friendly and cooperatiye ? relations with those who have the thing we want is a sensible approach . ' I The Welfare Rip-Off ' To the Editor : With all due respect to the Moss committee Medicaid report , it has no new revelations regarding Medicaid or the larger welfare rip-off ; nor does it begin to address itself to the broad areas pursued by the New York State Welfare Inspector General during 1971-74 . Review of OWIG 's annual reports for those years will provide sufficient evidence of the city 's mismanagement , ? along with conclusions and recommentlations to enable any competent and sincere administration to not only clean up the entire welfare scandal but in the process save enough money to obviate the need for Big Mac and the Federal bail-out . It would appear that the present city administration is either unable or unwilling to introduce the most basic management controls , and this in the face of the most critical financial crisis in its history . The Mayor points the finger of blame to the previous administration , conveniently forgetting that he was the Comptroller during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pay these fraudulent Medicaid claims , In 1969 , while he was Comptroller , a Manhattan grand jury issued a devastating report claiming the city was being ripped off to the tune of over a billion dollars . The then Governor asked OWIG in 1971 to investigate those charges ; subsequent inquiry reaffirmed the grand jury 's findings . To the Editor : I have read the William Serrin piece Op-Ed Aug. 25 on the decline and fall of Detroit with a mixture of agreement , wonderment and even thorough amazement . The last half of the Serrin piece is peculiarly wrong , beyond the fact that it does say the blame goes past the black hoodlums and past Mayor Young , But the blame is not in lack of money for the school system . Today 's Detroit hoodlums , given other conditions than prevail , would still be hoodlums if there were shiny school buildings , eager teachers and plenty of money  --  for buses or instruction tools , either one or all ? on every integrated corner . The blame is not with the private people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moneymen took their profits and ran to the suburbs . Henry Ford is cited . A curious distortion . The original Henry . Ford first left Detroit in 1910 . What flight is Serrin talking about ? What has it to do with Detroit 's 1976 woes ? And those merchants who have left Detroit ? Hudson 's has kept its downtown store open for a long , long time since it reportedly began losing money there . Some day it , too , may leave like the others  --  which quit because they were , every one , being drained of their lifeblood capital and lately ripped off by mushrooming shoplifting , burglary and holdups . What of those besides Hudson 's Unfortunately , the then Comptroller and present Mayor has taken no action in the alleviation of that mess . Former Administrators Sugarman and Goldberg , the creators of the welfare monster , which even Sugarman 's $10 million worth of management geniuses could not control , claim they were locked into positions by state and Federal regulations , and sometimes the story is not enough regulations . New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Effective control of Medicaid and welfare is impossible when that control runs " contra " to the politics of the union chiefs and their surrogates , the city administration . Perhaps the answer may lie in the creation of a Federal Welfare Inspector General with the power to force the Beames , Sugarmans and Goldbergs around the country to act , for a change , in the best interests of the taxpayers . GEORGE F. BERLINGER New York , Sept. 2 , 1976 The writer is former New York State Welfare Inspector General . ? Foiled Chase To the Editor : Chevy may need a tune-up " Mr. Chase 's Convention Wrap-Up , " by Chevy Chase , Op-Ed Aug. 24 . Lots of clinking , Stayed in low gear all the way . Barely made it through . Chase a Ford and not catch it ? Must be the lead in his gas . . . . FRED SMITH Barton , Vt. , Aug. 30 , 1976 which remain downtown ? And what of the present-day Henry Ford , who has gambled tens of millions of dollars of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or more to build Renaissance Center ? Detroit 's court system is shot through with inability to cope with the city 's problem of lawlessness  --  and this lies at the root of the difficulties besetting the city . Many of Detroit 's judges take the endemic attitude of bleeding hearts  --  that society is at fault , not the defendant  --  and they free him from punishment . This is not the way to create respect for law . It is not the way to end gangsterism , even if Serrin ignores it . Once the criminal courts of Detroit begin to enforce the law rationally instead of disdaining it , Detroit will have taken a long step on its hard road back . STANLEY H. BRAMS Publisher , Labor Trends Detroit , Aug. 26 , 1976 ? How to Save Tax Dollars To the Editor : Hooray ! The Southern Governors have asked for a Federal spending limit ( news story Sept. 2 ) . Since the South receives a disproportionately large share of the Federal tax dollar , the place to start is obviously with a cutback to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stop subsidizing the South . R. T. MUSTIN Wayne , Pa. , Sept. 2 , 1976 No condition for irresponsible power over another country anywhere should be urged by any side . The absence of an energy policy ' is destroying foreign capital investment in American energy projects so sorely needed to fund an area which is impossible with present governmental low return on investment . B. FRANKLIN REINAUER 2d Hackensack , N.J. , Aug. 25 , 1976 ? In Defense of Hebert To the Editor : May a veteran observer disagree with your evaluation of the career ' Of Representative F. Edward Hebert ' of ' Louisiana , who retires soon ? Dating back into the late 1940 's , Mr. Hebert hasbeen a thorn in the side ? of the military services , however cozy the relationship may have appeared from your editorial desk . The Times has covered these hearings , from ' the time Mr. Hebert exposed his chamber of horrors in 194$ to his most recent investigation of how weapons are swiped from the arsenal . For almost thirty years he has probed overcharges in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the influence of retired officers and alleged lobbying by contractors . It is rt ? - ? all in the record . As for his treatment of junior menv bers of the committee , it " was better . under Chairman Hebert than it ' was before . When he swung the gavel to open a committee meeting , those present had a priority in the proceedings . No matter how-senior a man was , if he appeared late he had forfeited his rank as a questioner to those who were present at the start . Junior cmmittee members never fared so well . It is interesting that the very day you held Mr. Hebert in disdain he was one of four members of the House Ethics Committee who voted not to subpoena Daniel Schorr for further questioning on the intelligence committee leak . I assume you think he was wrong again . CLAUDE WITZE Washington , Aug. 28 , 1976 ? To Work on a Sunday To the Editor : In his letter of Aug. 27 , Mark Freeman selfishly and naively argues that " it is a long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have the leisure to shop on weekdays " to have the " blue laws " set aside . A benefit to whom ? And for how long ? If we are going to change our customs and no day is any different from any other day , Mark Freeman may take his place with the clerks and managers whom he would compel to work now on Sundays for his " improvement or benefit . " Will he gladly work at his place of employment on Sundays as he wishes others to do ? It may be very convenient for any one of us to visit a store any time , day or night , Sunday or any day , to purchase trivia . But seven days and 188 hours of endless , ' restless hustle and bustle will surely , exact a greater price than we now realize . Howard Josephs letter Aug , 20 is right . We are forfeiting " quality of life " for a mess of pottage . We are sentencing our children and their children to a treadmill existence for the sake of our " convenience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aug. 28 , 1976 ? The Bishops ' Concern To the Editor : It seems a pity that the Catholic bishops do not recognize that their concern is with their own flocks rather than trying to use the secular legislature to force their particular moralitt on those who do not accept their , doctrines . On the abortion issue , surely the late Cardinal Cushing expressed the . correct attitude for religious teachers when he said : " Catholics do not need the support of civil law to be faithful to their religious convictions , and they do not seek to impose by law theft moral views on other members OX , NOEL M. P. REILLY North society . " Sandwich , Sept , 6 , 1976 At the Root of Detroit 's Problems                     