@@733585

txt A UNITED States Supreme Court his ( ice rejected Friday Illinois Atty . Gen , William .1 . Scott 's request to block a federal grand jury 's coven subpoenas for material dealing with Scott 's financial affairs . Scott said he would give the records to the grand jury Monday . At the same time , Scott said he asked U.S. Atty . Gen. Griffin Bell to investigate PK , . " planting " of stories by federal employes to " propagandize " the grand jury 11110 believing " some sort of wrongdoing was committed when in fact there was none . " Justice John Paul Stevens rejected Scott 's plea to block the subpoenas until the U.S. Court of Appeals in Chicago rules on what Scott contends are constitutional issues . Stevens ic7.:cd his ruling without additional comment . SCoilTS oFFICE then said the material sought by the grand jury would be delivered to it at 10 a.m . Monday  --  the deadline set by the U.S. District Court in Chicago . According to a statement released by his re-election campaign committee , Scott told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ muter:al gathered by the U.S. attorney in Chicago and the Internal Revenue Service . The Justice Department had no immediate comment on Scott 's request . The appeals court panel , which on Thursday upheld an earlier ruling by Chief Judge James B. Parsons of the U.S. District Court , said that Scott 's request was . " devoid of any showing that there is a likelihood of Scott 's success on the merits in this appeal . " Tlw documents , including records of Scott 's campaign financing , are being sought by the grand jury as part of a wide-ranging inquiry , reportedly centering on whether Scott diverted any campaign funds to his personal use without paying taxes . IN DOCUMENTS submitted to the Supreme Court , Scott repeated his contention that the subpoenas unconstitutionally delve into the inner workings of a // Scott loses bid to keep records from grand jury // sovereign state and that forfeiting the records could jeopardize the confidentiality promised to sources who had given his office information . U.S. Atty . Thomas P. Sullivan and one of his top assistants , Jeremy D. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim of immunity " and said Scott 's real motive is to use state-paid lawyers to protect him from the investi. gallon . The subpoenas , issued to several officials in Scott 's office , demand volumes of documents , including details on the hiring of special attorneys general and expenditures in recent years from a special fund reportedly set up only to finance a convention held eight years ago . The investigation was sparked by charges by Scott 's first wife that he kept about $50,000 in campaign funds in a safe deposit box . Scott has said the money was used for political purposes before Illinois ' campaign financing act took effect . The Tribune has disclosed that Scott may have lived beyond his apparent available income for seven years . William Scott                     