@@730593

txt Managua , smashed by a powerful earthquake and more than a score of tremors , was ordered evacuated today . Tnousands of survivors had fled the shambles of the capital city before the government ordered the evacuation in a broadcast . Rescuers searched for more bodies amid smoldering ruins . The government radio officially estimated the death toll at 5,000 to 10,000 , but no one could accurately predict the loss of life . Lt. Col. Jose Alagret , commander of the Army Corps of Engineers , estimated the total number of dead would range from 10,000 to 12,000 . More than 20,000 were injured , and as many as 200,000 were homeless , he said . He estimated total damage at $2 billion . ANOTHER STRONG earth tremor rocked Managua today at 4 a. m. , Chicago time , causing some already weakened buildings to fall , and light tremors could be felt as late as midday . But there was lit. ! tie more damage that could be done . United States Ambassador Turner Shelton , whose embassy was demolished by the quake , ordered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leave the country . His own secretary , Rose Marie Orlich , 36 , was killed in the quake as was an American woman visiting her . There are 3,000 Americans living in Managua . Ninety of them left on U. S. military planes today . Planes from the United States , Europe , and Latin America brought more than 100 tons of blood plasma , food , clothes and other supplies . Already in Managua were 67 I U. S. military personnel aiding ! in rescue work . A pledge of assistance was I phoned from Key Biscayne , I Fla. , by President Nixon , who told Gen Anastasio Somoza , the country 's military strongman , that " our thoughts and prayers " were with the victims . IN WASHINGTON , the Agency for International Detielopment , which is coordinating U. S. relief efforts , warned against sending unsolicited goods to the stricken nation . It advised making cash contributions to local voluntary organizations . Planes were landing at Managua without the aid of the control tower , which was not operating as a result of the earthquake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 300,000 yesterday and left many persons entombed in wreckage . At least 36 square blacks of the central business district were in nibble , as if a giant hand had smashed them . Tons of food and other supplies were being flown in from around the world . Injured people , sitting stunned on curbstones or walidng around in a daze , were being attended to in parks , on sidewalks , and at the airport . MANY BODIES still lay in the streets as rescuers worked around the clock trying to identify the dead and filling large common graves . Thousands of bodies were lined up on the banks of fake Managua . With few coffins available , sometimes as many as three people were buried in the same coffin . The Red Cross said common graves were necessary because the sultry , tropical climate would speed decomposition and increase the danger of typhoid and tetanus . Except for a satellite ground station outside Managua , the city 's telephone communication with the outside was cut off . Experts said it would he impossible to set up telephone or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were knocked out . Fires continued to burn but the government said they were under control . THOSE ABLE to leave were ordered to evacuate the panicstricken city partly because of the possible contamination of drinking water . Temporary hospitals were set up on highways leading from the city . Those passing by stopped to help injured relatives and to mourn the dead left behind . At the municipal jail between the center of town and the airport , 20 of 500 prisoners were killed and 20 were injured . Water had to be brought in from Mexico . Food was running low and some stores raised their prices while some families shared their food with others . Milk , which usually sells for 27 cents a quart , was being sold Christmas Eve for ; l . THE CITY was under martial law , and the National Guard warned that persons who tried looting would become targets . " Women and men ran in the streets with shoes , clothes and many other products taken from the remains of the destroyed stores . " said Mamas Elena de Gimez , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so sev e r e that many damaged buildings will have to be leveled . In Panama , the U. S. Southern Command announced that a team of demolition experts with 2,000 pounds of explosives left today for Managua . The explosives were to be used to demolish weakened buildings that are in danger of falling . Many buildings were still standing . but some were falling as trucks and tanks rumbled past . ' the largest tremor measured between 6 and 7 on the Richter scale .                     