@@728574

txt The New Democratic Coalition , an organization of liberals and reformers , voted yesterday to endorse Howard J. Samuels for Governor . Mr. Samuels 's first-ballot victory at a delegate assembly gave him his first important organized support for his campaign for the Democratic nomination . Mr. Samuels is collecting petitions to gain a place on the Democratic primary ballot to oppose Arthur J. Goldberg , who won the endorsement of the party 's state committee earlier this month . All three Democratic candidate ? Mr. Samuels , Mr. Goldberg and Robert M. Morgenthau ? appeared at yesterday 's special delegate assembly at the Diplomat Hotel , 108 West 43d Street , to appeal for the endorsement . Both Lose in Recount When Mr. Samuels was called the winner with a bare 0.3 per cent over the 60 per cent of the vote required for the endorsement , Mr. Goldberg 's forces on the floor promptly called for a recount . The final count dropped Mr. Samuels 's total vote to 60.2 per cent ? still enough to win ? and also reduced Mr. Goldberg 's count @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morgenthau 's was left unchanged and still far behind at 2.4 per cent . A spokesman for the coalition said the changes resulted from certain ballots having been disallowed in the recount . The endorsement has no official strength within the regular Democratic party , but it was eagerly sought by the candidates as token of support from the 20,000-member organization wing of the party . Move to Withhold Fails A move to deny the New Democratic Coalition 's endorsement to any of the candidates failed to muster the strength some observers had expected it to have , gaining just 13.3 per cent of the vote . The assembly was called for on April 19 because the Coalition 's first candidate for Gov- , governor , Nassau County Executive Eugene H. Nickerson , withdrew from the race on April 15 because of lack of funds . At its first assembly on Feb. 28 , when Mr. Nickerson was endorsed , the coalition also voted support for State Senator Basil A. Paterson of Harlem for Lieutenant Governor , Paul O'Dwyer for United States Senator , and Adam Walinsky for State Attorney General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does n't have the enthusiasm , " Mr. Samuels said after thanking the 400 delegates crowding the Diplomat 's ornate ballroom for their support . " This endorsement means five to ten thousand enthusiastic campaign workers , " he continued , " and in a primary that 's what counts . " Needs 10,000 Signatures The volunteers will be especially important to Mr. Samuels because he must collect the signatures of 10,000 enrolled Democrats , with at least 50 from 47 of the state 's 62 counties , to get on the June 23 primary ballot against Mr. Goldberg and  --  if he gets his signatures  --  Mr. Morgenthau . Most of the 20,000 New York State members of the New Democratic Coalition are from the metropolitan area . Most Applause for Samuels The coalition was formed nationally as an offshoot of the Democratic party in the summer of 1968 by supporters of Senator Eugene J. McCarthy and the late Senator Robert F. Kennedy for President , who believed that the regular party was dominated by special-interest groups and inflexible political organizations . Its maverick , antiorganization spirit bubbled up repeatedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statements attacking the main party and especially the party 's state committee meeting at Grossinger 's that endorsed Mr. Goldberg . Mr. Samuels , who won more applause than the two other candidates during their appeals for support , has consistently hammered away at what he calls " the Democratic machine " and Mr. Goldberg as " the machine candidate . " Mr. Goldberg , who , as the regular party 's choice and the acknowledged front-runner in the race for the nomination is faced with the problem of keeping the fractious state Democratic organization together , appealed to the delegates for party unity . " We can win only if we work together , " he told the skeptical audience . Mr. Morgenthau , who , like Mr. Samuels , frequently accused the regular party of ? beina unresponsive to its rank and file , said to the assembly before the vote : " I ask for your support , but regardless of your support I ask you to fight until the old closed system is rooted out of politics in this state . " Mr. Morgenthau said last evening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I do n't feel that this is an election that will be decided by who endorses who , " the former United States Attorney said . " My policy has always been that I will take my case directly to the voters . " Mr. Goldberg was not available for comment .                     