@@729761

txt I Dr. Paul Jordan , the reform candidate , was elected Mayor of Jersey City yesterday , breaking nearly half a century of political domination over City Hall by the scandalridden , old-line Hudson County Democratic organization . Dr. Jordan , a 30-year-old physician who specializes in treating - drug - abuse and political neophyte , defeated two major rivals , Morris T. Longo , the organization-backed candidate , and Thomas Gangemi Jr. , the son of a former Mayor . With all 217 precincts recorded , the vote was : Jordan 26 ; 562 Gangemi 21,2 ' 59 Longo 11,975 All told , 82,000 of the city 's 123,000 registered voters cast ballots , a 67 per cent turnout . Dr. Jordan captured nearly 34 per cent of the vote . The 14 lesser candidates divided about 22,000 votes among them . The special election was held to fill out the 18-month unexpired term of former Mayor Thomas J. Whelan , who was convicted of Federal extortionconspiracy charges last June and sentenced to 15 years in prison . The Jordan victory , particularly since the organizational candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John V. Kenny , the 79-year-old boss of the Democratic organization who was indicted on the same charges that resulted in Whelan 's conviction . Mr. Kenny has dominated Jersey City , the second largest city in the state , and Hudson County politics for 22 years and was regarded as one of the most powerful and enduring political bosses in New Jersey 's political history . A dejected Longo campaign worker at Democratic headquarters remarked late last night : " Kenny 's through . We 're through . The machine 's finished . " Outside , hundreds of Jordan supporters joined hands and marched from Journal Square to City Hall singing , " Good-by Kenny . " But other Democrats disagreed that Mr. Kenny was finished . The Kenny organization maintained its control of the Hudson County Board of Free Holders and Dr. Jordan , when he takes office next Tuesday , will face a City Council that is still dominated by members who owe their election to Mr. Kenny . At Jordan campaign . headquarters at the Plaza Hotel , jubilant campaign workers , many of them sobbing with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lanky , Mayor-elect was mobbed by supporters in the hotel 's ballroom . Then to the cheers of hundreds of workers , he declared , " Boss politics is dead in Jersey City after 22 years of political corruption . " By law , the city election was nonpartisan . But in practice , it was a bitter partisan campaign waged in a city dominated by Democratic machine politics for nearly half a century . Yesterday 's election ended one of the most remarkable mayoral campaigns in Jersey City history . Although the reform drive against the organization had its roots in widespread opposition at the last major budget hearings , the campaign actually began with the Federal indictment of Whelan , Mr. Kenny and 10 other Hudson County and Jersey City officials last November . The Gangemi challenge was built upon the earlier campaign drives of his father , the former Mayor here who once said he was " proud to be a puppet of John V. Kenny . " Actually , the Kenny organization was so convinced that it could not win that it decided early in October not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city campaign that was plagued with corruption charges would drag its county ticket down . But the organization reversed itself a week later and announced its support of Mr. Longo , thus setting the ' stage for a three-man race among the 18 candidates who filed for Mayor . The campaign that followed failed to generate the fire and turmoil that marked elections in Jersey City during the 33 years of power of the late Mayor , Frank Hague , whose control  --  of the Democratic machine was shattered in 1049 when Mr .. Kenny defeated Frank Hague Eggers , the nephew to whom Hague had turned over the office of Mayor . While the 33 years of Hague were regarded as corrupt , he was nevertheless an iron-handed administrator who delivered municipal government services in a manner few other cities in the nation could match . In contrast , the last 22 years of Kenny politics in Jersey City was regarded by the United States Attorney as perhaps more corrupt ' than Hague , but without any of Haguc 's efficiency or civic concern . Thus , the reformers regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marked by shakedowns , kickbacks . no-show jobs and nepotism , but also a reaction against what the reform element charged was inefficient government that had driven up the city 's tax rate and made Jersey City 's per-capita cost of local government one of the highest in the nation . But regardless of the results , no one in Hudson County Democratic politics expects Mr. Kenny to continue in power : His advanced age and the fact that a court , order precludes him from taking part in Hudson County politics means he is virtually finished politically . Although the anti-organization candidates conceded that it was the indictments and convictions that gave them their biggest chance of success , many political experts believed that the organization had been losing its clout for some time and that . the recent scandals were only stepping up a process ' of political disintegration that began when old-style patronage and political favors failed to keep up with the modern pressures of urban government                     