@@730679

txt Every fifth Friday , some 30 million West Germans play amateur detective with real crimes on TV . The West Germans , plus another 3 million Austrians and Swiss , get their chance to help catch criminals through a highly unusual German-language television program called " Case XY Unsolved . " The hour-long telecast from a studio here may be the world 's most successful audience-participation show . During each program , professional actors reconstruct on film seven or so unsolved " important " crimes . After each film episode is shown , director Eduard Zimmermann discusses the case with the responsible police officials and seeks help from the massive audience through specific questions . The viewers phone in , replies or other leads to switchboards manned by lawmen . Response reported Often suspects are picked up before the hour concludes or in time for a brief follow-up program about two hours later in which the police report on their response to audience , tips ; That was the case last month when the program showed . a picture of a man suspected of helping rob a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have fled in his Mercedes 280 , the license-plate , number also was given . Almost immediately a viewer in Liechtenstein telephoned to report that the car was parked in a lot there . , Twenty minutes later , the police had arrested the suspect in a ? nearby-restaurant. - That same television dragnet located a man suspected of murdering and robbing his housekeeper . Again the police had a photo and a good description . During the program a part-time sleuth in Freiburg in southern Germany called to say he had seen the suspect there . 169 cases solved Freiburg police began a search . They nabbed their man in a small snack bar . In its first 52 programs over the past five years , the series has helped solve 189 of the 363 cases presented . And 178 lawbreakers have been arrested . That is better than a 50-percent success . It undoubtedly is more effective - in bringing suspects to justice than the Federal Bureau of Investigation 's " most wanted " list in post offices throughout the United States . Indeed , the televised manhunts are believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases , suspects have even turned themselves in out of despair after seeing their faces televised throughout German-speaking central EurOpe . Other wanted criminals have refused to stay in boardinghouses with television sets for fear the program might take up their case . In the course of one program , the news arrived that the suspect was living under an alias in Stuttgart . Police went there immediately to find the apartment door open and the television set switched , on , , The wanted man had obviously seen hisOwn picture on the glowing screen and decamped at once . That same night , he was picked up some 120 miles away in Frankfurt . Competition swamped Some 70 to 80 percent of television sets in West Germany switch to the second channel for " Case XY , " practically obliterating the competitive programs on channels one and three . About the same percentage in Switzerland and Austria watch the show . On each program , cases from these countries are presented through live hookups with TV studios in Zurich and Vienna . With considerable satisfaction , the director notes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Zimmermann sees two prime goals for the program . // *Focus on TV 's real whodunits // First , it is entertainment . From the cases offered by the police in Austria , Switzerland , or West Germany , the editor selects those offering some drama and human interest . As important , the police must have specific questions or leads that the audience can possibily help with . A second major aim , according to Mr. Zimmermann , is to improve relrelations between the police and the public . It helps persuade viewers that the police are working for them , not against them . Participation encouraged . It aims at overcoming public apathy , at encouraging people to aid the police whenever possible . Though , crime in West Germany has not nearly reached the rates prevalent in the United States , it has been rising rapidly . Thus public concern over safety from crime is high . From a practical standpoint , of course , the solution of 169 cases through the program over five years does little to reduce crime rates in the three countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teaches the public crime-prevention tech . niques , such as the most effective ways of locking their house doors . - Through cases , it informs people of some of the latest methods of con men , thereby discouraging crime . Further , the program advises individuals on how to behave when confronted with a criminal and how to help the police afterward . Imitations attempted Because of its huge success , the program has attracted , some imitators in other coun tries . Australia has a similar program . Denmark tried . The directors there made the mistake of announcing the cases in advance , says Mr. Zimmermann . This gave the criminal involved a better chance to flee . Some American networks considered such an unsolved-crime program . But they found two roadblocks . The continent 's several time zones would make it difficult to broadcast nationwide such an audience-participation show . Probably more important , the legal situation is not the same as in Germany . American courts might consider widespread publicity damaging to the chances of a suspect for a fair trial . And there is a problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used In Germany there is one time zone and a federal criminal law . What 's more , the law allows the use , of the names of innocent victims of crimes without their permission without a major problem of invasion-ofprivacy suits . Nevertheless , Mr. Zimmermann has been sued three times ? unsuccessfully ? despite his efforts to avoid harming innocent people by leaving out their names if necessary . For some time , the program was under assault by civil-rights enthusiasts as being too much like the " Big Brother " vigil in the novel " 1984 . " However , ' Mr. Ziinmermann 's careful adherence to facts , his efforts at crime prevention , have apparently stilled the protests : Millions of TV detectives still have the excitement of joining a massive posse in imagination ? and sometimes in reality ? tracking down the bandits.                     