@@732679

txt FORD MOTOR Co. was picked Tuesday as the " target " company by the United Auto Workers in upcoming contract negotiations . The decision by the UAW executive board in Detroit ended speculation on which of the Big Three automakers would be singled out by the giant union to press its 1976 contract demands and set the pattern for the entire industry . Contracts covering more than 650,000 auto workers at Ford , Chrysler , and General Motors will expire Sept. 14 . THE UAW STRATEGY of concentrating its bargaining on a single automaker was devised by the union 's late president Walter Reuther . If the target company balks at meeting the union 's demands and a strike is called , competitors continue production without union interference . Ford was the target in 1967 and a 66-day strike developed . In 1970 , General Motors was hit in a strike that lasted 67 days and cost the union $160 million . Chrysler suffered a nine-day stoppage in 1973 before capitulating . UAW President Leonard Woodcock said at a press conference that Ford was selected primarily because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who said he will join contract talks at Ford Wednesday , said , " I told the board before we made a decision that since we have not gone to Ford for nine years , there must be a compelling reason for going to either of the other two this year . " " I thought it was going to be General Motors , but guess it is just our turn this time , " said Joseph Naughton , recording secretary of Local 588 at Ford 's key stamping plant in Chicago Heights . NAUGHTON SAID a major issue triggering complaints in the body stamping plant are company hints that it will attempt to force workers to pay a greater share in increased health costs . A strike vote among the 3,700 workers in Local 588 will be held Wednesday . A strike vote will be held Thursday by 3,300 auto workers in Local 551 at the Ford assembly plant at 10600 S. Torrence Av. , according to Byron Cooper , union president . The UAW will enter the usually troublesome negotiations with a 5175-million strike fund that could pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some 160,000 workers in 55 UAW locals are covered under the Ford pact . THE UNION RULED out the financially troubled American Motors Corp . in picking its target company . Most observers believe a peneful agreement can be reached this year and have noted an absence of the saber-rattling and rhetoric that normally surround the bargaining , especially when a strike appears inevitable . Woodcock noted the profit pictures at the Big Three automakers and has insisted the workers must have what he considers a fair share .                     